-- Bank of Korea Unexpectedly Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-12T07:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bank-of-korea-unexpectedly-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate.html
The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut
borrowing costs for the first time in more than three years and
 Australia  reported a decline in employment as  Europe ’s debt
crisis damps growth in Asia.  Governor Kim Choong Soo’s officials lowered the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  by a quarter percentage point to 3
percent, the first cut since February 2009. In Australia, the
number of people employed fell by 27,000 in June, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney.  Japan  altered its stimulus program
without adding extra money, while  Indonesia  left rates unchanged.  The sixth straight daily decline in Asian stocks
highlighted concern that exports and financial markets are
threatened by Europe’s failure to end a crisis that has weakened
banks and triggered sovereign bailouts. Signs of improvement
within Japan’s economy may have encouraged the central bank to
refrain from a bigger step than boosting an asset-purchase fund
while scaling back a credit loan facility.  “What we’re seeing is a global policy response from Europe
to China and now  Korea  to stave off a deep recession,” said
Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul.  Two of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted
the move in South Korea, while the rest forecast no change.  In Japan, the central bank expanded its asset-purchase fund
to 45 trillion yen ($564 billion) from 40 trillion yen, while
the loan program was pared to 25 trillion yen from 30 trillion
yen. The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  between
zero and 0.1 percent and monthly bond purchases at 1.8 trillion
yen.  Currency Moves  The Japanese currency initially weakened against the dollar
before resuming gains, trading at 79.50, up 0.3 percent as of
2:50 p.m. in Tokyo. Kazuhiko Sano, chief strategist at Tokai
Tokyo Securities Co., said that recasting the stimulus programme
“can’t be regarded as additional monetary easing.”  The BOJ said it will buy more treasury bills and remove the
minimum bidding yield for the securities, moves that may smooth
its operations after failures at some bond-buying auctions.  Asian stocks fell after the policy moves and the unexpected
job losses in Australia and before China’s report on gross
domestic product tomorrow. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 1.5
percent. The Chinese economy may have grown 7.7 percent in the
second quarter, the least in three years, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Preemptive Manner’  “We can’t sit by idly with deteriorating external
conditions cutting our economic growth,” Bank of Korea Governor
Kim told reporters in Seoul today, adding that the cut should
help boost growth while having a limited effect on inflation.
“We moved in a preemptive manner as the monetary policy
authority because our GDP gap is turning negative, meaning
actual growth is trailing potential.”  South Korea’s central bank “moved far faster than expected,
reflecting a worsening global economic outlook,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul.
“Policy makers opted for monetary easing rather than a
supplementary budget as they believe a fiscal response is much
more costly.”  South Korea ’s government bonds jumped, driving yields to
record lows, and the won weakened after the Bank of Korea
decision. The yield on 3.25 percent bonds due June 2015 slid 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 2.97 percent as of
2:48 p.m. in Seoul, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The won
weakened 0.9 percent to 1,151.38 per dollar, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia Holds  In Indonesia, the central bank kept interest rates
unchanged for a fifth month as inflationary risks persist and
the currency slumps.  Bank Indonesia  held its benchmark  reference
rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent.  The  European Central Bank  cut benchmark borrowing costs
last week and the  Bank of England  raised the size of its asset-
purchase program, moves that followed the U.S. Federal Reserve
extending the Operation Twist program aimed at lowering long-
term interest rates.  In the U.S., some Federal Reserve policy makers have said
that more stimulus is likely to be needed to boost the labor
market and meet an inflation target, according to minutes of
their June meeting released yesterday.  The latest readings on the  U.S. economy  will come today
with data on jobless claims and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index, a measure of confidence. In Europe, economic reports will
include inflation in France and industrial production in the
euro area.  Australia Jobs  In Australia, employers unexpectedly cut payrolls in June,
the first reduction in four months, and the  unemployment rate 
rose to 5.2 percent from 5.1 percent, validating the central
bank’s decision to reduce interest rates in May and June.  A report in  India  showed industrial output rebounded
in May from a contraction after the central bank cut interest
rates earlier in the year to bolster a weakening economy.  South Korea’s economy may expand 3.3 percent this year,
less than a December estimate of 3.7 percent, the  Finance
Ministry  said June 28. The Knowledge Economy Ministry last week
cut its estimate for export growth this year to 3.5 percent from
a January projection of 6.7 percent, citing a slowdown in major
economies.  Weaker demand may cap overseas sales at South Korea’s
largest companies, with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  posting second-
quarter sales that trailed estimates.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to the lowest
level in four months for July while  consumer confidence  dropped
to a three-month low in June, according to Bank of Korea reports
last month. Consumer prices increased 2.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 32 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  