-- Bank of Korea Trims 2012 Growth Forecast After Rate Cut
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-13T06:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bank-of-korea-trims-2012-growth-forecast-after-rate-cut.html
The  Bank of Korea  reduced its 2012
economic-growth forecast for the second time this year, a day
after it unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and signaled it would
act preemptively to protect against slowing global growth.  South Korea’s economy will expand 3 percent this year, the
central bank said today in a statement, an estimate lowered from
a 3.5 percent prediction made in April and 3.7 percent in
December.  Consumer prices  are expected to rise 2.7 percent, down
from an earlier forecast of a 3.2 percent price gain.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday the
board lowered its benchmark  rate  a quarter percentage point in
response to “deteriorating external conditions.” The outlook
for weaker growth and slower inflation boosted speculation
policy makers will make further reductions.  “It’s quite a big cut to the growth estimate, suggesting
weakening exports are beginning to erode domestic demand and
there won’t be a quick fix,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief
economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The BOK
may cut interest rates again as early as August and sometime in
the fourth quarter as growth momentum is losing steam quite fast
while prices are pretty stable.”  South Korea’s central bank is more pessimistic than the
 Finance Ministry , which cut its GDP forecast for this year to
3.3 percent on June 28 from a 3.7 percent estimate made in
December.  Global Easing  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  yesterday altered its stimulus program
without adding extra money. China and the  European Central Bank 
cut borrowing costs last week, while the  Bank of England  raised
the size of its asset-purchase program.  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,150.20 per dollar at the
close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
falling 0.9 percent yesterday. The Kospi Index of stocks rose
1.5 percent.  Next year,  economic growth  will likely accelerate to 3.8
percent while inflation will accelerate to 2.9 percent, the
central bank said today. Core prices, excluding oil and
agricultural products, will rise 2.2 percent this year and 2.7
percent next year.  “Korea is entering a period of sub-potential GDP growth
through 2013,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We expect one more 25-basis-point rate
cut in October to 2.75 percent and the BOK to stay at 2.75
percent through 2013.”  Kwon said he expects the economy to grow 2.5 percent this
year and 3 percent next year amid a modest global economic
recovery.  The  current-account surplus  is expected to narrow to $18
billion next year from $20 billion this year, the Bank of Korea
said. The  unemployment rate  will likely fall to 3.2 percent next
year from 3.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  