-- BOJ Refrains From Adding Stimulus, Spurring Stock Decline
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-07-12T10:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bank-of-japan-unexpectedly-increases-asset-purchase-program.html
The  Bank of Japan  refrained from
expanding monetary stimulus as signs of strength in the domestic
economy outweighed the threat from Europe’s debt crisis.  The bank expanded its asset-purchase program to 45 trillion
yen ($564 billion) from 40 trillion yen, according to a policy
statement released in Tokyo today. Seven of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted monetary easing. The loan
facility was cut to 25 trillion yen from 30 trillion yen.  Stocks fell after the decision, which followed South
Korea’s central bank unexpectedly lowering borrowing costs today
and  China  cutting  interest rates  last week. Japanese Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  this morning called for the central bank to
do more to boost the world’s third-biggest economy and meet a 1
percent inflation goal.  “This is simply a technical move that shouldn’t be
considered to be monetary easing,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at JPMorgan Securities  Japan  Co. in Tokyo, and a
former BOJ official. “Some market participants will be
disappointed to see that the BOJ didn’t ease policy.”  The central bank this month raised its economic evaluation
of all regions for the first time in more than two years, citing
improvements in  consumer spending  and rebuilding demand from
last year’s earthquake.  Bond-Buying  The yen traded at 79.34 as of 5:52 p.m. in  Tokyo . The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 1.5 percent lower, falling for a
sixth day.  Underscoring the difficulty in executing its stimulus
efforts, the central bank failed on July 10 to attract enough
bids in a six-month credit lending operation for the 14th
straight time, following a failure of a regular monthly bond-
buying operation last week.  The BOJ said it will buy more treasury bills and remove the
minimum bidding yield for the securities, moves that may smooth
its operations after failures at some auctions.  Japan’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rates 
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly bond purchases at 1.8
trillion yen, the bank said in the statement today. At a press
briefing, Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said that the BOJ won’t cut
interest rates on commercial lenders’ excess reserves because of
the potential adverse affect on liquidity.  Extra Easing  “The BOJ cut the amount of the credit-loan program because
there were a lot of failures,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former
central bank official. “Additional easing will depend on
external factors, such as a worsening European crisis or a
slowdown in the U.S.”  The  Bank of England  raised its asset-purchase target by 50
billion pounds ($78 billion) on July 5, the day the ECB and
PBOC’s eased and two weeks after the U.S. Federal Reserve
expanded a program lengthening the maturity of bonds it holds.  Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest maker of
tires, may extend output cuts in the second half as Europe’s
debt crisis and China’s slowdown curb demand, Masaaki Tsuya,
chief executive officer, said in an interview on June 21.  The  International Monetary Fund  will reduce its estimate
for global growth this year, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said on July 6, citing weakness in investment, jobs and
manufacturing in Europe, the U.S., Brazil, India and China.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yields fell to 0.765 percent
as of 4:32 p.m., the lowest since 2003. Europe’s debt woes have
spurred demand for Japanese assets, regarding as a relatively
safe haven in times of global turmoil.  The BOJ today kept its inflation outlook at 0.7 percent for
the year starting April 2013 after setting a price goal of 1
percent in February. The bank expects 2.2 percent economic
growth this fiscal year and 1.7 percent in the following 12
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  