-- Barenboim, Rattle, Wallace & Gromit Join Proms Party
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-07-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/barenboim-rattle-wallace-gromit-join-proms-party-preview.html
A few days after Troy and Carthage
burn to a crisp for the last time in Berlioz’s “Les Troyens”
at  Covent Garden , they’re frying once more in the Albert Hall.  The successful sell-out  Royal Opera  production, featuring
Anna Caterina Antonacci, Eva Maria Westbroek and Bryan Hymel,
can be heard in a concert performance (July 22) as part of the
118th  BBC Proms . With this massive 5½-hour grand opera conducted
by Antonio Pappano, what is probably the world’s biggest music
festival gets even bigger.  It’s just one of six complete operas in the season, which
starts today. Also included are Britten’s “Peter Grimes” from
 English National Opera  (Aug. 24), Glyndebourne’s beautifully
sung “Le nozze di Figaro” by Mozart (Aug. 28), Debussy’s
“Pelleas et Melisande” conducted by John Eliot Gardiner (July
15), “Nixon in  China ” conducted by the composer  John Adams 
(Sept. 5) and Jane Glover leading Gilbert and Sullivan’s “The
Yeomen of the Guard” (Aug. 19).  The festival, founded in 1895, is traditionally a magnet
for star names. Conductor  Daniel Barenboim  brings his
electrifying  West-Eastern Divan Orchestra , comprising young
musicians from both sides of the conflict in the  Middle East , to
play a complete cycle of Beethoven symphonies (July 20-27).  Pierre Boulez then joins the orchestra to conduct his own
composition “Le marteau sans maitre” (July 26).  Perahia’s Beethoven  A fixture of the later part of the festival is the arrival
of visiting orchestras. This year, for the first time, the
 Berlin Philharmonic  under  Simon Rattle  (Aug. 30 and 31) and the
 Vienna Philharmonic  led by Bernard Haitink (Sept. 6 and 7) give
two performances each during a single season. The concert on
Sept. 6 includes Murray Perahia playing Beethoven’s Piano
Concerto No. 4.  Riccardo Chailly also brings his  Leipzig Gewandhaus
Orchestra  to play an all-Mendelssohn program (Sept. 1) and
Mahler’s Symphony No. 6 (Sept. 2), a Prom favorite.  The Academy Award-winning claymation duo  Wallace and Gromit 
take part in an eagerly anticipated children’s Prom on July 29.
A specially prepared new film of their attempts to get to the
Albert Hall to perform the premiere of Wallace’s “My Concerto
in Ee, Lad” is promised as part of the concert. Children won’t
be the only ones being entertained.  Broadway Class  John Wilson , a star of the world of light music and of
recent Proms seasons, comes to the festival to conduct a semi-
staged performance of “My Fair Lady” (July 14) with Anthony
Andrews as Professor Higgins. Wilson and his orchestra then
return for a concert of Broadway classics on Aug. 27.  Staying with the light-music theme, for the first time
since 1914 the underrated tunes of English composer and matinee
idol Ivor Novello get a hearing at the festival in a late-night
Prom (Aug. 9).  Two major anniversaries are celebrated throughout the
course of events. Debussy and Delius were both born 150 years
ago, and their music appears in many programs. As well as
“Pelleas et Melisande” (July 15), Debussy’s “La mer” (July
26) and “The Martyrdom of St. Sebastian” (Aug. 25) can be
heard. Performances of Delius’s music include “On Hearing the
First Cuckoo in Spring” (Aug. 27) and the Violin Concerto with
Tasmin Little as soloist (Aug. 23).  In the first-ever free late-night Prom, the period-
instrument band  Le Concert Spirituel  celebrate the recent royal
regatta on the Thames for Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee
with a performance of Handel’s “Water Music” and “Music for
the Royal Fireworks” (July 18).  Four female conductors are making a welcome appearance.
Marin Alsop conducts a piece by Joan Towers called “Fanfare for
the Uncommon Woman” on Aug. 15. JoAnn Falletta leads the  Ulster
Orchestra  (Aug. 4), Susanna Malkki conducts the  Philharmonia
Orchestra  (Aug. 13) and Jane Glover conducts the Gilbert and
Sullivan program (Aug. 19).  There are many lunchtime and chamber-music concerts, talks
and educational events, and everything can be heard free for
seven days after the performance on the BBC website.  For crotchety Olympics refuseniks like me, it’s like balm
on a wound.  The Proms starts today and runs through Sept. 8 at the
 Royal Albert Hall  and other nearby London venues. Information:
 http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms   Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 