-- Batista Loses $15 Billion as Brazil Awakes From Dream
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-07-12T21:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/batista-loses-15-billion-as-brazil-awakes-from-dream.html
When  Eike Batista  pitched investors
on $6 billion in stock offerings over the past six years, he was
selling more than his personal empire of interlinking commodity
startups. He was selling Brazil.  That’s why, when Batista’s oil venture reduced production
targets less than six months after pumping its first barrel of
crude -- deepening a sell-off that erased $15 billion from his
net worth and $21 billion in market value in three months --also
in doubt was his vision of Brazil as a new powerhouse on the
world stage.  Batista, 55, became Brazil’s richest man by riding a wave
of optimism about his country’s prospects that culminated in a
7.5 percent surge in  gross domestic product  in 2010. Under
President  Dilma Rousseff , economic growth is now stalling for a
second year, and is forecast at 2 percent in 2012, the slowest
among the BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China.  “What’s going on with Eike right now is unfortunately a
reflection of what’s going on in the country as a whole,” said
Simon Nocera, a former economist at the  International Monetary
Fund , who now runs San Francisco-based Lumen Advisors LLC.
“It’s more of those boom and bust scenarios of the past.”  As global  commodity prices  slipped into a  bear market  last
month, economists surveyed by Brazil’s central bank have cut
their forecast for the country’s economic growth this year for
nine weeks running. Retail sales fell in May by the most since
2008 amid rising consumer defaults. Brazil’s  benchmark stock
index  is down 23 percent since the end of 2010, with Batista’s
oil producer, OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, among the
biggest losers.  Resolve Unshaken  Batista’s resolve remains unshaken. After share prices for
his six publicly traded companies recovered some of their losses
this month, his net worth has rebounded to $20.4 billion from a
low of $19.6 billion on June 28, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . He is the 22nd richest person in the world.  “My fortune is in my assets,” Batista posted to his
almost 1 million  Twitter  followers on July 1. “Since I didn’t
sell a single share, I didn’t lose anything!”  In an e-mailed response to questions, Batista’s holding
company, EBX Group Co., said its companies have enough cash to
plow ahead with a $15.7 billion investment plan. While its
oldest public venture, MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, didn’t turn
a profit in 2011, it produced 7.5 million tons of  iron ore . OGX,
even after missing its targets, went from inception to
production in less than five years -- which Batista has called a
“world record.”  OGX’s shares fell by the most since June 29 in Sao Paulo
trading today, dropping 4.6 percent to 5.64 reais. MMX slid 4.6
percent to 5.61 reais, as the  Bovespa (IBOV)  index lost 0.3 percent.  Punishing Market  “You are going to have these kind of setbacks,” said
Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million for Fox Island,
Washington-based Oracle Investment Research and increased his
holdings in OGX after the plunge. “Eike has put his foot in his
mouth on more than one occasion, and the market is punishing him
for that.”  During former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s time in
office, from 2003 through 2010, tens of millions of people were
lifted from poverty as economic growth quickened, borrowing
costs fell and public finances improved. The Bovespa stock index
rose six-fold as China’s growing appetite for commodities
increased earnings for Brazil’s biggest companies: iron-ore
miner Vale SA and oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Batista promised to compete against the two giants with his
own startup ventures, and filled top management spots with their
former executives -- including his own father, Eliezer, who has
served both as mining minister and Vale chief. Batista, who said
in April 2010 that Lula “walks on water,” has relied on
subsidized loans from Brazil’s national development bank, known
as the BNDES, in addition to cash from private investors.  Biggest Successes  His two biggest successes came in the first half of 2008,
as prices for oil and iron ore approached record highs: the 6.7
billion-real ($3.3 billion) initial public offering of OGX, and
the $5.5 billion sale of the Minas-Rio mining business to  Anglo
American (AAL)  Plc. OGX also benefited from optimism surrounding
Brazil’s recent announcement of the largest oil discovery in the
Americas since 1976 -- the Tupi field, since renamed Lula.  The euphoria surrounding Brazil’s prospects began to waver
at the start of 2010, with a credit-fueled rebound from the 2009
recession raising the specter of an overheating economy -- just
as Batista was preparing to sell shares in  OSX Brasil SA. (OSXB3)  The
shipbuilding venture ultimately raised just a quarter of what
he’d initially sought, after investors balked at putting up cash
for a company whose main asset was the guarantee of orders from
OGX, which had still yet to produce a drop of oil.  Ballooning Costs  Both companies have repeatedly failed to meet Batista’s
targets in bringing their operations online. Even after
beginning to produce revenues, OSX is now trading at less than a
third of the price offered in its initial sale, while OGX has
lost half its value.  The Minas-Rio  iron-ore  project -- now Anglo American’s
largest -- has also failed to meet expectations. Beset by legal
challenges and ballooning costs, the project is slated to come
online in 2013, after having initially been projected to start
by 2010.  “It won’t be ready in 2026,” said Joao Carlos Cavalcanti,
who partnered with Batista on an iron-ore business that was
later subsumed into MMX. “Eike told them it had 750 million
tons of ore, but it doesn’t have 150 million. They fell for
Eike’s blue eyes. He’s very beguiling.”  The geologist, now developing rare-earth deposits in
northeast Brazil, is suing Batista for allegedly failing to make
agreed investments in their joint venture. “The guy is a
bubble,” Cavalcanti said.  EBX declined to comment on Cavalcanti’s  allegations . MMX
said its chances of losing the lawsuit are “probable,”
according to a regulatory filing detailing legal liabilities.  One Dividend  In six years, Batista’s six publicly traded companies have
made just  one  dividend payment -- and that because of a one-time
financial gain. Still, the dearth of cash hasn’t stopped Batista
from diversifying into a slew of new closely held ventures, from
technology to Rio de Janeiro real estate to sports and music
events-management.  In an interview with Bloomberg News in March, Batista said
he exemplified a new “Brazilian dream” of entrepreneurial
success. He repeated his goal of overtaking  Carlos Slim  as the
world’s richest man by 2015, a feat that would require him to
double his wealth at the time.  Batista’s net worth peaked at $34.5 billion on March 27,
after he sold a 5.6 percent stake in EBX, the umbrella for most
of his assets, to Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. for $2
billion.  Great Salesman  While boosting his personal fortune, the deal did little to
comfort investors in his publicly traded companies. Shares
continued to sink even after Batista sold another $300 million
stake in EBX to General Electric Co. in May. The sell-off peaked
when OGX announced last month it was cutting output targets for
its first two wells by as much as 75 percent, intensifying
doubts as to whether he’d oversold his companies’ prospects.  “What’s actually true, and what’s just the fact that he’s
a great salesman?” asked Henrique de La Rocque, who manages 300
million reais at Brasif Gestao de Recursos in Rio de Janeiro. He
said he’s holding on to his OGX shares at least until the
“panic” subsides.  Track Record  In its e-mailed response to questions, EBX pointed to
Batista’s 30-year track record in developing eight  gold mines 
and one silver mine across Brazil,  Canada  and  Chile . Batista
pursued -- and abandoned -- several companies during that time.
In 1999, Batista sold a water business to a unit of Enron Corp.
for $55 million, telling Bloomberg News after the deal: “Gold
is a Jurassic industry. Water is the industry of the 21st
century.”  Batista’s success lies in finding the right projects and
picking good teams, according to Carl Hansen, who spent a decade
working with Batista at TVX Gold Inc. in Toronto in the 1990s.  “Without question he has a talent for identifying
undervalued assets, and then increasing the value of those
assets by doing the work and then finding investors to move them
forward,” said Hansen, who worked at TVX first as a geologist
and later as its director of  investor relations .  As TVX’s chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder,
Batista led the company’s market value to peak at more than $1.7
billion in 1996 as he invested in projects around the globe. A
series of legal challenges, combined with a five-year slump in
 gold prices , drove the company’s value down to less than $150
million by the end of 2000.  ‘Marketing Story’  Today, with the slowdown in  China’s economy  dragging down
raw-material prices, Batista has plowed 2.6 billion reais into
 LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) ’s Acu port project in Rio de Janeiro state. In
March 2010 he said the complex will be a “highway to China”
once completed.  A popular adage holds that Brazil is the country of the
future, and always will be. For the past six years, Batista has
sought to sell the idea that Brazil’s future had finally
arrived, according to Nocera, the former IMF economist.  “It’s been a wonderful marketing story,” Nocera said.
“When you make a lot of promises, sooner or later you need to
deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  