-- Boaz Weinstein Buys Manhattan Co-Op Apartment for $25.5 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-12T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/boaz-weinstein-buys-manhattan-co-op-apartment-for-25-5-million.html
Boaz Weinstein , who runs hedge fund
Saba Capital Management LP, bought an apartment on  Manhattan ’s
Fifth Avenue for $25.5 million, about 6 percent more than the
asking price.  The purchase of the four-bedroom co-op at 907 Fifth Ave.
was completed June 29, according to public records filed today
which listed the buyer as an attorney acting as a trustee. The
buyer was Weinstein, said a person with knowledge of the deal,
who asked not to be named because the details were private.  The unit is one of three residences in the Upper East Side
building that belonged to Huguette Clark, the copper heiress who
died in May 2011 at age 104, according to a  brokerage listing 
posted on property-data website StreetEasy.com. The apartment,
which overlooks Central Park, was listed for sale on March 9 for
$24 million.  “From the corner master bedroom, one enjoys views over the
model sailboat pond all the way north to the George Washington
Bridge,” reads the listing by Mary Rutherfurd and Leslie
Coleman, brokers at Brown Harris Stevens. “While one needs to
envision the apartment brought up to date for today’s lifestyle,
the bones are here for a unique and fabulous residence.”  The co-op includes three staff rooms and a gallery with 11-
foot ceilings, according to the listing. The building, at the
corner of 72nd Street, was constructed in 1915.  Weinstein, 39, declined to comment through a spokesman,
Jonathan Gasthalter. Rutherfurd didn’t immediately return a
telephone call.  Saba Capital  Weinstein’s Saba Capital is a so-called long/short credit
fund that avoids large bets on the direction of the economy,
instead seeking to profit from gaps in prices between
derivatives, bonds and loans. Weinstein, former co-head of
global credit trading at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , started
Saba in 2009.  In May, the firm profited by betting  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
trader Bruno Iksil was distorting prices in a credit-derivative
index. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May
10 that the bank’s loss could reach $3 billion or more. The bank
hasn’t disclosed how much of the money-losing trades it’s still
holding.  Saba’s main $5 billion fund has returned 2.3 percent this
year through June 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  