-- Bond Danger Reaches Record High as Yields Lure: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-07-12T15:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bond-danger-reaches-record-high-as-yields-lure-credit-markets.html
Corporate bonds have never been more
perilous for investors who are scooping up longer-maturity debt
at the fastest pace since 2008 in a bet the  Federal Reserve  will
keep  interest rates  at record lows through late 2014.  The duration of global company bonds, a measure of the
securities’ price sensitivity to yield changes that rises with
longer maturities, reached a record high yesterday, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. An investor holding
$10 million of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s 4.5 percent
debentures due 2042 would lose about $565,000 if the yield
increased to 4 percent from 3.7 percent now.  While the Fed has said its  benchmark rate  will likely
remain in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through late 2014,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. say the
central bank won’t move until the middle of 2015 as the economy
slows. The  International Monetary Fund  will cut its 3.5 percent
estimate for global growth this year, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said last week.  Bond buyers are “reading the tea leaves from the Federal
Reserve to mean that there’s no near-term danger of policy rates
rising,”  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners, said in a telephone interview from
 New York . “As the pressure mounts to get yield, investors one
way or another come up with a way to go out longer than they
traditionally have.”  The prices of longer-maturity bonds are more sensitive to
changes in the current market yields than shorter-dated debt. An
equal rise in borrowing costs cuts more value from longer-dated
notes that pay a larger number of coupons.  Anheuser-Busch InBev  Average yields on investment-grade corporate bonds reached
a record-low 3.15 percent yesterday on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate index. That’s
helping push modified duration, which gauges the price change of
a security for a given shift in yield, to an unprecedented 5.84
years as of yesterday, compared with 5.59 years at year-end and
last year’s low of 5.28 on March 30.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. climbed for a second
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rising 1.7 basis points to a mid-price of
113.2 basis points as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 1.9 basis points to 21.8 basis
points as of 11:45 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 204 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:46 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The maker of Budweiser
and  Stella Artois  sold $7.5 billion of bonds yesterday in the
second-biggest offering of the year.  Borrowers from  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  to St. Louis-based  Monsanto
Co. (MON)  have responded to record-low borrowing costs by selling $279
billion of dollar debt due in 10 or more years since year-end,
the most for a January-through-July period since 2008, Bloomberg
data show. Longer-dated new issues account for 48.7 percent of
total issuance, up from 42 percent in all of 2011 and the most
in three years.  ‘Range-Bound’  The Fed won’t raise borrowing costs through next year,
according to the median estimate of a July survey conducted by
Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America both say a weaker-
than-forecast June jobs gain will lead the central bank to keep
its rate at a record low, where it’s been since December 2008,
until the middle of 2015.  “We could be sitting in this type of range-bound interest
rate environment” until 2015,  Rajeev Sharma , who helps oversee
$1.5 billion of high-grade debt at First Investors Management
Co. in New York. For higher-quality credits, “investors start
to feel, ‘Let me take the longer-end risk and get some yield for
it,’ because in the 10-year space or even shorter, it’s just not
going to be enough yield to make it exciting.”  Average effective maturities and durations among mutual
funds tracked by Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. both increased
in May from the previous month and are higher than in January.
Maturities on debt held by taxable bond funds increased to 6.52
years from 6.46 years in April and 6.36 at the start of 2012.
Duration rose to 4.17 years in May from 4.05 in January.  Operation Twist  Two Fed participants said at the central bank’s June
meeting that additional bond purchases are appropriate and two
others said they would be warranted in the absence of
“satisfactory progress” in cutting unemployment or if downside
risks increase, according to minutes of the session.  Fed members also said strains in global markets stemming
from  Europe ’s debt crisis had increased since their April
meeting, and that “U.S. fiscal policy would be more
contractionary than anticipated.”  The Fed under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  bought $2.3 trillion
of Treasury and mortgage-related debt to stimulate the economy.
It decided in June to extend a policy known as Operation Twist
where it sells short-term securities and uses the proceeds to
buy longer-term debt to $667 billion from $400 billion.  United Technologies  The “key  emerging markets ” of Brazil, China and India are
showing signs of slowdown and the IMF’s growth outlook “has
regrettably become more worrisome,” Lagarde said July 6 in
Tokyo. The IMF managing director is pressing for fiscal union in
Europe to aid growth and financial stability as nations such as
 Greece  confront a sovereign-debt crisis.  United Technologies  raised $9.8 billion in the largest U.S.
corporate bond sale in more than three years on May 24 to help
finance its $16.5 billion acquisition of Goodrich Corp. Its $3.5
billion portion of 30-year bonds traded at 114.9 cents on the
dollar to yield 3.67 percent yesterday, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed company, sold $250
million of 30-year debt at a record low 3.6 percent coupon July
9. 3M Co., the maker of Scotch tape and  Post-It Notes , sold $600
million of 10-year notes with a 1.95 percent coupon on June 21,
the lowest coupon ever among similar maturities.  Kraft Offering  Kraft, the world’s second-largest food company after Nestle
SA, sold $6 billion of debt at its record-low coupons May 30 in
connection with the planned spinoff of its North American
grocery business. The offering included equal $2 billion
portions of 10- and 30-year debt that have both increased in
price.  “The longer duration is probably being driven by CFOs and
treasurers who see record low risk-free rates and say, ‘Why not
lock in inexpensive, long-term funding?’” Jim Hannan, a senior
 money manager  in Baltimore at Wilmington Trust Investment
Advisors Inc., which oversees about $25 billion in fixed-income
assets and is overweight corporate securities, said in a
telephone interview.  “The demand is there because of the historically low risk-
free rates, and that investors are to a certain degree clamoring
for yield and are willing to take on credit risk,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  