-- Botticelli May Aid Bankruptcy of Imprisoned Salander
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-07-12T19:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/botticelli-may-aid-bankruptcy-of-imprisoned-salander.html
A painting attributed to Sandro
Botticelli and valued at $9.5 million may provide some relief to
creditors of Salander-O’Reilly Galleries, more than four years
after they fell victim to New York’s biggest-ever art fraud.  Earlier this week, a New York federal court judge ruled
that although a consignor still owns “Madonna and Child”
(circa 1500), state law may permit the bankrupt gallery to sell
it to benefit creditors.  None of the hundreds of creditors have recovered any money
since the November 2007 bankruptcy, said  Ilan Scharf , a lawyer
who represents the trustee responsible for selling most of the
approximately 4,000 artworks in the Upper East Side gallery and
its warehouses.  In 2010, proprietor  Lawrence Salander  pleaded guilty to
stealing more than $100 million from investors and customers,
including Robert De Niro and  John McEnroe .  In his spending sprees, Salander acquired heaps of
Renaissance art, two lavishly appointed homes, jewelry for his
now-ex-wife, Julie Dowden, rare books, furniture and private-jet
rentals.  The dealer admitted to pocketing proceeds from selling art
he didn’t own and peddling half-shares in the same work three or
more times. He’s serving 6 to 18 years in state prison.  ‘Infinitesimal Amount’  “I don’t expect to get anything,” said Roy Lennox, a
former hedge-fund manager with Caxton Associates who lost more
than $3 million in what prosecutors described in court as a
 Ponzi scheme . “Maybe an infinitesimal amount. There are too
many people and not enough stuff. And some of the stuff is pure
junk.”  The Botticelli may offer millions for creditors, after U.S.
District Judge Cathy Seibel ruled this week against the owner’s
effort to wrest it from  bankruptcy-court  control. A similar work
sold in 2006 for $7.5 million at Christie’s in  London .  Some creditors, such as De Niro, were able to retrieve art
through a claims process in bankruptcy court. (De Niro’s late
father, the artist  Robert De Niro  Sr., was represented by the
gallery.) The only people who’ve received money from the gallery
since the bankruptcy filing are lawyers, auctioneers and others
involved with its unwinding.  Kraken Investments, based in the  Channel Islands , consigned
“Madonna and Child” to the gallery with an asking price of
$9.5 million, according to a letter of agreement filed in
federal court. The 14-by-10-inch work was to be displayed in an
exhibition titled “Masterpieces of Art: Five Centuries of
Painting and Sculpture,” which Salander billed ahead of its
October 2007 opening as his grandest show to date.  Gallery Closed  But as lawsuits piled up from aggrieved customers and
partners, a state judge ordered the gallery closed, and a London
dealer collaborating on the show pulled his art.  The Botticelli, which the catalog said was once owned by
 Imelda Marcos , became entangled in the bankruptcy that began
days later.  The bankruptcy “has been nothing less than a nightmare,”
said Tel Aviv-based dealer Ronald Fuhrer in a telephone
interview. He described himself in a 2008 claims form as an
agent for Kraken.  Kraken sought that ownership of the painting be decided in
the Channel Islands, in accordance with its Salander-O’Reilly
consignment agreement, which stipulates that disputes be
arbitrated there. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in New
York denied Kraken’s motion, calling bankruptcy court the proper
forum to determine ownership. Kraken appealed Morris’s ruling to
the U.S. district court.  Filing Missed  In her decision, filed on July 10, Seibel affirmed the
bankruptcy-court decision.  “The court well understands why Kraken is perturbed, even
outraged, by the idea that Salander-O’Reilly creditors may enjoy
the proceeds from the sale of a valuable painting concededly
owned by Kraken,” she wrote. She said  New York  state law allows
for that because the owner failed to make a filing required by
New York’s Uniform Commercial Code.  In an interview, Fuhrer described Kraken as a trust company
for a family he declined to identify. After he was reminded of a
2011 affidavit in which he called himself Kraken’s sole owner,
he said he’d forgotten that all shares in Kraken were passed on
to him.  Found Genuine  The artwork sold at Christie’s New York in 1991 for
$231,000. At that auction it was attributed to “workshop of
Botticelli.”  “It was discovered later to be a genuine Botticelli,”
Fuhrer said, adding that Nicholas Penny, now director of
London’s National Gallery, endorsed the attribution. Christopher
Blake, a press officer with the National Gallery, declined to
comment.  Petra Davenport, a lawyer for Kraken, declined to say
whether it will appeal the July 10 ruling.  The case is Kraken Investments v. Alan M. Jacobs, 11-cv-
06133, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( White
Plains ).  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  