-- Bovespa Falls as Drop in Metals Pushes MMX Lower; Tim Plunges
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-07-12T20:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bovespa-futures-drop-as-growth-concern-pushes-commodities-lower.html
The Bovespa stock index fell to a
two-week low as Brazilian mining companies followed a drop in
metal prices amid renewed concern global growth is faltering.  Iron-ore producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA was the
worst performer on the MSCI  Brazil /Materials index, and
competitor  Vale SA (VALE3)  dropped for a fourth day, the longest losing
streak in almost two months. Tim Participacoes SA slumped the
most in 11 months after a report the phone company may be
blocked from selling plans to new subscribers if service doesn’t
improve. Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  rallied after
the central bank cut borrowing costs.  The Bovespa declined 0.3 percent to 53,420.87 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the lowest level since June 28. Thirty-
six stocks rose today while 30 dropped. The real depreciated 0.1
percent to 2.0379 per dollar. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month
Price Commodity Index fell 1 percent.  “Economic data around the world keep coming in worse than
expected, and unless policy makers take further steps to boost
growth, the outlook is negative,” Marc Sauerman, who helps
oversee about 650 million reais ($319 million) at JMalucelli
Investimentos, said by phone from Curitiba, Brazil. “Lower
commodities prices are particularly bad for the  Bovespa. (IBOV)  Some of
the biggest companies depend on raw-materials exports.”  Global stocks  declined as policy makers in  South Korea 
lowered borrowing costs for the first time in more than three
years, saying the economy is growing less than expected.
Economies in  Asia  will expand less this year than previously
forecast, the  Asian Development Bank  said today. An Australian
report showed employers cut payrolls by 27,000 workers in June
while economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast no change.  MMX Declines  Vale, the heaviest-weighted stock on the Bovespa index,
fell 0.4 percent to 38.61 reais after earlier dropping 2.6
percent. MMX, the iron-ore producer controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , lost 4.6 percent to 5.61 reais.  Tim Participacoes, Brazil’s second-biggest cell-phone
operator, tumbled 7.5 percent to 9.80 reais, the worst performer
on the Bovespa, after O Estado de S.Paulo reported that Brazil
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said the company may be
blocked from selling new contracts if it fails to improve
operations. Bernardo said Tim may be required to sign an
agreement with regulators pledging better service, according to
O Estado.  Tim said in a regulatory filing today it’s unaware of any
possible restriction on the company’s sales. The carrier said in
the statement it “strictly” follows the directions provided by
Brazil’s regulator and is keeping its investment plan of about 3
billion reais per year.  Rate Cut  An official at the Communications Ministry didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Homebuilder Rossi Residencial SA sank 7 percent to 3.99
reais after reporting that its contracted sales fell 24 percent
to 682 million reais in the second quarter from a year earlier.  Some  stocks  linked to domestic demand advanced a day after
Brazil lowered its target lending rate for the eighth straight
time. The central bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, cut the Selic by a half-percentage point to a record
low 8 percent.  “Lower  interest rates  may help boost consumption, which is
good for some industries that depend more heavily on domestic
demand, but it may not be enough to strengthen the economy as a
whole,” Mirela Rappaport, who helps manage 250 million reais at
Investport in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The
industrial sector would still need lower taxes and a weaker
currency to post a sustained recovery.”  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  gained 2.9 percent to 6 reais.
Cia. Hering, a clothing retailer, climbed 2.5 percent to 37.50
reais.  Bovespa Valuation  The Bovespa has dropped 22 percent since this year’s high
on March 13 as the debt crisis in  Europe  worsened and growth in
Brazil faltered. The index trades at 9.8 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 9.9
times for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5.83 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday, which compares with a daily average of 7.31
billion reais this year through July 10, according to data
compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  