-- Brazilian Swaps Rates Rise as May Economic Gauge Beats Forecast
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-07-12T21:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/brazil-real-declines-on-growth-concern-rate-cut-speculation.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose from a
record low as traders pared bets on further cuts in borrowing
costs after a report showed economic activity fell in May less
than forecast.  The swap rates earlier touched a record low on speculation
the central bank would sustain the pace of reductions after
lowering the benchmark Selic by a half-percentage point to a
record 8 percent yesterday.  “The economic activity report brought a little relief,”
Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil
SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The forecasts of the market
were very negative.”  Swap rates maturing in January 2014 rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.69 percent at 6:30 p.m. in Sao
Paulo after touching a record low of 7.61 percent earlier. The
real was little changed at 2.0375 per dollar as it pared
declines of as much as 0.7 percent.  Economic activity fell 0.02 percent in May from the prior
month, the central bank said today. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.4 percent drop.  Central bank board members voted unanimously yesterday to
lower the target lending rate for an eighth straight time,
saying  economic “fragility” abroad is leading to slower
inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest country. The central bank
has lowered the benchmark by 4.5 percentage points since August,
the most among the Group of 20 nations.  Bids Rejected  Brazil rejected all offers for floating-rate bonds maturing
in 2018 at an auction, marking the first time Treasury officials
turned down all bids on such securities in eight years.  The last time the government accepted no offers on
floating-rate bonds, known as LFTs, was at an auction in July
2004, according to data compiled by the Treasury.  The government sold zero-coupon bonds, known as LTNs, at
today’s auction. It issued bonds due in January 2016 at an
average yield of 8.83 percent, bonds due in July 2014 at 8.01
percent and securities due in April 2013 to yield 7.36 percent,
according to a statement on the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  