-- Budget Hotels Drop as Growth Concerns Sink ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-12T20:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/budget-hotels-drop-as-growth-concerns-sink-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in  New York ,
sending the benchmark index to the lowest level in nine months,
on speculation the world’s second largest economy expanded at
the slowest pace in three years last quarter.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York lost 1.6 percent to 86.69, the lowest
level since Oct. 5. Budget hotel chain operators  7 Days Group
Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  and  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT)  sank more than 6
percent. Trina Solar Ltd. tumbled as Piper Jaffray & Co. cut its
recommendation on the shares.  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  rebounded
after saying its merger with  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  is on track following
the resignation of its chief operating officer.  A government report due today is expected to show  China’s
economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter, the slowest
pace in three years, according to the median estimate of 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Data released this week showed
import and export growth slowed in June and consumer prices rose
the least in more than two years. Net income of 53 companies on
the Bloomberg China-US gauge that reported from mid-February to
mid-May  missed analysts’ estimates  by 18 percent on average.  “People are nervous to see what’s going to come out,”
Edmund Harriss, who helps manage a $150 million equity fund at
Guinness Atkinson Asset Management, said by phone yesterday from
London. “Stocks, particularly in the domestic sectors, have
suffered. GDP numbers should remain at 7 percent to 8 percent
for the remainder of the year.”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., tumbled 1.8 percent to $32.09.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.5 percent to 1,334.76
in its sixth day of declines on increasing concern about global
economic growth and corporate earnings.  Chinese banks extended 919.8 billion  yuan  ($144.3 billion)
of local-currency loans in June, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday. That compares with the 880 billion yuan median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank has cut
benchmark  interest rates  since June 7 and reserve-requirement
ratios for lenders three times since November to help boost
growth of the world’s second-largest economy.  The monetary data “shows the initial effects of he
monetary easing undertaken in recent months,”  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York, wrote in a
note yesterday. “We very much doubt that liquidity conditions
have improved further down the food chain.”  China Lodging, which runs the nation’s fourth-largest
economy hotel chain, tumbled 7.7 percent to $11.43, the steepest
slump since September.  China Lodging Revenue  The Shanghai-based company opened 78 hotels in the second
quarter, it said in a statement on preliminary quarterly results
yesterday. Revenue per available room rose 4 percent from a year
earlier to 176 yuan, it said. China Lodging planned to open 260
to 270 hotels this year, according to its May 9 statement.  7 Days, China’s second-biggest budget hotel owner, lost 6.3
percent to a one-month low of $9.15.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a Beijing-based education
service provider, sank 8.2 percent to $2.25, extending its
decline to 51 percent since the resignation a week ago of its
chief financial officer.  Ambow said on July 4 that Gareth Kung resigned as the
company’s CFO, six weeks after announcing that the company would
change its accounting rules for recognizing revenue. Investors
in Chinese stocks with small market capitalizations have become
more cautious following accounting scandals at companies such as
ChinaCast Education Corp. and Sino-Forest Corp.,  Trace Urdan , an
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said.  Youku, Tudou  “Investors are so worried about the risks that it’s turned
off institutional investors completely,” Urdan, said in a phone
interview from San Francisco. “I have no reason to believe
there’s falsification here.”  Youku’s acquisition of smaller competitor Tudou, announced
in March, will be closed in the third quarter after
shareholders’ approval, Shanghai-based Tudou said in a statement
yesterday.  Tudou’s COO Evelyn Wang resigned due to personal reasons
and will continue to assist the company in the merger process,
it said in the statement.  Tudou’s ADRs rebounded 3.1 percent to $28.26 in New York,
from a four-month low on July 11. Youku climbed 1.6 percent to
$18.50 yesterday after tumbling 4.5 percent a day earlier.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s fourth-largest solar maker,
slid 4.5 percent to $5.92.  Piper Jaffray lowered its  recommendation  on the company’s
shares to neutral from overweight. He also downgraded LDK Solar
Co. and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.  LDK was unchanged at $1.84 while Yingli slid 0.7 percent to
$2.78.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  