-- Buffett Says Economy ‘More-or-Less Flat’ as Housing Gains
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-12T13:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/buffett-says-economy-more-or-less-flat-as-housing-rebounds.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , told CNBC that economic
growth in the U.S. is slowing even as the housing market shows
signs of rebounding.  “The general economy in the  United States  has been more-
or-less flat, and so the growth has tempered down,” he said
today in an interview with the cable station from  Sun Valley ,
Idaho. With residential housing, “we’re seeing a pickup, and
it’s noticeable. It’s from a very low base and it doesn’t amount
to a whole lot yet, but it’s getting better.”  Buffett’s remarks contrast with his comment a year ago to
Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in Sun Valley that the economy
and jobs will “come back big time” when residential
construction recovers.  U.S. unemployment  has exceeded 8 percent
for more than three years.  “I’ve got a little different story this time,” Buffett
told CNBC today. “For a couple years I’ve been telling you that
everything except residential housing was improving at a
moderate rate, not crawling, but not galloping either, but that
residential housing was flat-lining. And the last two months
it’s been just sort of the opposite.”  Buffett uses  results  at his company’s more than 70
operating units to gauge the health of the economy. Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire owns a real estate brokerage, a maker
of manufactured homes and units that construct roofs and sell
bricks and carpet.  ‘Headed Downward’  Spending in  Europe  has slowed as the region grapples with a
debt crisis, causing businesses to “pull in their horns,”
Buffett said.  “Europe is really, it’s headed downward in the last, I
don’t know, six weeks or so,” Buffett said. “It wasn’t going
that way before. It wasn’t doing that well, but it hadn’t really
hit the skids.”  Buffett has said he believes in the long-term prospects of
the U.S. and has called his 2010 purchase of railroad Burlington
Northern Santa Fe an “all in wager” on the country’s economy.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week, reflecting the
volatility of applications during the annual auto-plant
retooling period. Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by
26,000 in the week ended July 7 to 350,000, Labor Department
figures showed today.  Buffett also commented on former Barclays Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , saying he had to resign after
the bank agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($448 million) to
settle a probe into manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor.  Diamond, Dimon  “I don’t think he had any choice but to go,” Buffett,
said today. “He wasn’t in charge of all of Barclays at that
time, but, there are a lot of things that went on in that
trading room that, who knows who was aware of what?”  Buffett reiterated his support for  Jamie Dimon , CEO of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which has come under scrutiny from
lawmakers after the bank lost at least $2 billion on credit-
derivative bets. Dimon is one of the best bankers, Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  