-- California Bankruptcies Belie Decrease in Defaults: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/california-bankruptcies-belie-decrease-in-defaults-muni-credit.html
U.S. localities are defaulting at
the slowest rate in three years, showing that three California
municipalities’ decisions to file for  bankruptcy protection 
within two weeks isn’t a sign of wider stress in the tax-exempt
market.  One hundred municipal issuers defaulted nationwide for the
first time in the year through July 10, the least in a 12-month
period since Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisers began collecting the data in 2009. The decline is
counter to the “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults
that banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  projected in 2010.  The drop also signals that the finances of issuers in the
$3.7 trillion market are improving three years after the end of
the longest recession since the 1930s. It may bolster confidence
in munis, which are on a pace to beat Treasuries and corporate
bonds for a second straight year when adjusting for volatility.  “While the frequency feels like it’s picking up, the
amount of debt remains very small,” said Guy Davidson, who
oversees $31 billion as director of municipal investments at
AllianceBernstein LP in  New York .  The City Council of San Bernardino, a city of 209,000 about
65 miles (105 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , voted July 10 to
pursue bankruptcy after officials learned they might not have
enough cash to pay workers. The move followed Chapter 9 filings
by Stockton and Mammoth Lakes in the past two weeks.  Bonds Rally  Even with the bankruptcy vote, municipal debt rallied
yesterday. Yields on 10-year benchmark municipals fell to a one-
month low of  1.82 percent , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Municipal mutual funds have added $15.7 billion this year,
the most for the period since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show. Bondholders are putting to work a record wave of about
$142 billion in the three months through July from bonds that
are coming due or being refinanced, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The technicals favor municipals at the moment in that
there’s still strong demand and limited supply,” Davidson said.  Whitney predicted in a December 2010 broadcast of CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that municipal defaults would total
“hundreds of billions of dollars” in the coming year.  Instead, 2012 is shaping up as a year of diminishing
failures. Forty-two issuers have defaulted for the first time
this year, compared with 68 for the same period of 2011, MMA
data show. For all of last year, there were 126 cases.  Beating Budgets  Fewer municipal issuers are defaulting as revenue
collections improve. Thirty-one states garnered more revenue
than their budgeted estimates for the fiscal year that ended
last month, according to the  National Governors Association .  “We expected there to be a handful of problems, not a
sweeping hundreds of billions of dollars,” said Matt Fabian, a
managing director at MMA, in a telephone interview.  Whitney didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment,
and she was unavailable for a phone interview when contacted at
her New York office.  States and localities typically default less often than
companies. Only 0.13 percent of municipal bonds rated by Moody’s
Investors Service fell into that category from 1970 to 2011,
compared with more than 11 percent of company debt.  After adjusting for volatility, tax-exempt debt has earned
2.3 percent this year through July 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That
compares with 1.7 percent for corporate debt and 0.8 percent for
Treasuries.  Declining Revenue  San Bernardino faces a $45 million deficit and declining
tax revenue, according to a  budget analysis  on the city’s
website.  Stockton, a community of 292,000 east of  San Francisco ,
filed for Chapter 9 last month, becoming the largest U.S. city
to go into bankruptcy. Mammoth Lakes, a ski destination, filed
this month saying it can’t pay a $43 million legal judgment,
more than twice its general-fund spending for the year.  Since 2008, AllianceBernstein has been favoring debt backed
by dedicated revenue such as utility payments and tolls on the
view those streams would offer more cushion during the 18-month
recession that started at the end of 2007. The company allocates
about 10 percent of its municipal portfolios to local-government
debt, less than that segment’s 12 percent share of the municipal
market, Davidson said.  Even with the California developments, investors will buy
munis for their relative safety and value, Davidson said.  “It would take a much larger issuer or a lot more smaller
issuers to shake investors’ confidence and I don’t think we’re
there yet,” Davidson said.  Following are pending sales:  DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK plans to sell
$1 billion of debt backed by personal-income-tax revenue as soon
as July 17 through competitive bid, according to bond documents.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects for the State
University of New York system and the  City University  of New
York and support environmental infrastructure projects.  Fitch
Ratings  rates the bonds AA, third-highest. (Added July 12)  MIAMI-DADE COUNTY,  Florida , is set to issue $540 million of
sales-tax revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The sale will refund debt and help
finance transportation projects, according to bond documents.
(Added July 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  