-- California City Under Investigation Drained Reserve Funds
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-13T13:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/california-city-facing-bankruptcy-depleted-reserve-funds.html
Law enforcement officials are
investigating possible crimes in San Bernardino’s city
government, which almost drained special funds to prop up its
budget.  The near-bankrupt state of the community of 209,000 east of
 Los Angeles  came to light when a new finance director discovered
that previous officials shifted money for workers-compensation
and liability insurance to the general fund, said Andrea Travis-
Miller, interim city manager.  “The city has relied on a whole variety of one-time
measures to balance its budget,” Travis-Miller, who began her
job in May, said yesterday. “There have been transfers to the
general fund with the expectation that they would be repaid.
That became difficult.”  A day after she and the finance director warned of a
projected $45 million deficit, the City Council voted to seek
 bankruptcy protection , according to documents and City Attorney
James Penman. San Bernardino became the third California
municipality to opt for bankruptcy in a month.  The city has been under investigation for several months by
the San Bernardino sheriff’s office, the city’s police
department and the local  district attorney  following allegations
of crime, according to a  statement  posted on the sheriff’s
website. The release said the probe is continuing and provided
no details.  Travis-Miller said she knew of no intentional wrongdoing.  Faked Reports  At a council meeting this week, Penman said former
municipal employees had understated the extent of the city’s
fiscal woes in “falsified” reports during the past 16 years.
He declined to name anyone. Mayor Patrick Morris, who took
office in 2006, said that it was the first time he had heard
Penman’s allegations.  Penman, who unsuccessfully ran against Morris for mayor,
said in an interview that irregularities in city accounting
became apparent to him in February, and he notified an “outside
governmental agency” on Feb. 29. He declined to name the
agency, or say whether it was a branch of  law enforcement . He
also wouldn’t detail the signs of irregularities he saw.  “All evidence of suspected wrongdoing has been turned over
to the appropriate governmental agencies,” he said. The probe
under way now was sought by city officials, according to the
sheriff’s office.  Penman, first  elected  in 1987 as chief lawyer for the city,
said the magnitude of San Bernardino’s financial crisis came to
light only in June.  $127,000 Cash  Travis-Miller and Jason Simpson, the new director of
finance, discovered that cash reserves had fallen as low as
$127,000, jeopardizing the city’s ability to meet its June 15
payroll costs of more than $4 million, Penman said.  Travis-Miller and Simpson weren’t available to comment on
Penman’s account, their assistants said.  In a draft of a budget document dated June 26 and released
by the city clerk, Travis-Miller and Simpson wrote that San
Bernardino was facing insolvency as both its general fund and
special funds were out of money.  More than half of the projected $45 million deficit
resulted from the city shorting special accounts such as those
for retiree health, and workers’ compensation and general-
liability insurance funds, according to the budget document.  Evan Westrup, a spokesman for Governor  Jerry Brown , a
Democrat, and the state Finance Department, said he had no
comment as to the legality of the fund transfers. His response
came before the disclosure of the law-enforcement probe.  Agency Dissolved  The dissolution of the city’s Economic Development Agency,
one of about 400 such entities in California eliminated Feb. 1
by a new state law, compounded the crisis by taking away a
source of revenue, according to the memo.  “The remaining fund balances cannot pay for ongoing
operating costs and large sustained reductions will be
required,” Travis-Miller and Simpson said in the memo, which
was completed and released to the council July 9.  “The EDA shutdown was the straw that broke the camel’s
back, but it was only a straw,” Penman said.  Because the city probably won’t have enough money to pay
its employees through the next 60 days, it is poised to become
the first  California  city to bypass mandated mediation with
creditors by declaring a fiscal emergency and seeking court
protection, Penman said. Stockton and Mammoth Lakes filed
Chapter 9 bankruptcy petitions in the past month, the first such
moves by municipalities in the state since 2008.  Declaration Vote  San Bernardino’s council has scheduled a vote July 16 on
the emergency declaration that would let it skip the 60-day
neutral evaluation process in which creditors have a right to
participate, Penman said.  Stockton, a community of 292,000 east of San Francisco, and
Mammoth Lakes, a mountain resort of 8,200, both went through
mediation with creditors such as labor unions and bondholders
before seeking bankruptcy in the past two weeks.  A law signed by Brown that took effect this year requires
mediation before municipalities can seek court protection,
without a declaration of fiscal emergency. Public-employee
unions pressed for the law after Vallejo, a city of 120,000 in
the  San Francisco  Bay area, went bankrupt in 2008 and asked the
court to let it void labor contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 