-- Canadian Dollar Rises Against Most Majors as Stocks Pare Losses
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-12T21:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/canadian-dollar-declines-on-risk-aversion-before-housing-report.html
Canada’s dollar appreciated against
a majority of its most-traded counterparts after U.S. stocks and
crude oil pared losses, improving the outlook for currencies
tied to global demand.  The Canadian currency strengthened from the lowest this
month against the greenback after a government report showed
Canada’s new home price index rose 0.3 percent in May. It
dropped earlier against the U.S. currency and the yen on concern
the global slowdown is gaining momentum.  Bank of Canada  policy
makers meet on July 17 to decide on  interest rates .  “The Canadian dollar seems to be the only currency that is
tracking the recovery in U.S. stocks,”  Kathy Lien , managing
director of foreign-exchange strategy at BK Asset Management in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “Any sort of rally in
the Canadian dollar should be looked at as an opportunity to
sell. The Bank of Canada’s hands are tied for the rest of the
year.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0191 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after depreciating to C$1.0250, the
lowest level since June 29. One Canadian dollar buys 98.13 U.S.
cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5 percent after
losing 1.2 percent. Crude oil futures fell 0.4 percent to $85.82
a barrel in New York. Prices were down more than 2 percent.  Risk Floor  “Risk is attempting to climb off the floor, as is the
euro,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “Canada
continues to look better on a comparative basis.”  Canadian government-bond yields are approaching record lows
as investors seek safety amid an unresolved  European debt
crisis , slowing Chinese growth and a lethargic U.S. recovery.  The  benchmark  10-year bond yielded 1.63 percent today,
compared with 2.30 percent in March. The yield touched 1.615
percent on June 1, the lowest since at least 1950, according to
Bloomberg and Bank of Canada records.  The loonie advanced to the strongest since 1999 versus the
euro, touching C$1.2418, on speculation the global slowdown is
gaining momentum. China’s economic growth slowed to an annual
7.7 percent last quarter, from 8.1 percent in the previous three
months, a Bloomberg survey forecast.  Home Prices  Canada ’s new home price  index  recorded its 14th straight
gain, led by higher prices in Toronto, the government statistics
agency said. Economists predicted the index would rise 0.2
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
with 10 responses.  Trading in overnight index swaps showed odds the Bank of
Canada will leave its target rate at 1 percent at its July 17
policy meeting were about 98 percent, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  The Canadian currency rose 1.2 percent to C$1.0333 versus
the Australian dollar after the statistics bureau said in Sydney
the number of people employed in the country fell by 27,000,
almost erasing a revised 27,800 gain in May. The jobless rate
rose for a second month, to 5.2 percent from 5.1 percent.  “Australian employment data was miserable, rumors swirl
that Chinese GDP data will disappoint, while earnings,
particularly in consumer discretionary and staples, have been
surprisingly weak,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Most asset classes are favoring  risk aversion , given
evidence that the downside to global growth is not fully priced
in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  