-- Carrefour Shares Surge as Management Reassures Investors
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-12T09:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/carrefour-sales-little-changed-as-european-sales-decline.html
     July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Carrefour SA shares rose the most in
more than five months after the world’s second-largest retailer
reported sales growth that topped analysts’ estimates and boosted
investor confidence that it can meet full-year profit expectations.  The stock  advanced  as much as 7.2 percent to 14.15 euros
after the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said
revenue fell 0.3 percent to 21.7 billion euros ($26.6 billion)
as all countries in  Europe , excluding France, delivered a
“satisfactory performance.” The average of six analysts’
 estimates  was 21.6 billion euros.  Carrefour, which has lowered its outlook for profit five
times in the past two years, halted a 1.5 billion-euro plan to
remodel some of its largest European stores in March. The
company is lowering prices, putting more of its own products on
shelves and adding pick-up points for online grocery orders as
new Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat bids to win back
customers and boost profitability.  “It seems as though the downward spiral is not getting
worse and there are some glimmers of hope,” Caroline Gulliver,
an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London  who recommends buying
Carrefour shares, said in a note. “Given that the management
warned on profits ahead of last year’s second-quarter sales, we
take this as a sign that perhaps profits are not too far out of
line with expectations.”  Carrefour is comfortable with consensus estimates for full-
year earnings before interest and tax of 2.03 billion euros to
2.09 billion euros, excluding  Greece , a company official said.  Depressed Consumption  The shares were up 6.8 percent at 14.10 euros as of 11:47
a.m. Today’s intraday advance was the biggest since Jan. 26. The
gain pared this year’s decline to 20 percent, still the  third-
worst performance  in the  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   “This is a straightforward statement and the fact it is
not a profit warning may reassure,” Matthew Truman, an  analyst 
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note. “All Carrefour’s
challenges remain and all the question marks remain unanswered,
however.” Truman has a neutral recommendation on the stock.  Excluding currency moves and gasoline, sales at stores open
a year or more fell 1.3 percent, Carrefour said in a statement.  Non-domestic European same-store sales fell 3.7 percent on
the same basis, hurt by “a depressed consumption environment”
in the south of the region, Carrefour said. The figures were
restated to exclude Greece, which the company agreed to sell to
its franchise partner in the country last month.  France, Spain  While Carrefour will fight to increase market share in
 France  and  Spain , it will evaluate operations in markets where
local competition is better placed, Plassat said last month.
Sales trends are stabilizing in Spain, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Jean Sivignon said on a conference call today. The
company lost market share in the country.  In France, same-store sales fell 3.3 percent, excluding
gasoline and currency moves, hurt by a decline in non-food
sales, particularly for seasonal goods, Carrefour said. Food
sales improved in the period, the grocer said.  “We believe that it is too early to play a potential
turnaround story and we see tangible short-term uncertainties on
the group’s ability to protect  margins  and operating cash
flow,” said Arnaud Joly, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux.  Same-store French hypermarket sales decreased 5.7 percent,
while supermarket sales fell 1.4 percent, both “in line with
the expected effects of the action plan,” Carrefour said. The
average of three analysts’ estimates was for a 5.3 percent drop
in sales at the stores on the same basis. Carrefour had 125 so-
called drives, or pick-up points, at the end of June.  In  Latin America , same-store sales climbed 6.9 percent
excluding currency moves and gasoline. In  Asia , sales advanced
14 percent on a reported basis as Carrefour opened new stores in
 China . On a same-store basis, Asian sales decreased 2.3 percent,
led by a 3.6 percent drop in China, excluding currency moves.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net  