-- CFTC Said Poised to Adopt Client-Fund Safeguards After MF Global
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-12T00:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/cftc-said-poised-to-adopt-client-fund-safeguards-after-mf-global.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is poised to adopt client-fund safeguards to require
more reporting of transfers after the collapse of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and shortfall claims against Peregrine Financial
Group Inc., said two people briefed on the matter.  The agency’s five commissioners are voting in private on
changes proposed after MF Global’s bankruptcy by the  National
Futures Association , an industry self-regulator, according to
the people who spoke on condition of anonymity yesterday because
the rulemaking process isn’t public. The measures would require
higher levels of reporting when a broker’s principal approves
transfers of customer funds, the people said.  “These new requirements will help begin the process of
restoring public confidence in the financial integrity of
customer segregated funds,” NFA President Dan Roth said in a
May 29 statement describing the changes for so-called futures
commission merchants. “Making this information available to the
public will give investors a better picture of the financial
standing of the FCM with which they are conducting business.”  The CFTC is facing new scrutiny from lawmakers and market
participants amid allegations of a $200 million shortfall in
customer funds at Peregrine. The agency sued the brokerage over
the alleged shortfall less than a year after being scolded for
poor oversight following the collapse of MF Global, which left
an estimated $1.6 billion fund gap.  Peregrine is under investigation after Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. unsuccessfully attempted
suicide. The NFA said the chairman may have falsified bank
records after only $5 million was found in an account that was
reported to have $225 million on or about June 29.  Multiple Investigations  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  also are investigating the failure of MF Global,
which was led by Jon S. Corzine, the former co-chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and a Democratic senator and governor
of  New Jersey .  In MF Global’s final days, several large transfers led to
the shortfall in customer funds, James W. Giddens, the trustee
overseeing the bankruptcy of the firm’s brokerage, said in a
June 4 report. On Oct. 26, $615 million was moved from customer
accounts to fund proprietary trading. The money wasn’t returned
by the end of the business day, throwing the company out of
regulatory compliance, he said. The company filed for  bankruptcy
protection  on Oct. 31.  Under the NFA proposal, a futures broker’s chief executive
or another designated principal must provide written approval
before moving more than 25 percent of funds kept in excess of
required levels in customers’ segregated accounts.  The proposal also would require written policies listing
the amount of residual funds in a client account that a broker
intends to maintain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  