-- Chavez Hits Campaign Trail in Bid to Prove He’s Cancer-Free
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-07-12T18:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/chavez-hits-campaign-trail-in-bid-to-prove-he-s-cancer-free.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez  is
hitting the campaign trail today in an attempt to persuade
voters his battle with cancer hasn’t diminished his vitality
ahead of what’s shaping up to be his toughest election.  Chavez will attend a rally today in the oil producing state
of Anzoategui on Venezuela’s northeastern coast and plans to
hold a similar event in Barquisimeto in central Lara state July
14. The rallies are the first since the former tank commander
marked the official start of campaigning July 1 with a caravan
and speech in Maracay, 50 miles west of Caracas.  Chavez, 57, said July 9 that he’s “totally free” of a
cancer whose exact type and location he’s refused to reveal. The
comment echoes similar remarks in October 2011 that he later
retracted after the discovery of a second tumor in February saw
him travel to Cuba for surgery and radiation treatment.  “He’s definitely still going to have to prove it,” said
Gregory Weeks, director of Latin American studies at the
University of  North Carolina  in  Charlotte . ‘He’s going to have
to show by his actions that he’s healthy.”  His challenger, Henrique Capriles Radonski, a 40-year-old
former governor of Miranda state, has sought to mark a contrast
with Chavez by visiting remote towns on a daily basis, preaching
the need to unite the polarized country and saying that the
economy is stagnant after 13 years of socialist government rule.  Public Spending  Venezuela’s economy grew 5.6 percent in the first quarter
from a year ago, the fastest rate in nearly four years, as the
government increases public spending and imports ahead of the
elections. The country’s money supply has risen 53 percent in
the last 12 months on the back of outlays, while annual
inflation stood at 21.3 percent in June.  Venezuela’s  jobless rate  fell to 7.4 percent last month,
the lowest in June since Chavez took power in 1999, the National
Statistics Institute said today in an e-mailed report.  The percentage of export revenue derived from oil has risen
to 95 percent from 80 percent when Chavez took office in 1999,
according to central bank data. The price for Venezuela’s oil
 export basket  has averaged $106.90 this year, according to the
Oil Ministry.  Capriles has sought to accentuate the contrast between
himself and Chavez by highlighting his youth and vigor in day-
long, house-by-house visits across the country. He has taunted
Chavez by saying the campaign will be a battle between Wile E.
Coyote and The Road Runner, a reference to the Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc. cartoon created in 1948.  Forgotten Villages  “I’m going to go to those villages that have been
forgotten by those in power,” Capriles said July 2 in comments
carried on Globovision. Capriles toured Cojedes state today.  Since returning from Cuba in May, Chavez has gradually
increased the frequency and duration of his public appearances
through televised events in which he’s hosted foreign leaders
such as Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and Belarus’
President Aleksandr Lukashenko and promoted military officers.
The former paratrooper said last week that his presidential
duties have kept him too busy to campaign until now and that
he’ll need to juggle his schedule.  “We’re starting the campaign and will travel throughout
the country not just to do the tours, but to explain our new
six-year government plan,” Chavez said yesterday on state
television. “We’re going to seek to guarantee our votes on
October 7 and achieve the great victory that’s already been
written but which we have to work for every day.”  Varying Polls  Recent opinion polls have varied widely. Chavez had 45.9
percent support against 45.8 percent for Capriles in a
Consultores 21 poll of 1,000 people taken between June 15 and
June 26. The survey had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage
points. In a June poll by Caracas-based Datanalisis, Chavez had
a 14 percentage-point lead.  Chavez first revealed in June 2011 that doctors had removed
a tumor from his pelvic area that he later described as
baseball-sized. He returned from a fourth bout of chemotherapy
treatment in Cuba Oct. 20 and declared himself “free of
illness.” In the months that followed he resumed some of his
daily rhythm, even speaking for more than 9 hours in an address
to the National Assembly in January, before announcing he would
need further surgery after doctors discovered a second 2-
centimeter (0.8-inch) tumor in the same area.  Trips to Cuba  His subsequent absences from the public spotlight as he
shuttled back and forth between Cuba and Venezuela to receive
several rounds of radiation treatment sparked a rally in
Venezuelan bonds as investors speculated that Chavez’s battle
with cancer would accelerate a change in government that would
reverse his capital controls and nationalization policies.  Venezuelan dollar bonds have returned 17 percent year-to-
date, the most among  emerging markets  after the  Ivory Coast  and
Belarus, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent securities
due in 2027 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
11.69 percent at 1:30 p.m. in Caracas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.11 cents to 82.81 cents
on the dollar.  “Thank God I’m feeling better every day, and I don’t
believe that physical limitations, as you put it, will be a
factor in the campaign,” Chavez said July 9 during a press
conference when asked if his illness could affect his re-
election bid.  Chavez’s latest declarations on his health “take the wind
out of the sails” of reports that have predicted his imminent
death, said Weeks. While any sign that his cancer has worsened
would damage his prospects of winning in October, Venezuelans
will give him some leeway as he recuperates and won’t expect him
to campaign with the same vigor as in the past, he said.  “People understand he had treatment for cancer so they’re
not expecting the Chavez of the past who is giving 8-hour
presentations and singing and dancing,” Weeks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  