-- Chesapeake Fall Threatens Oklahoma Real Estate Fire Sale
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-12T15:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/chesapeake-fall-threatens-oklahoma-real-estate-fire-sale.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , whose $805
million investment in  Oklahoma City ’s land and buildings has
helped reduce commercial real estate vacancies, threatens to
collapse the market as it faces a cash squeeze and seeks to sell
assets.  The second-largest U.S.  natural-gas producer  has spent
$448.7 million to build a 120-acre (50-hectare) headquarters
campus in the northwestern part of the city and an additional
$356.7 million to develop three nearby retail centers and buy
office buildings and more land, according to Peter Brzycki, a
former Oklahoma City real estate broker who tracks the company’s
properties.  While a sell-off of its commercial property may please the
company’s investors, who have seen share prices decline as
Chesapeake struggles to fill a  cash-flow shortfall , a quick
divestiture would also depress Oklahoma City’s office market,
local real estate professionals said.  “If something were to happen to Chesapeake, the whole
northwestern market would collapse,” said Don Karchmer, a local
developer and investor who’s been involved with some of the
company’s real estate activities. “The whole community has a
fear of what could happen. It would be a huge hurt.”  Chesapeake, the second-largest private employer in Oklahoma
City, is seeking to sell as much as $14 billion in assets in
2012 to raise cash.  The company fell 2.6 percent to $18.59 at 11:25 a.m. in  New
York . The shares have declined 17 percent this year as gas
prices fell and after reports that Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon  was getting personal loans from companies that
were also financing Chesapeake.  No Sale  The Oklahoma City properties aren’t part of Chesapeake’s
planned divestiture program, said Michael Kehs, a company
spokesman.  “We use our real estate every day, so it’s not for sale,”
he said. Kehs said Brzycki’s tally of spending on Chesapeake’s
campus was low and the figure for other real-estate development
was high. He declined to comment on the total investment number.  Investors, including billionaire  Carl Icahn , have called
for the company to get rid of assets that aren’t central to its
energy production business.  “You’ve got a cash crunch, and you’re not a real estate
developer,” said  David Dreman , chairman of Dreman Value
Management Inc. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , which controls about
1 million Chesapeake shares. “If I had a cash crunch and I had
really good wells and very promising property, I don’t think I’d
be in the restaurant business.”  Leading Recovery  Chesapeake’s real estate holdings include shopping centers
and land on which a restaurant co-owned by McClendon operates.  In recent years, Chesapeake has helped to cushion Oklahoma
City from the nation’s recession and tepid recovery. The city’s
4.5 percent unemployment rate was the lowest of any metropolitan
area with a population over 1 million, according to a May survey
by the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . Chesapeake had 5,000
local employees at the end of 2011, the city’s second-largest
private employer after Integris Health.  The company has led a recovery of vacancy rates for top-
tier  office space  in the city to “near pre-recession levels,”
according to a report by broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. The
market’s 11.2 percent vacancy rate during the first three months
of the year represents a 1.6 percentage point decline from a
year earlier, it said. Less inventory has increased average
Class A office rent to $21 a square foot.  Kerr-McGee Lessons  The $67 million Chesapeake spent to acquire three office
buildings in the latter half of last year accounted for 75
percent of Oklahoma City’s total transactions in that real
estate segment.  Now the company faces an estimated cash shortfall of $18.6
billion by the end of 2013, according to Alembic Global
Advisors. Chesapeake has lost about $7 billion in market value
in the past year amid falling energy prices and shareholder
unrest about McClendon’s personal stakes -- and related debts --
in company wells. The board last month replaced McClendon as
chairman and named four new directors.  Larkin Warner, a retired Oklahoma State University
economics professor who lives near Chesapeake’s campus, recalls
the departure of Kerr-McGee Corp., the Oklahoma energy company
co-founded by McClendon’s great-uncle Robert Kerr that was
bought by Houston-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  in 2006.  “The day you begin to think the last few years are going
to go on forever, that’s when you’re in trouble,” said Warner.
For Kerr-McGee, “what happened was like the smile on the
Cheshire Cat. It just gradually shrunk.”  Assessed Values  The company, which has leased 16 million acres of land
nationally for drilling, has also been aggressive in its back
yard, accumulating 3 million square feet of office space and
paying top dollar for properties.  Chesapeake “routinely paid two to five times the current
assessed value for virtually everything they acquired, and then
added substantial construction costs on top of that,” said
Brzycki, who has tracked 445 Chesapeake real estate purchases
since 2005 using county and municipal records and who posts his
findings on an  okctalk.com  forum.  Since 2005, the company has spent $152 million to acquire
and upgrade office buildings away from its campus. Those 12
properties’ assessed value is now $106.2 million, according to
municipal and county records. Chesapeake also put $152 million
into development plans for three retail complexes, which now are
27 percent vacant and have an assessed value of $50.9 million.  Attracting Talent  While Oklahoma City commercial building valuations are
based partly on comparable properties’ recent sales, according
to the county assessor’s website, their assessed value doesn’t
necessarily reflect market value.  Kehs said the main purpose of Chesapeake’s campus and
adjacent retail development “is to create a work environment
that is able to help us attract the best talent.” He declined
to discuss the company’s real estate investment performance and
said its office costs are lower than other large employers.  Chesapeake bought three tracts of land just south of its
headquarters for $1.2 million in 2004. Within a year, it sold
the parcels in two transactions for a total of $865,000, a 28
percent loss. The sale in part was in the form of a swap to add
land to its campus.  Chesapeake spent $38.2 million in 2011 to buy an office
building called Caliber Center, which had sold for $20.1 million
four years earlier. The company’s $7 million purchase of an
office building called Possum Creek in 2010 was two-and-a-half
times what the property fetched five years earlier.  Nichols Hills  McClendon, who began his career as a land man buying up
drilling rights, has been closely involved in Chesapeake’s real
estate activities. He’s personally contacted owners of
properties of interest to Chesapeake and sketched out plans to
redevelop Nichols Hills Plaza on a paper napkin while lunching
with then-tenant Robert Pemberton, owner of the Crescent Market.  That grocery store’s departure is one reason this effort
hasn’t gone well with some residents and officials of Nichols
Hills, an upscale suburb across the street from Chesapeake’s
campus where McClendon and his wife and other prominent families
reside.  After spending $66.5 million to purchase a variety of
properties there, Chesapeake’s plans have been blocked by town
officials concerned that a makeover of the retail center will
cause shops to close for an extended period. The community of
Nichols Hills counts on sales tax receipts from merchants for
the majority of municipal revenue.  Whole Foods  The company also has met opposition from Nichols Hills
Plaza patrons, some of whom staged a rally last October. The
patrons were protesting the demise of two longstanding
businesses, including Crescent Market. Pemberton, who said his
family-owned business dates back to the Oklahoma land run in
1889, couldn’t compete with the new  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) 
store in a Chesapeake-owned shopping center.  “Aubrey saw himself creating a new kind of market that
Oklahoma City is ready for and there’s some logic to that, but
it hasn’t worked out that way,” said Karchmer, the real estate
developer who considers himself an admirer of McClendon.  For now, Chesapeake continues to expand its headquarters
campus. Four construction tower cranes overlook eight new
buildings and earthmoving equipment lays groundwork for more.  A 40-foot (12-meter) pile of dirt towers over the back yard
of Charlie Maupin, a 63-year-old landscaper. Chesapeake has
bought up scores of homes to expand its campus, and his could be
next. The house, built with his hands, once looked out on trees.
It now faces a clay-colored retention pond.  The landscaper said he’s gotten occasional calls from
Chesapeake’s CEO asking if he’s ready to move.  Maupin expects to be compensated fairly by Chesapeake when
he does move, and he thinks McClendon will turnaround the
company. “He’s going to pull rabbits out of his hat for the
next 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  