-- Chile Holds Key Rate at 5% as Economy Shrugs Off Global Woes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-12T22:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/chile-holds-key-rate-at-5-as-economy-shrugs-off-global-woes.html
Chile’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a sixth consecutive month
after economic growth in the world’s top copper producer showed
little sign of easing amid a global slowdown.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the key interest rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by
all 16 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last
changed borrowing costs in January, surprising economists with a
quarter-point reduction.  Among  Latin America ’s major economies, Chile boasts the
lowest inflation even as it’s on track to grow faster than the
regional average forecast by the United Nations. Policy makers
will be reluctant to cut rates until  Europe ’s debt crisis and
the deceleration of  China ’s expansion have a more pronounced
impact on the Andean nation’s growth, said Felipe Jaque, the
lead economist at BBVA Research  Chile .  “In light of what’s happening with the global and domestic
economies, the wait-and-see approach is much more appropriate
than anything else,” Jaque said by telephone from Santiago
yesterday. “The central bank discussion will be similar to the
June meeting, where policy makers only considered holding
rates.”  Policy makers will keep rates unchanged for at least 23
months as  inflation  remains at or below the central bank target
of 3 percent through December next year, according to the median
estimate of 58 economists surveyed by the bank on July 9.
Traders and investors polled by the central bank a day later
forecast the first cut in borrowing costs by October 2012.  Trend, Moderation  The country’s gross domestic product expanded 5.6 percent
in the first quarter from last year, the fastest growth since
the three months through June 2011.  Since the first quarter, the economy grew 4.8 percent in
April and 5.3 percent in May, exceeding the highest estimate
among the 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Domestically, output and demand indicators, despite
decelerating less than expected, are evolving at trend rates,”
the central bank said in a statement accompanying today’s
decision. “The labor market remains tight, although some
moderation is observed in the pace of employment growth.”  ‘Complex Moment’  Chile’s GDP will expand 4.9 percent in 2012 from last year,
surpassing the Latin American average of 3.7 percent, the  United
Nations ’ economic unit for the region said in a report last
month.  Brazil and  Mexico , Latin America’s two biggest economies
respectively, will expand 2.7 percent and 4 percent, it said.  Still, Chile’s economy is showing signs of slowing as
demand for its exports weakens during the European sovereign-
debt crisis and China’s economic moderation.  “We’re going to see a deceleration in coming months,”
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a non-voting participant of
central bank rate decision meetings, said July 5 in a statement
on the ministry website. “Despite being well prepared, our
country is immersed in a world that is going through a complex
moment.”  Chile in May posted its first trade deficit in nine months
as the price of its leading export, copper, declined, while
retail sales in May grew at the slowest rate since 2009. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 6.7 percent in the three months
through May from 6.5 percent in the previous month.  ‘Vigilant’  Credit conditions have become generally more restrictive,
with tighter supply and weaker demand for most corporate and
personal loans, the central bank said in a quarterly survey
posted on its website yesterday.  The government this week reduced its 2012 inflation and
copper price estimates on falling commodity values. Inflation
will end 2012 at 2.7 percent, rather than 2.9 percent as
forecast in October, and the metal’s price will average $3.55 a
pound, down from $3.70 a pound as previously estimated.  Inflation rates have fallen in the past four months to 2.7
percent in June, the lowest level since January 2011.  “In recent months, the most volatile components of the
basket (i.e., energy and foodstuffs) show a negative incidence
on the CPI, contrasting with their behavior of the first
quarter,” according to today’s statement. “Medium-term
inflation expectations remain around the target.”  Chile’s economic growth, and the risk of higher
international prices, still pose a threat to consumer prices in
the medium term, Vergara said this week in a presentation posted
on the bank website.  “You have to be vigilant,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  