-- China New Yuan Loans Top Forecasts; Forex Reserves Shrink
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-12T17:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/china-new-yuan-loans-top-forecasts-forex-reserves-decline-1-.html
China ’s new  loans  exceeded estimates
in June, boosting odds the government will secure an economic
rebound after growth probably slowed for a sixth quarter.  Banks extended 919.8 billion yuan ($144.3 billion) of
local-currency loans, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday.
That compares with the 880 billion yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Foreign-exchange  reserves  fell to $3.24
trillion at the end of June, the central bank said, a record
quarter-to-quarter drop.  The pickup in lending bolsters Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s case
that easing policies, including the first interest-rate cuts
since 2008, are showing results and that the economy has
stabilized. The government will report data today that will
probably show second-quarter  growth  of 7.7 percent, according to
analyst estimates, a three-year low that Nomura Holdings Inc.
says may mark the bottom of the slowdown.  “The data confirms our view that further rate cuts are not
needed and thus are unlikely,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-
based senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
said in a research note yesterday.  At the same time, officials will probably reduce banks’
reserve requirements this month as a “surge of deposits”
obliges banks to set aside more funds, Kowalczyk said. The
reserve ratio has been cut three times since November.  Yuan 
deposits increased 2.86 trillion yuan in June, 49 percent more
than in the same month last year.  Yuan Slides  The yuan weakened after the report to the lowest since
December, falling 0.1 percent against the dollar to 6.3733 at
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai  yesterday. The Shanghai Composite Index
rose 0.5 percent yesterday before the data, extending a rebound
after falling to a six-month low on July 10 after data showed
imports rose less than anticipated and export growth slowed.  M2, a measure of  money supply , rose 13.6 percent, compared
with 13.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and
a 13.2 percent gain in May. The central bank’s target for this
year is 14 percent.  New local-currency loans were 793.2 billion yuan in May and
633.9 billion yuan in June 2011. The share of medium- to long-
term loans was 31 percent in June, down from 34 percent in May
while up from April’s level of less than 30 percent, according
to Nomura.  Foreign-exchange reserves were down from $3.305 trillion at
the end of March, the second quarterly decline since 1998. The
reserves fell to $3.3 trillion in April and $3.21 trillion in
May before rebounding in June.  Euro’s Decline  The drop in foreign-exchange reserves may reflect the
“sharp weakening” of euro-denominated assets, Chang Jian, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Barclays Plc who formerly worked
for the  World Bank . The currency slumped 5 percent against the
dollar in the second quarter.  Excluding effects of the  trade balance  and currency
fluctuations, there were probably “sizable capital outflows”
in the second quarter, said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
at Nomura in  Hong Kong .  The capital outflows are “proof” that further cuts in the
reserve ratio are necessary, according to Shen Jianguang, Hong
Kong-based chief Asia economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank .  Growth Forecast  The economy probably expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, based on the median estimate of 38
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the report
scheduled for today. That’s down from an 8.1 percent pace in the
previous three months.  The PBOC reduced benchmark  interest rates  in June, then
last week cut the one-year lending rate by 31 basis points to 6
percent and the deposit rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent.
The central bank’s latest move preceded data that showed
inflation eased to 2.2 percent in June, the least since January
2010, and factory-gate prices that fell for the fourth month.  Earlier yesterday, the  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut
borrowing costs for the first time in more than three years, and
 Japan ’s central bank altered its stimulus program without adding
extra money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  