-- China Inc. Seen Ready to Revive Deals on Leadership Shift
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-12T16:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/china-inc-seen-ready-to-revive-deals-on-leadership-shift.html
China ’s once-a-decade leadership
change later this year sets the stage for a rebound in overseas
takeovers by  companies  armed with record amounts of cash.  Acquisitions abroad by Chinese companies slumped to a five-
year low of $15.2 billion in the first half, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With commodity prices falling and Western
businesses weakened by  Europe ’s credit crisis, conditions may be
ripe for cross-border takeovers, investment bankers said.  “Once China’s new leaders are in place, I expect activity
to pick up significantly next year,” said Richard Campbell- Breeden, head of mergers advisory for the Asia-Pacific region
outside  Japan  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “China’s outbound M&A
is driven more by politics than the domestic economy.”  Executives of Chinese state-controlled companies refrained
from making deals that could have jeopardized their political
aspirations before the leadership transition, said five
investment bankers who asked not to be identified because the
matter is sensitive. China has a tradition of promoting leaders
of state-owned companies to government posts.  Meanwhile, Chinese non-financial firms traded in China and
 Hong Kong  more than doubled their cash holdings to $676 billion
in the three years through Dec. 31, the data show.  “There’s a very strong backlog” of deals, said Farhan Faruqui, Citigroup Inc.’s head of investment and corporate
banking for the Asia-Pacific region.  Hawker Deal  Some companies are starting to make deals. On July 9
Superior Aviation Beijing Co., a company controlled by Beijing’s
municipal government, entered exclusive talks with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Onex Corp. to pay $1.79 billion for U.S.
business-jet maker Hawker Beechcraft Inc.  China Petrochemical Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, and
China National Chemical Corp. are among state-owned firms that
may seek acquisitions abroad, according to investment bankers
who asked not to be identified. PetroChina Co., Zijin Mining
Group Co. and Bright Food Group Co. might also be active, the
bankers said.  Chen Chun Shan, a spokesman for Bright Food, said any
overseas deals “will depend on timing and price,” declining to
be more specific. Officials at China Petrochemical, China
National and PetroChina couldn’t be reached.  “We are always studying opportunities for overseas
investment,” said Li Zhilin, head of Zijin Mining’s
international business, in an interview.  Growth Model  Potential targets include assets of  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , the second-biggest U.S. natural-gas explorer, along with
companies such as Calgary-based oil producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY) ,
according to investment bankers. Michael Kehs, spokesman for
Chesapeake, declined to comment, as did Davis Sheremata, a Nexen
spokesman.  Since the current generation of political leaders took over
almost 10 years ago,  China’s economy  has expanded fourfold to
overtake Japan and the country has emerged as the world’s
largest user of energy and raw materials. With the government
shifting from an export-led growth model to one driven by
domestic consumption, Chinese companies may also be encouraged
to buy foreign brands and technology, Campbell-Breeden said.  China’s government hasn’t said when the new leaders --
including the successors to President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  -- will be formally announced, though appointments to
senior Communist Party positions may start in September when the
party meets. Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  are expected to assume Hu’s and Wen’s positions,
respectively, in March.  Biggest Spender  “The leadership of these companies are worrying about
where they’ll be in six months’ time with the reshuffling of
positions following the political transition,” said David
Cogman, a Shanghai-based partner at McKinsey & Co. who focuses
on mergers.  Valuations may support deal making. Companies in the oil,
gas and mining industries are trading at close to the lowest
valuations in three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Commodity prices have fallen 12 percent in the past
year, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities.  Resource acquisitions are likely to be the least affected
by the leadership transition because there is “a clear
political mandate” for such deals, Cogman said.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil and gas company, will
pursue overseas assets “wherever and whenever they become
available,” Chief Financial Officer Zhou Mingchun said in May.  Sinopec Spending  China Petrochemical, known as Sinopec Group, together with
its listed unit has spent more on overseas acquisitions than any
other Chinese company over the past decade, with $26 billion of
deals, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In November, Sinopec
Group agreed to invest $4.8 billion for a 30 percent stake in
Galp Energia SGPS SA’s Brazilian unit.  Still, Chinese companies may have to contend with political
opposition in Western countries.  Sinochem Group , China’s largest
fertilizer trader, failed to acquire Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010 as the Canadian province of
Saskatchewan raised concerns about the deal.  This year’s biggest overseas acquisition was made by a
private company. Dalian Wanda Group Corp. in May agreed to buy
U.S. cinema owner AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. for $2.6
billion including debt. That was one of four deals valued at
more than $1 billion, down from six in the year-earlier period,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Be Bold’  Before 2012, state-owned companies accounted for the
biggest purchase abroad every year since 2003, according to the
data. The biggest deal was Aluminum Corp. of China’s $14 billion
purchase of a stake in Rio Tinto Group Ltd. together with Alcoa
Inc. in 2008. The 10 biggest Chinese companies by market value
are state-controlled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It is the right time and a great opportunity for Chinese
companies to be making acquisitions overseas,” said Patrick Loftus-Hills, a managing director at Moelis & Co., a  New York- 
based investment bank. “Chinese companies can purchase
undervalued assets for a fraction of their inherent value. My
advice to Chinese companies is, ’be bold’ and spend time to look
at these assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  