-- Cigna Buys Stake in Finansbank Unit for Turkish Venture
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-12T20:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/cigna-buys-stake-in-finansbank-unit-for-turkish-venture.html
Cigna Corp. (CI)  will buy a stake in a
unit of Turkish lender  Finansbank AS (FINBN) , as the U.S. health insurer
continues a push into international markets growing faster than
its home country.  Cigna, the fifth-biggest insurer by market value, will pay
85 million euros ($104 million) for a 51 percent stake in Finans
Elmeklilik, the two companies said today in a statement. The
unit will sell Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna’s life
insurance and pension products through Istanbul-based
Finansbank’s more than 500 retail branches, they said.  Cigna’s international division was its fastest-growing unit
last year, boosting  sales  by 31 percent to $3.11 billion and
reaching 30 countries outside the U.S. The Turkish venture adds
to a portfolio that sets Cigna apart from its managed-care
competitors and may account for a third of profit by 2015, said
 Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst.  “The move further strengthens our belief in the
international segment being one of the primary long-term growth
drivers for the company,” Gupte, based in  New York , said in a
note to clients.  Turkey offers another attractive market, with a growing
middle-class and a government urging people to save more for
retirement, said Jason Sadler, chief executive officer at Cigna
International Health, Life and Accident.  ‘Bullish’ Prospects  “We are bullish about the prospects in terms of future
growth,” Sadler said. “There’s a limited range of products on
the market at the moment and that’s why we see such a great
opportunity.”  Finansbank, which is owned by the  National Bank of Greece
SA , has 10 million customers in  Turkey , Sadler said in a
telephone interview. The deal runs for 15 years and is expected
to close by the end of the year, pending Turkish regulatory
approval.  Finansbank will receive commissions and a share in proceeds
as a continuing partner of the venture, according to the
statement, which gave no more financial details. Sadler declined
to discussed sales or profit projections.  Cigna fell 1.4 percent to $42.44 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  