-- Colony Said to Win Foreclosed Homes Sold by Fannie Mae
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-07-12T19:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/colony-said-to-win-foreclosed-homes-sold-by-fannie-mae.html
Tom Barrack ’s  Colony Capital LLC ,
which plans to acquire $1.5 billion of rental homes within a
year, was among the winners of about 2,500 foreclosed properties
auctioned off by  Fannie Mae , according to four people with
knowledge of the sale.  Colony won all or part of portfolios of homes in Phoenix,
 Las Vegas  and Southern  California , said three of the people, who
asked not to be identified because bidders signed
confidentiality agreements and the transactions haven’t been
completed. Cogsville Group LLC, a New York-based investment fund
that has worked with Colony in the past, agreed to buy a
portfolio of homes in  Chicago , the people said.  The auction was the largest bulk sale by Fannie Mae, the
government-controlled mortgage company that owned 114,000
 foreclosed  properties as of March 31. The sale is likely to set
a benchmark for prices and demonstrate the level of large-
investor demand for single-family rental homes, according to
analysts at research company Green Street Advisors Inc. and
investment firm Amherst Holdings LLC.  Private-equity investors including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
GTIS Partners are buying foreclosed houses to take advantage of
 prices  that have fallen 34 percent from their July 2006 peak.
Tenant demand for rental houses is growing as people look for
places to live after losing their homes to foreclosure.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which has overseen
Fannie Mae since a September 2008 takeover of the Washington-
based company,  announced  on July 3 that it had chosen winning
bidders without disclosing the names of the companies or terms
of the sale because the deals hadn’t been completed.  ‘Stabilize Communities’  “FHFA undertook this initiative to help stabilize
communities and home values in areas hard-hit by the foreclosure
crisis,” Edward DeMarco, the agency’s acting director, said in
a statement. “We are pleased with the response from the market
and look forward to closing transactions in the near future.”  The 2,490 properties up for auction encompassed portfolios
of 775 homes in  Florida , 572 in Atlanta, 484 in Southern
California, 341 in Phoenix, 219 in Las Vegas and 99 in Chicago,
according to an offering document by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
which managed the sale. About 85 percent of the properties
already are operating as rentals, according to the document.  The total estimated value of the homes was about $330
million, according to three people who viewed offering documents
available only to qualified bidders. They asked not to be named
because bidders signed non-disclosure agreements.  Atlanta Portfolio  The Atlanta portfolio failed to sell at auction, according
to four people with knowledge of the bidding.  Colony, based in  Santa Monica , California, declined to
comment, said  Lisa Baker , a spokeswoman for the company, with
Owen Blicksilver PR Inc. Cogsville also declined to comment,
said Rick Matthews, a spokesman for the real estate investor,
with Rubenstein Communications Inc.  Colony’s winning bid was reported earlier today by  American
Banker .  Colony’s American Homes division owns more than 1,100
residences in  Arizona , California,  Nevada  and  Texas  and plans to
acquire $1.5 billion worth of property by next April, according
to Justin Chang, the unit’s acting president. Colony bought a
portfolio of 300 homes in the Houston area for about $30
million, the company said on July 3.  The winning bids in the Fannie Mae auction were at least 90
percent of the homes’ estimated value, said five people with
knowledge of the auction, who asked not to be named because they
signed confidentiality agreements. The FHFA offered bidders
“synthetic financing” to reduce the up-front capital required
if they agreed to form a joint venture with Fannie Mae and share
proceeds from the rental or sale of properties, the people said.  FDIC Auctions  Cogsville, which has invested in five loan portfolios with
a principal balance of $3 billion, teamed with Colony in July
2010 to buy a portfolio of commercial real estate loans seized
from failed banks. Those loans were auctioned off by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  Colony has won at least seven  FDIC auctions  with $5 billion
in failed bank loans. The FDIC transactions established public-
private joint ventures, similar to the Fannie Mae bulk-sale
structure.  “It is a very positive development to have institutional
investors commit capital,” Amherst Holdings Vice Chairman Roger
Taylor said in an e-mail. “A huge shadow inventory of single-
family homes remains and a well-organized national rental-
conversion program can be an important part of the solution.
Rental conversion creates jobs, improves the housing stock,
stabilizes neighborhoods and increases tax revenues.”  Previous Sale  Amherst purchased homes in a previous Fannie Mae auction,
according to congressional testimony by Sean Dobson, chief
executive officer of the Austin, Texas-based company. Taylor
declined to comment on the results of the recent auction.  About 6 million U.S. borrowers will lose their homes in the
next five years because of inability to pay their mortgages,
creating demand for as many as 4 million new rental households,
according to  Scott Simon , head of mortgage bonds at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California.  Single-family rentals are priced to deliver unlevered total
returns in the range of 7.5 percent to 8 percent, or about 0.5
percentage point to 1 percentage point higher than
institutional-quality apartments, according to a June 8 report
by Ray Huang, senior associate at Green Street Advisors in
Newport Beach, California. The uncertainty associated with the
single-family asset class suggests returns for investors should
be higher than the current level, he said.  Lower Yields  Yields for homes bought in portfolio auctions may be even
lower because bidding wars may drive up prices and because the
quality of the properties is uneven, Huang said in a telephone
interview. He said he hopes that lessons learned from the Fannie
Mae bulk sale will help the government improve future
transactions for big investors, he said.  “Bulk sales seemed like a good idea,” he said. “But the
local operators that are buying the onesies and twosies are the
guys that have been the most successful so far.”  Single-family investor Waypoint Homes, which has acquired
1,800 distressed rental units, has preferred individual
purchases over pools that include a “mixed-bag” of quality and
location, said Gary Beasley, managing director of the Oakland,
California-based company.  Buying Scale  “Our current view is that some of the more recent players
to the space are willing to pay a lot more than we are for
pools, either because they are willing to accept lower returns
to ‘buy’ scale, don’t know exactly what they are getting
themselves into or perhaps a bit of both,” Beasley, whose
company was founded in 2008, said in an e-mail. “Either way we
prefer buying very selectively at scale rather than buying less
discriminately en masse.”  Carrington Capital Management LLC was an unsuccessful
bidder for three of the portfolios, said  Rick Sharga , vice
president of the Santa Ana, California-based firm that received
a $450 million commitment from  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  to buy
single-family rentals.  “We hope that whoever wins these bids is successful,
because it validates what we still think is a very viable
concept,” Sharga said in a telephone interview. “Just because
we and some other bidders didn’t offer as much as the winning
bids doesn’t make it a bad decision for them. It just suggests a
different valuation of the assets than we might have.”  With demand for pools rising, smaller investors have begun
selling to larger funds. Landsmith LP, a San Francisco-based
single-family investment group, sold 75 Phoenix-area homes for
$7.5 million “to a large institutional investor,” according to
a June 12 press release. G8 Capital LLC, a real estate
investment group based in Ladera Ranch, California, wants to
sell about 350 rental homes in inland Southern California areas,
Chief Executive Officer Evan Gentry said.  “People are hungry for properties and we have a portfolio
we’re willing to sell,” Gentry said in a telephone interview.
“We think the market’s gotten a little frothy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  