-- Congressman Seeks Treasury Exam of State Insurance Group
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-12T20:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/congressman-seeks-treasury-exam-of-state-insurance-group.html
U.S. Representative Ed Royce, a
California Republican, asked a new federal watchdog to examine
the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  and
determine if the group is overstepping its authority.  The Federal Insurance Office, which was set up within the
Treasury Department as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, should study
the “nature and scope of NAIC operations” as it recommends how
to modernize regulation, Royce said in a  letter  today to FIO
Director Michael McRaith. The group of state insurance
commissioners, a private nonprofit, “appears to be engaging in
regulatory activity,” Royce wrote.  McRaith has been collecting input ahead of a report to
Congress on how to modernize and improve regulation. Life and
property-casualty insurers are overseen primarily by state
officials who coordinate through NAIC. FIO’s job is to monitor
the industry and advise Treasury.  “It is my hope that your pending FIO report on insurance
modernization will kick off a comprehensive discussion on the
future of insurance regulation,” Royce wrote. “I do not
believe that debate can take place without a thorough review of
the NAIC and its operations.”  Suzanne Elio, a spokeswoman for the Treasury, declined to
comment. The NAIC is aware of Royce’s letter and responded to a
previous inquiry from the congressman, Scott Holeman, a
spokesman for the group, said in an e-mail. The congressman
hasn’t sent any additional request for information, he said.  Royce sent a  letter  to the NAIC, dated Feb. 28, asking
whether its activities amounted to regulation. He cited NAIC
services including a system that helps insurers make rate
filings to state officials and an office that assesses the
credit quality of investments.  No Authority  “NAIC as a nonprofit corporation does not have regulatory
authority, and I am not aware that it has ever presented itself
as having such authority,” NAIC President and Florida Insurance
Commissioner Kevin McCarty wrote in a March 20  response  to
Royce’s questions.  McRaith, the former Illinois insurance chief, was chosen
last year to lead the office as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration implements the 2010 Dodd-Frank overhaul of
financial rules. FIO’s initial report was due in January of this
year and has been delayed.  Royce, who sits on the House Financial Services Committee,
supported the creation of the FIO and previously sponsored
“optional federal charter” legislation under which insurers,
similar to banks, could choose national or state oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  