-- ConocoPhillips Challenges Tax Reassessment Action in East Timor
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-07-12T03:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/conocophillips-challenges-tax-reassessment-action-in-east-timor.html
ConocoPhillips, a U.S. oil and gas
producer, challenged a new tax assessment by the government of
 East Timor  that may add billions of dollars to the Asian
nation’s treasury.  ConocoPhillips and about a dozen other companies involved
in gas production have been “aggressive” in the use of
deductions to lower tax payments, said Pierre-Richard Prosper, a
Los Angeles-based partner at Arent Fox who represents East Timor
in the case. The Houston-based company sued after the government
rejected the deductions, he said.  East Timor gets 90 percent of revenue from petroleum
developments in the  Timor Sea  while  Australia  receives 10
percent, according to an agreement between the two countries
after the Asian nation split from  Indonesia  in 2002. The Bayu-
Undan field in the region, which is operated by  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
may be worth $15 billion to the 10-year-old country, according
to Australian  government estimates .  “As far as we’re concerned, we’ve paid the taxes that have
been assessed,” Robin Antrobus, a Perth-based spokesman for
ConocoPhillips, said by phone today. “We have some
disagreements with some of the assessments, not all, and we will
pursue the remedies available to us.”  Bayu-Undan is connected by pipeline to the Darwin liquefied
natural-gas project in the Northern Territory, one of three LNG
ventures operating in Australia.  The development is being followed by $180 billion of
additional LNG projects under construction in Australia to meet
rising Asian demand.  Tax Audits  East Timor hasn’t been able to enforce its  tax code  until
recently and has been conducting an audit of petroleum
production for the past 12 to 18 months, Prosper said. The audit
found deficiencies in a series of assessments on a range of
operations, he said.  “It is a David and Goliath fight,” Alfredo Pires, East
Timor’s Secretary of State for Natural Resources, said in a July
11 statement. The oil and gas companies owe “hundreds of
millions, possibly billions” of dollars, he said.  No court dates have been set for the tax hearing, Prosper
said. The government can press for back taxes owing and add
additional penalties, according to the tax law, he said.  “I wouldn’t want to put a specific number on it,” he
said, but “it’s a significant amount of money.”  The East Timorese government is examining the scope of
offshore energy production and auditing existing projects such
as the Bayu-Undan and reviewing new developments such as
Sunrise.  Sunrise Dispute  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., (WPL)  Australia’s second-biggest oil
producer and leader of the Sunrise project, has been in dispute
with East Timor over how to develop the  gas field .  East Timor is pressing for the construction of a plant,
while Woodside says it would be too expensive. Pipeline
construction and an onshore processing plant would add about $5
billion to the cost of the project, Woodside has said.  Costs to build gas developments are rising, with  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  saying in May that gains in the Australian dollar, higher
labor and material costs and increased regulatory expenses
boosted the bill for its Curtis LNG project in Queensland state
by 36 percent.  Prosper said the pipeline issue, and the tax dispute, are
open to negotiations as East Timor seeks to establish itself as
an economically stable neighbor for Australian.  “It would be one less country to worry about in an
unstable region,” he said. “We’re using all the tools
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  