-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Stagnates Amid Unemployment
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-12T20:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-stagnates-as-job-market-languishes.html
Consumer confidence  stagnated last
week as scant improvement in the labor market left Americans
more discouraged about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index held at minus 37.5 in
the week ended July 8. Some 86 percent of those surveyed said
the economy was in bad shape, 21 percentage points higher than
the average since 1985.  “Consumers remain generally downbeat about the economy and
expectations for the future,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Given slower job growth
and the recent stabilization of oil and gasoline prices near
current levels, there is little impetus to support an
improvement in overall sentiment in the near term.”  Gasoline prices that are no longer falling along with the
labor market’s worst quarterly performance since the first three
months of 2010 risk stifling the  consumer spending  that accounts
for 70 percent of the  U.S. economy . Flagging sentiment stretches
around the globe, according to a Pew Research Center  report  that
showed Europe’s debt crisis is taking a toll.  The public mood about the economy has worsened since 2008
in eight of 15 countries providing comparable data, the Pew
report said. Some 16 percent of Europeans said they believe
their economy is doing well, the survey showed.  Stocks dropped, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a sixth day, on growing concern about global economic
growth and corporate earnings. The  S&P 500  decreased 0.5 percent
to 1,334.76 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Jobless Claims  Another report today showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed  first-time claims  for  unemployment benefits  last week,
reflecting the volatility of applications during the annual
auto-plant retooling period.  Claims for jobless insurance declined 26,000 in the week
ended July 7 to 350,000, the fewest since March 2008, the Labor
Department said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
372,000 claims, according to the median projection.  “You can never take claims at face value because of the
July shutdowns,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit
Suisse in New York, who projected the number of applications
would drop to 355,000. “We are in a period of uncertainty. This
makes for a situation where businesses will hold off on taking
risks regarding investment and payrolls.”  Prices of  imported goods  decreased more than forecast in
June as declining energy costs curbed inflation, another Labor
Department report showed. The 2.7 percent plunge in the import-
 price index  was the biggest since December 2008 and followed a
1.2 percent drop in May. Prices excluding fuel fell 0.3 percent,
the most in almost two years.  European Production  Elsewhere, Euro-area industrial production unexpectedly
rebounded in May as growth in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
more than offset a decline in  France . Output in the 17-nation
euro area rose 0.6 percent from April, when it fell 1.1 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Fuel costs that are creeping higher and limited job
opportunities may be giving Americans less to cheer about. After
reaching a recent low of $3.33 a gallon on July 1, the average
price of gasoline nationwide was $3.38 yesterday, according to
AAA, the country’s biggest motoring organization.  Employment at companies increased 84,000 in June after a
105,000 gain a month earlier, the Labor Department said July 7.
The so-called  underemployment rate  -- which includes part-time
workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who want
work but have given up looking -- increased to 14.9 percent from
14.8 percent.  Not ‘Robust’  “The job market is a strong correlate of consumer
confidence,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associated in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg,
said in a statement. The jobs report “underscores the public’s
long-running economic frustration. While consumer sentiment
isn’t worsening, it’s far from the levels associated with a
robust economy.”  Today’s Bloomberg report showed 71 percent of consumers
said it was a “bad time” to buy, 7 percentage points worse
than the average since weekly surveys began in 1985.  The Bloomberg index of the state of the  national economy 
fell to minus 72.8, the lowest level since Feb. 19, from minus
71.7 the previous period. The measure of whether consumers
consider it a good time to buy climbed to minus 41.5 from minus
42.4 the prior week. The index of personal finances was little
changed at 1.9 after 1.8.  Wealthier Americans  Confidence dropped for those with incomes of $100,000 or
more. The index decreased to minus 8.2, the lowest reading since
January. It marked the second straight week of negative readings
after 13 weeks above zero.  In a sign higher-income earners are pulling back, Burberry
Group Plc reported sales yesterday that missed analysts’
estimates for a second straight quarter, fueling concern that
Europe’s debt crisis and slowing growth in  China  are taking a
toll on demand for high-end goods.  Today’s figures also showed Democrats recording higher
sentiment than Republicans for a record 16th consecutive week.
Republicans’ confidence dropped to the lowest level since the
end of February.  Sentiment among independents rose to minus 43 from minus
46.8 last week. Even with the gain, the figure is one of the
five lowest this year and 22.6 percentage points lower than the
long-term average for the group.  Survey Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The survey is in the process of expanding its reach by
adding Spanish-language interviews and contacting respondents
via mobile phones.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  