-- Copper Traders Most Bearish in Six Weeks on Demand: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-07-13T12:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/copper-traders-most-bearish-in-six-weeks-on-demand-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bearish
in six weeks on concern demand will slow in  China ,  Europe  and
the U.S. at a time when  hedge funds  are betting on lower prices.  Thirteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to drop next week and nine were bullish. A further six
were neutral, making the proportion of bears the highest since
June 1. Speculators have been wagering on a price drop since May
and held a net-short  position  of 1,749 contacts on July 3, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  More than $1.5 trillion has been wiped from the value of
global equities since early July amid concern growth is
stalling. Federal Reserve policy makers said at their June
meeting that strains from Europe’s debt crisis may spill over
into the U.S. China’s growth slowed to a three-year low last
quarter and copper imports to the country, which accounts for
about 40 percent of demand, slid to a 10-month low in June.  “People are quite concerned about slowing growth in China
which leads to slowing demand for industrial metals,” said
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“We should know about almost all the risks in Europe for now,
but it’s definitely not positive. At the moment everything is
sentiment driven.”  Copper rose 1 percent to $7,674.50 a metric ton this year
on the London Metal Exchange after slumping 21 percent last
year. The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 2.1
percent since the start of January and the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities slid 3.8 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Lower Forecasts  Analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Barclays Plc reduced their forecasts for 2012 copper prices
this week. “More moderate” copper demand means supply
shortages will be needed for significant price gains, Barclays
wrote in a report yesterday. The  International Monetary Fund 
will cut its estimate for global growth of 3.5 percent this
year, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said July 6.  Chinese imports of refined copper, alloy and products slid
18 percent to 346,223 tons in June from a month earlier and were
the least since August, General Administration of Customs data
show. Slower demand would help contribute to a 54,000-ton
surplus this quarter that Barclays estimates will climb to
139,000 tons in the final three months of this year.  European investor confidence dropped to a three-year low in
July, data from  Germany ’s Sentix research institute showed July
9. PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, will
close the first auto factory in  France  in 30 years as sales
decline. The average midsize car uses about 50 pounds of copper,
according to the International Copper Study Group.  Stockpiles Drop  Lower prices may spur buying. Stockpiles monitored by the
LME declined in eight of the nine days through yesterday and are
down 32 percent this year at 251,675 tons, bourse data show.
Inventories in Comex warehouses in the U.S. plunged 43 percent
this year and are at the lowest in more than three years.  While Barclays estimates metal held in Chinese bonded
warehouses that are exempt from a value-added tax and import
duties peaked at more than 600,000 tons in April, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a July 9 report that the nation’s copper
usage will grow about 5 percent there this year and predicted
that prices will rally to $9,000 in 12 months.  Stimulus Measures  Copper tripled as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing that ended in June
2011. Two participants supported additional bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, while two others said only a further
deterioration in the economy would warrant them, according to
minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 19-20
meeting released July 11. Policy makers are scheduled to
announce a rate decision Aug. 1.  In other commodities, 13 of 28 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would climb next week and 10
were bearish. Futures on the Comex exchange in  New York  rose 1.1
percent to $1,584.60 an ounce since the start of January, after
gaining the past 11 years. Prices reached an all-time high of
$1,923.70 in September.  Bullion will set a new record by the end of this year as
the global economy slows from the weight of too much debt,  Eric
Sprott , the founder and chairman of Canadian fund manager Sprott
Inc., said in a July 9 interview in Toronto. Holdings in gold-
backed exchange-traded products climbed to a record 2,413.6 tons
on July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sugar Prices  Seven of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to advance
next week and three predicted declines. The sweetener slipped
2.5 percent to 22.72 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York this year.  Fifteen of 26 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and 10 said the grain will decline, while 14 of 27
said soybeans will rally and 12 expect lower prices. Corn rose
15 percent to $7.4575 a bushel this year as soybeans advanced 29
percent to $15.5275 a bushel in  Chicago .  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities slid more than 20 percent
from its February peak through June 21, entering a so-called
 bear market . China reduced  interest rates  last week for the
second time in a month, the  European Central Bank  cut rates to a
record-low and the  Bank of England  restarted bond purchases two
months after halting its expansion of stimulus.  “Economic releases continue to disappoint,” said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “The Fed still
holds the door open to QE3, but they still think that it is not
bad enough. I really have a hard time seeing a commodity rally
from this point without interventions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  