-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb as Jobless Claims Fewest Since 2008
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-12T21:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/credit-swaps-in-u-s-climb-as-jobless-claims-fewest-since-2008.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
rose for a second day as a drop in jobless claims failed to ease
investor concern that the global economy is slowing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.8 basis points to a mid-price of 113.4 basis points at 4:58
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  rose as the hotel
operator reduced forecasts for international revenue growth.  The global corporate default tally increased, according to
 Standard & Poor’s , as concern mounts that  Europe ’s financial and
economic crisis is undermining borrowers’ ability to repay debt.
First-time claims for unemployment insurance payments dropped
last week to the lowest level since March 2008, Labor Department
figures showed today, as automakers kept more plants open to
replenish inventories.  “There’s just a mismatch right now on what the expectation
was for the amount of layoffs that were going to occur versus
the reality of what did occur,” Jon Duensing, the Boulder,
Colorado-based head of corporate credit at Smith Breeden
Associates, said in a telephone interview. “Certainly if there
wouldn’t have been that qualification in there, a number like
that would have been taken more positively.”  Applications for  unemployment benefits  declined by 26,000
in the week ended July 7 to 350,000. Economists had called for
372,000 claims, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Automakers including Chrysler Group LLC, Ford Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are keeping more plants open than usual
in July to fulfill demand as auto sales accelerate.  U.S. auto sales climbed to a seasonally adjusted annualized
rate of 14.1 million in June, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  Global Defaults  Bankruptcy filings this month by Dynegy Inc. and Patriot
Coal Corp. increased the number of global corporate defaults to
42 in 2012, more than double the number in the same period last
year, according to rating company S&P.  Marriot, the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, cut
its projections for growth in international revenue per
available room to a range of 5 percent to 7 percent this year as
demand weakens in the  Middle East  and  Asia , the company said
yesterday in a statement. The hotelier had previously forecast
growth of 6 percent to 8 percent for all regions before currency
adjustments.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Marriot
increased 4.4 basis points to a mid-price of 120.4 basis points,
the highest level since June 12, at 4:56 p.m. in New York,
Bloomberg prices show.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  