-- Czech Bonds Have Biggest Two-Day Gain Since 2005: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-07-12T16:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/czech-bonds-have-biggest-two-day-gain-since-2005-prague-mover.html
Czech bonds had their biggest two-
day rally in more than seven years as the euro area’s financial
crisis drove investors to emerging  Europe ’s highest-rated
government debt.  The advance sent the 10-year koruna  yield  down 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to a record low 2.643 percent
as of 6:15 p.m. in Prague, generic data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That marks a 24 basis-point back-to-back retreat, the
steepest since January 2005. The  premium  over benchmark German
bunds fell to 139 basis points, the least in five months.  Austrian, Belgian, Dutch, French and German yields also
sank to record lows today as investors ditched stocks on concern
the global recovery is faltering despite near-zero funding costs
in the U.S., the euro area and Japan. Czech debt is rated at the
fifth-highest A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, two steps above
 Italy  and five above  Spain . Europe’s financial crisis is driving
investors to Czech and Polish bonds because of their “safe-
haven status,” Moody’s analyst Jaime Reusche said a month ago.  “The combination of a global policy of low  interest rates 
and a fear of the euro zone’s breakup has brought new foreign
investors to the Czech market,” analysts led by Jan Cermak at
CSOB AS in Prague wrote in a report today. “The positive mood
in the Czech  bond market  may hold for some time.”  The cost to insure Czech sovereign debt with credit-default
swaps fell one basis point to 135, extending this year’s slump
to 39 basis points. The contracts, which decline as perceptions
of creditworthiness improve, traded below those for Aaa-rated
Austria and  France  at 151 and 177 basis points, respectively.  ‘Good Credit’  Demand for Czech debt rose after the government met about
75 percent of its 2012 funding needs in the first six months,
reducing the need for bond sales in the rest of the year. The
country raised 182.9 billion koruna ($8.8 billion) of debt in
January to June, compared with the 243.4 billion-koruna target
for the whole year, the  Finance Ministry  said two days ago.  “Prospects of low second-half supply” and the country’s
“good credit” are the main reason behind the bond rally,
Dalimil Vyskovsky, chief fixed-income trader at Komercni Banka
AS, said in an e-mail to clients today. “Looking at the credit
spread at the long end, we still see room for further
tightening.”  Czech stocks fell, with Erste Group Bank AG of Austria and
Komercni Banka AS, the Czech unit of Societe Generale SA,
leading the 14-member  PX (PX)  equity index down 1.1 percent. The
koruna weakened 0.1 percent to 25.368 per euro after a 1.4
percent rally in the previous three sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  