-- Dentsu Drops After Agreeing to $4.9 Billion Aegis Deal
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-13T09:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/dentsu-agrees-to-buy-aegis-in-3-16-billion-pound-transaction.html
Dentsu Inc. (4324) , the 111-year-old
Japanese advertising company, fell by the most in 16 months in
 Tokyo  trading after agreeing to buy Britain’s  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  in
a 3.16 billion-pound ($4.9 billion) deal.  Dentsu dropped 7 percent, the biggest slump since March
2011, to 2,145 yen at the close in Tokyo. Aegis gained 0.1
percent to 235.6 pence as of 9:49 a.m. in  London , extending
yesterday’s 45 percent jump.  The transaction, the biggest in Dentsu’s history, would
create one of the largest ad companies vying with global firms
including Dublin-based  WPP Plc (WPP)  and New York-based  Omnicom Group
Inc. (OMC)  The deal will probably boost Dentsu’s goodwill assets to
just under 340 billion yen ($4.3 billion), Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a report dated July 12. Goodwill was 44.3
billion yen as of March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a significantly large transaction that will lead
Dentsu to post some goodwill assets,” Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund
manager  at Tokyo-based Stats Investment Management Co., said by
phone today. “There need to be good business synergies to
justify the price. Taking all those into consideration, the deal
may be negative for Dentsu stock.”  Aegis is the biggest independent buyer of advertising space
and this year won a contract to manage a $3 billion annual ad
budget for  General Motors Co. (GM)  The deal may help Tokyo-based
Dentsu expand globally and reduce its reliance on  Japan , where
the company generated 86 percent of its sales in the year ended
March 31.  Big Deal  The acquisition is the fourth-biggest ever advertising
deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, behind R.H.
Donnelley Corp.’s $9.7 billion 2006 deal for Dex Media Inc.,
WPP’s 2000 purchase of Young & Rubicam Inc. and Infinity
Broadcasting Corp.’s acquisition of U.S. outdoor advertiser
Outdoor Systems Inc. in 1999.  Aegis shareholders will get 240 pence in cash, or 48
percent  more  than the stock’s July 11 close in London, in an
offer recommended by directors, the companies said yesterday in
a statement. Dentsu has bought a 15 percent stake and will
acquire a further 5 percent from companies controlled by  Vincent Bollore , Aegis’s largest shareholder.  The deal values Aegis at about 12 times the company’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Global advertising acquisitions in the past three years fetched
a median multiple of 8.7 times earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Abroad  The purchase is the biggest overseas takeover by a Japanese
company this year after Marubeni Corp.’s $5.6 billion Gavilon
Group LLC deal, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overseas
acquisitions jumped to a record $88 billion last year, the data
show. So far in 2012, Japanese companies have made about $38
billion of cross-border deals.  “It’s understandable the company would seek growth
overseas as the Japanese market is saturated,” said Hideki Takoh, a Tokyo-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. “Still, the
acquisition price looks high and investors are skeptical how
much profit and synergy Dentsu can create out of this buyout.”  Some previous overseas takeovers by Japanese companies have
struggled with losses.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s acquisition of the European and
Asian units of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
was supposed to be a game-changing bid to compete head on with
Wall Street banks weakened by the financial crisis.  After the Deal  Instead, the head of Nomura’s wholesale business, which
includes investment banking and trading,  Jesse Bhattal  and his
lieutenant Tarun Jotwani, left the company amid a clash with
Nomura’s old guard over competing visions for the future of
Japan’s largest brokerage.  Daiichi Sankyo Co., a Japanese drugmaker, has lost more
than half of its market value since agreeing to buy a majority
stake in  India ’s largest drugmaker Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. in
June 2008. Most of the drop occurred after the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  banned imports from two of the Indian unit’s
plants because of manufacturing violations.  Dentsu will have to show its  management  can handle overseas
operations in addition to mapping out a strategy for how its
business fits with Aegis, Takoh of Citigroup said.  “Although there are chances this transaction will help
Dentsu promote its overseas strategies, it won’t be easy for the
Japanese company to manage Aegis and retain talented
employees,” he said.  Aegis Managers  Dentsu will consider consolidating Aegis from next fiscal
year if it closes the acquisition by the end of December,
Executive Vice President Shoichi Nakamoto said at a press
conference in Tokyo. Dentsu plans to keep current Aegis
managers, he said.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the third-largest advertising company,
ended a strategic alliance with Dentsu this year when it bought
back its shares held by the Japanese company. Dentsu still holds
a 2.1 percent stake in Paris-based Publicis.  Advertising researcher MagnaGlobal reduced its global ad
spending forecast for 2012 to 4.8 percent from 5 percent last
month. Worldwide ad spending is projected at $480 billion this
year and the company said ad markets should benefit from
expansion in  emerging markets  as well as the Olympics and U.S.
elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  