-- Diller Says Aereo Will Expand to Most Large U.S. Cities
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-07-13T04:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/diller-says-aereo-will-expand-to-most-large-u-s-cities.html
Aereo Inc., the online television
service backed by  Barry Diller , will expand from New York to
other large U.S. cities following a favorable court ruling, the
70-year-old billionaire said.  “We’re going to really start marketing,” Diller said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview in Sun Valley,
Idaho, where he was attending the Allen & Co. annual retreat.
“Within a year and a half, certainly by ’13, we’ll be in most
major” markets.  A U.S. district judge this week allowed Aereo to continue
operating while television networks pursue a copyright lawsuit
against the company. Aereo captures broadcast signals with small
antennas and streams them to devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,
without paying for the programming.  “The ability for consumers to receive broadcast over the
air signal is their right,” Diller said.  The ruling could upend the economics of broadcast
television.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC -- all plaintiffs to the lawsuit -
- receive “retransmission consent fees” from pay-TV operators
such as  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for the right to rebroadcast the
free-to-air signals to their subscribers.  “One of my friends at a large broadcaster said you
succeeded in dropping my stock 2 percent,” Diller said, without
naming the broadcaster. “I did think we were on the right side
of this, and I’m happy the judge agreed with us.”  Executives of all the major broadcast networks are
attending Sun Valley.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo ,
12-01540, and WNET v. Aereo,  12-01543 , U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  