-- Direct Edge Sale Speculation Shows TMX’s U.S. Ambitions
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-12T18:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/direct-edge-sale-speculation-shows-tmx-group-s-u-s-ambitions.html
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, the
operator of U.S. equity exchanges based in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , is a candidate to become the first American equity
market controlled by a foreign company.  TMX Group Inc. (X) , parent of the Toronto Stock Exchange, is in
talks to acquire Direct Edge, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter. Jim Gorman, a
Direct Edge spokesman, and TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick
declined to comment. TMX’s own takeover by a group of Canadian
banks and pension funds received regulatory clearance yesterday.  The last attempt by an overseas buyer to control a U.S.
share exchange ended in February when European antitrust
officials blocked  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  from buying  NYSE Euronext. (NYX) 
Direct Edge is 31.5 percent-owned by  Deutsche Boerse , with
smaller stakes held by Citadel LLC,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Its equities exchanges accounted
for 9.5 percent of U.S. stock volume last month, its data show.  “The TMX management have eyed the U.S. equity markets for
quite some time,”  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said in an e-mailed
statement. “The purchase of Direct Edge would provide them with
that opportunity and entrance into the U.S.”  Listings Bourse  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said in a phone
interview in March that the Toronto Stock Exchange owner has
“international aspirations” and may seek stakes in other
market operators or an acquisition. TMX bought 16 percent of the
Bermuda Stock Exchange last year.  “We continue to look at acquisitions of all types,” Kloet
said. The company “wouldn’t rule out an acquisition of a major
exchange around the world,” he added.  Kloet said in an interview on June 25 in  London  that TMX
was open to starting its own U.S. bourse to attract listings
from small and medium-sized companies. The exchange would
probably focus on raw-material companies, he said. The Jumpstart
Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act that President  Barack Obama  signed into law in April, aims to make it easier for
smaller U.S. firms to become publicly traded.  Canadian Market  The Canadian company already has 180 listings from U.S.
businesses on its markets. Canadian stocks account for 3.84
percent of global market value, more than those in France or
Germany, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’d be going after micro to small-cap businesses,
something they’ve shown they’re good at with their own venture
market in  Canada ,” Doug Clark, managing director of liquidity
research at ITG Canada, a subsidiary of New York-based
Investment Technology Group Inc., said in a phone interview.
“These would be companies that don’t meet the New York Stock
Exchange or  Nasdaq  listing requirements. I don’t think they’d
want to go after bigger companies and wake the sleeping giants
who might come to Toronto and compete with them.”  A Direct Edge acquisition would probably not significantly
affect TMX earnings, Clark said.  The company’s first-quarter profit fell 10 percent as
trading slowed and listing fees dropped. Equity volume fell 28
percent during the period. Listings fees decreased 21 percent,
led by a drop in the number and value of new listings on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. TMX owns a majority stake in the Boston-
based BOX Options Exchange LLC, which represented 4.2 percent of
U.S. equity derivatives last month, according to data compiled
by Chicago-based OCC.  Deal Approval  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose dozen members include
Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and
Manulife Financial Corp., received approvals yesterday from the
 British Columbia Securities Commission  and the Alberta
Securities Commission for final rules that allow it to acquire
TMX and operate a combined exchange and clearing company.  Speculation over a Direct Edge sale dates to December when
the U.S. Justice Department made the divestiture of Deutsche
Boerse’s stake, held through its International Securities
Exchange unit, a condition of its merger with NYSE Euronext.
European regulators blocked the trans-Atlantic union two months
later and the Frankfurt-based exchange never sold.  In January,  William O’Brien , Direct Edge’s chief executive
officer, said the company was exploring “capital market
alternatives.” The company hired Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of
America Corp., the Wall Street Journal reported at that time,
citing unidentified people. O’Brien couldn’t be reached after
the Journal story was published yesterday.  ‘Market Alternatives’  “Like all of our other peers, it’s only logical for us to
be looking at capital market alternatives all the time,”
O’Brien said in a Jan. 28 telephone interview. “As the
environment changes, that impacts how you look at them.”  Direct Edge, which trades only U.S. equities, was formed in
2005 when Knight bought the trading platform from Domestic
Securities Inc. O’Brien, the former chief operating officer of
BRUT LLC, a venue Nasdaq acquired in 2004, joined the company in
July 2007 after three years at the New York-based company.
Knight spun off Direct Edge in 2007. The exchange company plans
to start a market to trade equities in  Brazil .  Maple Group is creating an exchange operator that would
control more than 85 percent of Canada’s equities trading, the
Montreal Exchange derivatives bourse and the country’s main
securities clearing house. The company would combine the Toronto
Stock Exchange,  TSX Venture Exchange  and Alpha Exchange.  TMX had an agreement last year to combine with London Stock
Exchange Plc. It failed to get shareholder support and the deal
was scrapped in June 2011. By October, TMX agreed to a
transaction with Maple. More than $30 billion of global exchange
mergers have been scuttled in the last two years.  Thomas Caldwell , chairman and chief executive officer of
TMX holder Caldwell Securities Ltd., said on July 5 that the
company should seek takeovers of global competitors.  “You’re effectively the dominant exchange in Canada,”
said Caldwell. “I think you can go hunting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  