-- DoCoMo Considers Role for Partners to Fuel Overseas Sales
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-07-13T06:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/docomo-considers-role-for-partners-to-fuel-overseas-sales-surge.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s biggest
mobile-phone company, may buy more companies overseas to widen
access to entertainment content and e-commerce operations to
help boost sales abroad ninefold in four years.  “We will consider acquisitions if necessary,” Chief
Executive Officer Kaoru Kato said in an interview. Revenue
outside Japan, excluding roaming fees, may grow to as much as
200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) in the year ending March 2016
from about 22 billion yen last fiscal year, he said.  The carrier will also consider boosting the use of wireless
networks it controls overseas to deliver animated films, games
and music to smartphone and tablet computer users in countries
including  France , the 61-year-old CEO said, without elaborating.
DoCoMo has trailed domestic rivals  KDDI Corp. (9433)  and  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
in subscriber additions in Japan this year, as it doesn’t offer
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which works with iTunes, the largest online
entertainment distribution platform.  “We first need to succeed with this distribution business
at home, before taking it abroad,” Kato said.  Baidu Venture  The carrier spent $22.5 million to form a venture with
Baidu Inc. to distribute Japanese games and other content in
 China  in collaboration with Japanese social gaming company DeNA
Co., DoCoMo said today in a  statement  announcing completion of
the investment. The investment gives DoCoMo a 20 percent stake
in the venture, Baidu Yi Xin Network Technology (Beijing) Co.  DoCoMo fell 0.7 percent to 132,400 yen at the close in
Tokyo trading, extending its decline this year to 6.4 percent.
 Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed
and has gained 3.2 percent this year.  To help narrow the gap with the iPhone, DoCoMo, which
controls 47 percent of Japan’s wireless market, will introduce
16 smartphone models including Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy
series by August, it said in May. The carrier aims to sell 13
million smartphones this fiscal year in Japan, rising from 8.82
million a year earlier.  Smartphones make it easier for users to watch video, surf
the Internet and listen to music because they have larger touch-
screens than conventional mobile phones.  Android Strategy  “The iPhone is very attractive,” Kato said. Still, “our
strategy remains to fight back with handsets” operated by
Google Inc.’s Android.  Docomo has already acquired at least one European partner
to add content for mobile distribution. The carrier said in May
it agreed to pay as much as 224 million euros ($273 million) for
 Buongiorno SpA (BNG) , an Italian mobile-content provider. DoCoMo plans
to complete the transaction on July 18, it said July 11.  In  India , DoCoMo owns 26 percent of Tata Teleservices Ltd.,
the sixth-largest carrier by subscribers as of May.  DoCoMo had  cash and near cash  of 522 billion yen as of
March 31, down 32 percent from a year earlier and compared with
the five-year average of 578 billion yen.  DoCoMo will probably have a net addition of 2.8 million
subscribers in the current 12-month period, compared with growth
of 2.28 million the preceding year, it projected on April 27.  Net income  in the year started April 1 will rise 20 percent
to 557 billion yen as sales increase 5 percent to 4.45 trillion
yen, the company  forecast  in April, citing higher data
transmission fees and handset sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  