-- Dollar Set to Slide Versus Canada Peer on Fed, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-12T19:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/dollar-set-to-slide-versus-canada-peer-on-fed-bnp-paribas-says.html
Investors should bet the dollar will
fall against its Canadian counterpart on expectations the
 Federal Reserve  will introduce more stimulus, according to BNP
Paribas SA.  Enter the trade of the  U.S. dollar  against the Canadian
currency at C$1.0240 with a target of 98 cents,  Steven Saywell ,
head of currency strategy for Europe at BNP Paribas in London,
wrote in a note to clients today. The trade should be abandoned
if the greenback rises to C$1.0446, he said.  BNP expects the Fed to undertake this quarter a third round
of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing. Yesterday,
minutes from the central bank’s June meeting signaled some
policy makers would support implementing more stimulus if the
economy slows further.  Fed action “should boost risky assets, lower the  risk
premium  and weaken the the U.S. dollar,” Saywell wrote. “The
Canadian dollar should be one of the principal beneficiaries.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0184 at
3:21 p.m. in New York. It last traded at 98 cents in April. The
loonie is the second-best performer this year against nine-
developed nation counterparts, after New Zealand’s dollar,
according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Increases in U.S. stocks and the price of Brent crude oil
would also lead Canada’s dollar to strengthen, Saywell wrote.
Brent oil for August settlement rose 0.9 percent to $101.14 a
barrel after the U.S. announced more sanctions against Iran. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index fell 0.3 percent to $1,337.96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  