-- Dollar Index May Climb More, JPMorgan Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-12T15:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/dollar-index-may-climb-more-jpmorgan-says-technical-analysis.html
The  Dollar Index  may extend its
climb beyond a two-year high after rising above a key technical
level, according to JPMorgan Chase Co.  The gauge closed yesterday at 83.568, breaking through a
resistance level at 83.55 as it exceeded its June 1 high, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst at the firm, wrote
today in a client note. It now may rise to 84.93, he said in an
interview. The dollar has gained as the euro and higher-yielding
currencies have slid amid European financial turmoil, he said.  “The dollar’s strength has been through the euro’s
weakness, and the Dollar Index has been range-bound,” O’Connor
said. “Now, we’re starting to see other dollar pairs weaken
against the dollar, like we’ve seen in the commodity currencies
today, so it’s more confirmation of a broader dollar move.”  The  index  rose as much as 0.3 percent today to 83.829, the
highest since July 2010. The greenback strengthened against all
of its 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except
the yen. The Australian and New Zealand dollars, whose countries
export commodities, fell against most peers.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses the Dollar Index to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners. The 84.93 level, the highest since June 2010,
is the 76.4 percent Fibonacci  retracement  of a two-year decline.
A drop below 82.95 may signal a short-term end to the rally,
O’Connor said.  Resistance is a level on a chart where sell orders may be
clustered. Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices
increase or decrease by certain percentages after reaching new
highs or lows. In  technical analysis , investors and analysts
study charts of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes
in a security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  