-- Dow Industrials Face Potential Shakeup as Kraft Split Looms
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-12T21:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/dow-industrials-face-potential-shakeup-as-kraft-split-approaches.html
The new owners of the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  will face their first decision on how the
116-year-old gauge should be composed when Kraft Foods Inc.
splits itself in two later this year.  Kraft, with a $69.3 billion market value that’s ranked 20th
in the 30-stock gauge, may be dropped because the spinoff of its
U.S. grocery business will shrink the world’s second-largest
food company, said  Keith Wirtz  at Fifth Third Asset Management.
Hewlett-Packard Co. and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  are vulnerable after losing
almost half of their value in the past year, according to
Richard Moroney, editor of the Dow Theory Forecasts newsletter.  “Kraft’s market cap is not going to be big enough to make
them a certain stock to stay in,” Moroney, who manages $165
million at Hammond, Indiana-based Horizon Investment Services,
said in a phone interview this week. The selection committee is
“always clear that any sort of corporate actions put all 30
components up for grabs. I wouldn’t be surprised to see a
switch.”  The Dow, which began in 1896 with General Electric Co.,
American Tobacco and 10 other companies, was taken over last
week by S&P Dow Jones Indices, a joint venture of McGraw-Hill
Cos. and CME Group Inc. About $28 billion in products such as
exchanged-traded funds are linked to the index, and changes
prompt money managers to buy or sell stocks to match the
adjustments.  Rare Change  Changes in the composition of the average “are rare, and
generally occur only after corporate acquisitions or other
dramatic shifts in a component’s core business,” according to
the S&P Dow Jones Indices Web site. “When such an event
necessitates that one component be replaced, the entire index is
reviewed,” and “multiple component changes are often
implemented simultaneously,” it said.  Dave Guarino, a spokesman for S&P Dow Jones Indices,
declined to comment on potential additions and deletions.  Kraft is separating its global snacks business, which will
be renamed Mondelez International Inc., from its grocery
business. Mondelez will retain about $35 billion in annual sales
from brands including Cadbury chocolate and Oreo cookies, while
the grocery company will have about $19 billion in revenue,
based on 2011 results,  Michael Mitchell , a spokesman for Kraft,
said in an e-mail today. The company is on track to complete the
spinoff before year-end, he said.  ‘Solid Growth’  “Whether we remain a component in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  is not our decision,” Mitchell said in a separate e-
mail earlier this week. “We will remain focused on what we can
control: maintaining strong business momentum and driving solid
growth for our shareholders.”  Past spinoffs have led to deletions. Altria Group Inc. was
dropped in February 2008, one month before the divestiture of
its overseas tobacco unit and almost one year after its spinoff
of Kraft. Westinghouse Electric Corp.’s split into separate
manufacturing and media companies led to its removal in 1997.  “It’s a reasonable expectation that  Kraft (KFT)  is a member
change in the Dow Jones,” Wirtz, who oversees $15 billion as
chief investment officer for Fifth Third in Cincinnati, said in
a July 9 phone interview. “Whenever you have a strategic
adjustment, a restructuring, it always elevates it to a
possibility.”  AIG Replaced  Kraft joined the Dow in September 2008, replacing American
International Group Inc. when the insurer’s 97 percent plunge
that year spurred a federal bailout amid the U.S. subprime-
mortgage crisis. The stock has a market value of $69.3 billion,
compared with the average of $127.8 billion for the 30
constituents in the Dow, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Alcoa is the smallest company in the index with a market
value of $8.8 billion, about a third the size of Travelers Cos.
The New York-based aluminum producer weakened after a supply
surplus led to a 23 percent drop in prices for the metal during
the past year.  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) , the Dow’s worst performer this year, fell
1.7 percent to $19.35 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The market value
for the  Palo Alto , California-based company has shrunk to $38
billion, compared with $560 billion for rival computer maker
 Apple (AAPL)  Inc. Sales at Hewlett-Packard have fallen three straight
quarters as consumers shifted to tablets and demand for printers
and data-center gear slowed.  Apple, Google  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, may be
included in the index if the selection committee changes its
methodology to include higher-priced stocks, according to
Moroney at Horizon. The company, along with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , has
been passed over because the shares would command the biggest
weightings in the index, which ranks stocks by price.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , closed at $598.90
while  Mountain View , California-based Google traded at $570.48.
That’s more than three times the price of International Business
Machines Corp., the Dow’s largest component with an 11 percent
 weighting . The price difference between shares could be reduced
by adding an individual-stock divisor, Moroney said.  “How can you have an index of the bluest of blue chips and
not have Apple?” Moroney said. “It’s in their interest if they
want money to be indexed to the Dow and they want more people to
continue to look at the Dow as a barometer of leading stocks.”  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  are also candidates, he
said.  Selection Committee  The selection committee for the Dow average may decide not
to change the components because the gauge still reflects the
broad market and moves in line with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, said Jeffrey Yale Rubin, an analyst at Birinyi Associates
Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut .  The Dow, which accounts for 24 percent of U.S. stock market
value, added 1 percent in the past year, compared with a 1.6
percent gain in the  S&P 500 . The broader measure for U.S.
equities represents 76 percent of the market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is no rule written in stone that because nothing
has been done in three years that something needs to be done,”
Rubin said in a phone interview this week.  The 30-stock average was last reshuffled in June 2009, when
Cisco Systems Inc. and Travelers replaced General Motors Corp.,
which filed for  bankruptcy protection , and Citigroup Inc., the
recipient of $45 billion in taxpayer aid.  Comcast, Qualcomm  Moroney predicted that Comcast and Qualcomm may be added to
the Dow because they are leaders in their respective industries.
Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company with a market value of
$83.6 billion, has climbed 31 percent this year to $31.10.
Inclusion of the Philadelphia-based company would make it the
second media company after Walt Disney Co. and rank it before
Microsoft Corp., the 23rd most weighted stock in the Dow, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Qualcomm, the largest maker of mobile-phone chips valued at
$92 billion, fell 1.2 percent to $53.73 and is down 1.8 percent
this year. The San Diego-based company would rank ahead of Home
Depot Inc., the 15th biggest in the Dow.  The Dow average was devised by Charles H. Dow, co-founder
of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. Originally
containing 12 stocks, it  expanded  to 20 companies in 1916 and to
30 in 1928. The stocks in the index must have an “excellent”
reputation and show sustained growth, according to the S&P Dow
Jones Indices Web site.  -- Editors: Steve Chambers, Lynn Thomasson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  