-- Drug Sales in Emerging Markets to Match U.S. by 2016
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-12T20:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/drug-sales-in-emerging-markets-to-match-u-s-by-2016.html
China, India,  Brazil ,  Russia  are
among 16  emerging markets  that will make up almost one-third of
global drug spending within four years, as newly wealthy people
and nations spend more on health care, a report shows.  Rising spending in emerging pharmaceutical markets will
lead the industry’s global sales growth by 2016, according to a
report released yesterday by the  IMS Institute for Healthcare
Informatics , a Parsippany, New Jersey-based research arm of drug
sales analysis company IMS Health Inc. As emerging markets grow,
European government budget cuts and drugs losing U.S. patent
protection will lessen the buying power of those regions.  “What’s driving it is the really strong economic growth
across these markets,” Michael Kleinrock, director of research
at the IMS institute, said of the emerging countries. “When
millions of people come out of extreme poverty, they start to be
able to afford basic medicines and services.”  China  is leading the growth in these markets. In the
world’s most populous country, 339 million people will go from
making less than $5,000 a year to more than that in the
2011-2016 period. With low drug prices there of about $12 a
month, according to Kleinrock, people making $5,000 a year can
afford to spend about the same percentage of their income on
drugs as do people in the U.S.  That will benefit multinational brands and generic
drugmakers, who can displace lower-cost, lower-quality producers
in those countries. At higher income levels, consumers “start
to be aspirational for branded generic products and original
branded products,” Kleinrock said.  Patent Cliff  In the U.S., the so-called patent cliff will peak in 2012
and 2013, with less than a 2 percent increase in U.S. drug sales
those years, according to the  report . America’s share of the
projected $1.2 trillion in worldwide drug spending in 2016 will
fall to 31 percent from 34 percent in 2011.  The EU and Japan’s spending also will decline to 23 percent
of the global market in 2016 from 29 percent last year.  The emerging markets will make up 30 percent of spending by
2016, compared with 20 percent in 2011. The report lists these
countries as China, India, Brazil, Poland,  Mexico , Romania,
 Turkey , Russia,  South Africa , Thailand, Argentina, Indonesia,
Egypt, Pakistan, Vietnam and Venezuela.  Consumers in emerging markets have an appetite for products
by brand-name and multinational generic drugmakers, Kleinrock
said. “Their aspiration to get the real Levi’s instead of the
fake is tangible,” he said. “You see higher levels of branded
generics.”  Drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are relying increasingly on
those markets for growth. The New York-based company’s first-
quarter revenue from Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico and
Turkey grew 10 percent compared with a 15 percent decrease in
U.S. sales, Pfizer reported.  Merck & Co. (MRK) , meanwhile, saw its sales in emerging markets
rise 11 percent while U.S. sales increased 7 percent, according
to the company’s earnings filing.  Latin America  Generic drugmakers still make up the bulk of the sales in
emerging markets, and have focused expansion efforts there. In
April,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  announced it would buy
closely held drugmaker Actavis Group hf for 4.25 billion euros
($5.6 billion) to expand its reach in Europe and Asia. The deal
gives Watson, the third-biggest generic drugmaker by revenue,
access to markets in China, India and Eastern Europe, according
to Michael Faerm, a Credit Suisse analyst in  New York .  Harald Stock, chief executive officer of closely held
Grunenthal Group in Aachen,  Germany , said his company is looking
for acquisitions in  Latin America , the main source of the
generic drugmaker’s growth. He sees “sustainable” growth in
the economies there. “It’s not an emerging market anymore,”
Stock said in an interview in New York.  In one respect, though, these countries are behind the
U.S., EU, and  Japan . Developed markets still spend far more per
person on drugs than the 16 emerging countries in the IMS
report. U.S. consumers will spend $892 per person on drugs in
2016 and Japan $644 a person, while $180 per person will be
spent for medicines in Brazil and $33 in India, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  