-- Duke’s Almost CEO Was a Good Leader: Ex-Progress Director
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/duke-s-almost-ceo-was-a-good-leader-ex-progress-director.html
Progress Energy Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Bill Johnson  was a ‘terrific communicator’ and not the
autocrat  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  CEO  James Rogers  described in a
hearing on why Johnson was ousted from the combined company’s
leadership, former Progress Energy director John Mullin III
said.  Johnson exhibited few of the traits that Rogers said led
Duke’s board to lose confidence in him as the $17.8 billion
takeover of Progress closed, Mullin said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Duke’s board decided to replace Johnson,
who was supposed to become executive chairman, shortly after the
deal closed July 2, Rogers said at a hearing at the  North
Carolina  Utilities Commission July 10.  “I did not find Bill Johnson autocratic in the least,”
Mullin said. “He was the most transparent CEO with whom I have
had the pleasure of working and was a terrific communicator with
our board and with Progress employees.”  Duke’s shares have dropped 4.8 percent since the merger
closed and North Carolina’s attorney general is investigating
whether the company’s leadership shuffle violated laws. The
nation’s largest utility owner faces a “substantial fine” and
tougher scrutiny in North Carolina, its biggest market,  Hugh Wynne , a New York-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a July 11 report.  “It will make us suspicious, a little less trusting of
upper management going forward, starting with Mr. Rogers,”
Robert Gruber, executive director of the Raleigh-based North
Carolina Utilities Commission Public Staff, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  More Hearings  Duke, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, will face “full,
long-drawn” hearings from state regulators when it seeks rate
increases for its utilities later this year, Gruber said. The
commission will also determine whether ratepayers were harmed
when Duke unexpectedly dropped plans to name Johnson CEO and
Rogers executive chairman.  North Carolina law allows the commission to rescind, alter
or amend any prior order, said Sam Watson, the agency’s general
counsel.  The odds of regulators overturning the merger are
“remote,” Jim von Riesemann, a New York-based analyst with UBS
AG, wrote in a July 10 research report.  Financial liabilities include paying out severance packages
to Johnson and other departing executives, potential fines from
the attorney general’s investigation and the cost of defending
against lawsuits or federal investigations that may arise from
the board’s actions, Wynne said.  Internal Dissention  “Where we are today is not where we intended to be,
expected to be, or wanted to be,” Rogers said in testimony
filed yesterday with the North Carolina Utilities Commission.
“But good corporate governance requires that the board have
confidence and trust in the CEO, especially at this critical
juncture in Duke’s history.”  Rogers also faces internal dissention after three senior
Johnson lieutenants resigned amid the management turmoil. Rogers
identified the departing executives as Chief Administrative
Officer Mark Mulhern, Chief Integration and Innovation Officer
Paula Sims and Executive Vice President John McArthur.  Duke director E. Marie McKee, a former Progress board
member, considered resigning after Johnson was forced out,
Mullin said. McKee didn’t respond to voicemails and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Tom Williams , a Duke spokesman, declined to comment about
the departures in a telephone interview.  Mending Relations  Rogers tried yesterday to repair relations with Duke’s
30,000 employees, fielding questions for two hours from workers
in Raleigh, where Progress was based, Charlotte,  Florida ,  Ohio 
and  Indiana , Williams said.  The discussion centered on the leadership shuffle, mistrust
of the new management regime and the exodus of Johnson’s senior
officers, Williams said.  The two management teams clashed in the first quarter over
a plan to address antitrust concerns in North and South Carolina
and the fate of Progress’s shuttered Crystal River 3 nuclear
plant, highlighting differences in corporate culture, Rogers
said during the July 10 hearing.  Johnson viewed the transaction as a takeover of Duke by the
smaller Progress, Rogers said. The board began to formally
debate whether Johnson should lead the combined company in mid-
May when it became clear the merger would be approved by federal
energy regulators, Rogers said.  He first learned of the board’s reservations about Johnson
on June 23, Rogers said.  Damaged Credibility  The board debated the management shift in meetings during
the next few days while Rogers and Johnson signed new contracts
reflecting their previously announced roles following the
merger, Rogers said.  Edward Finley Jr., the commission’s chairman, told Rogers
during the hearing he had damaged his credibility by not
advising commissioners of the management turmoil as regulators
held their final merger deliberations before approving the
takeover on June 29.  “Corporate decisions are announced after they are made,
not when they are being contemplated,” Rogers said in filed
testimony.  Under the terms of the takeover agreement, the new board
consisted of 11 Duke representatives and seven from Progress.
Shortly after the merger closed, the board met without Johnson
or Rogers and voted 10-5 in favor of ousting Johnson, Rogers
said.  All votes in favor came from former Duke board members and
all against were former Progress directors. Duke’s board
retained the  New York  City-based law firm of Wachtell Lipton
Rosen & Katz for advice before Johnson’s exit, Williams said.  Duke rose 0.5 percent to $66.48 yesterday in New York. The
shares have gained 0.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  