-- The Worst Banking Scandal Yet?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/the-worst-banking-scandal-yet-.html
The scandal over the manipulation of
Libor has the potential to become one of the most costly and
consequential in the history of banking. If the financial
institutions involved want to prevent it from overwhelming their
businesses and damaging the broader economy, they’ll have to act
fast.  Investigators in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Europe  and  Asia  are
piecing together a breathtaking portrait of avarice and deceit.
To hide their institutions’ problems during the financial
crisis, or often to boost their traders’ profits, bankers
knowingly submitted false data for the calculation of  the London
Interbank Offered Rate , a benchmark  interest rate  that
influences the value of hundreds of trillions of dollars in
financial contracts around the world, including floating-rate
mortgages, corporate loans and  interest-rate swaps .  The roughly $450 million in fines paid by Barclays Plc, the
first bank to fess up, is only the beginning. Regulators can and
should hit more banks with large fines to prevent a repeat. More
important, criminal charges for the first time could threaten a
significant number of bankers and traders with jail terms for
their actions during the financial crisis -- a much needed
comeuppance that could help reset the industry’s moral compass.  It is the lawsuits, though, that have the potential to turn
a necessary catharsis into a systemic disaster. Plaintiffs
ranging from investment firms to municipal governments, many of
which bought bonds or entered into contracts that provided
payments tied to Libor, are demanding compensation from banks
for intentionally pushing down the benchmark. Attempts by
traders to rig Libor on specific days, portrayed in detail in
the Barclays case, will undoubtedly elicit more legal actions.  Estimates of payments related to lawsuits are currently in
the billions or tens of billions of dollars. The full scope of
possible litigation, though, won’t be known until the details of
civil and criminal investigations emerge.  To get a sense of magnitude, consider this: If Libor was
understated by an average of only 0.1 percentage point for a
year, the discrepancy on the roughly $300 trillion in interest-
rate swaps outstanding at the time would add up to $300 billion.
That’s about a fifth of the aggregate capital of the 16 banks
whose reports were used to calculate Libor in 2008. Much of that
amount would not be actionable, but it also doesn’t account for
other types of financial contracts or potential punitive
damages.  It’s in no one’s interest if the prospect of decades of
litigation, and prolonged uncertainty about the ultimate cost,
cripples the banking system. It’s certainly the last thing a
struggling global economy needs. Bank executives, regulators and
prosecutors should be thinking now about how to come clean
quickly, compensate the victims and move on.  The fund set up by BP Plc to pay claims related to the 2010
Deepwater Horizon  oil spill  offers one possible template. Banks
could pool their resources into a global Libor victims’
compensation fund, appoint an independent administrator and
create a transparent formula to calculate damages. Doing so
might persuade angry clients to settle rather than pursue
litigation that would serve mainly to enrich armies of lawyers.  Such a move would require a lot of cooperation and candor
among the banks. For one, they would have to come up with an
authoritative estimate of how much Libor was skewed as a result
of their misreporting. Beyond that, they would have to decide
what share of the payments each bank should bear. One bank --
Barclays is a prime candidate -- might have to take the lead in
setting up the fund, as BP did after the oil spill, and press
the others to pay their share later.  Governments can expedite the process. By quickly bringing
and settling criminal charges against the financial institutions
(as opposed to charges against the individuals who worked in
those institutions), they would remove one obstacle preventing
banks from admitting wrongdoing.  The Libor scandal offers a sad illustration of the moral
bankruptcy that has infected some corners of finance. If the
response fails to demonstrate a clear break from the past, the
repercussions could again inflict a lot of pain on millions of
innocent people. This time, the financial sector has little
goodwill to spare.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to
Egypt ;  Jonathan Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in
 Pennsylvania ; Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln
obsession ; William Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on
 fixing health care ; Frederic Block on how he  sentences federal
criminals.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 