-- Gasoline Surges to Six-Week High on Additional Iran Sanctions
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-12T19:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/heating-oil-declines-on-global-growth-concerns-surging-dollar.html
Gasoline surged to a six-week high
as  Brent crude  gained after the U.S. prepared to impose
additional sanctions on Iran for its nuclear program.  Futures rose 1.4 percent, reversing an earlier loss, after
the Treasury Department said it would take additional steps to
prevent “front companies” from evading sanctions on the
Persian Gulf nation. Brent crude in London climbed 1.1 percent,
raising the cost of U.S. fuel imports from Europe, on concern
the actions will increase tensions in the  Middle East .  “This is kind of a knee-jerk reaction,” said  Hamza Khan ,
an analyst at the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “If you see lower supplies, you’ll see
higher prices.”  August-delivery gasoline gained 3.73 cents to $2.8062 a
gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since May 31. The contract is for reformulated
gasoline, or RBOB.  “This increases tensions a bit, though it’s not
unexpected, and it makes people hesitate to be short,” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
 Chicago .  The premium for Brent crude over U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate oil for August delivery widened 57 cents to $14.99
a barrel, the biggest gap in a month.  Full sanctions on Iran by the European Union began on July
1. Iraq’s crude production overtook Iran’s last month for the
first time in more than two decades as Iran led a decline in
OPEC output ahead of the ban.  August gasoline’s premium over September futures widened
1.06 cents to 13.73 cents a gallon as supplies tightened in New
York Harbor, the delivery point for the Nymex contract. East
Coast RBOB stockpiles fell 5.3 percent last week to 14.6 million
barrels, the lowest level since May 2011 and 8.8 percent below a
year ago, according to Energy Department data.  “Summer RBOB inventories in the Harbor are at the lowest
level in more than a year,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil for August delivery rose 1.15 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $2.7733 a gallon, the highest settlement
since May 29.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.1
cent yesterday to $3.384 a gallon, according to AAA. Gasoline
reached a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  