-- ECB Says Overnight Deposits Fall to Lowest in Seven Months
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-12T09:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ecb-says-overnight-deposits-fall-to-lowest-in-seven-months-2-.html
The  European Central Bank  said
overnight deposits from financial institutions dropped by more
than half to the lowest level in almost seven months after
policy makers stopped paying interest for the funds.  Banks in the 17-nation euro region  parked  324.9 billion
euros ($397.2 billion) at the ECB yesterday, down from 808.5
billion euros the previous day, the Frankfurt-based institution
said. That’s the least since Dec. 21.  Financial institutions are no longer remunerated for the
money they deposit at the ECB overnight after last week’s
interest-rate cuts took effect yesterday. Policy makers reduced
the main refinancing rate on July 5 to a record low of 0.75
percent and cut the deposit rate to zero to stimulate credit
supply and lending.  “It’s a miracle that banks used the facility at all,”
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt, said in an interview. “Most banks are putting
their money into reserve accounts instead. There’s no reason to
believe that excess liquidity is declining.”  The ECB has flooded financial markets with more than 1
trillion euros of cheap three-year loans to unlock credit. As a
result, overnight deposits, a measure of excess liquidity in the
system, surged and have hovered around 800 billion euros until
earlier this week.  Liquidity Creation  “I would not make too much of the levels that these
deposits are reaching, because it is just a mechanical
consequence of the liquidity creation,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on March 8.  ECB Governing Council member Josef Bonnici said today’s
decline in overnight deposits is “encouraging.”  With last week’s deposit-rate cut, “the ECB wants to
encourage banks to place less money with it,” Bonnici, who is
also governor of the central bank of Malta, told reporters in
Casablanca,  Morocco , today. “The fact that the deposit rate was
reduced to zero provides an incentive for banks to see what
alternatives there are to increase their earnings. This may lead
to greater borrowing especially in some  member states .”  Banks, which are remunerated for their reserve accounts
with interest equivalent to the main refinancing rate, tend to
frontload reserve-building at the ECB. That has in the past
resulted in a drop of overnight deposits at the beginning of
maintenance periods, a stretch of about a month during which
banks are required to hold a certain amount of reserves on
average.  “Banks are likely to hit their regulatory  reserve
requirements  very quickly, so the usage of the deposit facility
is likely to rise again in the coming days,” Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  