-- ECB Says Downside Risks to Economic Outlook Have Materialized
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ecb-says-downside-risks-to-economic-outlook-have-materialized.html
The  European Central Bank  said some
of the risks to the economic outlook it had warned about have
materialized, damping inflation pressures and prompting policy
makers to cut  interest rates  to a record.  “Inflationary pressure over the policy-relevant horizon
has been dampened further as some of the previously identified
downside risks to the euro-area growth outlook have
materialized,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its monthly
bulletin today. The report echoes statements of ECB President
 Mario Draghi  at a press conference on July 5.  The ECB last week lowered interest rates by 25 basis
points, taking the  benchmark  to a record low of 0.75 percent and
the deposit rate to zero. Policy makers next decide on rates on
Aug. 2. With the sovereign debt crisis already forcing five euro
members into a bailout and threatening to tip the 17-nation euro
economy into recession, Draghi signaled on July 9 that policy
makers may be open to another rate cut.  “Economic growth in the euro area continues to remain
weak, with heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence and
sentiment,” the ECB said. The euro economy will shrink 0.3
percent this year, according to the European Commission.  Slower economic growth in  Europe  and elsewhere also damps
demand for oil, the main price driver. Euro-area  inflation 
weakened to 2.4 percent in May from 2.6 percent in April.  Oil prices  have dropped about 22 percent since the end of
February and are down 10 percent from a year ago, meaning
“underlying price pressures should remain moderate” and
inflation risks “are broadly balanced,” the ECB said.  The euro area’s inflation rate will fall below the ECB’s 2
percent ceiling in 2013, the ECB said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  