-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for July (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-07-12T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-july-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s July monthly bulletin:  ﻿Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 5 July to cut the
key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points. Inflationary pressure
over the policy-relevant horizon has been dampened further as
some of the previously identified downside risks to the euro
area growth outlook have materialised. Consistent with this
picture, the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area economy
continue to be firmly anchored in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. At the same time, economic growth in
the euro area continues to remain weak, with heightened
uncertainty weighing on confidence and sentiment.  The Eurosystem has implemented both standard and non-standard
monetary policy measures. This combination of measures has
supported the transmission of monetary policy. All the non-
standard monetary policy measures are temporary in nature and
the Eurosystem maintains its full capacity to ensure medium-term
 price stability  by acting in a firm and timely manner. In this
respect, on 22 June 2012 the Governing Council decided on
further measures to increase collateral availability for
counterparties.  As regards the economic analysis, on a quarterly basis, euro
area real GDP growth was flat in the first quarter of 2012,
following a decline of 0.3% in the previous quarter. Indicators
for the second quarter of 2012 point to a renewed weakening of
economic growth and heightened uncertainty. Looking beyond the
short term the Governing Council expects the euro area economy
to recover gradually, although with momentum dampened by a
number of factors. In particular, tensions in some euro area
sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit conditions,
the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and
non-financial sectors and high unemployment are expected to
weigh on the underlying growth momentum.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They relate, in particular, to a
renewed increase in the tensions in several euro area financial
markets and their potential spillover to the euro area ﻿real
economy. Downside risks also relate to possibly renewed
increases in energy prices over the medium term.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.4% in June 2012, according
to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from the previous month.
On the basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates
should decline further in the course of 2012 and be again below
2% in 2013. Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment
of modest growth in the euro area and well-anchored long-term
inflation expectations, underlying price pressures should remain
moderate.  Taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions of 5 July,
risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. The main downside risks
relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in the euro
area. Upside risks pertain to further increases in indirect
taxes, owing to the need for fiscal consolidation, and higher
than expected energy prices over the medium term.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion has remained subdued, with short-term
developments displaying some volatility. The increase in the
annual growth rate of M3 to 2.9% in May, up from 2.5% in April
and close to the 3.0% observed in March, mainly reflected a
reversal of the outflows in April from overnight deposits
belonging to non-monetary financial intermediaries (particularly
investment funds). In addition to an increased preference for
deposits with shorter maturities, these factors have also shaped
M1developments, with the annual growth rate increasing from 1.8%
in April to 3.3%in May.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) declined to 0.4% in May (from
0.8% in April). Annual growth rates for loans to both non-
financial corporations and households (adjusted for loan sales
and securitisation) also decreased in May, to 0.2% and 1.3%
respectively, with negative monthly loan flows to non-financial
corporations. To a large extent, subdued loan growth reflects
the current cyclical situation, heightened risk ﻿aversion, and
the ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises which weigh on credit demand.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where it is needed. The soundness of
banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating both
an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions
of 5 July, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  With regard to other policies, the Governing Council welcomes
the European Council conclusions of 29 June 2012 to take action
to address financial market tensions, restore confidence and
revive growth. The Governing Council agrees that Economic and
Monetary Union needs to be put on a more solid basis for the
future and that sustainable growth, sound public finances and
structural reforms to boost competitiveness remain key economic
priorities. The Governing Council welcomes the decision to
develop a specific and time-bound road map for the achievement
of a genuine Economic and Monetary Union. Furthermore, the
Governing Council welcomes the euro area summit initiative
towards a single supervisory mechanism, the possibility - with
appropriate conditionality - to recapitalise banks directly, and
the use of existing EFSF/ESM instruments in a flexible and
efficient manner in order to stabilise markets. Finally, the ECB
is ready to serve as an agent to the EFSF/ESM in conducting
market operations. This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains
two articles. The first article analyses the interactions
between fiscal and monetary policy in EMU and identifies the
elements for an improved policy framework. The second article
reviews the evolution of longer-term inflation expectations for
the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  