-- Tech Earnings Concerns Sinks Ezchip: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-12T21:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/tech-earnings-concerns-sinks-ezchip-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  and  Allot (ALLT) 
Communications Ltd. sank in Tel Aviv and in New York on concern
slower global growth is curbing corporate profits.  EZchip, the technology company that supplies network
processors to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , dropped 4.3 percent to 134.2
shekels, the lowest since Feb. 7. Shares slid 1.4 percent to
$33.26 by 4:30 p.m. in New York. Allot, the maker of software to
regulate traffic on networks, tumbled 6 percent, while the U.S.
stock retreated 0.5 percent to $22.57. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25) 
Index fell 0.7 percent today.  Technology stocks  and telecommunications stocks led the
 Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  to the lowest level in two weeks as
weaker demand in Europe and China for computers drove  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT)  to slice its earnings forecast as  Acme Packet (APKT) 
Inc. reported an unexpected decline in preliminary sales. Global
server sales fell 2.4 percent in the first quarter, driven by a
14 percent decline in western Europe, according to a Bloomberg
Industries report released this week.  “There is growing concern that macro-economic conditions
are going to mean slower growth for these high-tech companies,”
 Joseph Wolf , an analyst for Barclays Plc in Tel Aviv, said today
by phone.  The TA-25 has fallen 1.7 percent in 2012, compared with a
decline of 4.7 percent for the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity (ISRA25BN)  Index.  “Earnings commentary from technology companies has many
investors fearing that telecommunication and Internet technology
spending is weak and appears to be decelerating,” Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said by e-mail from
New York yesterday. “In the short term this is bad for all
technology companies including EZchip.”  Applied Materials  Shares on the  Nasdaq Computer Index (IXK)  fell 1.2 percent,
paring the advance to 11 percent this year. EZchip closed at the
equivalent of $33.78 in  Tel Aviv  today. Allot, based in Hod
Hasharon, Israel, dropped the most since February to 90.32
shekels, or $22.74, in Tel Aviv.  Net sales for Applied Materials, a chip-making equipment
provider, won’t reach the previous outlook of $9.1 billion to
$9.5 billion, the Santa Clara, California-based company said in
a statement on July 10. Earnings per share excluding some items
will be less than a previous projection of 85 cents a share to
95 cents a share, the company said.  Applied Materials Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter,
speaking at a conference July 10 in San Francisco, said demand
in Europe and China is ebbing.  ‘Poor Earnings’  Data on July 13 is expected to show China’s  economy 
expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in
three years, according to the median estimate of 38 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve minutes from a June meeting released
yesterday showed comments of members who said strains in global
markets stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis have increased since
their April gathering. More action may be necessary to boost the
labor market, a few members said.  “China is suffering from serious economic problems and the
European situation is very severe,” Harry Edelson, partner at
venture capital firm Edelson Technology Partners, said by phone
from Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, yesterday. “This signals we’re
going to see more poor earnings for technology companies and
that’s putting a drag on the stocks.”  Weaker Demand  Acme Packet, a maker of computer-networking technology,
reported preliminary revenue of between $66 million and $68
million in the second quarter, citing weaker demand from service
providers, according to a July 6 statement.  EZchip, based in Yokneam, Israel, will probably say sales
fell 10 percent to $15.5 million in the second quarter,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Allot (ALLT)  will probably say sales increased to $25 million from
$18.5 million in the year-earlier period, according to the mean
 estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  