-- Economy Attitude Gloomy in U.S., Europe, Pew Report Says
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-12T16:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/economy-attitude-gloomy-in-u-s-europe-pew-report-says.html
Fewer than a third of Americans and
Europeans perceive their national economy is doing well amid
high unemployment and the  European debt crisis , a  Pew Research 
Center report found.  In the U.S., 31 percent see the economic situation as good,
up from 20 percent in 2008, according to the survey in 21
countries. A median of 16 percent of Europeans said their
economy is performing well, including only 2 percent of Greeks,
and 6 percent of those in Italy and  Spain .  Economic attitudes have been hurt in most of the world
following the U.S. recession, which ended in June 2009, and the
European crisis, the research organization said. U.S.
 unemployment  was 8.2 percent last month and has exceeded 8
percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch since
monthly records began in 1948.  “The economic mood is exceedingly glum all around the
world,” the report said. “In the wake of four years of
economic turmoil around the world and political upheaval in a
number of nations, very few people are satisfied with the way
things are going in their country.”  Views on the economy may play a central role in the
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign for re-election. Obama said
after the employment report July 6 that adding jobs was “a step
in the right direction” while the economy needs to grow “even
faster.” Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called
the unemployment report “another kick in the gut.”  China, Germany  A median of 27 percent of people think their national
economy is doing well, according to the survey. That was led by
 China  and  Germany , where 83 percent and 73 percent,
respectively, perceive a good national situation. Brazil and
Turkey were the only other nations where most people were
upbeat, Pew said.  Support for capitalism also declined. Sixty-seven percent
in the U.S. agreed most people are better off in a free-market
economy even though some people are rich and some poor, down
from 76 percent in 2009. Declines of 10 percentage points or
more since 2007 occurred in  Italy , Spain,  Poland , the U.K.,
Lebanon, Pakistan and Japan among 21 nations surveyed, Pew said.  The survey was based on telephone and face-to-face
interviews conducted under the direction of Princeton Survey
Research Associates International. Results were based on
national samples except in China, where there was
“disproportional sampling of the urban population,” Pew said.
The U.S. survey included 1,011 people and had a margin of error
of 3.5 percentage points, Pew said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  