-- Egypt Unlikely to Reach IMF Loan Pact in 2012, Official Says
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/egypt-unlikely-to-reach-imf-loan-pact-in-2012-official-says.html
Egypt  is unlikely to reach an accord
for a $3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  by
the end of the year, a senior government official familiar with
the negotiations said.  The IMF requires approval from the biggest party in
parliament, the official said, speaking on the condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks. Egypt’s
legislature was dissolved by court order last month, a ruling
that was reaffirmed this week after President Mohamed Mursi
attempted to reinstate it.  “It’s disappointing, but at least it’s been announced
against the stabilization of reserves,” Richard Fox, London-
based head of  Middle East  and Africa Sovereigns at  Fitch
Ratings , said by phone. “If they can maintain reserve levels
and continue progress toward political transition it’s not the
end of the world. Still, the fact that things have been pushed
back yet again isn’t positive.”  The North African country has held negotiations on and off
with the IMF for more than a year.  Foreign reserves  plunged by
more than half since the start of the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011 before recovering slightly in the past
three months to $15.5 billion in June. The nation’s domestic
borrowing costs jumped by about 50 percent since January 2011 as
foreign investors exited the market amid unrest.  ‘Broad Consensus’  Egyptian authorities must win a “broad consensus around
the details of the program” that would reassure domestic
depositors, investors and the IMF that its measures would be
carried out,  Masood Ahmed , director of the Middle East and
Central Asia for the Washington-based lender, said May 2.  Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed in April said Egypt needs
to meet about $11 billion of financing needs in 18 months. The
country signed a $1 billion loan agreement with the  Islamic
Development Bank  this month.  It’s unclear when or how parliament will reconvene, or
whether a new election must be held. Mursi is yet to appoint a
prime minister to replace the outgoing Kamal el-Ganzouri after
almost three weeks in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  