-- Lehman Unloads Uranium and Real Estate to Pay Creditors
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-12T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/lehman-unloads-uranium-and-real-estate-to-pay-creditors.html
In the glory days before its
collapse in September 2008,  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. was
the fourth-largest investment bank in the nation, headquartered
in its own 32-story skyscraper on  Manhattan ’s Seventh Avenue
with a block-long electronic billboard that flashed a
promotional video night and day.  Today the offices of Lehman Brothers are tucked away on two
floors in the Time & Life Building, half a block away, where
about 430 workers labor to unwind derivatives trades and sell
illiquid assets that helped bring the firm down.  While Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy filing -- the largest
ever in the U.S.-- froze credit markets and plunged the economy
into the deepest slump since the Great Depression, it didn’t
kill the company, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 16
issue. Having emerged from bankruptcy in March, the 162-year-old
firm now lives with one goal: generating as much money as
possible to pay off former clients, creditors, and trading
partners, ranging from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the Abu
Dhabi Investment Authority to the  New York Giants .  Coming out of bankruptcy “can be the starting point for a
somewhat extended period during which the assets will be
liquidated and distributions made,” says Weil Gotshal & Manges
partner  Harvey Miller , who has been Lehman’s lead lawyer since
the bankruptcy. “It is often hard work.”  First Payment  On April 17, Lehman made its first payment to creditors,
$22.5 billion, which was 53 percent more than the company had
said was likely in previous regulatory filings. Lehman has more
than $21 billion in cash on hand now, though not all of it is
available for the next payment, due in September. Facing claims
of $300 billion, the company estimates it will end up giving
creditors $53 billion, or 18 cents on the dollar, over the
course of the next six years.  Creditors could do better than that -- especially if the
housing market continues to improve. As of Dec. 31, Lehman had
$7.7 billion of real estate on its books. One promising asset is
Archstone, which owns and develops apartment buildings in large
cities across the country. By May, Lehman had agreed to pay
$3 billion to acquire the 53 percent of Archstone it didn’t own.  It has said it plans to sell the company or take it public.
Half a dozen other Lehman properties, including On the Avenue, a
Manhattan boutique hotel, and Miami Beach condos, are on the
block or have been sold.  Racing Company  Among the most valuable of Lehman’s $6.3 billion in private
equity investments is its 15 percent stake in auto racing
company Formula One. Based on recent trades, the holding is
worth about $1.4 billion. Formula One’s planned initial public
offering may not happen until later this year, Chief Executive
Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said after Facebook Inc.’s IPO
stumbled. Perhaps the most unusual asset disposed of so far:
450,000 pounds of yellowcake uranium, acquired as part of a
commodities contract. Lehman sold the yellowcake at prices
ranging from $51 to $65 a pound through broker ICAP.  Lehman’s employees are working their way through several
thousand other assets, including loans and public securities,
while seeking to reduce claims on the company by negotiating
with creditors and challenging them in court. After putting in a
claim for $4.5 billion, Canary Wharf Group Plc, Lehman’s
landlord in  London , agreed to reduce that figure to
$780 million.  The employees toil in offices Lehman rented pre-bankruptcy
to accommodate a growing staff. About half are holdovers from
Lehman; 72 come from restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal, whose
co-founder  Bryan Marsal  managed the investment bank while it was
in bankruptcy. Alvarez & Marsal has earned more than
$500 million for its work on Lehman since 2008, according to
court papers, and has requested an additional $30 million.  Lehman President  John Suckow, an Alvarez & Marsal executive, serves as
Lehman’s president. He is guided by an “active board” of seven,
according to a regulatory filing. Board Chairman  Owen Thomas  was
Morgan Stanley  Asia ’s CEO from 2008 to 2011. Suckow and Thomas
declined to comment. The directors have an incentive to maximize
distributions. If they raise $10 billion more than the
$53 billion target, they share a bonus equal to 17 basis points
(hundredths of a percentage point) of the extra money, and 44
basis points for the next $5 billion, according to a regulatory
filing.  After its 2001 bankruptcy, energy trader Enron Corp. used
lawsuits to recover money. Lehman’s efforts to raise money
through lawsuits have had mixed success. The company lost a suit
against  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which it accused of unfairly earning a
windfall when the London-based bank bought Lehman’s bankrupt
North American business. In April, a judge narrowed Lehman’s
claims in an $8.6 billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that
is still active.  Criminal Behavior  One difference between Enron and Lehman is that no former
Lehman top executives, including CEO Richard Fuld, have been
charged with any criminal behavior. The bank operated within
accounting rules allowed at the time, according to its auditor,
Ernst & Young.  “Usually you get more money out of people who allegedly
aided real crooks than from people with bad business judgment,”
says bankruptcy lawyer Chip Bowles of Bingham Greenebaum Doll in
Louisville. “In Lehman’s case, executives skated within the
law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  