-- Election Model Predicts Bush-Gore Style Ending for 2012
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-12T16:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/election-model-predicts-bush-gore-style-ending-for-2012.html
An election model that has
accurately predicted the winner of the popular vote in the last
five presidential campaigns shows that the 2012 margin may be as
close as 2000, when the U.S. Supreme Court was forced to weigh
in on the outcome of the contest.  An analysis using the forecasting model developed by Alan
Abramowitz, an Emory University political science professor,
predicts that President  Barack Obama  will win with 50.8 percent
of the popular vote.  Abramowitz warns that the outcome of the race will still be
heavily influenced by the state of the economy in the final
months of the campaign. His prediction assumes a 2 percent
growth rate for the second quarter of this year. A negative or
zero growth rate over that period alters the forecast to
indicate a narrow popular vote win for Republican candidate  Mitt Romney , according to the model.  “In the current era of partisan polarization, the
advantage enjoyed by a first-term incumbent is less than half of
what it was earlier,” writes Abramowitz, in a post on a
 University of Virginia  “Crystal Ball” blog. “Specifically, it
means that President Obama is likely to have a much tougher
fight to win a second term.”  Abramowitz’s model only accounts for the popular vote and
doesn’t predict the electoral vote count, which actually
determines the winner of the race.  Typically, there is a correlation between the two counts.
The 2000 election is the only one since 1888 where the winner of
the popular vote didn’t also win the electoral vote, according
to Abramowitz.  “Given the expected closeness of the popular vote in 2012,
another Electoral College misfire has to be considered a
possibility,” he writes. “There is only one prediction that
seems very safe right now -- it’s going to be a long election
night.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  