-- Telefonica Restores O2 Phone Network After U.K. Failure
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-12T13:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/telefonica-network-failure-cuts-o2-phone-web-service-in-u-k-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  said all of its 23
million U.K. mobile-phone customers can again make phone calls
and send  text messages  after a network failure cut those
services yesterday.  The company’s O2 unit also restored the data network that
allows users to surf the Web, Telefonica said in a statement.
Customers should turn their phone off and on if they’re still
having problems, the company said.  O2’s British unit had been experiencing network failures
since as early as yesterday afternoon. The outage raises
questions about the readiness of the U.K. telecommunications
infrastructure for the London Olympics, said Steven Hartley, an
analyst at researcher Ovum.  “The huge influx of visitors to London ahead of the games,
will cause network traffic spikes, putting pressure on the
U.K.’s mobile networks,” he said. “If there is a major public
transport failure, the spilling over of people from a location
where high network traffic has been anticipated to less well-
prepared peripheral cells could prove disastrous.”  Telefonica fell as much as 2.8 percent to 9.81 euros in
Madrid and was down 2.6 percent at 3:15 p.m. in Madrid trading.
The stock had declined 25 percent this year through yesterday.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s largest phone company,
reported a software bug on July 6 that caused a similar network
failure for about 10 hours.  France Telecom  has said it will
offer customers free calling, texting or Web access in September
to compensate them for the failure.  Network Deals  In the U.K., Telefonica and rival  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed
in June to operate and manage a single network grid that will
run two competing nationwide mobile Internet and voice networks.  Telefonica, which operates in 25 countries, is seeking
similar deals with other local networks to lower its costs and
improve network quality, a person with knowledge of the matter
said in June. The person asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public.  Deals like this are becoming more common as carriers in
Europe look for ways to lower the costs of expansion amid
increasing competition.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and France Telecom
pooled their U.K. wireless assets into the Everything Everywhere
brand in 2010. Telefonica already has network sharing
arrangements with T-Mobile in the  Czech Republic  and an
agreement in Spain with Vodafone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  