-- Emaar Raises $500 Million From Sale of Islamic Bonds
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-07-12T08:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/emaar-raises-500-million-from-sale-of-islamic-bonds.html
     July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Emaar Properties PJSC, the developer
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, paid a lower profit rate
than last year when it raised $500 million from the sale of
Islamic bonds.  The Dubai-based developer offered a profit rate of 6.4
percent on the seven-year Shariah-compliant notes, a person
familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified
because the details are private. Emaar raised $500 million from
the sale of five-year Islamic notes at a profit rate of 8.5
percent last year. The yield on the sukuk due August 2016 fell
227 basis points this year to 5.93 percent today.  “It’s not offering much more than its existing sukuk, but
investors are chasing yields, so the profit rate is
attractive,” Thomas Christie, a fixed-income sales trader at
Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai, said by telephone today.
“Investors are comfortable with this credit, they know its
story and they’re comfortable with the risks.”  Demand for sukuk, or debt that complies with Islamic laws,
has driven sales in the  Persian Gulf  to $16.9 billion this year
from $3.3 billion in the same period last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied
natural gas raised $4 billion from the sale of a two-part sukuk
yesterday, paying less than any other sovereign issuing Islamic
bonds.  Emaar, owner of the  Middle East ’s largest mall, raised 3.6
billion dirhams ($980 million) in financing backed by the mall
in December. Its first-quarter profit jumped 44 percent from a
year earlier as the company increasingly relies on income from
hotels and retail after revenue from residential sales declined.  Emaar may report second-quarter profit more than doubled to
551 million dirhams, according to the mean estimate of four
analysts on Bloomberg. The shares rose  1.3 percent  to 3.08
dirhams at 11:53 a.m. in Dubai, compared with a 0.5 percent
increase in the  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  .  HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc, Emirates NBD
Capital Ltd., Noor Islamic Bank PJSC,  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) ,
Al Hilal Bank PJSC and Barwa Bank arranged the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  