-- Emerging Stocks Cap Longest Stretch of Losses Since November
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-07-12T21:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/emerging-stocks-head-for-longest-losing-streak-since-november.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
seventh day on concern the global slowdown is worsening after
South Korea unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and U.S. consumer
confidence stagnated.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 2 percent to 914.07 by
4:30 p.m. in New York, the biggest drop since May 23 and the
longest losing streak since November.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) 
contributed the most to the Bovespa index’s retreat in Brazil
after a report the telecommunications company may be blocked
from selling mobile services. Benchmark gauges fell at least 1
percent in India, Turkey and Hungary. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  in Seoul
and Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong slid 2.2 percent.  The Bank of Korea cut borrowing costs for the first time in
more than three years, saying the economy is growing less than
expected, while the  Bank of Japan (8301)  altered its stimulus program
without expanding it. A report due tomorrow is expected to show
China’s economy grew at the slowest pace in three years in the
second quarter. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index held at
minus 37.5 in the week ended July 8 as scant improvement in the
labor market left Americans more discouraged about the economy.  “The bold policy responses have been met by a muted
investor appetite at best,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-
market strategy at  Societe Generale , wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients. “We got the typical, ‘‘oh, I did not think that
things were that bad’’ response, which means a sell-off in risky
assets in the face of a deteriorating macro outlook. Investors
are scared about the seriousness of the disease.”  Consumer Comfort  Some 86 percent of those surveyed in the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index said the economy was in bad shape. That’s 21
percentage points higher than the average since 1985. Jobless
claims in the U.S. decreased by 26,000 in the week ended July 7
to 350,000, the fewest since March 2008, Labor Department
figures showed today.  The  emerging-markets  gauge has fallen 0.3 percent so far
this year, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index. Shares in the developing-nation measure are trading at
9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, slid 1.7
percent to $37.76.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 5.5 percent to 28.08, the
most since June 25.  Brazil  The Bovespa slumped 0.3 percent as Tim Participacoes
dropped 7.5 percent, the most since Aug. 8. Communications
Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said the Brazilian division of  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  may be blocked from selling mobile services to new
subscribers if the company fails to improve operations as
client’s complaints mount, O Estado S. Paulo reported.  The Bank of Korea unexpectedly lowered the benchmark seven-
day repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent, the first
cut since February 2009, the central bank said in a statement in
Seoul today. Two of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted the move while the rest forecast no change.  The benchmark Micex Index lost 0.8 percent in Moscow, with
24 of the gauge’s 30 stocks falling. OAO MRSK Holding, Russia’s
largest electricity distribution company, and coal producer OAO
Raspadskaya were among leading decliners, with each falling more
than 4 percent.  Tech Stocks  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  tumbled to the lowest close since Oct. 10.  China’s economy may have expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median estimate of 35 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with an 8.1 percent
increase in the first quarter and the government’s target for
full-year growth of 7.5 percent.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent, erasing
an earlier loss, as equity valuations near a three-month low
overshadowed concern that earnings growth is slowing.  A gauge of technology companies fell 3 percent and led
declines among all 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. The consumer discretionary index dropped 2.4
percent, the biggest slide since May 23.  Infosys (INFO)  Ltd., India’s second-largest software exporter,
plunged 8.4 to the lowest level since Sept. 13. Sales in the
year ending in March may rise to at least $7.34 billion, Infosys
said in a statement today, lower than the $7.55 billion it
forecast in April. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 1.5
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 366, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  