-- Emerging Stocks Fall to 2-Week Low on Growth Concerns
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-07-12T08:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/emerging-stocks-fall-to-2-week-low-on-growth-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
seventh day on concern the global economic slowdown is worsening
after South Korea unexpectedly cut interest rates and  Infosys (INFO) 
Ltd. reported profit that missed estimates.  Infosys, India’s second-largest software exporter, plunged
9.1 percent, leading a drop by technology stocks, after the
company cut its sales forecast. South Korea’s Kospi index slid
2.2 percent, the most among emerging-market benchmark gauges,
and the won weakened after the surprise rate cut raised concerns
growth is deteriorating. Hyundai Motor Co. and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
slid to a four-month low in Seoul on labor protests.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1.7 percent to 916.86
as of 3:03 p.m. in Hong Kong, poised for its steepest decline
since June 21. The measure is headed for the longest losing
streak since the seven days through Nov. 23. South Korea and
Brazil have cut  interest rates  while minutes of the Federal
Reserve policy makers’ June meeting indicated the possibility of
more stimulus. The  Bank of Japan  altered its stimulus program
without adding extra money.  A report due tomorrow is expected
to show  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in three years
in the second quarter.  “While central banks are taking steps to help avert a
further slowdown in growth, investors aren’t reacting positively
because they think lowering the rate alone won’t resolve
problems markets are facing,” Kim Jae Dong, the head of equity
at SEI Asset Korea Co., which manages about $5.3 billion in
assets, said by phone today. “What they want is more drastic
fiscal measures that could actually spur companies to spend and
increase people’s disposable income.”  Russia, Hungary  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has pared gains to 0.4
percent this year, compared with a 2.8 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index. Shares in the emerging-markets index are trading at
10 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.2 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 1.2 percent in Moscow, with
all but one of the gauge’s 30 stocks falling. Benchmark indexes
fell 0.3 percent in South Africa, 0.5 percent in Turkey and 0.9
percent in  Hungary .  The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly lowered the benchmark seven-
day repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent, the first
cut since February 2009, the central bank said in a statement in
Seoul today. Two of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted the move while the rest forecast no change.  South Korea’s government bonds jumped, pushing yields to
record lows after the rate cut. The rand fell to its lowest
level this month as bond yields dropped to records on
speculation South Africa’s central bank will follow Brazil and
Korea in cutting interest rates to stimulate growth.  Asian Growth  Asian economies will expand less than previously forecast
this year, the  Asian Development Bank  said, as Europe’s debt
turmoil crimps growth from China to India.  Asia excluding Japan will expand 6.6 percent this year
compared with an April estimate of 6.9 percent, ADB President
 Haruhiko Kuroda  said in a briefing in Bangkok today. Growth will
be 7.1 percent in 2013, compared with a previous forecast of 7.3
percent, he said.  China’s economy may have expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in three years, according to the
median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compares with an 8.1 percent increase in the first quarter and
the government’s target for full-year growth of 7.5 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent, erasing
an earlier loss, as equity valuations near a three-month low
overshadowed concern that earnings growth is slowing.  Tech Stocks Slump  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  tumbled 1.7 percent, headed for the lowest
close since Oct. 20. Bank of Communications Co. led losses among
Chinese lenders in the gauge, falling 3 percent to HK$4.82,
bound for its lowest close since Nov. 25. China Merchants Bank
Co. dropped 2.9 percent, while  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
declined 2.8 percent.  A gauge of technology companies fell 3 percent and led
declines among all 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. The consumer discretionary index dropped 2
percent, the biggest slide since May 23.  Infosys plunged to the lowest level since Sept. 13. Sales
in the year ending in March may rise to at least $7.34 billion,
Infosys said in a statement today, lower than the $7.55 billion
it forecast in April. It reported today first-quarter net income
of 22.9 billion rupees ($412 million), which is lower than the
24.2 billion rupee median estimate of 31 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 1.3 percent.  Labor Unrest  Global personal-computer shipments stalled in the second
quarter, falling 0.1 percent to 87.5 million units, a seventh
straight period of weak growth, amid economic weakness in Europe
and waning demand for PCs in favor of tablets, market-research
firm Gartner Inc. said in a statement yesterday.  Hyundai Motor (005380)  dropped 3.1 percent, headed for the lowest
close since March 12. Kia Motors lost 1.2 percent, bound for its
lowest close since March 23. Workers at the companies authorized
their South Korean union leaders to stage their first strike in
years to demand higher wages and reduced working hours.  China Yongda Automobile Services Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest distributor of BMWs, fell 0.3 percent on its
first day of trading after the company scaled back its initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  