-- Merck Halts Trial of Bone Drug After Favorable Results
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-12T20:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/merck-halts-trial-of-bone-drug-after-favorable-results.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  rose to its highest
value in four years after the company said it will stop testing
an experimental drug meant to prevent bone fractures in women
with osteoporosis because the therapy worked so well in a trial.  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey,  increased 
4.1 percent to $42.91 at the close in New York, its biggest gain
since August 2011 and highest price since March 2008.  The drug, odanacatib, has been tested in post-menopausal
women with osteoporosis since 2007, and an advisory panel
monitoring results recommended closing the phase 3 study early
“due to robust efficacy,” Merck said yesterday said in a
statement. The therapy would compete with  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s bone-
strengthening drug, Prolia. That medicine, approved in 2010,
 generated  $203 million in 2011 sales,  Thousand Oaks , California-
based Amgen reported.  “The likelihood is that odanacatib will be more
effective,” said  Barbara Ryan , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based
analyst with Deutsche Bank, who said today’s announcement will
make investors realize the stock is undervalued. She has a buy
rating on the stock and $47.25 price target.  “We have revenues for the product in 2016 of $800 million,
it could certainly be more than that,” she said.  Merck is seeking new products while cutting jobs in
preparation for facing generic competition next month in the
U.S. to its  best-selling  asthma treatment Singulair. The company
plans to submit the drug for regulatory approval in the U.S.,
European Union and Japan during the first half of next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in New York at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  