-- EU Bank Supervisor Plan Needs Broad Participation, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/eu-bank-supervisor-plan-needs-broad-participation-barnier-says.html
European Union plans to pool
supervision of banks must include as many of the bloc’s nations
as possible if they’re to succeed, said  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief.  “No non-eurozone country can be forced to participate. But
my personal view is that we must do all we can to build a
banking union for all 27” EU nations, Barnier said, according
to an advance copy of a speech he’ll deliver in  Washington 
today. The EU financial-services industry needs “a single rule
book and integrated supervision” to avoid market fragmentation,
he said.  Euro-area  leaders said  on June 29 that it’s “imperative to
break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns.” To this
end, they said that once a single supervisor, involving the
 European Central Bank , is established, the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, could
recapitalize banks directly.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  has said the single
supervision should be part of a broader banking union, also
including a pooling of national bank-deposit guarantee programs
and mutualizing funds to stabilize failing lenders.  The U.K. government has said that the country will not take
part in the banking union plan.  “If we want one single European resolution system for
failing banks, if national deposits insurance schemes are to be
pooled, if the European Stability Mechanism is allowed to
recapitalise banks directly, then we need pan-European
supervision with real teeth,” Barnier said  Separately, Barnier said that the scandal surrounding
banks’ manipulation of the London interbank offered rate was an
example of how a lack of ethics in finance has damaged the
economy.  “The reckless and immoral behavior of a few institutions
has created enormous damage for the financial sector itself and
society as a whole,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  