-- EU Lawmakers and Nations Clash Over Basel Bank Capital Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-12T16:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/eu-lawmakers-and-nations-clash-over-basel-bank-capital-rules.html
European lawmakers and national
governments are split over how much to toughen  capital
requirements  for the bloc’s largest banks, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  The European Parliament is negotiating with Cyprus, which
holds the rotating presidency of the EU, over a draft law that
would boost the reserves lenders are forced to hold in the 27-
nation region.  Legislators are demanding that European authorities can
impose capital buffers for so-called systemically important
banks on top of any national requirements, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. This
has set up a clash with governments, which prefer that
regulators apply whichever is the tougher out of the EU and
local rules.  Governments face a January 2013 deadline set by the Basel
Committee for Banking Supervision to implement the draft law,
which would more than triple the core capital that lenders must
have to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets. The Group of 20
nations said banks should boost their reserves to prevent
any repeat of the wave of taxpayer bailouts that followed the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Nikos Christodoulides, a spokesman for Cyprus’ EU
presidency, said he couldn’t comment as talks on the draft law
are ongoing. Any proposal must be approved by national
governments and the parliament before it can take effect.  Summer Recess  Legislators and Cypriot officials held negotiation meetings
yesterday and today in an effort to make some progress before
the assembly breaks for its recess on July 20, the people said.  Adoption of the law after the break would leave lenders
with little time to implement the measures, Guido Ravoet, chief
executive officer of the European Banking Federation, said in an
interview. “That seems to us not really realistic.”  The European Parliament has called for  banks  to face a
range of capital surcharges above the 7 percentage point
minimum, depending on their level of systemic importance.  Governments, in their compromise on the plans, took a
different approach, saying regulators should be free to impose
extra requirements of as much as 3 percentage points of core
capital across the banking systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  