-- EU Seeks Views on Thomson Reuters Bid to End Antitrust Probe
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-12T08:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/eu-seeks-views-on-thomson-reuters-bid-to-end-antitrust-probe-1-.html
Thomson Reuters  Corp.’s revised
offer to settle a European Union antitrust probe will be tested
by users of securities identification codes.  The European Commission said the company’s proposal to
reduce license fees and simplify the fee structure of the codes
improved on earlier concessions “in several regards.”  The Brussels-based commission “has concerns that Thomson
Reuters may be abusing its dominant market position in the
market for consolidated real-time datafeeds,” the Brussels-
based regulator said in an e-mailed statement. Curbs on how the
company’s clients can use the identification codes create
“substantial barriers” to alternative providers.  The commission opened an investigation into the Thomson
Reuters codes in 2009, saying customers may potentially be
locked in to working with the company because replacing the
codes required a long and costly procedure to rewrite or
reconfigure software applications.  “Thomson Reuters does not believe it has violated EU
competition law, nor has the European Commission made any
finding of infringement against the firm,” the New York-based
company said in an e-mailed statement.  The commission will seek views on the offer for four weeks.
The EU can end the investigation if the offer addresses the
competition concerns. Thomson Reuters can be fined up to 10
percent of its yearly revenue if it breaks the terms of the
legally binding settlement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  