-- Euribor Should Be Overseen by EU Regulators, EBF Chief Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-12T17:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/euribor-should-be-overseen-by-eu-regulators-ebf-chief-says.html
European Union authorities should
directly oversee the euro interbank lending rate following the
interest-rate manipulation scandal in  London , the head of the
banking group that administers Euribor said.  The European Securities and Markets Authority should
supervise how banks submit estimates of  interest rates  to borrow
or lend to one other, Guido Ravoet, the chief executive officer
of the European Banking Federation, said in an interview today.  Confidence in the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a benchmark for 360 trillion of dollars’ worth of financial
products worldwide, has been dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission
that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as
London-based Barclays’s CEO after the bank was fined 290 million
pounds ($447 million), told British lawmakers last week that
other banks also lowballed Libor submissions.  Barclays’s submitters received at least 58 requests for how
they should report the Euribor rate from September 2005 to May
2009, 20 of them from traders at other banks, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority said last month. Short-term interest-rate
contracts valued at 241 trillion euros ($293 trillion) are based
on the three-month Euribor futures contract, making it the
world’s fourth-largest interest-rate futures contract by volume,
the FSA said.  Dramatic Rise  Ravoet said he remains confident that Euribor rates weren’t
successfully manipulated because of the difficulty of
coordinating rates between the 44 banks on the panel. During the
2007 financial crisis, the Euribor rate “went dramatically up,
reflecting the tensions in the euro interbank market,” he said.  There should be more scrutiny of Euribor, and the EBF has
no problem sharing information on the rates, Ravoet said. The
banking federation checks on banks that regularly appear among
the highest or lowest 15 percent of quotes that are removed to
calculate the daily average, he said. The organization’s members
are national banking groups, including the British Bankers’
Association, which administers the Libor rate.  For supervising Euribor “there are only two possibilities,
either the ECB or ESMA,” Ravoet said. ESMA would be more
logical because the  European Central Bank  may face a conflict of
interest due to its activities in liquidity markets, he said.  U.K. Regulators  Since March, a group of U.K. bankers and regulators has
been reviewing how Libor is set. The panel, established by the
BBA, has resisted calls to overhaul the rate because structural
changes risk invalidating trillions of dollars of contracts.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said last month that
Libor should be based on actual transactions instead of banks’
estimates of lending rates to restore credibility.  Ravoet said it would be very difficult to get a real-time
view of lending rates without using banks’ own estimates,
because there isn’t any market agency that can deliver the data.  “I don’t know if you’d be able to get a benchmark” on the
same day, Ravoet said. “Banks are interested in knowing what is
the market today.”  While sanctions for attempted rate manipulation are
“completely justified,” Ravoet said, banks’ internal auditors
should be responsible for making sure that Chinese walls to
separate traders and submitters are respected.  Efforts by banking groups to oversee Euribor and Libor are
“not enough,” because the rates have become widely used
benchmarks, EU spokesman Stefaan De Rynck said today. The
European Commission is reviewing the governance of the rates and
how they are calculated, De Rynck said.  David Cliffe, a spokesman at Paris-based ESMA, declined to
comment. The regulator was set up by the EU in response the
financial crisis.  EU antitrust regulators in October raided banks that offer
financial derivatives linked to the Euribor rates, saying they
were investigating possible collusion. The commission is probing  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 