-- Euro-Region Industrial Production Unexpectedly Rebounds: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-07-12T11:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/euro-area-industrial-production-rebounded-in-may-led-by-germany.html
Euro-area  industrial production 
unexpectedly rebounded in May as growth in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, more than offset a decline in France.  Output in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.6 percent from
April, when it fell 1.1 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists projected output to
stagnate, the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. From a year earlier, production fell 2.8 percent after
decreasing 2.4 percent in April.  Europe’s economy is slipping toward its second recession in
three years as budget cuts across the region erode export and
consumer demand.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest
carmaker, said today it will eliminate 14,000 jobs to stem
widening losses. The  European Central Bank  last week cut
borrowing costs to a record low after  Spain  and Cyprus joined
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in asking for external aid.  “The bounce in  euro-zone  industrial production in May does
little to change the view of a contraction in the overall
economy in the second quarter,” said Martin Van Vliet, an
economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “With the fiscal squeeze in
the euro zone unlikely to ease soon and the debt crisis still
unresolved, any recovery in euro-zone industrial activity later
this year will likely be modest.”  German industrial output rose 1.5 percent in May from the
previous month, when it slipped 2 percent, today’s report
showed. Italy and Spain reported monthly gains of 0.8 percent
and 0.9 percent, respectively. France had a 2.1 percent decline.  Brussels Meeting  The euro fell, slumping below $1.22 for the first time
since July 2010 to as low as $1.2170 at 1:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt 
The single currency has decreased 6 percent against the dollar
this year as governments struggled to stem the spreading crisis.  Euro-region finance ministers meeting in Brussels this week
urged Spain to step up measures to narrow its budget gap, while
giving the government an extra year to tackle overspending.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on July 2 that the time has
come to “press the accelerator pedal” as a recession
undermines the impact of budget cuts.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., told Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” July 9 that it’s up to governments to
toughen their response to the turmoil.  The ECB “cannot deal with the structural problems that the
EU have,” he said. “The ECB is a firefighter. They can help
put out fires for a while, but they cannot rebuild the house.”  ‘Weak’ Growth  The ECB on July 5 lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 0.75 percent, with President  Mario Draghi  saying
that “there is no feeling that we are running short of policy
options.” The central bank has injected more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.2 trillion) into the banking system to bolster the
economy and encourage lending.  “Economic growth in the euro area continues to remain
weak, with heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence and
sentiment,” the ECB said in its monthly report published today.
“Some of the previously identified downside risks to the euro-
area growth outlook have materialized.”  In Ireland, the  economy  contracted more than economists
forecast in the first quarter, with gross domestic product
dropping 1.1 percent from the previous three months, a report
showed today. The economy returned to growth in the fourth
quarter of 2011, expanding 0.7 percent.  Korea, Australia  Elsewhere, the  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly today lowered the
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate by a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent, the first cut since February 2009. In
 Australia , the number of people employed fell by 27,000 in June,
the statistics bureau in Sydney said.  Japan  altered its stimulus
program without adding extra money and Indonesia’s central bank
kept interest rates unchanged for a fifth month.  The  Federal Reserve  signaled that a further economic
slowdown would bring growing support among policy makers for
additional steps to spur the three-year expansion. A few members
of the Federal Open Committee said the Fed should ease policy to
move the economy toward its targets of full employment and
stable prices, according to minutes of the June 19-20 meeting
released yesterday in  Washington .  More Americans probably filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments in the week ended July 7, with
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecasting an increase in
applications for jobless benefits to 370,000.  German Confidence  With European demand faltering, governments plugging budget
holes and at least seven  member states  in recession, companies
are looking for ways to lower costs. Euro-area  unemployment  rose
to 11.1 percent in May, a record.  While Germany’s expansion helped the euro area avert an
economic slump in the first quarter, it has since shown
increasing signs of weakness. German  business confidence  dropped
to the lowest in more than two years in June, investors grew
more pessimistic and industrial output dropped.  Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser on June 26
indicated it will be more difficult to meet financial targets
set for 2012 as demand tapers off and Chinese growth fails to
pick up. It’s “going to be quite a rocky road to meet the
targets for 2012,” he said in an interview on that day.  Peugeot will cut an additional 8,000 positions in the
current reorganization, on top of 6,000 job reductions already
announced last year. The company will also close its 39-year-old
factory in Aulnay, France, and lower production at a plant in
Rennes to slash operational costs.  The EU’s statistics office is scheduled to report euro-
region exports for May on July 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  