-- Ex-Penn State Chief Spanier, Paterno Faulted in Probe
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ex-penn-state-chief-spanier-paterno-criticized-in-probe.html
Pennsylvania State University
longtime football head coach Joe Paterno, fired President  Graham Spanier  and other officials failed to protect children from
sexual abuse by former coach Jerry Sandusky, according to a
report by investigator  Louis Freeh .  “Our most saddening and sobering finding is the total
disregard for the safety and welfare of Sandusky’s child victims
by the most senior leaders at  Penn State ,” Freeh said yesterday
during a press conference concluding a seven-month probe. “The
most powerful men at Penn State failed to take any steps for 14
years to protect the children who Sandusky victimized.”  The abuse, for which Sandusky was convicted, could have
been stopped in 1998, Freeh said after the report’s release.
Freeh’s findings may be used to bolster litigation filed by
Sandusky’s victims against the university, said Daniel Filler, a
professor at the Earle Mack School of Law at  Drexel University .  “For lawyers and plaintiffs planning on suing Penn State,
the Freeh report is literally a road map to the case,” Filler
said. “The one thing the report leaves to the lawyers is the
bald-faced accusations of deceit and cover-ups.”  Freeh, a former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation director,
now heads the consulting company Freeh Group International
Solutions LLC. He has been hired to conduct investigations at
companies including MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Penn State Board Chairman Karen Peetz said trustees accept
full responsibility for the failures that occurred at the
university.  ‘We’re Horrified’  “We’re horrified. We’re saddened,” Peetz said yesterday
at a press conference. “There are not enough superlatives to
use.”  Trustees saw the report for the first time yesterday.  “We feel concerned and misled in the entire situation
although we take full responsibility,” Peetz said. “Each of
the individuals have let us down significantly.”  The Penn State report follows the January death of Penn
State’s legendary football coach Paterno, who was fired in
November along with Spanier over criticism they didn’t do enough
to stop Sandusky’s abuse. Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as
a defensive assistant under Paterno, was convicted last month on
45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year
period. His lawyer yesterday filed a notice of appeal seeking to
challenge a protective order issued after Sandusky’s conviction.  Officials Faulted  Besides Paterno and Spanier, the report faults Timothy Curley and  Gary Schultz , university officials charged with lying
to a grand jury about a 2001 allegation of sex abuse in a campus
shower. Both men refused to cooperate with the Freeh
investigation, citing the advice of their lawyers, according to
the report.  “Messrs. Spanier, Schultz, Paterno and Curley never
demonstrated, through actions or words, any concern for the
safety and well-being of Sandusky’s victims until after
Sandusky’s arrest,” Freeh said.  More than 430 interviews were conducted during the
investigation, which resulted in a 267-page document.  Paterno, Spanier, Curley and Schultz “repeatedly”
concealed critical facts surrounding Sandusky’s abuse in an
attempt to avoid “bad publicity,” according to Freeh’s report.
None of the men took any responsible action after the February
2001 incident, and although they all knew of a 1998 incident,
“the best they could muster to protect Sandusky’s victims was
to ask Sandusky not to bring his ‘guests’ into the Penn State
facilities,” according to the report.  State Probe  The report makes more likely the possibility of criminal
charges against Spanier, said Michael McCann, director of
Vermont Law School’s Sports Law Institute. “Spanier, however,
would likely argue that the report does not accurately reflect
his conduct,” McCann said.  Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly said yesterday in
a statement, “Today’s release of the Freeh report will not
hinder the continuing work of our statewide investigating grand
jury nor will it impact ongoing criminal prosecutions.”  Lawyers for Spanier said in a statement that Freeh’s
conclusion that their client had engaged in “active
concealment” is “simply not supported by the facts.”  “Not only did Dr. Spanier never conceal anything from law
enforcement authorities, but prior to 2011 he was never
contacted” by them, his lawyers said. In 16 years on the job,
he was never “told of any incident involving Jerry Sandusky
that described child abuse, sexual misconduct or criminality of
any nature,” they said.  Merck & Co. Chief Executive Officer Ken Frazier, the Penn
State trustee who led the university’s special investigating
committee, said the board placed a huge degree of trust in
Spanier.  “In hindsight we would have done things differently,”
Frazier said during a press conference on Penn State’s response
to the report. “In retrospect I wish we had probed more.”  ‘Reverence’ Culture  Freeh’s report faulted the “culture of reverence”
surrounding Penn State’s football program for leading to the
Sandusky scandal. The school’s athletic department in the past
several decades was perceived as an “island” allowed to
operate by its own rules, according to the report.  Freeh concluded that officials including Paterno knew in
1998 of a possible sexual assault by Sandusky on a young boy
that was reported by his mother and they took no action to limit
Sandusky’s access to campus shower rooms. Before May 1998,
several football coaches and staff “regularly observed”
Sandusky showering with young boys and never reported the
behavior. The red flags involving Sandusky were numerous and
Paterno and others ignored them, Freeh told reporters.  Football Rules  Penn State’s “tone” among its top leaders was completely
wrong, making it difficult for those at the bottom of the
university’s “pyramid of power” to report problems, Freeh
said.  A janitor who witnessed a 2000 sexual assault by Sandusky
on another boy was too afraid to report the incident, according
to the report. The unidentified janitor, described as Janitor B
in the report, told investigators that reporting the incident
“would have been like going against the President of the U.S.”  “I know Paterno has so much power, if he wanted to get rid
of someone, I would have been gone,” the report cites the
janitor as telling investigators. “Football runs this
university.”  E-mails and notes suggest Paterno intervened in a plan to
report the February 2001 incident witnessed by assistant
football coach  Mike McQueary , according to the report. The
incident was never brought to the attention of the school’s
board of trustees, according to the report.  ‘Worst Mistake’  “Paterno made perhaps the worst mistake of his life,”
Freeh said during the press conference, noting that the former
coach was an “integral part” of the concealment.  Paterno’s family said the former coach didn’t try to cover
up Sandusky’s actions, while acknowledging that he could have
gone further and pushed his superiors to see that they were
doing their jobs.  “If Joe Paterno had understood what Sandusky was, a fear
of bad publicity would not have factored into his actions,” the
family said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We have said
from the beginning that  Joe Paterno  did not know Jerry Sandusky
was a child predator.”  Paterno testified for seven minutes before a grand jury in
January 2011 regarding what he knew about the 2001 incident
involving Sandusky and a boy believed to be about 10 years old
in the locker room showers of the Lasch Football Building.  Paterno Told  McQueary, then a graduate assistant, has testified he told
Paterno that he had witnessed Sandusky assaulting the boy in a
locker room shower. The details of what was said are at the
heart of a related case against the university officials charged
with perjury and failing to report the allegation to
authorities.  McQueary’s contract with the school ended June 30, Penn
State President Rodney Erickson said during the press
conference. Erickson declined to comment on Curley’s continued
employment at the university.  The conclusions reached in Freeh’s report are based on an
incomplete record, Caroline Roberto and  Tom Farrell , attorneys
for Curley and Schultz, said in e-mailed statements.  “The result is a lopsided document that leaves the
majority of the story untold,” Roberto said.  Freeh said the focus of the school’s response in 2001 was
to treat Sandusky “humanely.”  ‘Dangerous Situation’  “In critical written correspondence that we uncovered on
March 20 of this year, we see evidence of their proposed plan of
action in February 2001 that included reporting allegations
about Sandusky to the authorities,” Freeh said at the press
conference. “After Mr. Curley consulted with Mr. Paterno,
however, they changed the plan and decided not to make a report
to the authorities.”  That failure “created a dangerous situation for other
unknown, unsuspecting young boys who were lured to the Penn
State campus and football games by Sandusky and victimized
repeatedly by him,” Freeh said.  Freeh’s report is “absolutely devastating” to the school
and its officials,’’ lawyers for three of Sandusky’s victims who
testified at his trial said in a statement.  “They chose to protect themselves, Penn State’s brand and
image and their football program instead of children,”
attorneys Andrew Shubin and Justine Andronici said in an e-
mailed statement. “Although the Freeh report focuses on
isolated incidents of abuse in 1998 and 2001, as the criminal
convictions clearly establish, Jerry Sandusky was abusing boys
before 1998.”  Recommended Changes  Freeh’s investigation covered the university’s protocols,
culture and leadership going back as far as 1975. The team of
investigators included former FBI agents and prosecutors, some
with experience investigating cases of child sexual abuse. The
group recommended five areas for changes, including abuse
awareness training, administrative reforms and security
arrangements for the athletic department.  Payments for the special investigation and crisis
consultants hired to advise the school on the Sandusky fallout
totaled about $7.6 million as of April 30, Penn State said on a
website it created in the wake of the scandal.  Freeh, who was hired by a special committee of Penn State’s
board of trustees, criticized his clients for failing to hold
the university’s highest officials accountable for their
actions.  Boards Lulled  The board may have been lulled into a sense of security as
Spanier appeared to be successful in expanding and transforming
the school, said Ronald Ehrenberg, the director of the Cornell
Higher Education Research Institute.  “Boards can become complacent,” said Ehrenberg. “I think
over time the board was not exerting its fiduciary duty.”  University board members must often walk a fine line,
avoiding micromanaging university officials while guarding
against a lack of crucial oversight, said Gary Olson, a former
provost and vice president for academic affairs at Idaho State
University.  E-mails uncovered by the Freeh investigation suggested that
Penn State board members were kept in the dark about events
leading to the scandal. Some board members found out about
Sandusky’s arrest through local media, Freeh said yesterday.  “If there is lack of oversight, there is not a culture of
accountability,” Olson said in a phone interview. “And that is
what you’re looking for.”  Compliance Program  Freeh called on the university to create a “comprehensive
and stringent” compliance program, with board oversight through
a compliance committee. The university has begun the search for
a chief compliance officer and adopted policies requiring annual
training on abuse and mandatory reporting for employees, Freeh
said.  The Sandusky scandal is unlikely to cool recruiting at Penn
State, said Mike Farrell, national recruiting analyst for
Rivals.com. Rivals ranked Penn State’s recruiting class No. 51
in the country in 2012 and they currently have the 2013 class
ranked 15. Paterno hadn’t been involved in recruiting since
2008, Farrell said in a phone interview.  “This latest revelation isn’t a revelation. There was a
cover-up,” Farrell said. “Kids still like Penn State; the
atmosphere, the 100,000 fans, the facilities, tradition and TV.
If the NCAA gets involved and hammers them with scholarship
reductions, bowl bans, then you’ll see a change.”  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  said yesterday
that it was reviewing the report. Penn State’s response to
questions on compliance and ethics policies will determine
whether it takes further action, the NCAA said in a statement.  “We expect Penn State’s continued cooperation in our
examination of these issues,” the group said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  