-- Mexico Inflation May Stay Above 4% This Quarter, Messmacher Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/mexico-inflation-may-stay-above-4-this-quarter-messmacher-says.html
Mexican inflation may not slow
within policy makers’ target range this quarter as forecast by
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, the  Finance Ministry ’s
top economist said.  “It could happen, but it looks complicated,”  Miguel Messmacher  said in an interview in his  Mexico  City office.
“It’s very difficult to predict what exactly will happen with
the weather.”  Carstens said in a July 4 interview that consumer price
increases will “very likely” slow to an annual rate within the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. Five days
after the interview the statistics institute reported annual
inflation for June at 4.34 percent, the highest rate since
December 2010 and more than economists expected.  Rains that ended a drought in parts of Mexico have not
reached all crop-producing regions, and pressures on
agricultural prices have lingered, Messmacher said. An outbreak
of bird flu in western Mexico could also cause egg prices to
keep rising, he said. Carstens said the flu may cause a “blip”
in costs that won’t last.  Mexico’s Economy Ministry said July 4 it may import eggs
after the flu caused authorities to destroy hundreds of
thousands of chickens, triggering reports of rising egg prices.  Economists raised their year-end inflation forecast to 3.81
percent from 3.65 percent in a monthly survey by the central
bank published July 2.  Inflation may reach the target range this quarter if
rainfall spreads and Mexico imports eggs, Messmacher said. The
 consumer price index  will decline in the fourth quarter, he
said.  “In the next quarter we should be seeing a strong
convergence toward 3.5 percent,” he said. “It’s a sure
thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  