-- Fall of Peregrine’s Wasendorf Presaged in Christmas Toast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-07-12T20:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/fall-of-peregrine-s-wasendorf-presaged-in-christmas-toast.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
employees gathered for their annual holiday party at the River
East Art Center, overlooking the  Chicago  River. After enjoying
appetizers and an open bar, they heard the kind of somber note
you don’t expect from the boss at such a fete: Even businesses
that get off to a good start aren’t guaranteed to last.  That was the gist of the remarks last December from Russell Wasendorf Sr., chief executive officer of Peregrine, the futures
brokerage he founded. Wasendorf rambled and said that while he
was proud of creating Peregrine after his first year in
business, you never know how things will turn out, recalled  Phil Flynn , a former analyst at Peregrine’s futures brokerage,
PGFBest, who attended the party.  “Finally he just stopped and said, ‘Sorry, I didn’t mean
to be a downer at the Christmas party,’” Flynn said. “It took a
lot of people aback. Was it an indication of what was to come?
It could be.”  Seven months later, Wasendorf, 64, drove to the parking lot
of Peregrine’s headquarters in  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa , and tried to
asphyxiate himself by funneling tailpipe exhaust into his silver
Chevrolet Cavalier, authorities said. Regulators were on the
verge of discovering a $220 million shortfall in his customers’
money. A day later, the brokerage filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy
protection as its founder lay in a coma in an Iowa City
hospital.  P.O. Box  A post-office box in Cedar Falls is at the center of the
U.S. probe of the shortfall. It focuses on whether Wasendorf
used the box to trick regulators into thinking they were dealing
with U.S. Bancorp, a person with direct knowledge of the inquiry
said. Investigators suspect he doctored account statements from
the lender to inflate customer funds and listed the bank
branch’s address as a mailbox he controlled, according to the
person.  The sudden reversal of fortune for Wasendorf has shaken his
adopted Iowa town, reverberated in the halls of Congress and
forced new scrutiny on the regulatory ability of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. It also has reignited a debate about
whether the money of futures-brokerage customers is safe -- less
than a year after the failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , whose
clients are still missing $1.6 billion.  Distressed Debt  Customers’ claims may fetch less than a quarter of their
value in the wake of the firm’s bankruptcy. Quotes of 22 cents
on the dollar to 25 cents were given to half a dozen Peregrine
customers yesterday who called CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys
and sells distressed debt, said  Joseph Sarachek , managing
director of claims trading. He is being “deluged” by calls, he
said. By comparison, bankrupt MF Global’s U.S. claims have
always sold in the high 70s, he said.  Wasendorf had maintained all the appearances of a
successful financial-services executive, founding the  Peregrine
Charities  in 2004 with his family to help battle rare pediatric
diseases. The charity also provided assistance for children’s
medical treatment, according to the group’s website.  He had a personal touch. Two weeks ago, clients, family and
friends received a small green envelope with a wedding
invitation from Wasendorf and Nancy von Goeben. The ceremony
would take place on Aug. 4 at the Bethlehem Lutheran Church in
Cedar Falls, with a reception at the couple’s residence.  Recipe Gifts  “Instead of showering us with gifts, e-mail your favorite
family recipe along with a photo and a special story,” it read.
Each guest would receive a cookbook with the recipes.  Wasendorf’s culinary interests extended to his company,
which he relocated from Chicago in 2009. Concerned that
employees who followed him might sniff at the local fare, he
opened an Italian restaurant, myVerona, which offers braised
rabbit cacciatore and crispy calamari fritti. The restaurant, on
Main Street in Cedar Falls, posted a sign this week stating that
it was “closed until further notice.”  Wasendorf took a group of its employees to  Italy  in 2010,
said Katy Reiter, 23, a former server at myVerona who quit in
March to become a dog groomer. Those who couldn’t go received
cash bonuses.  About 30 employees spent a week traveling around the
country, staying at luxury hotels and visiting local wineries,
Reiter said. Restaurant employees called Wasendorf “Papa,” she
said, and he spent a lot of time at the eatery telling stories
of his world travels with his fiancée.  ‘Best Brokerage’  “I was shocked when I heard the news,” Reiter said in a
telephone interview. “He did so many things that no one else
could do. And I really respected him for that.”  The world of futures brokerages held him in equally high
esteem. “Everybody liked the firm, it was well-respected”
before the recent revelations, said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy who has spent 17 years in the futures industry. “I don’t
think anybody thought anything was untoward there.”  Wasendorf serves on an advisory committee of the  National
Futures Association , the self-regulatory group for futures
brokers that has audit power over the firm and the same
association that uncovered the missing funds during an on-site
audit in Cedar Falls.  PFGBest was named the 30th best futures brokerage in 2008
by Futures Magazine. “Our reputation is built on well-
established risk management practices and our attentive,
respectful care of our customers and their accounts,” Wasendorf
said in a statement regarding the ranking at the time.  Electronic Filing  Now that image is crumbling. According to the person
familiar with the U.S. inquiry, the National Futures Association
received phony responses vouching for bank balances when it sent
confirmation requests to the Cedar Falls mailbox in 2010 and
2011. Peregrine typically had about $5 million in the account,
another person said.  The weekend before Wasendorf’s suicide attempt, he granted
the  futures association  permission to use a new electronic
filing system that would let U.S. Bancorp directly send
statements to the industry self-regulator, cutting him out of
the process, one person said.  Patricia Campbell, a Peregrine spokeswoman in Chicago,
didn’t return a telephone call for comment. Teri Charest, a U.S.
Bancorp spokeswoman, declined to comment, as did Larry Dykeman,
a spokesman for the futures group.  ‘Black Eye’  The downfall of Peregrine is a second “black eye” on the
futures industry after MF Global, CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said yesterday as he called for an emergency meeting to
decide whether company officials can be prosecuted.  The risk for the industry related to Peregrine is losing
the trust of a trader like Jacob Ursel, an 18-year-old investor
in Calgary,  Canada , who said he has $7,200 frozen in his
Peregrine account.  “I still want to be in the industry, but I’m afraid the
futures industry isn’t like other industries because not a lot
of people try it because it’s risky,” he said in a telephone
interview. Investors are “having trouble trusting the
regulators because this happened twice in nine months,” he
said, referring to MF Global, the futures broker run by former
New Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine  that filed for bankruptcy in
October.  While Ursel’s frozen funds in Peregrine is “not hurting”
him financially and he worries about farmers who have lost much
more, not being able to get the cash for himself and his other
investors has been difficult.  Tough Conversations  After getting others excited to try futures trading, “it’s
been tough telling them what happened,” he said.  Before Peregrine opened its office in Cedar Falls,
Wasendorf would fly on his personal jet to and from Chicago,
Cedar Falls Mayor Jon Crews recalled. In the past three years,
Wasendorf has received two business awards from the town of
38,000. He is a member of the boards of the Greater Cedar Valley
Alliance and the University of Northern Iowa Foundation.  “Everything looked perfect, so it’s a big surprise and
it’s disappointing,” the mayor said in an interview at  city
hall . “It is not life-threatening for the community, but it’s
going to hurt, no question about it. It’s a personal tragedy for
his family, employees and investors.”  Stan Nielsen, 59, a manager of supplier contracts at 1-800-
Flowers.com, said the revelations put Wasendorf’s philanthropy
in a new light.  Giving It Away  “It’s really sad that he was giving away money that he
didn’t have,” Nielsen said, mentioning Wasendorf’s $2 million
donation to the University of Northern Iowa’s athletics
department.  Peregrine spent millions to construct the Cedar Falls
headquarters, which are on One Peregrine Way and are hidden in
woods behind a security gate. The complex, which includes child-
care facilities, is adjacent to the Beaver Hills Country Club,
where Wasendorf has a private parking spot with a name tag.  “It’s an amazing building,” said Flynn, the former
PFGBest analyst, who visited the headquarters once. “They had
everything in there -- food, a daycare center. They have more
baby beds than a baby hospital.”  The facility was energy self-sufficient with its own green-
energy production, he said. Wasendorf “wanted it to be a great
testament to his family and his business and the area,” said
Flynn, who is now a senior market analyst at Price Futures Group
in Chicago.  ‘Always Wondered’  Peregrine filed to liquidate in bankruptcy on July 10,
listing assets of more than $500 million and debt exceeding $100
million in a Chapter 7 petition with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Chicago. Separately, U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer
issued an order freezing Peregrine’s assets at the CFTC’s
request, saying it appeared there was “good cause” to believe
the firm and Wasendorf violated the Commodity Exchange Act.  Only nine months after MF Global’s implosion, Peregrine’s
troubles are casting attention on the CFTC, the U.S. futures
regulator. Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said
the situation raises questions about the dual oversight of the
industry by self-regulators and the CFTC.  “I want to know if the existing setup with the National
Futures Association and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
is working to safeguard this marketplace,” Grassley said in a
statement.  While lawmakers and regulators debate those issues, Cedar
Falls residents are scratching their heads about the many sides
of the man who set off this latest controversy.  “He was a very well-respected businessman in the
community,” said Mike Hill, 54, a retired real-estate broker.
“It’s going to affect us. It’s detrimental.”  Nielsen, the manager at 1-800-Flowers.com, put it bluntly.
“We always wondered how he got all this money,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net 
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net 
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 