-- Fed’s Williams Sees 8% Unemployment Into 2013
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-07-12T22:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/fed-s-williams-sees-8-unemployment-into-2013.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said he expects the
 unemployment rate  to remain at or above 8 percent into next year
as the economy enters a period of slower job growth.  “Progress on bringing down the unemployment rate has
probably slowed to a snail’s pace and perhaps even stalled,”
Williams said today in the text of a speech in  Portland ,  Oregon .  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  extended
its Operation Twist program last month to lower longer-term
 interest rates  and bolster growth. A few members of the FOMC
said the Fed will probably need to ease policy further to move
the economy toward its target for full employment and stable
prices, according to minutes of that meeting released yesterday.  The jobless rate is “still much too high, and economic
growth is far short of what’s needed to keep bringing it down
quickly,” Williams said in remarks similar to a speech he gave
in Coeur D’Alene,  Idaho , on July 9. “We stand ready to do what
is necessary to attain our goals of maximum employment and price
stability.”  Minutes of the June 19-20 meeting highlighted Fed
officials’ concerns over the tempering economic outlook. Fifteen
participants said the risks to the economy were weighted to the
downside in June, up from eight in April, yesterday’s release
showed. Two said additional bond purchases are appropriate while
two others said they would be warranted in the absence of
“satisfactory” employment gains.  Policy Vote  Williams, who votes on policy this year, said July 9 that
the economy will require more accommodation should the job
market make as little progress as he expects over the next year.
He repeated today that he would favor purchasing more mortgage
bonds should that stimulus become necessary.  The  San Francisco  Fed chief told reporters after the speech
that he’s “very interested to see what other countries do” to
spur their economies, citing the Bank of England’s new credit-
boosting program. While years of high unemployment have so far
generated “no obvious signs of long-run damage” to the U.S.
workforce, the economy “keeps getting hit by negative shocks”
and “we don’t catch a break,” he added.  Reports since the June FOMC meeting have underscored an
economic recovery losing steam. Employers added fewer jobs to
payrolls than economists forecast and the  jobless rate  remained
unchanged at 8.2 percent, Labor Department figures showed July
6.  Stocks Fall  Stocks fell today over concerns that the slowing global
economy may hurt corporate profits. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  dropped 0.5 percent to 1,334.76.  Williams, 50, repeated in his speech that he’s cut his
forecasts for growth, seeing an expansion of “a little less
than 2 percent” this year and 2.25 percent in 2013.  Inflation will probably fall to 1.25 percent this year and
the jobless rate will be at or above 8 percent until the second
half of 2013, indicating that the central bank is falling short
of both its mandates to secure 2 percent price increases and
maximum employment, the district bank president said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  