-- FIFA’s Sepp Blatter Says Kickbacks Paid to Officials Were Legal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-12T15:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/fifa-s-sepp-blatter-says-kickbacks-paid-to-officials-were-legal.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said he
took no action against his predecessor and the ex-head of the
Brazilian soccer federation over kickbacks they received because
the payments were not illegal.  The Swiss Federal Court yesterday ordered the release of
documents that showed former FIFA President  Joao Havelange  and
 Ricardo Teixeira , who was a member of the soccer body’s
executive committee, received as much $22 million between them
from the collapsed ISL marketing company. The payments were for
deals related to the World Cup.  Blatter confirmed that he was an individual listed as
“P1” in the report. The report said P1 and Havelange signed
marketing deals with ISL on behalf of Zurich-based FIFA in 1997
and that Havelange and Teixeira, Havelange’s former son-in-law,
profited from the agreements. Havelange and Teixeira received at
least $1 million and $13 million, respectively. Blatter today
referred to the payments as “commission” that was legal at the
time.  “Back then, such payments could even be deducted from tax
as a business expense,” Blatter said in an interview published
on  FIFA’s website . “Today, that would be punishable under law.
You can’t judge the past on the basis of today’s standards.
Otherwise it would end up with moral justice. I can’t have known
about an offense that wasn’t even one.”  Blatter said he’d have preferred the names of all officials
mentioned in the document to have been published “to put an end
to the speculation once and for all.”  “However, the Federal Court stated that the names of all
non-accused third parties should be made anonymous. I am not
accused, so I have been made anonymous as P1, which quite
honestly is not difficult to find out.”  Publication Delayed  The report’s publication had been delayed as Teixeira and
Havelange attempted to have it blocked. FIFA last year agreed
for it be released after coming under media pressure. Instead of
disciplining the duo, FIFA paid a Swiss court 2.5 million Swiss
francs ($2.54 million) in compensation on the condition that
criminal proceedings against Havelange and Teixeira were
dropped.  Havelange, who ran FIFA for 24 years and helped turn it
into a corporate entity that today generates about $5 billion
from its four-yearly  World Cup , remains its honorary president.
Blatter said he didn’t have the power to strip the 96-year-old
of the title. That decision would have to be taken by the
organization’s 209 members at its annual congress.  Investigation  FIFA has been shaken in recent years by a slew of
corruption allegations. The vote for the 2018 and 2022 World Cup
hosts came against a backdrop of accusations of wrongdoing
against several members of its 24-person board.  Blatter’s re-election in 2011 to a fourth four-year term
came after his only challenger, Mohamed bin Hammam, quit before
an investigation was opened into allegations he tried to bribe
voters. Bin Hammam, who denies wrongdoing, is appealing a life
ban from the sport.  The soccer organization is reforming its structures as a
response, and after a group tasked by Blatter said the ethics
committee he created in response to ISL in 2006 wasn’t fit for
purpose. On July 17 it will name heads of two new bodies
designed to investigate and adjudicate on officials accused of
breaking rules.  “The reform process is moving exactly in this direction,”
Blatter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  