-- First Humans Found to Enter North America in Three Waves
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/first-humans-found-to-enter-north-america-in-three-waves.html
The earliest people to enter  North
America  came in three waves, rather than a single migration,
according to evidence comparing the DNA of native groups in
 Canada  and  South America  with those in Siberia.  Scientists have believed the Americas were populated by
ancestors who entered through an Asian-American land bridge that
existed in northern Canada 15,000 years ago. Yesterday’s
announcement, reported in the journal  Nature , adds evidence to a
long-fought debate in support of the  multiple-migration theory .  By comparing the genomes of groups on both ends of the
pattern, investigators were able to tease out hints about the
added migrations, said Nick Patterson, a researcher at the Broad
Institute of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
Harvard Medical School in Boston.  “Genetics is able now to make some contribution, fairly
limited, to looking at ancient human history,” said Patterson,
a computational biologist at the institute’s Medical and
Population Genetic Program in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  The study, led by geneticist  David Reich  of  Harvard Medical
School , analyzed DNA autosomes, which contain genetic data from
all of a person’s ancestors. Past studies that pointed to a
single migration examined mitochondrial DNA, which only contains
maternal genetic material.  No one from the U.S. would share samples that had the
necessary consents for use, said  Andres Ruiz-Linares , a
University College London geneticist who co-authored the report.
While that didn’t skew the research, it left researchers with an
incomplete picture, he wrote in an e-mail.  While the genetic evidence can’t show precisely how
migration occurred, or even date when they occurred, Patterson
said the researchers think that all three flows came across the
Siberian land-bridge because that theory is consistent with
their results.  Future genetic studies could unlock more secrets about how
today’s peoples are ancestrally tied, Patterson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  