-- Forget About the Mandate. Let’s Fix Health Care
-- B y   J o h n   H .   C o c h r a n e
-- 2012-07-12T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/forget-about-the-mandate-let-s-fix-health-care.html
On June 28, the  Supreme Court  upheld
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. Opponents and
supporters are still sparring over whether its mandate is a tax.
It’s time to get over this debate. The mandate’s mild penalty
was never this law’s central economic and policy flaw.  The legal distinctions among a mandate, a tax, a penalty,
or a credit, and between federal and state powers, are important
legally and constitutionally. But they are irrelevant in
economic terms for this law.  To commentators who are apoplectic that the federal
government is using taxes to nudge us to buy health insurance, I
say this: Hello? The tax deduction for buying an electric car,
or the mortgage-interest deduction for buying a house, is
economically equivalent to a tax for not buying health
insurance. Maybe all are bad, but did you really expect the
Supreme Court to rule the mortgage-interest deduction
unconstitutional in a case brought against the health-care law?  Let’s stop playing lawyer and get back to economics and
policy. Opponents: Return to articulating the disastrous
economic and health-care effects of this law. And articulate
better ways to solve the mess. Supporters: Try to make this Rube Goldberg contraption work. Good luck.  Pre-existing Conditions  On the July 1 “Meet the Press,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said: “If you are a person who has a child with diabetes,
no longer will they be discriminated against because of a pre-existing condition. If you’re a woman, no longer will you have
to pay more. No longer will being a woman be a pre-existing
medical condition,” and “if you are senior, you pay less for
your  prescription drugs  and nothing for a preventative check.”  She added: “And for everybody, no more lifetime limits on
the coverage.” And young people will be covered by their
parents’ policies.  A message to opponents: If all you (OK, we) can marshal in
response is that you don’t like the legalities of a $1,000
penalty/tax for not buying insurance, we’re going to lose. And
we should.  Let’s start with the obvious question: Who is going to pay
for all this? Someone has to pay for every expanded benefit,
whether through higher premiums, higher prices or higher taxes.
And tapping “the rich,” reducing administrative costs or
executive pay would just be a drop in the bucket.  The more important fact is that the law won’t work.  Health care is a complex service, in which each person’s
needs are blurry, and the line between “need” and “want”
blurrier still. Imagine if the government decreed that law
firms, car-repair shops, or home contractors had to charge
everyone the same price, and couldn’t turn anyone away. “House
fix,” for example, would be $1,000 per year, no matter how large
the house or what shape it’s in. Why do we think this will work
for medical services?  Health care will be rationed. Period. If we don’t ration by
price, we will ration directly.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is a
bureaucratic nightmare. About 2,700 pages of law, 13,000 pages
of regulations and counting, 180 boards, commissions and
bureaus, according to one  media report .  It’s an invitation to crony capitalism. Thousands of
companies have already asked for, and won, exemptions. They had
better be in the good graces of the  Department of Health  and
Human Services.  Enough. There are plenty of analyses of all the ways this
law won’t work.  Not Enough  But one cannot complain without alternatives. “Repeal and
replace?” OK, but with what? Pelosi’s promises address serious
concerns. It isn’t enough to say “that costs too much,” or “it
should be unconstitutional.”  Sensible alternatives exist. This need not be a choice
between the Obamacare mess and the mess we had before.  Fix health care, not just health insurance. Where are the
health-care equivalents of Southwest Airlines Co.,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Apple Inc. -- innovating, dramatically lowering
costs and bringing everyday low prices to health care? They have
been kept out of the market by anti-competitive regulation. As
one small example, in my state of  Illinois , every new hospital,
expansion of an existing facility or major equipment purchase
must obtain a “certificate of need” from a state board. “Need”
explicitly means that it doesn’t undermine incumbents’ profits.  Insurance should be insurance, reserved for unpredictable
and catastrophic expenses. Car insurance doesn’t pay for oil
changes, and you shouldn’t pay for checkups through  health-insurance  premiums. Such insurance would be a lot cheaper, and
more people would buy it.  Insurance should be individual, portable from job to job
and state to state, and guaranteed renewable for people who get
sick. That neatly solves the pre-existing-condition nightmare.
Insurance companies would be happy to sell such coverage. The
government stands in the way, by subsidizing employer-based
group plans at the expense of individual insurance. (My “ Health
status insurance ” proposal is one example among many that
describe functional private health insurance.)  Cost control is achieved in only one way. Competition. Not
price controls.  Innovation comes from competition, too, and from
innovators’ ability to initially charge rich people more -- and
their ability to pay it -- make great profits, and then
commoditize. You cannot have innovation in a government cost-controlled system.  It takes courage these days to have any trust in markets,
or for politicians to oppose handouts to voters. Without that
courage, our health-care system, and our economy, will fall
apart.  (John H. Cochrane, a professor of finance at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business, an adjunct scholar of the
 Cato Institute  and a senior fellow of the  Hoover Institution , is
a contributor to  Business Class . He blogs as the “Grumpy
Economist.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in  Pennsylvania ;
Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln obsession ; William
Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 Barclay’s Libor scandal ; Frederic Block on how he  sentences
federal criminals.   To contact the writer of this article:
John H. Cochrane at  john.cochrane@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 