-- G4S Drops as Military Called-In to Plug Olympic Security Gap
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-12T12:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/g4s-drops-as-u-k-calls-in-military-to-plug-olympic-security-gap.html
G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest
security-guard supplier, fell the most in eight months in  London 
trading after Britain called in the military to beef up the
company’s efforts to staff London’s Olympic Games in two week’s
time.  G4S is experiencing “some delays” in vetting and
accrediting the thousands of extra security guards needed for
the Olympics, the Crawley, England-based company said. Shares of
G4S  dropped  as much as 4.5 percent to 277.3 pence, the biggest
drop since Nov. 17.  The shortfall threatens the British security company’s
earnings from the contract. G4S is in the final throes of
training, vetting and accrediting 9,000 applicants in
preparation for the “unprecedented and very complex” sporting
event, it said. The company will work with the military and
understands the government’s decision, it said.  “Taking on a contract like this is potentially a double-
edged sword because it is so big and high profile,” said Numis
Securities analyst Steve Woolf. “If the games come off without
a hitch, G4S’s reputation will be enhanced so it won’t matter if
they incur a small financial penalty.”  An extra 3,500 soldiers will be drafted in to provide
security, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said in a written
statement to Parliament today.  Terrorist Threat  The issue with G4S first came to light about two weeks ago
and G4S had until now been “very robust” about delivering on
the contract, Home Office Minister James Brokenshire told BBC
Radio 4 today.  “The government is being cautious, but we have to remember
security at the games is the most important thing,” Numis’s
Woolf said.  Although unlikely, a terrorist attack targeting the games
cannot be ruled out, and would likely be a “major mass casualty
incident,” according to Will Hartley, head of the IHS Jane’s
Terrorism and Insurgency Centre. The new head of al-Qaeda,  Ayman
al-Zawahiri , would welcome an opportunity to assert his
leadership with such a move, though he is unlikely to “devote
the attention and resources required to successfully execute
such a plan,” Hartley said in an e-mail.  Assessing the different groups who could pose a security
risk, JTIC, who gather and analyze intelligence about terrorism
worldwide, rated al-Qaeda as very low. “Lone wolves” pose the
biggest risk, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  