-- General Dynamics Radio Backed by Pentagon Weapons Buyer
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-07-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/general-dynamics-radio-backed-by-pentagon-weapons-buyer.html
The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer has
backed an Army plan to increase production of smartphone-
compatible radios made by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The Army is authorized to buy an additional 13,077 of the
Rifleman Radios and then must hold a “full and open”
competition for the next phase of production, according to a
memorandum signed June 11 by Frank Kendall, the undersecretary
of defense for acquisition, technology and logistics.  The radios, part of a program called the Joint Tactical
Radio System, can connect with smartphones and tablets to
display data and information. The military plans to issue them
to some troops deploying to Afghanistan in the fall.  “It’s something we’re very pleased to see,” Chris Brady,
a vice president for  Falls Church , Virginia-based General
Dynamics, said of the production decision. “That means we have
to be adding value to the soldier’s mission.”  The military already agreed to purchase 6,250 of the radios
from General Dynamics. Kendall’s decision means the company will
produce 19,327 of the program’s planned 193,279 -- or about 10
percent -- before the next competition begins.  A contract for the additional orders may come “in the next
few weeks,” Brady said in an interview.  The previous General Dynamics contract for low-rate initial
production was valued at $56.4 million. The company teamed with
a unit of Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France-based  Thales SA (HO)  to build the
Rifleman Radio and with  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based  Rockwell
Collins Inc. (COL)  to build a separate, backpack-like radio.  Harris, Exelis  Harris Corp., (HRS)  based in  Melbourne , Florida, and  Exelis Inc. (XLS) ,
based in McLean,  Virginia , are among companies that plan to
compete for the next round of production.  Spurring competition in “this $1 billion-plus program at
full-rate production will set the conditions for cost savings
for the government and will encourage industry to be innovative
in their solutions,” Dennis Moran, vice president for business
development at Harris, said in an e-mail.  Kendall seemed to recognize “the value of commercial
competition, especially in the handheld area,” Dave Prater, a
vice president at Exelis, said in an interview. “We look
forward to bringing products that meet the Army’s needs.”  Kendall asked the Army in his memo to respond within two
weeks with a plan outlining a competition for radio orders as
the program enters full production by Sept. 30, 2013. Typically,
the Army would award contracts to companies with qualifying
radios and the contractors would vie for annual purchases
orders.  Kendall praised the radio’s performance this year during an
exercise with the 75th Ranger Regiment, one of the Army’s elite
special operations forces.  The Rangers demonstrated the radio “is an effective
communications tool,” Kendall wrote. “This capability is
highly anticipated by soldiers across the Army.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  