-- German Chancellery Summons Romanian Ambassador Over Concerns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-12T16:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/german-chancellery-summons-romanian-ambassador-over-concerns.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
escalated a dispute with  Romania , summoning its ambassador to
voice “great concern” over efforts by the government in
Bucharest to oust the president.  Germany  condemned efforts by Prime Minister Victor Ponta to
curtail the power of Romania’s  Constitutional Court  and warned
that a referendum on whether to remove suspended President
Traian Basescu must adhere to the law. Romanian Ambassador Lazar
Comanescu spoke with a chancellery official rather than Merkel.  “He was informed of the German government’s great concern
over political developments in Romania,” the chancellery said
in an e-mailed statement. The Ponta government’s blocking of the
court’s jurisdiction “endangers in a serious manner the
principle of balance-of-power,” the chancellery said.  Merkel’s intervention in a power struggle in another
European Union nation reflects unease over efforts by Romania’s
governing  Social Democrats  and Liberals to shore up power in
response to austerity measures. Ponta has eased the impeachment
process, lowered the bar for winning a referendum and limited
the court’s power through emergency decrees.  A summons directly to the chancellery in Berlin is unusual,
since ambassadors are normally called to the Foreign Ministry to
be upbraided. Merkel raised the stakes earlier this week by
backing Basescu against impeachment proceedings.  Ponta fired back before a visit to Brussels aimed at
reassuring EU leaders that his government’s efforts are within
the law and the conflict amounted to a domestic political spat.
He accused Merkel of backing Basescu because she found an ally
in her attempts to impose austerity on other member states.  Ponta’s Riposte  “I don’t think Mrs. Merkel will be the one voting in
Romania in the referendum,” Ponta told reporters in Bucharest
July 9. The Romanian premier met today with European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  and EU President Herman van Rompuy, who
also expressed their concern over his government’s measures.  Barroso said the Romanian government should appoint an
ombudsman backed by all parties and establish independent
procedures to appoint a prosecutor and anti-corruption czar.  Ponta assured EU leaders this week that the referendum on
whether to remove Basescu, scheduled for July 29, will respect a
court ruling requiring the participation of a majority of
eligible voters. The turmoil has pushed the leu to a record low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  