-- GM Installs Girsky, Replacing Stracke as Europe Unit Head
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-12T20:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/gm-says-girsky-replaces-stracke-as-chief-of-europe-unit.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , struggling to
stem losses in Europe, said the head of operations there stepped
down and named Vice Chairman Steve Girsky as interim chief.  GM’s leadership had lost patience with Karl-Friedrich Stracke, head of  GM Europe  since Jan. 1, because the company
needed faster changes as the European market is heading for a
fifth straight year of declining sales, two people familiar with
the situation said. The people asked not to be identified
discussing internal deliberations.  “It certainly indicates that the turnaround plan is not
proceeding as planned or anticipated,” Dennis Virag, president
of Automotive Consulting Group Inc. in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , said
today in a telephone interview.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson, who oversaw GM
regaining its title of world’s largest automaker last year and
posting a record full-year profit of $9.19 billion, is pushing
the Detroit-based company to fix its European operations, which
have lost $16.4 billion since 1999.  “Who wants to do the job of dealing with the endgame of
two decades of GM mismanagement?”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-
based Credit Suisse analyst, said in an e-mail. “This is a very
tough and indeed sad undertaking.”  GM slid 2.9 percent to $19.33 at close in  New York . The
shares have plunged 41 percent since the company’s November 2010
initial public offering.  ‘Special Assignments’  Stracke had become head of GM Europe after assuming command
of the Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Adam Opel division in April
2011.  “Karl Stracke worked tirelessly, under great pressure, to
stabilize this business and we look forward to building on his
success,” Akerson said in an e-mailed statement. Stracke will
“take on special assignments” and report to the CEO, according
to the statement.  Girsky last year was named to head the supervisory board of
Opel. The executive will probably hold the interim position for
only a short time while GM searches inside and outside of the
company for a replacement, said one of the people familiar with
the executive moves.  “It will be a brave man or woman to take on that
challenge,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS
Automotive, said in an e-mail.  Peugeot Alliance  GM had been on track to break even last year in Europe
until November, when it rescinded its forecast as its economic
outlook there worsened. In February, GM reached a deal with  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker, to form an
alliance that includes purchasing and vehicle development. Under
that alliance, GM is now the second-largest  shareholder  after
the Peugeot family of the Paris-based automaker.  The U.S. carmaker has also negotiated new labor agreements
with workers in the U.K. to improve productivity and is in talks
with unions about closing a plant in Bochum,  Germany , which
would be the first car factory to shut down in that country
since World War II.  Akerson said June 28 he was concerned about the second half
of this year because of the softening European economy. Opel’s
board approved that day a business plan that runs through 2016,
which Akerson said gives the company “a good shot” at
profitability in  Europe .  “If you look out five years, I would be disappointed if we
couldn’t get to profitability,” Akerson said at the time.  ‘Bodes Poorly’  Peugeot today reported plans to shut the first auto factory
in  France  in 20 years and reduce its workforce by 6.7 percent.
The company will cut 8,000 additional jobs on top of 6,000
announced last year.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , based in Dearborn, Michigan, said late last
month that overseas losses, including in Europe, may have
tripled in the second quarter from the $190 million deficit
reported during the year’s first three months.  GM’s Girsky had warned in April that work to stem losses in
Europe, which includes Opel operations, will occur in
incremental steps.  The timing of today’s announcement, after the end of the
second quarter and before reporting earnings Aug. 2, “bodes
poorly” for GM Europe,  Peter Nesvold , an analyst with Jefferies
& Co., said in a note. “Although we have not seen volumes
impacted much in Europe yet, our sense is that pricing is
weakening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  