-- Google’s Page Is in ‘Much Better’ Health, Chairman Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/google-ceo-page-s-health-is-much-better-chairman-schmidt-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  is in “much better” health after a condition that
affected his ability to speak, Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
said at a conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho.  Schmidt said last month that Page had lost his voice and
wouldn’t be speaking at some company events, including a July 19
conference call covering Google’s  second-quarter results .  Schmidt, speaking yesterday at the annual Allen & Co.
conference, also touched on a broad range of other topics,
including the  U.S. economy , Google’s acquisitions, demand for
the Nexus 7 tablet and the  value of Facebook Inc.  shares.  A recovery in the U.S. economy will remain sluggish,
Schmidt told reporters at the event. The pace of rebound in the
U.S. is crucial to  Mountain View , California-based Google, which
as operator of the world’s largest Web-search engine relies on
sales of ads to businesses. Google’s second-quarter revenue may
rise 23 percent to $8.54 billion from the same period a year
ago, according to the  average  of analyst estimates based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Turning to the Nexus 7, a tablet-style computer introduced
by Google last month, Schmidt said he’s been told that demand is
“immense.” Google has begun taking orders for the machine
before it hits store shelves.  YouTube Content  Google’s acquisition pace is “normal” and remains focused
mostly on smaller companies, Schmidt said. The company is making
about one acquisition a week, he said. Google made one of its
larger takeovers in 2006, when it  paid  $1.65 billion for YouTube
LLC, the video-sharing site.  YouTube  is “much more valuable” than the purchase price,
Schmidt said yesterday.  YouTube, known for clips of skateboarding dogs and kids in
playgrounds, has been focusing more on professional content,
including funding small Web-video producers. Schmidt said the
service could move into owning content outright someday, not
just investing in it.  Schmidt also faced questions at the event about an
antitrust investigation in Europe. There have been “back and
forth” talks over the issues, Schmidt said. There are no
liability reserves for possible fines, he said.  Google has outlined proposals to the European Union
antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  in a letter responding to the
probe, which is looking into allegations that the search engine
discriminates against rivals. Almunia in May had asked it to
make an offer to settle antitrust concerns.  Schmidt, who is attending the Idaho event with executives
such as Facebook CEO  Mark Zuckerberg , said that it’s too early
to know whether to buy shares of the social-networking service.  Facebook’s stock has only closed above its initial public
offering price of $38 once, on the first day of trading on May
18. The shares fell less than 1 percent to $30.81 at the New
York close. They are down 19 percent since the IPO.  Facebook is a “great American story,” Schmidt said. He
added people should “wait six months” to help determine the
company’s valuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  