-- Grass Skirts Become Olympic Apparel for Workers Competing on Job
-- B y   C l a i r e   S u d d a t h
-- 2012-07-12T21:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/grass-skirts-become-olympic-apparel-for-workers-competing-on-job.html
The opening ceremony for
Snagajob.com’s annual Office Olympics features a parade of
athletes in what passes for a nation’s identity -- grass skirts
for Belize, mummies for  Egypt , live sheep for Ireland.  “And of course, we had to do a little drinking,” said
Greg Moyer, chief people officer of the Richmond, Virginia-based
hiring company.  The competition that follows the march around the parking
lot includes trashcan basketball, desk-chair soccer and paper-
ball curling. It’s among Olympics-themed competitions cropping
up this year as employers capitalize on the excitement
surrounding the London Games, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its July 16 issue.  “We try to get people who don’t work together on the same
team,” says Moyer. “It’s a way for Snagajob to improve
relationships and communication.”  British corporate-event planners have started offering
Olympics-themed packages. U.S. companies have hosted multisport
tournaments in which winners are awarded fake medals.  “The Olympics idea came from a couple of our employees,”
says Chris Massot, vice president of sales at Synapse, a 200-
person product-development company that has offices in  Seattle ,
 San Francisco  and  Hong Kong . “We hold a lot of fun events here,
probably one every couple of weeks, and we wanted to do one that
tapped into the buzz around the real Olympics as they’re going
on.”  Wall Climb  The London Games run from July 27 through Aug. 12. Synapse
plans to launch its competition on Aug. 2. The schedule hasn’t
been completed, but there are plans for synchronized wall
climbing, beer-bottle relay and Nerf gun contests. Employees
will be able to watch the real games on the company’s big-screen
televisions. There will be a closing ceremony, tentatively
scheduled to take place during the real thing, with prizes
awarded to the winners.  Office Olympics tend to be lighthearted and not too
competitive.  “One of our events was beer pong,” said Seth Besmertnik,
chief executive officer of Conductor Inc., a 65-person  software
company  in  New York City .  With no outdoor space, Besmertnik said, he threw his
employees an Office Olympics as a reward for hitting a revenue
goal last February at a local billiards club. Teams played pool,
billiards and dice games, and managed to fit in one real Olympic
sport -- table tennis.  All Wet  Climate is a problem for some British companies. London
event-planner Inneventive offered Office Olympics-themed parties
this year, assuming that companies would consider it a way to
celebrate Britain’s role as host country.  “But we’ve had the most hideous summer, tons of rain, and
it hasn’t been very popular,” said Phillipa Whitney,
Inneventive’s director. “A couple of clients have ducked out of
events because they didn’t want to get soaking wet.”  Simon Mugglestone, the founder of Phoenix Leisure Events,
an event-planning company based in Devon,  England , said his firm
has offered an Office Olympics program for the past six years,
with the indoor version more popular than the outdoor.  There has been slight increase in Olympics-themed events
this year, he said, “but the big boost has been with companies
who are ordering up individual sports that we offer, like
archery and clay pigeon shooting, and organizing an Olympics
tournament themselves.”  The  London Organizing Committee of the Olympic and
Paralympic Games , which runs the true version, has cracked down
on unlicensed use of the term “Olympic” in Britain.  Sponsors Only  “We would advise companies which are not London 2012
sponsors against using it for any programs that they run,
internal or external,” the agency said in an e-mail.  The U.S. Olympic Committee recently asked the online
knitting group Ravelry to rename its Ravelympics, in which more
than 7,500 people are set to knit, crochet or sew during the
London Games.  This was the third year that Snagajob has hosted its Office
Olympics, the weeklong competition taking place during the
middle of the workday. The company added a hot-dog-eating
competition and a staring contest this year, but Moyer says the
most popular sport remains desk-chair soccer.  It’s a regular game of soccer, except that all of the
players are seated in swivel chairs.  “Everyone comes out to watch as different teams -- sorry,
countries --- are eliminated over several days,” Moyer said.
“It’s a rough-and-tumble game. Chairs overturn, people get very
competitive.”  The medal table was topped by a surprise winner.  “We didn’t have high hopes for them,” Moyer said. “I
mean, they’re  Canada .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claire Suddath in  New York  at 
 csuddath@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julian Sancton at   jsancton@bloomberg.net . 