-- Blake Griffin Injures Knee at Basketball Practice for Olympics
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-12T20:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/griffin-hurts-knee-at-olympic-practice-davis-called-yahoo-says.html
Blake Griffin  injured his left knee
during a U.S. Olympic basketball practice and is leaving
training camp to be examined by the Los Angeles Clippers’ team
doctors.  Anthony Davis , the top pick in the National Basketball
Association draft, will report to camp, said Yahoo! Sports,
which reported that Griffin twisted the knee during a scrimmage.  Griffin completed a full practice yesterday before
reporting that he was experiencing discomfort in the knee, USA
Basketball said in an e-mailed statement. The forward will miss
tonight’s exhibition game against the Dominican Republic in Las
Vegas.  Griffin will be examined by the medical staff of the
Clippers, his NBA club, and then meet with orthopedic surgeon
Neal ElAttrache of the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic on July
15, after which a further course of action will be announced,
the team said on its website.  Davis, selected by the  New Orleans Hornets  after playing
for the University of Kentucky, was one of the final cuts for
the U.S. Olympic team. The London Games open on July 27.  Griffin, the No. 1 draft pick in 2009, missed his rookie
NBA season after breaking his left kneecap. He injured the same
knee in Game 5 of the Clippers’ first-round playoff series
against the Memphis Grizzlies in May, Yahoo! said.  The 23-year-old Griffin signed a contract extension with
the Clippers this week from Las Vegas while training with the
national team. The deal may pay him as much as $95 million
through 2018, the Los Angeles Times said, citing unidentified
people familiar with the negotiations.  Griffin, who averaged 20.7 points, 10.9 rebounds and 3.2
assists in 66 games this season, is the most recent U.S. Olympic
basketball team member or candidate to be affected by injuries.
The Miami Heat’s  Chris Bosh  and guard  Dwyane Wade ;  Derrick Rose 
of the Chicago Bulls; and  Dwight Howard  of the Orlando Magic
skipped the U.S. Olympic trials because of injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 