-- Liberty’s Malone Says Sirius Will Eventually Be Spun Off
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-12T22:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/liberty-s-malone-says-sirius-will-eventually-be-spun-off.html
Billionaire  John Malone  said his
effort to take control of  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  will eventually
lead to a spinoff of the largest U.S. satellite-radio company.  Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  announced plans six weeks ago
to assert control of the satellite-radio company after receiving
approval from the Federal Communications Commission. The goal is
to spin off Sirius, in keeping with Liberty’s history of making
its properties, including DirecTV and Liberty Global Inc., into
their own publicly held companies, he said yesterday.  “If I’m in control, I like to have separate companies, run
independently, with public shareholders investing in that
business,” Malone told reporters gathered in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho ,
for an Allen & Co. conference. “There is no question eventually
Sirius will be an independent company. The question is, in what
time frame and in what circumstances?”  Liberty needs FCC approval to complete a takeover because
Sirius holds airwave licenses issued by the agency. Sirius holds
airwave licenses issued by the agency. Sirius, led by CEO Mel Karmazin, has opposed Liberty control in its own FCC filings.  The company will probably execute a so-called Reverse
Morris Trust, which involves splitting off its Sirius stake as a
separate entity and giving its stockholders the option to hold
or sell their Sirius shares, according to  James Ratcliffe , an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.  Genachowski Dinner  Malone said he had dinner with FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  last night, declining to say what was discussed.  Sirius rose 1.7 percent to $2.07 at the close in New York.
The stock has climbed 13 percent this year. Liberty shares, up
15 percent in 2012, fell less than 1 percent today to $89.64.  Liberty Media Chief Executive Officer Greg Maffei isn’t
likely to want the job of running Sirius, Malone said. As head
of Liberty, Maffei manages a holding company with a wide range
of investments, everything from cable programmer Starz LLC to
the Atlanta Braves baseball team.  “Greg’s not an operating man,” Malone said yesterday.
There are plenty of good managers, including inside the
company.”  Malone also praised Karmazin, the current CEO of Sirius:
“He does a good job.”  Karmazin has said in the past that he doesn’t like to work
underneath someone else. “I’m just not good at being a No. 2,”
he told Fox Business Network in 2009.  Viacom President  Karmazin served as Sirius Satellite Radio’s CEO before its
2008 merger with XM Satellite Radio, when he took control of the
combined company. He was previously president and chief
operating officer at Viacom Inc. Karmazin clashed with Viacom
Chairman  Sumner Redstone  because he couldn’t get the top job at
the media giant. Before that, he ran CBS Corp. until 2000.  Malone said Karmazin should “make peace” with Redstone.  “He needs to go back into his history, transport himself
back in time, mend his fences with Sumner and be a new person,”
Malone told reporters. “Relax, enjoy his success, bask in the
glory, and enjoy his job. He does a great job. We love him.”  Patrick Reilly , a spokesman for New York-based Sirius,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The New York Post  reported last month  that Maffei may want
to run the satellite broadcaster directly, leading Karmazin to
leave after the Sirius CEO’s contract expires on Dec. 31. Maffei
is tired of being a portfolio manager for a broad swath of
companies, the Post reported, citing a person familiar with the
matter.  Maffei has denied that report. “The  New York  Post story is
wrong,” he said on CNBC at the time.  Liberty’s interest in a Reverse Morris Trust is to save on
capital gains taxes, according to Brett Harriss, an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. Distributing Sirius shares to
 Liberty stockholders  through a spinoff instead of selling them
on the open market would let the company avoid paying taxes on
the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  