-- Libyan Islamists Lose as Voters Back Jibril’s Alliance
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-07-13T00:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/libyan-islamists-suffer-more-losses-as-final-poll-result-delayed.html
Libya ’s National Forces Alliance is
poised for a landslide victory in the country’s elections after
results announced yesterday by the High National Election
Commission in Tripoli.  With 98 percent of votes counted, the Alliance, led by
Libya’s wartime prime minister Mahmoud Jibril, has won 16 of 20
party-list constituencies while the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice
and Construction party gained one.   “I cannot specify whether we will announce the final
preliminary results tomorrow or the day after tomorrow,” Nuri
Al Abbar, head of the election commission, said yesterday.  Release of the results will be followed by an appeals
process before the results are certified. The appeals process
may take as long as two weeks.  The latest results repeated a pattern seen earlier this
week, with the the National Forces Alliance gaining 78,000 votes
in the Abu Salem district of Tripoli, the nation’s capital,
compared to 12,000 for Justice and Construction.  These figures follow the July 11 victory in Libya’s second
city, Benghazi, capital of the oil-rich eastern province of
Cyrenaica, where Jibril won 95,000 eclipsing Justice and
Construction’s 16,000.  The effective capture of both Tripoli and Benghazi means
Jibril can expect to gain more than 60 percent of the 80
available seats reserved for political parties in the 200-member
National Congress.  Coalition Government  Forming a workable coalition government will depend on the
ability of political parties to form a majority coalition
combining the party seats with the 120 seats reserved for
individual candidates.  Along with the  Muslim Brotherhood , one of Libya’s most
prominent Islamists, Abdulhakim Bilhaj, also failed to have a
impact with his Al Wattan, or The Nation, party.  Libyans went to the polls on July 7 in their first free
national election in more than 40 years, amid political violence
that’s hampered efforts to rebuild. Libyan Islamist groups had
sought to emulate the success of counterparts in Tunisia and
 Egypt , where the Muslim Brotherhood-backed Mohamed Mursi was
elected president last month.  Fragile security in post-revolutionary Libya has been
illustrated in recent weeks by clashes between rival militias in
Kufra and Sabha in the south, Benghazi in the east, Zintan in
the west and at Zuara on the Tunisian border, while U.S.,
British and Red Cross targets have been attacked. Protesters
last week closed three oil ports to complain about what they say
is economic and political marginalization of Libya’s oil-rich
eastern province of Cyrenaica. That action cut crude exports by
about 300,000 barrels a day.  Oil Reserves  Libya, holder of the biggest oil reserves in  Africa ,
boosted crude production to 1.43 million barrels per day last
month, close to prewar levels. Companies operating there include
include  Total SA (FP) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Repsol YPF SA and  Eni SpA. (ENI)   The Justice and Construction party says it has been the
victim of campaign trickery by opponents and of propaganda
during four decades of Qaddafi’s rule.  Jibril, who taught strategic planning at the  University of
Pittsburgh  after earning his doctorate in 1985, became head of
national planning under Qaddafi in 2007 and worked with his son
Saif al-Islam on a new constitution.  An observant Muslim, he joined the opposition last year,
becoming de facto prime minister and helped direct  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  action that crushed Qaddafi’s armed
forces. He describes his alliance as pro-business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  