-- Icahn Urges Forest Labs Board to Eschew Loyalty to CEO
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-12T13:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/icahn-urges-forest-labs-board-to-eschew-loyalty-to-ceo.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
implored directors of  Forest Laboratories (FRX)  Inc. to consider
adding two of his nominees to the board to end a second proxy
fight in as many years.  Icahn, the New York-based drugmaker’s second-largest
shareholder with 9.9 percent of stock, said he asked Chief
Executive Officer Howard Solomon to add Eric Ende and Daniel Ninivaggi to the board before starting this year’s proxy
contest, in which he nominated four directors.  “Howard flatly refused, claiming that such shareholder
representation on the board would be a ‘distraction,’” Icahn,
76, wrote in a letter today addressed to Forest’s “non-
management” directors. “His most recent statement to me was
that the dismissal of my request was the will of the board. If
you are true in your belief that a prolonged proxy contest would
be deleterious to Forest (as I am), how can you be so hastily
dismissive?”  Icahn failed last year to get any of his four nominees
elected. He has criticized Forest for what he says was a lack in
preparation for the loss of patent protection on its top-selling
drug, the antidepressant Lexapro, in March, and said he’s
investigating Solomon’s stock sales in the last few years.  Solomon, 84, called Icahn’s arguments “replete with wild
and baseless accusations, innuendo and distortion of facts,” in
a July 9 letter.  Constructive Discussions  “We have consistently said that we were open to
constructive discussions with you regarding how to build value
for all of our shareholders,” Solomon wrote to the investor.
“However, you have never made an effort to engage with us
outside the context of a proxy contest - and your discourse thus
far has shown a striking lack of strategic ideas.”  Forest declined less than 1 percent to $35.13 at 9:32 a.m.
 New York  time. The shares had dropped 8.8 percent in the last 12
months through yesterday.  Forest added three new board members last year amid the
proxy fight with Icahn and this week said it hired an executive
recruitment firm to help evaluate candidates to succeed Solomon,
who has been chief executive since 1977.  The drugmaker’s  earnings  for fiscal year 2013, ending in
March, will decline to 65 cents to 80 cents a share, from $3.57
a share in the year ended March 31, Forest said in June.
Lexapro, now facing competition from cheaper generic copies,
drew $2.1 billion in the last fiscal year, accounting for 48
percent of the company’s  sales .  “Howard Solomon continues to assert that all is well at
the company, assertions he has been making for the past 10 years
as the enterprise value of the company continues its tumble,”
Icahn wrote in his letter today. “I know several of you have
known Howard Solomon for many, many years. Do not let your
personal relationship with Howard Solomon get in the way of what
is right for the company and what your fiduciary duties require
you to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  