-- ICAP Targets Retail Investors for Its First Bonds in 3 Years
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-07-12T13:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/icap-targets-retail-investors-for-its-first-bonds-in-three-years.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, is targeting individual investors
for its first bond sale in three years.  The six-year senior, unsecured bonds in pounds will pay a
coupon of 5.5 percent, the London-based broker said in a
statement. It’s the London-based broker’s first bonds
denominated in pounds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on ICAP’s bonds in euros are near a nine-month
low as it cuts costs to counter a drop in trading volume
stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The broker’s full-year
pretax profit will be in the middle of the 335 million-pound
($518 million) to 365 million-pound range of analyst estimates,
ICAP said yesterday.  “They’re a scarce issuer, I think the sale will offer
value and do very well,” said Louis Gargour, chief investment
officer at LNG Capital LLP, a London-based hedge fund. “It’s a
very well-known organization with very little existing debt.”  ICAP, which is  rated  Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB+ by Fitch, has the equivalent of $558 million of bonds
outstanding, including a 300 million-euro ($365 million)
offering in 2009 and $193 million of notes due 2015 placed
privately in 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ICAP officials in  London  weren’t immediately available to
comment.  Falling Yield  Interdealer brokers such as ICAP act as a go-between for
banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and
derivatives. They profit when prices fluctuate because more
traders use the products they trade.  The yield on ICAP’s 7.5 percent bonds in euros due 2014 has
fallen to 4.6 percent from 6.3 percent at the start of the year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 9.3 percent
for similarly rated companies in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Sterling Corporates, Financials, BBB Rated Index.  Lloyds Bank Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
managing the sale. Books will remain open until July 24, a
person with knowledge of the details said.  ICAP’s bonds will be offered in minimum denominations of
1,000 pounds, which are deemed to be within reach of retail
buyers. Bonds sold in the U.K. tend to target institutional
investors, and are usually issued in minimum pieces of 50,000
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  