-- Micex Falls 2nd Day as Oil Drops, Economy Woes Pare Risk Wagers
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-12T07:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/micex-falls-2nd-day-as-oil-drops-economy-woes-pare-risk-wagers.html
Russian stocks fell for a second day
as oil, the nation’s chief export earner, tumbled and concern
global growth will falter curbed appetite for riskier assets.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 1.1 percent to 1,389.74 by
11:25 a.m. in Moscow. OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s largest food
retailer, dropped 1.8 percent. Oil producers fell, with OAO
Surgutneftegas and OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  slipping at least 0.7 percent.
Russia’s biggest coking coal producer OAO Mechel rose 0.7
percent.  Emerging-market (MXEF)  stocks tumbled for a seventh day, heading
for the longest streak of declines since November. U.S. Federal
Reserve minutes from a June meeting yesterday disappointed
investors looking for a stronger signal of monetary easing to
boost global growth. Crude oil fell 0.7 percent to $85.25 in  New
York  after rising 2.3 percent yesterday. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue.  The Fed minutes are “disappointing investors as
expected,” Slava Smolyaninov, an analyst at UralSib Capital,
said in an e-mailed research note.  Industrial production in the euro area probably failed to
grow in May after two months of declines, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before the
European Union’s statistics office publishes the data today.
U.S. reports today may show initial claims for jobless benefits
and import prices booth declined, based on Bloomberg News
surveys of economists.  “All attention will be on the initial jobless claims,”
Smolyaninov said.  Easing Policy  A few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said the
Fed should ease policy to move the economy toward its targets
for full employment and stable prices, according to minutes of
the June 19-20 meeting released in  Washington  yesterday. Several
others said more action could be warranted if growth slows,
risks intensified or inflation seemed likely to fall
“persistently” below their goal.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity Index fell 0.3 percent to
610.82 after gaining 1.1 percent yesterday.  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added less than 1
percent this year, trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings . That
compares with 9.4 times projected earnings for the average
company on the MSCI Emerging Market Index, which has gained 0.4
percent this year.  Russian equities  have  the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  