-- Microsoft Said to Cut Several Hundred Jobs, Mainly in Ad Sales
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-12T17:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/microsoft-said-to-cut-several-hundred-jobs-mainly-in-ad-sales.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  eliminated several
hundred jobs, mostly in advertising sales and marketing, as part
of a review of staff tied to the start of a new fiscal year, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The company confirmed there were job cuts in a statement
yesterday without specifying the magnitude. In addition to
reductions in the advertising unit, a small number of jobs were
trimmed in several other businesses, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the details haven’t been disclosed.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has been
working to control expenses as personal-computer sales have
stagnated and its Internet-advertising business hasn’t generated
as much revenue as the company once expected. The lackluster
online performance prompted the company to record a $6.2 billion
writedown for the quarter that ended June 30.  The Redmond, Washington-based company is also facing higher
costs in areas such as marketing for its Windows 8 operating
system, due in October, and selling more software as an
Internet-based cloud service.  “Like any company, Microsoft continually evaluates its
operations and works to align the business to key priorities,”
according to the e-mailed statement. The company is “thinking
about the exciting new opportunities that Windows 8, Xbox and
Skype present for our advertising and marketing partners.”  Among the staff who were notified that their jobs were cut
yesterday was advertising evangelist  Mel Carson , one of the
public faces of Microsoft’s ad business. Carson announced his
firing on his personal blog and Twitter Inc.’s microblogging
service.  Microsoft in February cut a small percentage of marketing
positions after a review of that area that was designed to
reduce overlap and help the company more nimbly respond to
rivals.  The job cuts were reported yesterday by the  Search Engine
Land  website, which didn’t specify a number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  