-- IHH Healthcare Raises $2 Billion in Third-Biggest IPO of 2012
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-07-12T09:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ihh-said-to-raise-2-billion-in-third-biggest-ipo-of-2012-1-.html
IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , Asia’s biggest
hospital operator, raised 6.3 billion ringgit ($2 billion) in
the world’s third-largest initial public offering this year,
selling shares near the high end of a marketed range.  IHH sold shares at 2.80 ringgit apiece in the Kuala Lumpur
and Singapore IPO, the company said today in a statement. It had
marketed the stock at 2.67 ringgit to 2.85 ringgit.
Institutional investors sought more than 100 times the shares
available to them, two people familiar with the matter said.  With IHH’s sale overtaking Banco BTG Pactual SA’s April
IPO, Malaysia accounts for two of this year’s three largest
first-time offerings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , the Malaysian palm oil producer
whose IPO raised $3.3 billion last month, has risen 24 percent
from its offer price, helping spur enthusiasm for IHH’s sale.  “Malaysia probably lacks this sort of new quality name
coming to the market, so obviously there’s quite a bit of
clamoring when they do arrive,” said Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed,
who oversees $3 billion as chief executive officer of Aberdeen
Islamic Asset Management Sdn. in  Kuala Lumpur . “In a market
where other IPOs are pulling out, this is a massive success.”  Facebook Inc.’s IPO was this year’s biggest deal at $16
billion. Shares in the owner of the world’s largest social-
networking service dropped 19 percent since the listing, denting
demand for other first-time sales and drawing criticism of lead
IPO manager Morgan Stanley.  Most Expensive  IHH, controlled Malaysia’s state investment company
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., reserved 62 percent of its offering for
22 so-called cornerstone investors. They include Malaysian and
Singapore state-linked funds as well as companies such as
 Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and AIA Group Ltd., according to the IPO
prospectus. Cornerstone investors agree to hold the stock for a
minimum time period in return for guaranteed allocation.  The group has more than 4,900 beds in hospitals in  Asia  and
 Turkey  under brands including Gleneagles and Parkway, with 3,330
more beds planned over the next five years, according to the
sales document. IHH is poised to benefit from increased medical
tourism to the region, aging populations and rising wealth in
 Southeast Asia , the company says.  The fair value of IHH’s shares is 2.98 ringgit with
“limited upside,” Public Investment Bank Bhd. said in a report
on July 6. At the top end of its indicative range, the company’s
price-to-earnings ratio would have been about 67 times estimated
2012 profit, making it one of the most expensive health care
stocks in the world, the brokerage said.  Joining Benchmark  U.S. hospital operator  HCA Holdings Inc. (GCA)  trades at 7.8
times projected 2012 earnings, while  South Africa ’s  Life
Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd. (LHC)  is valued at 21 times,  according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With an initial market capitalization of as much as 23
billion ringgit, IHH is expected to join the benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index on August 1, a week after its July 25
trading debut, FTSE International Ltd. said last week. Felda is
also expected to join the index in its next reshuffle.  The gauge closed at an all-time high yesterday, buoyed by
resilient domestic demand and development spending in Southeast
Asia’s third-biggest  economy , including construction of a subway
in Kuala Lumpur.  KPJ Healthcare Bhd. is currently the only listed health
care company in  Malaysia , with a market value of 4 billion
ringgit.  “There’s not much liquidity in the industry, so when a
good quality company like this becomes available it’s going to
draw a lot of interest,” said B. Kemp Dolliver, Singapore-based
head of Asia health care research at Religare Capital Markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  