-- Miliband Says Pension-Industry Charges Are Next U.K. Scandal
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-12T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/miliband-says-pension-industry-charges-are-next-u-k-scandal-1-.html
Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.
opposition  Labour Party , said that after journalism and banking,
the next scandal in British public life will be over fees
charged by pension companies.  “The next chapter, after banking, will be some of the
scandals of the pension industry,” Miliband told journalists
after a lunch in  London  today. “We’re determined to tackle this
in the next stage of what we do. Otherwise people are going to
say to us when they retire, ‘I had no idea what was coming down
the track.”’  The average British mutual fund charges 2.21 percent of its
clients’ assets annually, compared with 1.04 percent in the
U.S., according to academic research published by the Review of
Financial Studies in 2009. Opaque fee structures, which exclude
trading charges that can double the cost of owning a fund, make
it difficult for customers to compare products and hurt
competition.  A pension fund charging 2 percent a year will reduce the
value of the fund by 49 percent over a 20-year period due to
compound interest, according to SCM Private, a fund management
firm campaigning against high fees.  Miliband has had success in the past year in calling for
the resignation of  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives over phone hacking. He
also led demands for  Robert Diamond  to resign as chief executive
officer of Barclays Plc over the rate-rigging scandal. Diamond
quit on July 3. Labour is now working on ways to highlight the
effect of high charges on people’s pension savings.  ‘Question Mark’  “From bankers’ bonuses to fund fees to insurance policies
that don’t pay out, there’s a whole question mark over the
quality and reliability of financial products,” Nigel Legge,
former CEO of  Liontrust Asset Management Plc (LIO) , said in a phone
interview. “Fixed fees in general are far too high. Pension
funds don’t grow as much as they are supposed to.”  London-based Legge now runs  Vinculum , part of Absolute
Return Partners LLP, and does not charge any fixed fees. His
funds charge 20 percent of any gains above their benchmark.  Faced with record-low returns on cash and the closing of
many company-guaranteed pension plans, British investors have
flocked to mutual funds in the last three years even as hidden
charges have dragged down performance. The fees paid to fund
managers and passed on to brokers, traders and sales platforms
have caused more actively managed funds to underperform their
benchmarks than similar funds in the U.S., according to studies
by Vanguard Group Inc.  ‘Falling Steadily’  “Pension-fund charges have been falling steadily for the
last decade and are continuing to fall,” said Otto Thoresen,
director general of the  Association of British Insurers , which
says the average charge for existing pension plans is 0.77
percent. “Scaremongering about charges runs the risk of putting
off many people from saving into a pension, which is critical
for their financial future,” Thoresen said in an e-mailed
statement.  The government is planning a system that compels firms to
automatically enroll employees into a pension plan starting in
October.  Asked what he thought a reasonable fee was, Miliband
pointed to the fund set up by the last government, which charges
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  