-- IMF Team to Go to Athens July 24 to Discuss Conditions
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-12T16:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/imf-team-to-go-to-athens-july-24-to-discuss-conditions.html
An International Monetary Fund team
will return to Athens July 24 to discuss how to put the program
of measures attached to the country’s loan “fully back on
track,” a fund spokesman said.  “It’s premature to get into which of the different
measures might be open to discussion,” spokesman Gerry Rice
told reporters in  Washington  today when asked whether the dates
for budget deficit targets could be renegotiated. “There are
policy implementation delays in a number of areas and it is
clear that the economy is going through another difficult
period.”  Greek leaders said yesterday that the coalition government
was committed to pursuing plans to convince the European Union
and the IMF that it is serious about pursuing reforms and
winning more time to reduce the deficit as part of the 130
billion-euro ($159 billion) international bailout.  Rice today said the objectives of the program remain the
same, with the IMF “open” to discussing ideas on how to better
achieve them.  “So far some targets were met, a number were missed, in
some cases we don’t have the data to assess, so we’ll have to
wait a little longer to develop the full picture,” he said.  An IMF mission has also returned from Cyprus and it is too
early to quantify the amount of financial help the country
needs, Rice said. Restoring the health of the nation’s financial
sector will be one of the priorities of the measures attached to
a future loan, he said.  Portugal ’s target of reducing its deficit to 4.5 percent of
its gross domestic product this year can be reached, though it
requires “rigorous implementation” of measures agreed to in
the budget, Rice said. If the European economic situation were
to worsen, “one has to keep an open mind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  