-- Import Prices in U.S. Fell in June by Most Since 2008
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-12T12:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/import-prices-in-u-s-fell-in-june-by-most-since-2008-1-.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. decreased more than forecast in June as declining energy
costs curbed inflation.  The 2.7 percent plunge in the import-price  index  was the
biggest since December 2008 and followed a 1.2 percent drop in
May, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . Prices
excluding fuel fell 0.3 percent, the most in almost two years.  The cost of goods and materials that the world’s largest
economy purchases from abroad may remain depressed as cooling
markets from Europe to  Asia  restrain demand for commodities like
oil. A rising dollar also means American companies can hold the
line on prices, consistent with Federal Reserve policy makers’
projections that inflation will ebb.  “Global demand is leaning toward slower growth,” said
 Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in New York.
“Prices are under control. The Fed doesn’t have to worry about
inflation.”  Import costs were projected to decline 1.8 percent,
according to the  median  forecast of 47 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Projections ranged from decreases of 0.4 percent to
2.8 percent.  A separate report from the Labor Department showed fewer
Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, reflecting the volatility of
applications during the annual auto-plant retooling period.  Fewer Claims  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by 26,000 in
the week ended July 7 to 350,000, the fewest since March 2008.
Economists forecast 372,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Last week’s distortion is likely
to unwind slowly over coming weeks, a Labor Department spokesman
said as the data was released to the press.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports
on concern the global economy is weakening. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September fell 0.8
percent to 1,326.2 at 8:55 a.m. in  New York .  Compared with a year earlier, import prices decreased 2.6
percent, the largest 12-month drop since October 2009. They were
forecast to drop 1.5 percent, according to the survey median.  The cost of imported petroleum decreased 11 percent from
the prior month, the biggest decline since December 2008. It was
also down 11 percent from a year earlier.  Excluding all fuels, import prices increased 0.6 percent
from June 2011.  Imported Vehicles  Food and beverages purchased from abroad were 1 percent
cheaper. The cost of imported automobiles fell 0.1 percent from
the prior month.  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles also showed a
0.1 percent drop.  Imported capital goods prices were down 0.2 percent, the
largest decline since October.  A. Schulman Inc., an Akron, Ohio-based supplier of plastic
compounds, said it anticipates raw-material costs will remain
relatively unchanged and it is seeing little evidence of pricing
power among its suppliers.  “Every month somebody tells us they’re going to increase
their price,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Gingo said on a
July 10 conference call with analysts. “And every month,
they’re not able to push it through because there is no demand,
or soft demand.”  The U.S. currency is strengthening as concerns about
 Europe ’s debt crisis drive investors to prefer the safety of the
greenback. The dollar climbed 6.7 percent in the 12 months to
June 29 against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from its
biggest trading partners, according to Fed data.  Raw Materials  Declining global metal prices are hurting overseas
producers.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , a unit of Anglo American Plc,
said first-half profit will probably fall by more than analysts
estimated. Its detailed earnings are due July 20.  “The decrease in earnings is largely attributable to a
decrease in export iron ore prices in the period,” the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement on July 6.  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from  China  was
little changed. Goods from  Latin America  dropped 4 percent and
those from the European Union decreased 0.7 percent.  Prices of Canadian imports dropped 2.9 percent, and goods
from  Mexico  fell 2.2 percent.  U.S. export prices decreased 1.7 percent, the most since
October, today’s figures showed. Prices of farm exports declined
4 percent, while those of non-farm goods fell 1.4 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow, and the consumer-price index on July 17.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  