-- Indian Industrial Output Rebounded in May From Decline
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-07-12T07:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/india-industrial-output-growth-rebounds-from-earlier-contraction.html
Indian industrial output rebounded
in May from a contraction after the central bank cut  interest
rates  earlier in the year to bolster a weakening economy.  Production at factories, utilities and mines rose 2.4
percent from a year earlier, after a revised 0.9 percent decline
in April, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in
New Delhi today. The median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 1.8 percent climb.  Factory output has been subdued in  India  for most of this
year as Europe’s debt crisis saps demand for Asian exports and
price rises crimp spending at home. The  Reserve Bank  of India
left borrowing costs unchanged in June after a cut in April, and
has signaled inflation above 7.5 percent limits scope to join
neighbors from China to South  Korea  in easing policy this month.  “Underlying growth momentum still remains weak and India
may see a stagflationary state due to weak domestic demand and
elevated inflationary pressures,” said  Sonal Varma , economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “We don’t see scope for
substantial rate reductions in the near term due to high
inflation.”  The rupee has slumped about 20 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months as Indian economic expansion slowed to a
nine-year low. The currency dropped 0.1 percent to 55.685 per
dollar as of 12:15 p.m. in Mumbai. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
slipped 1.4 percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent
government bond due June 2022 declined to 8.12 percent from 8.14
percent yesterday.  Accelerating Inflation  Indian inflation probably climbed to 7.61 percent last
month from 7.55 percent in May, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report on wholesale prices
next week. That would be the fastest pace among the biggest
emerging economies, stoked by costlier imports, climbing food
prices and bottlenecks in the economy.  Today’s report showed mining fell 0.9 percent from a year
earlier, while manufacturing grew 2.5 percent and electricity
production rose 5.9 percent. Capital goods output declined 7.7
percent, falling for a third month.  “Even while the headline number was more than expected,
the previous month’s decline and a drop in capital goods suggest
sluggish demand,” said Varma.  Cooling growth, intensifying price pressures, fiscal and
trade deficits and uncertainty over tax changes have added
pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to
overhaul policies and support the expansion in Asia’s third-
largest economy.  Investment Challenge  His efforts to open up the nation to more investment have
been hampered by infighting in the ruling coalition and
corruption scandals.  Some companies still see long-term potential in India.
Swedish furniture retailer IKEA said last month it wants to open
stores in the nation and may invest as much as 1.5 billion euros
($1.8 billion).  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of
India’s planning commission, has said the nation remains capable
of achieving as much as 8.5 percent annual growth.  Officials across the globe are stepping up efforts to
protect their economies. The  Bank of Korea , the People’s Bank of
China, the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  all
eased monetary policy this month.  “India’s case is different -- with consumer-price
inflation running over 10 percent, you can’t afford to ease
rates,” said  Arun Singh , Mumbai-based senior economist at Dun &
Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt. “The answer to
India’s growth slowdown lies in faster policy reforms.”  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao next reviews
borrowing costs on July 31. He cut the benchmark repurchase rate
by 0.5 percentage point to 8 percent in April. Consumer prices
climbed 10.36 percent in May from a year earlier.  Gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 