-- Infosys Shares Drop After Forecast Reduced: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2012-07-12T20:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/infosys-shares-plunge-after-cut-in-sales-forecast-mumbai-mover.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, plunged the most in three months after
cutting its  sales forecast  and reporting first-quarter profit
that missed estimates.  Sales in the year ending in March may rise to at least
$7.34 billion, Bangalore-based Infosys said in a statement
today, lower than the $7.55 billion it forecast in April.
Infosys also reported first-quarter  net income  that lagged
behind analysts’ estimates for the first time in  four quarters .  Infosys led shares of Indian software companies  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  down on concern clients
are reducing  information-technology  spending.  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based researcher Gartner Inc. said this month that
global IT spending would grow at a slower pace this year because
of the euro zone crisis, a slowdown in  China  and a weaker
recovery in the  U.S. economy , the world’s biggest.  “This is a pretty large cut to guidance,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an analyst at Elara Securities India Pvt. with a
reduce rating on Infosys shares. “It’s their client profile and
their exposure in terms of revenue model.”  Infosys declined 11 percent at the close in  New York , and
earlier fell 8.4 percent to 2,264.40 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. Bigger rival Tata Consultancy dropped 1.8 percent and
Wipro, India’s third-largest software exporter, declined 4
percent.  ‘Challenges’  The company sees “challenges” in the global economic
situation and that’s “resulting in slower IT spends by large
corporations,” Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said in
the statement. One client in  Europe  canceled a $15 million
contract, he told reporters, without identifying the customer.  Infosys, the first Indian  code-writer  to list on the Nasdaq
stock exchange, also slashed its earnings per American
depository share to at least $3.03 from its April estimate of
$3.12 to $3.17. Earnings per share in rupee terms may be 166.46
rupees, said the company which builds software programs and
provides back-office support to clients such as  BP Plc (BP/)  and
Neiman Marcus Group Inc.  That guidance “is the real shocker, the real negative
surprise that they’ve delivered,” Manishi Raychaudhuri, head of
Indian equity research at BNP Paribas SA, said in an interview
with Bloomberg UTV. BNP’s expectation was for an EPS of 171
rupees, Raychaudhuri said.  ‘Depressing Results’  Infosys also today reported  first-quarter  net income rose
33 percent from a year earlier to 22.9 billion rupees ($410
million). That lagged behind the 24.2 billion-rupee median of 31
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at 96.2 billion
rupees in the three months, beat estimates.  “Overall, the results are depressing,” said Ankita Somani, a Mumbai-based analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. “The
management is seeing challenges.”  Full-year sales, measured in rupees, was raised from the
April forecast and may now be at least 403.6 billion rupees, the
company said. That beat the estimate of 389.9 billion rupees.  The  Indian rupee  was  Asia ’s worst-performing currency
against the dollar in the three months ended June, with an 8.6
percent depreciation during the period. A weakening in the rupee
inflates the repatriated value of overseas sales.  Infosys draws the majority of its revenues in dollars and
euros from clients based in the U.S. and Europe. Currency
fluctuations and “an economic slowdown or other factors that
help affect the economic health of the U.S., Europe” were risk
factors cited by Infosys in its last annual report.  Rupee Depreciation  Every 1 percent movement in the Indian rupee against the
 U.S. dollar  has an impact of approximately 50 basis points on
operating margin, the company said in its last annual report.  Infosys, which  derived  65.1 percent of its revenue from
companies in  North America  and 21.2 percent from Europe last
year, added 51 clients during the quarter, at the gross level.  Global spending on information technology may grow at a 3
percent pace in 2012 to $3.6 trillion this year, Gartner said in
a July 9 report. That’s slower than 7.9 percent last year as the
euro zone crisis, a weaker U.S. recovery and a slowdown in China
curb economic growth, the researcher said.  “We’re living in a very volatile world,” Chief Financial
Officer V. Balakrishnan said after the earnings. “We are doing
a large transformation and it’s a hard time to do that
transformation. We are going to come out winners. We want to
have the best portfolio of business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Suresh Seshadri in Bangalore at 
 sseshadri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  