-- Iranian National Charged by U.S. With Violating Embargo
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-12T23:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/iranian-national-charged-by-u-s-with-violating-embargo.html
U.S. prosecutors charged an Iranian
national with procuring supplies for  Iran , saying he engaged in
a scheme to illegally export parts used in industrial
petrochemical operations in violation of the U.S trade embargo.  Saeed Talebi, 40, was arrested yesterday at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  as he arrived in the U.S., Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said. Talebi was arraigned today in New
York before U.S. Magistrate Judge Andrew Peck, who ordered that
he be detained.  According to the indictment, Talebi conspired to violate
the International Emergency Economic Powers Act in a scheme that
lasted from 2008 to December 2011. The U.S. alleges that in
2011, Talebi ordered at least $390,000 worth of industrial parts
and goods from a business in Ardsley, New York, and then worked
to ship the items from the U.S. to Dubai and on to Iran.  The items were to be sent to petrochemical companies in
Iran in violation of U.S. criminal laws prohibiting shipments of
goods from the U.S. to Iran without a license, Bharara’s office
said. Talebi also caused money to be wired to the U.S.,
including more than $300,000 that was sent to a bank account in
 Manhattan , according to prosecutors.  After one shipment was delayed in September, Talebi
apologized to a customer in Iran, according to the indictment,
saying, “We will be thankful if you let us have 2-3 weeks extra
time for delivering your order which you know the problems issue
for shipment to Iran as per U.S. Embargo.”  Talebi is charged with one count of violating the act and
one count of conspiring to commit money-laundering. Both charges
carry maximum prison terms of as long as 20 years, Bharara’s
office said.  Sabrina Shroff, a federal defender appointed to represent
Talebi for his initial court appearance, consented to his
detention. She declined to comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Talebi, 12-CR-295, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  