-- Iran Former Minister Seeks Referendum on Nuclear Program
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2012-07-12T10:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/iran-former-minister-seeks-referendum-on-nuclear-program.html
A former Iranian interior minister
and opposition figure is calling for a national referendum on
 Iran ’s atomic work, saying the government must act wisely to
exit a “dead end,”  Jaras  reported.  “The ill effects and pressure that Iran is bearing has
passed the limits,” Abdollah Nouri was quoted as saying in a
report published on the opposition website yesterday. “To exit
this dead end, the regime must make a rational decision that
preserves national interests.”  Nouri’s remarks follow the July 1 start of a European Union
ban on oil from Iran, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ second-largest producer after  Saudi Arabia . The
measures build on existing U.S.-led sanctions on trade and
banking designed to force Iran to curb its nuclear work, which
the U.S and the EU say has military aims.  Iran says its program is civilian and maintains that as a
signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it is
entitled to carry out atomic work on its territory.  “Having peaceful nuclear energy is our undeniable right
based on international laws,” Nouri, who’s also a cleric, was
quoted as telling a group of student activists gathered at his
house in Tehran. “Yet we shouldn’t downplay difficulties in
people’s lives and let one issue, however important, put all our
national interests at risk.”  Iranians must be informed about the pros and cons of
pushing forward with the nuclear program so the population can
make the final decision on the current conflict between Iran and
the West, Nouri said, according to the report. Nouri, who served
as interior minister in the 1990s, stepped down after
criticizing the Islamic establishment.  While the Persian Gulf nation’s officials have admitted the
sanctions are affecting the economy and pressuring the
population, they have urged Iranians to face the “economic
war” against their country and keep their “head high.”
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said yesterday that Iran
is “vaccinated” against Western sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  