-- Jackson Absence Due to Mood Disorder, His Office Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-12T18:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/jackson-absence-due-to-mood-disorder-his-office-says.html
U.S. Representative  Jesse Jackson  Jr.’s monthlong absence from Congress is due to a mood disorder,
not alcohol or drug-abuse treatment, according to the  Illinois 
Democrat’s office.  “The congressman is receiving intensive medical treatment
at a residential treatment facility for a mood disorder,”
according to a statement from his physician released last night
by Jackson’s office. “He is responding positively to treatment
and is expected to make a full recovery.”  The physician’s name and that of the treatment facility
were withheld to shield Jackson’s privacy, according to the
lawmaker’s office, which said in its news release “the rumor
about him being treated for alcohol or substance abuse is not
true.” The office gave no further details, including how long
Jackson would be on leave.  The secrecy surrounding Jackson’s condition has caused
consternation among fellow Democrats, with some demanding that
he be more forthcoming. Jackson, 47, regarded in the past as a
 rising star  in the party in part because of his lineage, is also
facing an ethics investigation over the search for a successor
to  Barack Obama , who gave up his U.S. Senate seat in Illinois
when he became president.  Steve  Israel , a  New York  congressman and chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, declined to comment
about the viability of Jackson’s re-election campaign “because
it’s a personal matter for Jesse.”  ‘Important Thing’  In an interview, Israel said, “The important thing is for
him to get well and we will worry about the politics later, if
there is anything to worry about.”  Before Jackson’s office issued the statement, House
Minority Whip Steny Hoyer earlier yesterday added his voice to a
group of Democratic lawmakers calling for Jackson to explain his
ailments. Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking House Democrat,
told reporters that Jackson “would be well advised to give his
constituents as much information” as possible about the medical
condition and treatment that have kept him from  Washington .  Mark Reinecke, chief psychologist at Northwestern Memorial
Hospital in  Chicago  and a specialist in depression and anxiety,
said major depression and bipolar disorder are among the most
common mood disorders.  ‘Quite Disabling’  Such illnesses are “very common and can be quite disabling
in terms of the effect on an individual’s life and their
functioning,” Reinecke said in a telephone interview. He said
he had no personal knowledge of Jackson’s case.  “These are conditions to be taken seriously,” Reinecke
said. “Effective treatments are available but it’s difficult to
know how long they will take.”  In a July 5 statement, Jackson’s office said the son of
civil rights leader Reverend Jesse Jackson needed “extended
inpatient treatment” for a medical condition that was “more
serious” than previously thought.  “Recently, we have been made aware that he has grappled
with certain physical and emotional ailments privately for a
long period of time,” according to that earlier statement.  A June 25 statement from Jackson’s office said he began a
medical leave June 10 because he was suffering from exhaustion.  The congressman’s father, before the disclosure about his
son’s mood disorder, told reporters yesterday it was
“inappropriate” to ask questions about his son during the
annual Rainbow PUSH Coalition business luncheon in Chicago.  ‘Appropriate Evaluation’  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California 
yesterday defended Jackson’s reticence until there was an
“appropriate evaluation” of his medical condition. Today, she
said the statement “should enable him to have the care and time
he needs to get well and his constituents to know” the nature
of the illness “because we just didn’t know and now we do.”  Pelosi said she hadn’t heard any complaints from fellow
Democrats that Jackson had taken too long to disclose his
illness.  On July 9, the second-ranking Senate Democrat,  Dick Durbin 
of Illinois, told reporters that Jackson should provide
constituents in his Chicago district with more information about
his health.  “There reaches a point when you have a responsibility to
tell people what you’re facing and how things are going,”
Durbin said.  ‘Wish Him Well’  Today, House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
declined to comment on whether Jackson had provided a sufficient
explanation. “This is an issue between he and his
constituents,” the speaker told reporters. “I just wish him
well and hope to see him back soon.”  Jackson is in his ninth term as a House member and survived
a primary challenge in March from former Representative Debbie Halvorson.  He is under investigation by the House Ethics Committee,
which is reviewing whether Jackson improperly lobbied in 2008
for then-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  to appoint him to the
vacant U.S. Senate seat.  A report by the Office of Congressional Ethics, which
referred the matter to the ethics panel, said there was
“probable cause to believe” that Jackson directed Chicago
businessman Raghuveer Nayak to raise campaign money for
Blagojevich in exchange for appointment to Obama’s former Senate
seat or knew that “Nayak would make such an offer.”  On June 20, Nayak was arrested on unrelated federal charges
of paying kickbacks to doctors for patient referrals, according
to a Justice Department statement.  Jackson testified as a defense witness at Blagojevich’s
political corruption trial, denied raising money for Blagojevich
and said he refused the governor’s demand for a $25,000  campaign
contribution .  Blagojevich, convicted in June 2011 of 17 corruption counts
including bribery, extortion conspiracy and bribery conspiracy,
is serving a 14-year prison term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  