-- JPMorgan-Led Bank Group Said to Plan $1 Billion Motel 6 Deal
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-12T16:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/jpmorgan-led-bank-group-said-to-plan-1-billion-motel-6-bonds.html
A trio of banks led by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are planning about $1 billion of bonds tied to
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s acquisition of the Motel 6 lodging chain,
according to three people familiar with the offering.  The transaction, which may be offered in October, will be
composed of debt taken on by the New York-based private-equity
 firm  to acquire the motels, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are preliminary. JPMorgan is
working with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to arrange the
offering, the people said.  Wall Street banks are funneling cash to the most
creditworthy property owners, aiding borrowers and boosting
values even as Europe’s debt crisis and slowing economic growth
in the U.S. fuel volatility in the $550 billion commercial-
mortgage bond market. Blackstone, with $48 billion in real-
estate assets, agreed to pay about $1.9 billion for Motel 6 in
May in the largest deal in the U.S. lodging industry since the
$3.93 billion acquisition of Extended Stay America Inc. in 2010.  Elizabeth Seymour, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan,  Amanda Williams  of Deutsche Bank, Scott Helfman of Citigroup and  Peter Rose  of Blackstone, all based in New York, declined to comment.  Seeking Yield  Hotel investments are attracting yield-starved investors as
the Federal Reserve’s unprecedented efforts to revive the
economy keeps  interest rates  near record lows for a fourth year.
The three banks have already sold $450 million in lower-ranking
mezzanine debt linked to the Motel 6 deal with yields ranging
from 7.5 percent to 10 percent, the people said.  Blackstone, which is preparing to unload office buildings
acquired during the past six years, is adding to its holdings of
hospitality properties. The world’s largest private-equity firm
was part of the group that bought Extended Stay out of
bankruptcy, and it announced a $950 million deal to purchase
U.K.-based Mint Hotel in September.  Blackstone is buying Motel 6 and an extended-stay chain
called Studio 6 from Paris-based Accor SA, Europe’s largest
hotel operator. The acquisition includes 1,102 hotels in North
America with more than 107,000 rooms, Accor said in a May 22
 statement .  The Motel 6 chain, known for the advertising slogan “We’ll
leave the light on for you,” was founded in 1962 in  Santa
Barbara , California, taking its name from the original cost of a
night’s lodging, according to its website. The chain was bought
in the 1980s by New York-based private-equity firm KKR & Co.,
which sold it to Accor in 1990.  Stunted Recovery  Lenders have arranged about $15.8 billion of securities
tied to skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotel loans this year,
compared with $28 billion in all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Forecasts for 2012 issuance range from
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s $25 billion to Credit Suisse Group AG’s
projection of as much as $45 billion.  Price swings on the debt, which can eat into banks’ profit
margins on new deals, have stunted the market’s recovery after
being shut down during the credit crisis in 2008. Sales have
fallen from a record $232 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  