-- JPMorgan Is No. 1 Stock Picker as Investors Rate Brokers
-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/jpmorgan-is-no-1-stock-picker-as-investors-rate-brokers.html
It was January 2011, and markets
were rallying around the globe, driven by optimism that the U.S.
and European economies were on the rebound. One rising stock was
 Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the Denver-based asset management
firm.  Investors were betting that Janus, with its lineup of
growth-oriented mutual funds, would benefit from the surge.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst Kenneth Worthington disagreed.  Sifting through Janus’s funds, he saw that returns had
begun to taper off about six months earlier, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its August issue. Worse, the firm had
recently instituted so-called performance fees on a half dozen
of its funds, meaning that the funds pay fees to Janus Capital,
their “adviser,” based on performance against their benchmarks.
When fund performance lags, those fees decline, hitting profits.  “Performance collapses, earnings collapse, the stock
collapses” was the scenario that Worthington says he saw.  The JPMorgan analyst put a sell recommendation on Janus on
Jan. 7, 2011, when shares were trading at $13.45. The stock rose
as high as $14.54 in February before nose-diving, finishing the
year at $6.31.  “It was one of the worst-performing stocks in the S&P 500
last year, and we caught it all,” Worthington says.  Janus shares, since upgraded to a hold by Worthington,
 closed at $7.20 on July 11.  Important Sources  Worthington’s sell call on Janus helped make him the top
U.S. stock picker of brokerage and asset management firms,
according to a ranking of U.S. stock analysts by consulting firm
 Greenwich Associates  in association with Bloomberg Markets.  JPMorgan, under Americas equity research head Noelle Grainger, scored the largest number of highly ranked analysts,
making it the No. 1 firm in U.S. equities research. Bank of
America was No. 2, followed by  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To compile the ranking, Stamford, Connecticut-based
Greenwich Associates surveyed 980 buy-side analysts at 216
investment management firms, mutual funds,  hedge funds , pensions
and insurers. The analysts were asked to name the Wall Street
research teams they considered their most important sources of
advice on investments in 58 industries. Those were winnowed to
35 to ensure a statistically significant number of responses.  The answers were then weighted by the amount of trading
commissions each buy-side firm paid out to banks and brokerages
-- $30 million on average, or a total of $5.6 billion. A vote
for an analyst by a firm that paid $20 million in commissions
was thus given twice the weight of a firm that paid $10 million.  ‘Secular Trends’  Wall Street research directors say it’s harder than ever to
earn money from the kinds of calls that Worthington made. Ever
since the credit crisis began to unfold in 2007, markets have
been driven by macroeconomic events that have little to do with
single-stock fundamental research.  Nearly 70 percent of a typical stock’s performance is
determined by forces linked to macroeconomic shifts rather than
issues specific to a company, such as earnings or management
changes, according to Morgan Stanley research completed in early
May. That compares with just 33 percent in 2005.  “It’s a heck of a lot harder to make money on a stock-
specific basis in the short term,” says Stephen Penwell,
director of North American equity research at Morgan Stanley.
“You’ve got to identify secular trends.”  Bank and brokerage research directors say they’re confident
they can cut through the macro forces that are driving markets
to come up with useful investment advice.  ‘Connecting Dots’  “The decline of Wall Street research is vastly overblown,”
JPMorgan’s Grainger says. “There continues to be a demand for
high-quality talent. Investors still want to know what is going
on in an industry.”  So analysts today are more focused on churning out
exhaustive studies of trends and industries, with colleagues on
several continents providing insights.  “We’re in the business of connecting the dots,” says David Bleustein, Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s head of U.S. equities research.
“We can tell you how a longshoremen’s strike in Australia is
likely to affect a  U.S. coal company .”  Earlier this year, for example, Zurich-based  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , which is tied at No. 4 among the top-ranked firms,
issued its Emerging Consumer Survey Databook 2012, a 179-page
tome compiled with pollster  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)  It surveyed
nearly 14,500 people in Brazil, Russia and six other emerging
markets on everything from their credit card debt to their
perfume expenditures.  54 Percent Return  “You’ve got to be an investigator now,” says Stefano Natella, Credit Suisse’s co-head of securities research and
analytics.  The databook shows that 24 percent of Brazilians surveyed
who had after-tax monthly income of 8,151 to 11,410 reais
($4,002 to $5,602) and who had purchased jewelry in the past
three to 12 months had bought foreign brands. Portfolio manager
Catherine Wood at  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , which managed
$400 billion as of May 31, says such surveys help her refine her
investment themes. In this case, it reinforced her thesis that
expanding wealth in emerging markets was benefiting luxury goods
purveyors Cie. Financiere Richemont SA,  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   “When we move into a macro-driven environment, thematic
long-term investing outperforms,” she says. “We’re looking for
global themes that are disruptive and cut across economic
sectors.”  Deep-Dive Research  Bank of America application and systems software analyst
Kash Rangan, who tied for No. 3 in that category of the ranking,
is using deep-dive research to pick out groups of companies that
are profiting from global technology trends. He co-authored a
four-part series of reports totaling 586 pages that mapped out
the dynamics of cloud computing and the companies likely to
benefit from it.  In May 2010, Rangan’s team used the research to make a
dozen stock recommendations -- including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  -- that generated a 54 percent return over
12 months. The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  rose 33 percent during the
same period.  “You want to identify the theme that can make money for
clients and then you want to identify the companies that are
most leveraged to that theme,” Rangan says.  John Pitzer, the Credit Suisse semiconductor analyst who is
tied for No. 1 in that category, harnessed the firm’s
proprietary database of 3,200 suppliers and customers to assess
the likely impact of Japan’s March 2011 earthquake and Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear-power-plant disaster.  Fukushima Bet  One Credit Suisse report, by London-based Richard Kersley,
head of global equity research product, focused on Shin-Etsu
Chemical Co., whose sidelined plant in the Fukushima prefecture
made 22 percent of the global supply of 300-millimeter silicon
wafers used by companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)   Pitzer maintained his buy recommendations on the two chip
companies after concluding that any supply disruptions wouldn’t
be sufficient to impact their earnings. From March 17, 2011, the
date of Kersley’s report, to July 11, Intel stock returned
32.9 percent while Micron lost 39.2 percent.  At the end of the day, it’s buy-side portfolio managers who
pick stocks.  “Our clients think for themselves,” says  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
 Rod Lache , the top-ranked auto analyst.  Making Money  Lache has a track record of prescient against-the-grain
calls. In April 2010, investors were driving down the price of
auto parts maker  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  on the theory that the
worsening euro-zone economic outlook would hit its earnings; the
Milwaukee-based company derived a third of its revenue from
Europe.  Lache saw it differently. He judged that JCI’s battery unit
would profit from the signing of a new contract with Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. He also saw signs of a rebound in Johnson Controls’
auto interior and building controls divisions. He upgraded the
$31.20 stock to a buy on May 6, 2010, with a $36 price target.
Shares bottomed at $25.90 in early June before rebounding to $39
on Dec. 7, when Lache downgraded it to a hold.  “We’re trying to be contrarian,” he says. “That’s how you
make money in this part of the market.”  Credit Suisse’s Thomas Gallagher, who tied for the No. 1
spot in Greenwich Associates’ life and health insurance
category, made a nuanced call when, on July 14, 2010, he
upgraded  Des Moines , Iowa-based  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) ,
an insurance and asset management firm, to a buy from hold.  Proprietary Data  His rationale: In a declining stock market, the company,
which has a big 401(k) retirement plan business, should hold up
better than its peers because those saving for retirement tend
to do so regardless of  market gyrations .  Principal was also cheap. Using a common valuation metric,
Gallagher calculated that it could be liquidated at 1.6 times
the price at which it was trading, half the multiple of rival
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  Investors
agreed: Shares returned more than 30 percent during the next six
months, to $33.07 on Jan. 5, 2011, before Gallagher downgraded
them again to hold.  Proprietary data can help an analyst make those kinds of
calls. In January 2011, Morgan Stanley restaurant analyst John Glass commissioned a survey of 1,500 coffee buyers, personally
writing the questions. Seattle-based  Starbucks (SBUX)  Corp. had
recently disclosed that it was interested in the single-serving,
packaged-coffee market.  “The key question was, ‘Does single-serve coffee
cannibalize your visits to Starbucks coffee shops?’” Glass says.  Few respondents said it did.  Shrinking Commissions  Based on that and other responses, Glass concluded that
Starbucks would quickly garner 30 percent of the fast-growing,
$3 billion single-serve market and that the new product could
help push up earnings growth to as much as 20 percent. He put a
buy on the stock at $33.12 with a $40 target price.  Three days later, after Starbucks announced plans to
partner with Waterbury, Vermont-based  Green Mountain Coffee
Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  in the single-serve market, shares  jumped  to
$37.97. The stock traded at $52.16 on July 11.  Even as analysts work to make themselves indispensable to
investors, their world is shrinking. Investors are trading less
these days, which reduces commissions. Average daily trading
volume peaked at more than 12.3 billion shares in March 2009 and
fell to 6.6 billion by March 2012, according to New York-based
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. Asset managers, including hedge
funds, will pay an estimated $13.3 billion in U.S. equity
commissions in 2012, down from $17.5 billion in 2009, according
to  Tabb Group LLC , a New York-based capital markets consultancy.  Falling Pay  The rise of exchange-traded funds has further reduced the
need for researchers. ETFs comprised 14.9 percent of stock
market volume in 2011, up from 4.6 percent in 2005, according to
Rosenblatt. Big ETFs, like  index funds , have little use for
research and generate much lower trading commissions, often
using electronic networks.  “That’s going to be a challenge for our business,” says
Jonathan Rosenzweig,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Americas equity research
director. “The fact is that passive investing continues to
grow.”  As the prominence of researchers has diminished, so has
their pay. It’s off 20 percent since 2007 to an average of
$500,000 for midlevel analysts, according to  Alan Johnson ,
managing director of compensation consulting firm Johnson
Associates Inc.  Unheralded Role  The superstar analyst of the 1990s bringing home millions
of dollars a year is gone, partly as a result of 2003
settlements with then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer 
and other regulators that walled off analysts from their firms’
investment-banking divisions. Senior-level researchers today get
two-thirds of their pay in deferred stock awards. Before 2007,
just a third of their pay was deferred.  One growing and unheralded role analysts play is in
connecting their buy-side clients to managers of the companies
they cover through meetings, conferences and field trips. In one
recent high-end excursion, an analyst signed up 15 top clients,
chartered a plane and took off to meet with executives at half a
dozen companies in the course of a few days. One buy-side firm
paid the analyst more than $100,000 in trading commissions for
the trip.  The face-to-face meetings are the latest offering by an
industry hurt by a poorly kept Wall Street secret: Its
traditional buy-sell-hold recommendations get scant heed from
investors.  “The upgrades and downgrades are secondary,” Credit Suisse
life insurance analyst Gallagher says. “It’s much more about
finding relevant information, being helpful in explaining issues
that are important over a multiyear period.”  In short, the analysts who do find favor with investors are
those who manage to grind out good investment ideas even in
equity markets that are governed by fear, correlation and
aversion to risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 