-- Junior Seau’s Brain Tissue Donated to Health Institute Study
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-12T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/junior-seau-s-brain-tissue-donated-to-health-institute-study.html
Junior Seau’s brain tissue has been
sent to the  National Institutes of Health  for study, two months
after the former San Diego Chargers linebacker committed suicide
at his Oceanside,  California , home.  The decision to donate the brain tissue was made
“recently,” San Diego County spokeswoman Sarah Gordon said
today in a telephone interview. She declined to comment further.  NIH, a part of the  U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services , is made up of 27 institutes and centers focused on
specific diseases or body symptoms. The Bethesda, Maryland-based
group said today in a statement that it is not directly involved
in analysis of Seau’s cause of death.  “Physicians at NIH’s neurological disorders and stroke
institute conduct research on traumatic brain injury and have
agreed to carry out an analysis of the autopsied tissue,”
according to the statement. “In order to protect Mr. Seau’s
children’s right to privacy, NIH will not discuss the status of
the tissue or any subsequent findings.”  Seau, who played 20 National Football League seasons, shot
himself in the chest on May 2, according to police. Shortly
after his death, Seau’s family decided to donate his brain to
researchers studying the effects of head injuries in sports,
then reassessed the decision, according to Seau’s pastor, Shawn
Mitchell.  Family’s Reversal  The family was considering giving his brain to researchers
to help protect future athletes, not because anyone had
suggested brain trauma played a role in the linebacker’s
suicide, Mitchell said at the time. Mitchell didn’t immediately
return a message left today at his office seeking comment on the
donation.  Traumatic  brain damage  has been found in the autopsies of
at least two ex-NFL players who killed themselves -- Andre Waters, a former Philadelphia Eagles defensive back, in November
2006 at the age of 44; and Dave Duerson, a one-time  Chicago
Bears , in February 2012 at age 50.  More than 2,000 former NFL players, including Super Bowl-
winning quarterback Jim McMahon, have filed more than 80
lawsuits against the league seeking damages for head injuries
sustained on the field. Former Atlanta Falcons safety Ray
Easterling, who was one of the players suing the league, shot
and killed himself two weeks before Seau at his home in
Richmond, Virginia.  Seau was selected by the Chargers with the fifth pick in
the 1990  NFL draft , and was named to the Pro Football Hall of
Fame’s All-Decade Team of the 1990s.  Pro Career  He made 12 Pro Bowls, played three seasons with the  Miami
Dolphins  after leaving the Chargers in 2002 and spent his last
four years in the NFL with the  New England Patriots  before
retiring after the 2009 season.  In October 2010, he was hospitalized with minor injuries
when his sports utility vehicle went off a cliff in Carlsbad,
California, hours after he was arrested for domestic abuse.
Seau, who was conscious and behind the wheel when his car was
found about 100 feet below the road, told investigators he
didn’t try to kill himself and drove off the cliff because he
fell asleep.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  