-- Disney’s Fantasyland Meets North Korea’s
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-12T21:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/kim-jong-un-s-fantasyland.html
North Korea’s brushes with Disney
tend to be less than magical.  The  Kim Dynasty ’s first foray to the place where dreams
come true ended in a nightmare. In 2001, the brother of leader
Kim Jong Un tried to enter Japan to visit  Tokyo  Disneyland. His
Dominican Republic passport and lack of Spanish skills piqued
the interest of customs officers, and was an endless source of
embarrassment for their Dear Leader father, Kim Jong Il, who
died in December.  Eleven years after his brother’s attempted visit to Tokyo,
Kim the younger had an epiphany. If the Kims can’t meet  Mickey
Mouse  and Winnie the Pooh on their home turf, bring them to the
capital, Pyongyang. On July 6, Kim’s crew of clapping generals
watched their favorite  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  characters dance on stage
as clips of “Beauty and the Beast” and “Dumbo” played on
giant screens.  Taking in the television footage, you can’t help but ask:
Are we actually afraid of this Kim Jong Un guy?  On some level, we need to be because of his nuclear
arsenal, abysmal human-rights  record , the erratic behavior of
the Kims over 60-plus years and the fact an untested 20-
something is surrounded by scheming generals bored with this
peace stuff. Yet let’s look through the conventional wisdom to
the ways he’s proving to be quite different from his father and
grandfather -- and how it may bode well for change in the
world’s most bizarre totalitarian state.  Worsening Economy  Much of the press coverage has focused on Disney’s dismay
over  North Korea ’s unauthorized use of its trademarks. That’s
silly. Disney’s quarrel isn’t with North Korea; it’s with
Pyongyang’s benefactor,  China , and its intellectual-property
piracy industry. Far more attention should be paid to why
today’s Kim is playing to the masses more than those who ruled
before him. In all likelihood, it’s because of the worsening
economy.  As with  Iran , it has taken years for the pain of sanctions
to work. Slowly but surely, efforts to clamp down on weapons
sales, currency counterfeiting and the flow of luxury items such
as Mercedes sedans, Rolexes and Cognac that the Kims use to
secure loyalty from the elites are inflicting pain.  In April, Japan’s Mainichi newspaper published a leaked
record of comments Kim made to top aides in late January: “When
it comes to the economy, officials and economists are reluctant
to voice their opinions because they are often met with bias and
criticism that they are trying to introduce capitalist methods
when they suggest some economic measures.”  Mainichi also quoted a party official who claimed Kim
supports trying “excellent” economic strategies “whether they
are from China,  Russia  or  Japan .” If this is even slightly
true, it suggests a significant change in guiding philosophies
from one Kim generation to another.  That’s consistent with claims by Choi Se Woong, a banker
who fled North Korea after years of working for the regime, that
Kim might relax controls over an economy that has gotten as far
as it can by blackmailing the world for food and financial
 support  with threats and provocations. It means that maybe, just
maybe, Kim is as interested in learning from China’s success as
he is in milking officials in Beijing for handouts.  Last week, South Korean media quoted Kim as saying the
North must catch up with “global trends” by upgrading its
fossilized industries. That’s a shift from the concept of
“juche,” or self-reliance, that was his father’s mantra.  Unthinkable Transparency  It’s interesting, too, that when a missile launch failed in
April, North Korea didn’t lie to the world and claim success. It
admitted what happened. Even before that, it was extraordinary
that North Korea had bussed in a group of foreign journalists to
cover the event. That level of transparency would have been
unthinkable under  Kim Jong Il .  Some will dismiss Kim’s Disney bash as typical North Korean
lunacy. Seriously, what is it with North Korea’s Disney
fascination, considering  Walt Disney ’s own unabashed hatred of
communism? Perhaps it’s because, like Disneyland, North Korea is
a fantasyland -- just without the magic and happy endings.  It’s entirely possible Kim will pull off a nuclear test in
the near future, the third for the Hermit Kingdom. For better or
worse, Kim has a bunch of Cold War-era generals itching to
remind the world of their might. He still needs to win their
devotion.  Yet big changes start with small gestures. If Kim saw
America as the Great Satan, as his father did, would he be
showcasing the most blatant symbol of Americana in front of the
cameras? Kim’s father had an enormous DVD library teeming with
Hollywood classics, but he never indulged in big, public
celebrations of Western culture. Kim might as well have served
Big Macs and Starbucks frappuccinos to his distinguished guests.  Beyond the schlock and the kitsch, this Swiss-educated,
Michael Jordan fan may be telegraphing a not-so-subliminal
message. As reformers go, it’s just possible that Kim Jong Un
won’t be as Mickey Mouse as people think.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in  Pennsylvania ;
Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln obsession ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on  fixing
health care ; Frederic Block on how he  sentences federal
criminals.   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  