-- King & Spalding, McDermott, Sidley, Venable: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/king-spalding-mcdermott-sidley-venable-business-of-law.html
Michael D. Petty, the former vice
president of development and regulatory law at Amgen Inc., has
joined King & Spalding LLP’s FDA and life sciences practice. He
will be a pharmaceutical regulatory partner in the firm’s
Washington office.  The firm also recruited Nigel Heilpern, formerly of  Fried
Frank  Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP, to start a real estate
department for its London office, the firm said.  Petty was responsible for building Amgen’s regulatory law
department and for legal support and strategy in corporate
research and development operations for pharmaceuticals,
biotechnology products and medical devices. Previously, Petty
was associate chief counsel for enforcement at the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, where he handled a variety of civil,
criminal and administrative enforcement matters.  Heilpern will join King & Spalding’s capital transactions
and real estate practice group as a partner. His practice
focuses on premium real estate matters, covering equity
investments, banking and finance, private equity, fund
formations, sales and leasebacks and general development
finance. Heilpern was local head of real estate at Fried Frank,
the firm said.  The  London  real-estate group will be the third new English
law practice that King & Spalding has established in the past
year, after the competition and dispute resolution groups were
established. Heilpern will become the ninth lateral partner in
London in the last two years, the firm said.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Asia .  McDermott Hires Four Partners in New York, Chicago, Washington  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced four new partner hires
this week, including structured finance attorney Perry Sayles,
tax litigation lawyers Roger Jones and Andrew Roberson, and
energy attorney Alex Choinski.  Sayles, formerly of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP,
joined the firm’s  New York  office as a partner in its financial
institutions advisory practice group.  In addition to his work in traditional corporate finance,
project finance and acquisition finance, Sayles has experience
advising clients on derivatives, securitization and structured
product transactions as well as collateralized loan obligations
and collateralized debt obligations. Sayles also provides
regulatory and transactional advice to investment funds on a
range of investment strategies.  Jones and Roberson, formerly at Latham & Watkins LLP, will
work in the Chicago office in the tax controversy team, the firm
said. Jones focuses his practice in the area of tax controversy
and international tax law. Roberson also specializes in tax
controversy matters.  Alex Choinski, of Baker Botts LLP, joins the energy
advisory practice in  Washington . Choinski represents both
borrowers and lenders in the financing of complex infrastructure
projects and asset acquisitions in the electric power, oil and
gas, renewable energy, transportation and telecommunication
sectors domestically and internationally. Choinski has
experience conducting transactional negotiations and developing
legal documentation throughout  Latin America , according to the
firm.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers, with offices in the
U.S., Europe, and a strategic alliance in  Shanghai .  Sidley Hires Global Finance Partner in New York  Sidley Austin LLP has hired Alexander Moon in the firm’s
global finance practice as a partner in the New York office.
Moon was formerly with Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP, the
firm said.  His practice includes the representation of U.S. and
international banks based in Europe and Asia in a range of
secured and unsecured financings, with a focus on the financing
of commodities in domestic and cross-border contexts.  Moon’s transactional experience also includes the
representation of financial institutions in a variety of
corporate financing activities, including general commercial
lending,  project financing , acquisition financing, letter of
credit and trade finance facilities, commercial real estate and
hospitality financing, private equity and hedge fund
investments, U.S. Export-Import Bank supported financings, and
various structured financing transactions.  Sidley Austin has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 18 cities
in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  Venable Hires IP Partner Adam Hess in Washington  Venable LLP has hired IP litigator and counselor Adam R.
Hess, who joins the firm as a partner in Washington. Hess joins
the firm after 21 years with Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP, where he was chairman of Pillsbury’s intellectual property
litigation practice as well as managing partner of the firm’s
Northern Virginia office, the firm said.  An IP litigator with experience in federal court litigation
and handling Section 337 investigations at the International
Trade Commission, Hess also has a cross-border background
representing Asia-based technology companies, in  Japan ,  China 
and elsewhere. He also counsels clients on IP transactions, such
as  portfolio management , licensing, due diligence, and patent
prosecution.  Hess is at least the 10th senior IP attorney to join
Venable offices in New York, Washington and  Los Angeles  in the
last year and a half, the firm said.  Venable has more than 500 lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  Deals  NBC Sells A&E Stake to Disney, Hearst for $3.03 Billion  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  entertainment unit agreed to
sell its 15.8 percent stake in A&E Networks to the venture’s co-
owners,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Hearst Corp., for $3.03 billion.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP advised NBC Universal, while
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised A&E.  The Davis Polk corporate team included partners William H.
Aaronson and Marc O. Williams. Partner Neil Barr is providing
tax advice. Partner Arthur J. Burke is providing antitrust
advice. Partner Jason Kyrwood is providing credit advice. All
are based in New York.  Skadden New York banking partner Stephanie Teicher was on
the deal.  NBC will be paid in cash and with a senior note issued by
A&E, the company said July 10 in a filing. The price implies a
$19.2 billion value for all of the company, which includes A&E,
Lifetime and the History Channel cable networks.  The sale brings Philadelphia-based Comcast cash it can use
to help purchase the rest of NBC Universal,  Marci Ryvicker , an
analyst with Wells Fargo Securities, said in a July 6 research
note. Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , and Hearst, in New
York, gain complete ownership of A&E, which also includes
Military History and Crime & Investigation Network.  The three-way ownership structure for A&E Networks was
created in 2009 when New York-based NBC Universal, Disney and
Hearst merged the Lifetime and A&E cable channels.  The accord included a provision for NBC to leave the
partnership if it chooses and for Disney and Hearst to become
50-50 owners. Comcast exercised its option on March 26.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  