-- Koch, Kusama, Rennert, Rosenquist, Gillibrand in New York
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-12T15:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/koch-kusama-rennert-rosenquist-gillibrand-in-new-york.html
Billionaire  David Koch  said Bo Derek
came to mind as he watched the Paris Opera Ballet’s opening-
night performance of “Bolero” at  Lincoln Center .  Standing on the promenade of the David H. Koch Theater last
night, he described how the piece reminded him of the seduction
scene between Derek and Dudley Moore in the movie “10,” which
used the same music.  The Paris Opera Ballet version offered Nicolas Le Riche
bare-chested on a raised circular platform, preening and
seducing with big sweeps of the arms and precise swiveling of
the hips. Around him 18 dancers whipped themselves into a state.  “Based on this, I think we ought to go soon,” Koch said
of the idea of a romantic trip to Paris with his wife, Julia Koch. “I’d love to see the Paris Opera Ballet perform in
Paris.”  As for the  Mitt Romney  fundraiser at his Southampton home
on July 8: “I still can’t believe there was so much interest in
this,” Koch said. “There were only 50 people there. And the
Occupy crowd was very nasty.” He expressed relief that police
and security personnel had kept the protesters off his property.  Julia Koch said she hadn’t been able to see the protesters.
She was more troubled by the publication of an aerial shot of
her home in the  New York Times. (NYT)   “I can tell what day they took the shot. I think of my
children,” she said.  Lobster, Lamb  The Kochs took their seats for a gala supper of lobster,
lamb and raspberries. They sat with Nancy and  Henry Kissinger 
and  Jerry Speyer  and Katherine Farley, who had just returned
from a trip to Paris and offered a travel tip.  “We had a great dinner at Spring,” Speyer said. “It’s
run by a young American named Dan Rose.”  Ira and Ingeborg Rennert and Mikhail Baryshnikov attended
the performance but skipped the supper and music by the Paris
Swing Orchestra.  Polka Dots  Across town, Yayoi Kusama toured her retrospective at the
Whitney Museum of American Art in her red-and-white polka-dot
uniform with an entourage including the director of the museum,
 Adam Weinberg , and artist  Chuck Close .  The visit lasted less than 30 minutes, with Kusama
departing just as the museum opened its doors to the several
hundred people invited to a preview.  They included artists Joan Jonas, Charles LeDray (carrying
a Buffalo Bills baseball cap) and James Rosenquist, who told
Fred Eversley of his encounters with Kusama.  “I used to take her out, but I never got into bed with
her,” Rosenquist said. “She left  New York  after painting polka
dots and naked girls on a set of church steps. I saw her years
later at her gallery in Japan. She said, ‘I am the number one
artist in  Japan  now.’ And I said, ‘I’ll be number two.’”  Brooke Garber Neidich, the co-chairwoman of the museum,
greeted guests in the Whitney’s lobby. She wore a beige dress
and a pin passed out at a dinner the night before that read
“LOVE FOREVER Kusama.”  “Kusama said art lifts the soul,” Garber Neidich said.
“That’s exactly what Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, the founder
of the museum, said in 1931.”  Frick Garden  The Frick Collection hosted 500 guests last night for a
garden party. That meant almost empty galleries and a rapt
audience for the lily pond.  Marc MacAfee of Canaras Capital Management LLC recommended
the caramel tarts being passed around on a silver tray as he
stood on a stone path with Lacary Sharpe of  Apollo Global
Management LLC. (APO)   Allison Ecung, who works for the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, wore a hot-pink dress by Betsey Johnson and matching fascinator.  Wallenberg’s Medal  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , the New York Democrat, and
Senator  Johnny Isakson , the Georgia Republican, celebrated Raoul Wallenberg’s posthumous Congressional Gold Medal at a luncheon
yesterday at the Senate Hart Building.  Gillibrand introduced the legislation that awarded
Wallenberg the medal; it was passed last night. This year marks
the 100th anniversary of the birth of Wallenberg, who provided
shelter and passports to thousands of Jews in Budapest during
World War II.  Guests included Kenneth Abramowitz, the managing general
partner of NGN Capital LLC, and Charlie Freeman, a managing
director of Brevet Capital Management LLC.  Good Tastes  At last night’s “Best of  Washington ” party thrown by the
Washingtonian magazine and  AT&T Inc. (T) , about 1,800 guests packed
into the National Building Museum for “Tastes of the Town,”
offering samples from area restaurants, bars, bakeries and hot
spots.  At the Patron stand bartenders in tight T-shirts passed out
tequila popsicles. The “AT&Tini” featured a mixture of vodka,
white cranberry juice and fresh lime juice.  Garrett Graff, the editor of the Washingtonian, indicated
his preference for the candied bacon strips served by restaurant
Founding Farmers.  ( Amanda Gordon  and  Stephanie Green  are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jason
Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon; Stephanie Green in Washington at
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  