-- NBA Olympians Force Krzyzewski to Adapt His Duke Coaching Style
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2012-07-12T21:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nba-olympians-force-krzyzewski-to-adapt-his-duke-coaching-style.html
Mike Krzyzewski , the four-time NCAA
championship winning basketball coach at  Duke University , tells
Diane Brady in the July 16 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek how
he’s learned to manage professionals for the Olympics since he
was an assistant for the so-called Dream Team in Barcelona 20
years ago:  “I was an assistant to Chuck Daly in 1992. At the first
coaches’ meeting, Chuck looked at us and said, ‘You have to do
one thing really well: Ignore. You’re not going to micromanage.
These guys know their pace. Don’t mess it up.’ He was right.
This was the best of the NBA. I learned not to over coach. In
college, you have to talk more, but these guys got it right
away. The Dream Team was going to win. In 2008, I’d been
coaching the USA team for two years. We weren’t so good that it
didn’t matter. I knew we had to bond as a group.  “I flew to Akron to meet with  LeBron James . I’d call guys
every once in a while. It helped that I was a college coach,
that I was never going to compete against them. I tried to get
everyone to interact more off the court while we were training
to produce a little bit more of a collegiate atmosphere. In
college, you have youngsters who need to adapt to me and our
program and our culture. I’m their guide. When you have players
like  Kobe Bryant , LeBron James,  Carmelo Anthony , you can’t come
in with a rigid plan. It’s not just Coach K. They’re men. They
take instruction real easy, and they don’t want to waste time. I
had to give them a chance to have ownership by using things that
they’ve found to be good, whether it’s defending the pick and
roll, how long we practice, or a certain shooting drill.  One and Done  “One of the biggest challenges is creating urgency. When
you get to the medal round, you get one game. It’s like the NCAA
tournament--one and done. NBA players are used to a seven-game
series. You have to make them feel it’s the seventh game of a
seven-game series. You risk making them nervous, but it’s
important.  “This has made me better as a college coach. How we call
our defenses is different because of what I’ve learned from the
pro players.  Chris Paul  said something in a team meeting that
I’d been explaining for 30 years, and he said it better. If you
don’t learn anything from the outstanding players in your game,
then something’s wrong. We can’t assume we’ll win again: 1992
was the Dream Team, 2008 was the Redeem Team. There’s no theme
this time around. I just want them to be called the 2012
Olympics champions.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Diane Brady in  New York 
at   dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net  