-- NBA Players Forced to Save Toward Retirement for First Time
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-12T13:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nba-players-forced-to-save-toward-retirement-for-first-time.html
National Basketball Association
players, who were paid an average of about $5 million last
season, will be forced for the first time to save money for
retirement.  Players in the league this past season will receive $34
million, or 1 percent of what the league and union call
basketball-related income, to be invested in an annuity, union
attorney Ron Klempner said.  Details of the plan, such as which annuity will be chosen
or how the money will be distributed, need to be worked out,
Klempner said.  “We know that it’ll deliver good, fair returns,” he said
in a telephone interview.  The program is part of the 10-year collective bargaining
agreement between the NBA and the players union that ended a
lockout in November.  Former NBA players Scottie Pippen, Latrell Sprewell and
Antoine Walker are among retired professional athletes who have
experienced financial difficulty after careers in which they
earned tens of millions of dollars. Walker filed for bankruptcy
after being paid more than $100 million over 12 years in the
NBA.  “It’s a start,” player agent Keith Glass said in a
telephone interview. “It does force you to save something, and
that’s a good idea.”  Retired players can access the money before their pensions
begin at age 50. Players can take an early pension at 45,
Klempner said.  Basketball-related income in the NBA will top $4 billion
next season, meaning the amount of forced savings also will
rise.  Beginning next season, players also will surrender 5
percent to 10 percent of their salary for retirement. They
automatically will be enrolled in the program and would have to
opt-out to keep from participating in the plan, Klempner said.  Investment details for that plan aren’t complete, Klempner
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  