-- Nestle Borrows More Cheaply Than France Amid Haven Appetite
-- B y   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-07-12T15:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nestle-borrows-more-cheaply-than-france-as-investors-seek-havens.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
manufacturer, is so in demand by debt investors that it’s able
to borrow more cheaply than  France .  Nestle sold 500 million euros ($610 million) of bonds due
July 2019 at a yield of 1.56 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s lower than the 1.58 percent yield on
France’s benchmark seven-year bond, on a day when some of the
nation’s other rates dropped to records as investors sought the
safest securities.  Nestle is benefitting from the demand for haven assets that
also sent yields on short-term  government bonds  from Germany,
Austria and  Belgium  tumbling to all-time lows. As the euro-
region crisis deepens, investors are snapping up debt of
companies away from the periphery of Spain, Italy and  Greece ,
particularly if they have diversified international businesses.  “We sold out of the gilts and Treasuries,” said Craig Veysey, the London-based head of fixed income at Principal
Investment Management Ltd., a unit of  South Africa ’s Sanlam
Group which manages the equivalent of about $3 billion. “With
yields as low as they are, you can’t generate a return for your
investors. We went into good-quality, investment-grade
corporates.”  Melanie Kohli, a spokeswoman for Nestle based at the
company’s Swiss headquarters, declined to comment.  Cut in Half  Nestle cut the cost of selling the bonds, its first euro-
denominated issue since 2006, by 50 percent in a sign of
investor appetite for highly rated corporate debt.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based company priced the securities
at 15 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, after
initially marketing them at a spread of about 30 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  French  five-year  note yields fell to as low as 0.888
percent today, while the nation’s two-year rate touched 0.137
percent, both the lowest ever.  Nestle is  rated  Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
third-highest investment-grade ranking, and an equivalent AA by
 Standard & Poor’s . France lost its top S&P rating in January,
when it was downgraded one level to AA+, one step higher than
Nestle. It’s still rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Fitch.  Tighter Spreads  Demand for corporate bonds drove spreads tighter in the
past six months. The extra yield investors require to hold
investment-grade European company debt narrowed to 170 basis
points more than benchmark government notes from 200 basis
points in January, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates, Non-Financial index shows.  Banco Santander SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA managed Nestle’s
bond sale, its fifth this year after issues in U.S. and
Australian dollars and Norwegian krone. The Swiss confectioner,
whose products include KitKat chocolate bars, had the equivalent
of $8.2 billion of bonds outstanding before today’s sale.  “Investors still have good appetite for new issues,” said
Michie Yana, a senior investment analyst at European Credit
Management Ltd. in  London . “The halving of the price guidance is
a reflection of appetite for high-quality corporate issuers,
especially those in defensive sectors not domiciled in
peripheral countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Armstrong  in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  