-- New Zealand Resists High Carbon Price, Plans Australia Link
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-07-13T06:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/new-zealand-resists-higher-carbon-price-plans-link-to-australia.html
New Zealand  is resisting higher
carbon prices as a threat to its economic recovery, even as the
government steps up plans to merge its emissions market with the
two-week-old program in  Australia .  New Zealand will review its climate program in 2015, a year
earlier than previously scheduled, to coincide with Australia’s
planned transition from a fixed-cost system to market-based
pricing, Tim Groser, Minister for Climate Change Issues, said in
an interview in Wellington. The country decided against
restrictions for now on how many so-called international offsets
emitters can use to meet New Zealand’s limits on greenhouse gas
linked to climate change.  “We considered the international economic situation is
very fragile, and our recovery is actually coming in to play,”
Groser, 62, said in the interview. Regarding Australia’s
 emissions-trading  program, “the review is ideally place to
allow us to start linking at an operational level, rather than
just talking about it.”  New Zealand is trying to balance economic and environmental
concerns, delaying measures last week that would have raised its
carbon price. The decision came a day after Australia introduced
a fixed price that is more than twice what New Zealand emitters
pay. The South Pacific nation, which got about 74 percent of its
power from renewable sources  in 2010 , is focusing on economic
growth as it seeks to recover from earthquakes last year.  Polluters will still be able to surrender one New Zealand
Unit (NZU) for every two metric tons of carbon they emit,
according to the  Climate Change  department’s  website . That means
emitters can effectively pay a fixed price of NZ$12.50 ($9.88) a
metric ton for two permits, or buy NZUs on the open market,
where today’s spot prices is NZ$6.10, down from as high as
NZ$8.50 on Feb. 28.  Unlimited Offsets  New Zealand firms can also comply with domestic pollution
caps by purchasing unlimited amounts of Certified Emission
Reductions under the  United Nations ’ Clean Development Mechanism.
These are known as CERs, or offsets, because they let emitters
pay for emission reductions in developing nations such as  China 
or  India  when it’s more cost-effective than domestic abatement.  CERs traded as low as 3.34 euros ($4.10) today on the ICE
Futures Exchange in  London . That’s near the record low of 3.31
euros on June 12.  New Zealand, which accounts for less than 0.2 percent of
the world’s emissions, is missing the chance to protect its
“clean, green brand,” the  Green Party  said last week. The
failure to propose tighter measures on polluters is slowing the
nation’s ability to tackle climate change, it said.  ‘Fair Share’  “We will do our fair share, but there is absolutely no
point in ramping it up beyond that,” said Groser. “It will not
make a fig of difference if the U.S., China and other countries
outside the  Kyoto protocol  that make up 85 percent of current
emissions blowing into the atmosphere, don’t do serious stuff.”  China plans to start pilot programs next year to cap and
trade emissions in seven of its largest manufacturing regions.
 California , the largest U.S. state, also plans to begin
emissions trading next year, though a plan to use cap and trade
and the federal level has stalled in Congress.  Australia opted to set limits on how many CERs its 300
largest emitters can use, setting the maximum at 50 percent when
it moves to market-based pricing in 2015.  Record house prices and rising consumer spending in June
signaled that New Zealand’s economy is still growing after gross
domestic product rose 1.1 percent in the three months through
March. The central bank last month left the official cash rate
unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent and indicated it may not
change until next year. The nation’s manufacturing industry
almost stalled last month, a report showed yesterday.  The Cheaper Option  It’s currently cheaper for New Zealand polluters to meet
their obligations via UN offsets rather than buying New Zealand
Units. Unlimited offsets effectively set a ceiling on domestic
prices. An oversupply of permits in the European market,
triggered by the global financial crisis, has created a surplus
in both the EU and UN markets, spilling over to the price paid
in New Zealand.  The country, one of the first outside the EU to use cap and
trade to limit emissions, has decided against limiting the use
offsets in favor of staying linked to the UN benchmark price.
That was a reversal of indications in April that New Zealand
would restrict CERs to encourage purchases of domestic permits.
The government is wary of volatility driven by European
regulation, Groser said.  “As other countries lag behind New Zealand and the EU in
establishing carbon markets, it is not surprising that New
Zealand isn’t implementing measures that will tighten the market
and increase the cost of compliance just yet,” said Andrea Du
Rietz, a London-based analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Political Future  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  risked her
political future on a carbon price that started at more than
double the cost of permits in  Europe  and New Zealand.
Australia’s biggest polluters will pay an initial fixed price of
A$23 ($23.32) a ton, which will gradually rise until a cap-and-
trade system with price floors and ceilings begins in 2015.  The decision to merge New Zealand’s program with the one in
Australia, with five times as many people, will depend on how
the systems evolve, said Groser.  “It’s a good idea because the process of linkage
necessarily involves trying to even out any misalignment between
the two schemes,” said Chris Bougen, a Wellington-based lawyer
at  Chapman Tripp  who advises on emissions trading, in an
interview. “In addition to that, you will get greater liquidity
in your market.”  Reconsidering Agriculture  New Zealand’s 2015 review will also reconsider whether
agriculture should be introduced into its emissions program,
started in 2008. While the industry accounts for half of New
Zealand’s emissions, no country has priced agricultural
emissions and farmers are actively seeking to curb them, Groser
said. Exports account for a third of the nation’s economy.  “Applying additional carbon costs on agriculture here,
when they are still not faced by the majority of producers
elsewhere in the world, simply undermine the competitiveness of
the New Zealand agricultural sector, our most important export
sector,” Bruce Donnison, head of global sustainability at
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  