-- New York City May Allow Taller Towers Near Grand Central
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-07-12T18:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/new-york-city-may-allow-taller-towers-near-grand-central.html
Development of skyscrapers taller
than the Chrysler Building may be allowed near  Manhattan ’s Grand
Central Terminal under preliminary zoning plans presented by New
York’s Department of City Planning.  A tower that high -- possibly as tall as 1,200 feet (366
meters) -- would have to go through a city review to assure that
it’s a worthy addition to the New York skyline, said Frank
Ruchala, the planning department’s east Midtown project manager.
The Chrysler Building is 1,046 feet tall. Ruchala spoke last
night at a meeting of Community Board 5, which represents
midtown Manhattan residents.  The planning department, under an  initiative  by Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , is seeking ways to keep Midtown’s east side,
home to skyscrapers that house  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , from losing out competitively to  London ,  Tokyo  and other
financial capitals. A rezoning may affect the value of towers
owned by such real estate investment trusts as  SL Green Realty
Corp. (SLG) ,  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)   “As the office stock continues to age, and little to no
replacement stock is added, the dynamism of the office market
begins to break down,” Ruchala said. “The needs of Class A
tenants will begin to get unmet, and they will begin to look
elsewhere.”  ‘Single Best’  SL Green in November paid about $80 million for a building
on East 42nd Street, just west of Grand Central, giving it
ownership of the entire block bounded by Madison, 42nd and 43rd
streets and Vanderbilt Avenue. It’s “the single best potential
development site in the city, if not the world,” Isaac Zion,
the company’s co-chief investment officer, said at an investor
meeting in December.  The company has no comment on the rezoning initiative,  Rick Matthews , a spokesman for SL Green, said today.  Under the city’s plan, properties close to Grand Central,
between Madison and Lexington avenues, would be entitled to
acquire air rights to build towers as tall as about 900 feet --
about the size of 1  Bryant Park  without its spire.  Outside that “core” area, and including the west side of
Madison and the east side of Lexington between East 39th and
49th streets, towers of about 700 feet would be allowed. That’s
about the size of the former Bear Stearns tower at 383 Madison
or the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  building in lower Manhattan.  Such towers would be required to have a full block of
avenue frontage, and sit on at least 25,000 square feet (2,300
square meters) of land, Ruchala said. The plan also would allow
for new buildings along Park Avenue between East 49th and 57th
streets that may be about the size of Goldman’s tower.  Special Permit  To build higher, developers would have to seek a “new
special permit to allow extraordinary buildings at key sites,”
he said. Developers would be able to exceed restrictions by
funding improvements to pedestrian areas and transit hubs and
purchasing unused space allowances from area landmarks.  Members of the community board said they were concerned
about the impact that larger buildings would have on Midtown
streets and train and subway stations that are already
congested. Some also said that the plan might put buildings
deserving of landmark status at risk.  “Nobody really opposes the basic core, the basic premise,
but we need more information,” Vikki Barbero, the board’s
chairwoman, said in a telephone interview today. The board wants
to know how many new buildings are being considered, she said.
“We didn’t even get an answer to that.”  ‘Pretty Good’  Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of  New
York , which represents building owners and developers in the
city, said most of the plan “looks pretty good” so far.  “The’ve identified the fact that we’ve got, on average,
73-year-old buildings in the most important commercial district
in the world, and we need to allow for new growth over the long
term in that area,” he said in a phone interview today. “They
came out with a bold plan.”  Ruchala said he expected only a “limited” number of
buildings would qualify to exceed existing building heights in
the area. The changes under consideration would be timed to
allow development in the Hudson Yards area west of Midtown to
proceed first, he said.  “It is critical that east Midtown’s stature as one of the
premier business addresses in the world be maintained over
time,” City Planning Commissioner Amanda M. Burden said in a
statement. “We are therefore pursuing ways to incentivize over
the next 20 years the development of a handful of state-of-the-
art office buildings around Grand Central Terminal and north
along Park Avenue that will build on the dynamic strength of the
area.”  Council Approval  The planning department’s proposal must undergo an
environmental review and be approved by the New York City
Council. The department expects to complete the process next
year. Barbero said the community board is concerned the plan is
moving too fast, especially with so many questions unanswered.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  