-- Nigerian Supreme Court Voids Alscon Smelter Sale to Rusal
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-07-12T18:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nigerian-supreme-court-voids-alscon-smelter-sale-to-rusal.html
(Corrects story published July 6 to show ruling related to
Bancorp Financial in the first paragraph, and adds in third
paragraph that Rusal wasn’t a party to the litigation and the
court decision doesn’t affect the rights of Rusal to the
smelter.)  Nigeria’s  Supreme Court  said the
country’s Bureau of Public Enterprises didn’t have the right to
cancel the sale of the Aluminum Smelter Co. of Nigeria, or
Alscon, to Bancorp Financial Investment Group.  Justice Olushola Fabiyi, delivering the unanimous ruling of
five judges today in Abuja, the capital, said Bancorp Financial
had “a valid contract” for the smelter in 2004.  Russia’s  United Co. Rusal Plc (486) , the world’s largest aluminum
producer, bought a 77.5 percent stake in Alscon in 2007 for $160
million, according to the court filings. Bancorp Financial said
it had offered $410 million for the smelter, which is based in
Ikot Abasi in the southeastern state of Akwa Ibom, and that it
was seleced preferred bidder.  Rusal wasn’t a party to the litigation. The decision was
made against  Nigeria ’s privatization agency and “does not,
therefore, affect the rights of Rusal to this Alscon asset,
which remain unimpaired,” Rusal said in an e-mailed statement.  The Supreme Court’s ruling is “consistent with the rule of
law, fairness and equity,” Reuben Jaja, president of Bancorp
Financial, told reporters today in Abuja, the capital.  The transactions were carried out as approved by the
government, Chukwuma Nwokoh, a spokesman for the Bureau of
Public Enterprises, said today by phone from Abuja. The agency
will make further statements when it gets details of the ruling,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  