-- NLB May Need 500 Million-Euro Capital Boost by End of 2013
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-12T13:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nlb-may-need-500-million-euro-capital-boost-by-end-of-2013-1-.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. may need
an additional capital increase of as much as 500 million euros
($609 million) by the end of next year as Slovenia’s biggest
financial services company grapples with rising bad loans.  “Due diligence has concluded that NLB has about 1.5
billion euros of the worst kind of loans,” Finance Minister
Janez Sustersic told reporters in Ljubljana today. “The bank
may need up to 500 million euros of fresh capital by the end of
2013, but only if we don’t take out these bad loans from its
balance sheets.”  NLB received 381 million euros from the Slovenian
government and its agencies at the end of June after the second
largest owner  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  of  Belgium  failed to win European
Commission approval to participate in the capital boost. The
increase has improved the Ljubljana-based bank’s core Tier 1
capital ratio to above 9 percent as demanded by the European
Banking Authority and the Slovenian central bank.  Slovenia’s fragile banking industry is under strain as the
second recession in three years pushes more and more companies
into bankruptcy and forcing lenders to set aside record loan-
loss reserves. Sustersic has said the euro-region country isn’t
considering a bailout for its banks, which are relying on the
 European Central Bank  for liquidity because of limited access to
wholesale funding.  Bad loans at NLB amount to 3 billion euros, or 20 percent
of the bank’s loan portfolio, Bozo Jasovic, acting Chief
Executive Officer of the lender said in an interview with
Slovenian weekly Mladina on July 6.  Slovenia plans to transfer non-performing loans from some
of its biggest banks to a state-owned wealth fund to clean up
their balance sheets and spur lending to the economy, Sustersic
said on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  