-- Nordstrom Dresses British With Topshop to Win Back Women: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-07-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/nordstrom-dresses-british-with-topshop-to-win-back-women-retail.html
Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the upscale
department-store chain, navigated the recession and its
aftermath better than its peers. Yet even a company that has
posted average sales growth of 14 percent for the past 10
quarters isn’t immune to today’s fast-changing retail
environment.  At a time when wary U.S. consumers obsessively comparison-
shop online and open their wallets only for must-have products,
retailers are falling over themselves to lock up merchandise
shoppers can’t find anyplace else.  “For a time, you had the same four department stores as
mall anchors, and they had the same four brands,” said  Deborah Weinswig , a Citigroup analyst based in New York. “They needed
to spice things up.”  In Nordstrom’s case, it’s a matter of wooing more fashion-
conscious women. Since the recession, many female shoppers have
been buying fewer clothes -- a challenge for a chain that
generates about a third of its more than $10 billion in annual
sales from ladies’ apparel.  To get women excited about shaking up their wardrobes
again, Peter E. “Pete” Nordstrom, 50, the president of
merchandising, has cut a deal to sell clothes from Topshop, a
London-based retailer known for mid-priced trendy styles --
punk-inspired pinafores and ladylike tweed -- that defy easy
characterization. It’s the sort of fashion people don’t expect
to find at Nordstrom. And it could draw in new customers -- or
turn off existing ones.  Splashiest Deal  The Topshop-Nordstrom deal is the latest and splashiest
instance of a U.S. retailer locking up exclusive merchandise.
The goal is threefold: drive sales, deprive rivals of the goods,
and make it harder for discount-addicted consumers to compare
prices.  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Neiman Marcus Group announced on July
10 that they will collaborate on a “limited-edition”
collection for the holidays, featuring products from such
designers as  Tory Burch  and Diane von Furstenberg. More than 40
percent of Macy Inc.’s merchandise is now from exclusive or
limited-distribution brands.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  is by far the most radical proponent of the
strategy. Reversing the usual department-store setup, Penney is
embarking on a four-year plan to devote space to as many as 100
branded boutiques within its stores.  Nordstrom is taking a less risky approach. While the chain
is giving Topshop goods a high profile in its stores, including
installing the brand’s signature neon signs and matte white
mannequins, it’s not letting the British chain run its own
enclosed boutiques.  Untried Brand  Also, because Topshop is still a relatively untried brand
in the U.S., Nordstrom initially will test its appeal in 14
cities of varying sizes --  King of Prussia ,  Pennsylvania , and
Chandler,  Arizona , are among the debut markets -- before taking
it national. The clothes will start appearing online and at
stores in September, and Nordstrom may roll them out to most if
not all of its 117 locations within a year.  Topshop, known for showcasing talented young designers,
including the late  Alexander McQueen , has a quirky British
sensibility. For the winter season, the retailer is previewing
punk-esque checked looks such as a £30 ($46.56) pinafore that it
recommends pairing with chunky black lace-ups. (“British
fashion loves nothing more than a bit of anarchy!” it says on
its website.) It also is pushing retro 1960s styles: tweed and
boucle pieces it suggests wearing with beehive hairdos and slick
black eyeliner.  Nimble Operator  A nimble operator capable of continually turning out fresh
fashions -- as many as 200 new styles appear at the Oxford
Circus flagship in  London  each week -- Topshop appeals “to
youthful, fashion-obsessed customers,” Pete Nordstrom said.  The look will play outside fashion centers such as  New
York , home to one of Topshop’s three U.S. stores, according to
Walter Loeb, founder of the consulting firm Loeb Associates.  “Because of its appeal to young people, it could be in
several new places, including college towns,” he said.  At the same time, a profusion of fashion blogs and shows
like Heidi Klum’s “Project Runway” have helped spread
awareness of fashion and apparel trends even to habitués of
middle-American malls.  For Topshop, the partnership with Nordstrom is a low-risk,
inexpensive way to expand its presence in the U.S., where it’s
perhaps best known for a five-year-old line of Kate Moss-
designed clothes once sold at  Barneys New York .  Sir  Philip Green , whose Arcadia Group Ltd. owns Topshop,
talked to a number of potential U.S. partners over the past two
years and was attracted to Nordstrom’s premium position in the
U.S. market. Topshop also plans to have as many as 20 U.S.
stores of its own in the next three years, part of a global
expansion designed to reduce Arcadia’s reliance on slowing
growth back home in Britain.  Quick Alliance  The Nordstrom-Topshop alliance came together quickly. Four
months ago, Pete Nordstrom flew to  Las Vegas , where Green was
opening a Topshop flagship. They had tea at a Nordstrom café in
the Fashion Show mall and agreed to a deal that very day.  Nordstrom and Green, 60, declined to provide sales
projections for their partnership.  “We think it can be pretty big,” Nordstrom said. “The
intent is, ‘Let’s do something special, let’s do something that
works on a sizable scale.’”  For Green, the deal was a model of speedy decision-making.  “It hasn’t been some long, drawn-out agony,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  