-- Tobacco Bonds Face Default as Smoking Declines, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-12T19:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/tobacco-bonds-face-default-risk-as-smoking-drops-moody-s-says.html
The declining number of U.S. smokers
is proving hazardous to the health of municipal bonds backed by
payments from cigarette companies under a 1998 settlement with
46 U.S. states,  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  said.  The rating company projected that almost three-quarters of
the $20.4 billion in tobacco bonds it grades will default if
cigarette consumption declines 3 percent to 4 percent annually.  Tobacco bonds that have a high ratio of outstanding debt to
annual payments from the companies, long maturities and low cash
reserves are vulnerable to lower smoking rates, Moody’s said
today in a report. Moody’s rates almost 80 percent of tobacco
bonds B1, which is four levels below investment grade, or lower.  “Some of them have very high leverage,” with ratios of
debt to annual payments of 16 to 18 times, said Irina Faynzilberg, a Moody’s analyst who co-wrote the report.  Payments by  Altria Group (MO)  Inc.’s Philip Morris unit,
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  to states under the
settlement back $101.5 billion of bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Payments to states, which are based on U.S. cigarette
sales, rose almost 2 percent this year, according to Mesirow
Financial Inc. Sales declines of 2.9 percent in 2011 were offset
by an inflation adjustment and growth in market share from
companies participating in the settlement.  One in Five  Cigarette use fell 9.2 percent in 2009 and 6.4 percent in
2010, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a Philadelphia-
based brokerage. About one in five Americans smoke, according to
the U.S. Centers of Disease Control and Prevention.  Virginia, California and Nassau County,  New York , may use
reserve funds to pay debt service on three tobacco-bond issues
from 2006 and 2007, Mesirow said in May.  Tobacco bonds have earned 4.26 percent this year through
June 30, compared with 4.1 percent across the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Moody’s projected that 33 percent of the tobacco bonds it
rates can’t withstand annual consumption declines of 2 percent
to 3 percent, while 41 percent of the debt couldn’t handle
declines of 3 percent to 4 percent.  More-recently issued tobacco bonds have been structured by
banks to withstand consumption declines of as much as 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  