-- Obama Says Policy Focus at Expense of Narrative Hurts Him
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/obama-says-policy-focus-at-expense-of-narrative-hurts-him.html
President  Barack Obama  says he is
facing a tough election fight from Republican  Mitt Romney  in
part because he concentrated more on policy than selling the
story of his first-term accomplishments to voters.  “The mistake of my first term -- couple of years -- was
thinking that this job was just about getting the policy
right,” Obama said in an interview with  Charlie Rose  taped
yesterday at the White House, according to a video excerpt
released by  CBS News .  Obama, 50, said that, while his policies are important,
“The nature of this office is also to tell a story to the
American people that gives them a sense of unity and purpose and
optimism, especially during tough times.”  Obama leads Romney 50 percent to 43 percent among
registered voters, even as two-thirds of those surveyed say they
are dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country,
according to a poll released today by the Pew Research Center
for the People and the Press in Washington. The June 28-July 9
 survey  of 2,373 registered voters had a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.3 percent.  Obama, who was joined by first lady  Michelle Obama  for the
interview, said that, when he ran in 2008, critics said that,
while he gave speeches well, they questioned his ability to
fulfill the job of president. For the first half of his first
term, he said, his problem was the opposite.  ‘Better Job’  Predicting he would be re-elected, he said, “I need to do
a better job” of inspiring and communicating to Americans in a
second term.  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
responded to Obama’s interview, saying that “being president is
not about telling stories. Being president is about leading.”  “President Obama has failed to lead,” Romney said in a
statement released by his campaign. “No wonder Americans are 
losing faith in his presidency.”  CBS planned to broadcast additional segments of the
interview on July 15-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  