-- Obama Joins Romney Sharing Secrets With Donors at Closed Dinners
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-07-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/obama-joins-romney-sharing-secrets-with-donors-at-closed-dinners.html
Mitt Romney  has been accused of
being inconsistent about health care, abortion,  gun control , and
whether the American car industry should have been rescued.  When it comes to raising money from wealthy executives and
financiers in sumptuous private settings, he is unswerving and
highly skilled, as demonstrated by his estimated $3 million take
from a trio of events on July 8 in the Hamptons. The highlight
of Romney’s Long Island beach jaunt was a $50,000-per-person
dinner at the home of billionaire  David Koch .  We don’t know what Romney told guests at Chez Koch,
because, like most fundraisers he attends at supporters’ homes,
it was off-limits to all but those opening large wallets,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 16 issue. As usual,
journalists were kept at a safe distance, and the campaign
wouldn’t release Romney’s remarks. It’s safe to assume he
revealed something -- in substance or tone -- that he wouldn’t
want the public to hear. Why else the secrecy?  President  Barack Obama  is almost as tight-lipped about the
lavish dinners he headlines. His handlers allow reporters to
witness boilerplate opening remarks before herding them to the
curb. Yet Obama is so determined to make sure there’s no record
of his less formal comments that campaign workers confiscate
guests’ phones and put them in plastic bags before some
fundraisers, including one held on May 14 at the New York home
of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  President  Tony James .  Hollywood Pals  Like Democrats before him, the president tends to draw the
most attention when he pals around behind closed doors with
liberals in the entertainment industry, such as  George Clooney ,
who hosted a $40,000-a-head Obama event at his Hollywood home on
May 10, and Sarah Jessica Parker, who had 50 people over to her
Manhattan townhouse for a similarly priced supper in mid-June.  There are many aspects of our money-soaked political
culture to worry about. One that we seem to be getting awfully
comfortable with is the off-the-record fundraiser, which
consumes an increasing amount of presidential candidates’ time
and energy.  Raising money under a cloak of silence suggests that
candidates have one version of their pitch that they offer
ordinary voters and another, more candid one the public isn’t
allowed to hear. That’s the appeal of events limited to mega-
donors, and it isn’t a good thing, says  Melanie Sloan , executive
director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington .  “What,” she asks, “do they tell their big donors that they
don’t tell the rest of us?”  Straying From Script  Obama and Romney are too sophisticated to engage over
shrimp cocktail in an explicit quid pro quo to kill a regulation
or promote someone’s cousin to a judgeship. The more likely
scenario, one that must keep their aides awake at night, is that
in a relaxed setting among people who have shown their
friendship in cold, hard cash, the candidate will stray from the
usual script and inadvertently say what he really thinks.  That’s what happened during Obama’s first run for the White
House, when he told guests at a closed-door San Francisco
fundraiser that some small-town voters are “bitter” and “cling
to guns or religion.” That comment, which Obama later tried to
retract, became public because a donor gave an audio recording
of the speech to a news website.  Now Obama takes precautions. At a March 30 fundraiser at
 Maine ’s Portland Museum of Art, the president asked the 130
supporters in attendance not to post video of the private
session.  Secret Musings  In April, Romney was overheard at a private backyard
fundraiser in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , musing about eliminating the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and killing the
mortgage-interest deduction on second homes -- ideas he hasn’t
backed publicly. Those are the kinds of things voters are
entitled to know from a presidential candidate even without
paying tens of thousands of dollars.  There may be a reasonable explanation why Obama and Romney
don’t want the public to hear what they’re telling donors. If
so, they aren’t saying what it is.  Instead, Obama spokeswoman Katie Hogan provides a written
statement: “The Obama campaign has and will continue to allow
press into any fundraising event where the president is
delivering remarks to supporters, no matter the venue.” That’s
true, as far as it goes. Only after the press is shooed from the
room, though, does the main event begin.  More Events  The need to raise more and more cash means the number of
fundraising events has increased dramatically, according to
Brendan Doherty, a political scientist at the U.S. Naval Academy
and author of the new book, The Rise of the President’s
Permanent Campaign.  As of July 9, Doherty had tracked 177 Obama fundraising
appearances during the third and fourth years of his presidency.
The comparable number for  George W. Bush  was 86, or less than
half. For  Bill Clinton  it was 70; for  George H.W. Bush , 24; and
for  Jimmy Carter , 25.  Ronald Reagan ’s total in 1983-84: three.  “The rising costs of campaigns, combined with contribution
limits that are low relative to the costs of campaigns, have led
presidents to spend more and more time raising money -- out of
necessity,” Doherty says.  The 2012 race for the White House is the first since the
public-financing system was enacted after Watergate in which
both candidates have shunned taxpayer money in favor of funding
their operations with individual donations. Even as spending by
super PACs and other outside groups has increased, the campaigns
are devoting more of the candidates’ time to raising cash.  Controlling the Money  “Each campaign still wants money they can directly control,
and that money they have to raise themselves,” says Doherty.  The Romney campaign not only keeps what their man says at
fundraisers a secret; it refuses to say how many he attends.  “We won’t get into that,” says Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman.
It’s evidently enough to clobber Obama in the race for dollars.  An ace investor fundraiser during his years heading Bain
Capital LLC, Romney has proved just as adept as a political
rainmaker. In June, for the second straight month, he and his
party raised more than Obama and the Democrats: $106 million
versus $71 million. At that pace, Romney is on track to raise
$800 million or more by Election Day.  That means the challenger could outspend an incumbent
himself known for his buckraking. On July 10 the Obama campaign
sent an urgent e-mail to supporters: “We’re getting outraised --
a first for a sitting president, if this continues,” it read.
“We can win a race in which the other side spends more than we
do. But not this much more. So I need your help. If you believe
that regular people should decide elections, then please chip in
$3 or more today.” It was signed, “Barack.”  That week, Obama headlined two $40,000-a-plate events at
Washington’s Mandarin Oriental Hotel. The $3 regular people
weren’t invited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in  New York  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  