-- Hollande Pledge to Block Firings Defied by Peugeot’s Reality
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-13T12:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/hollande-s-pledge-to-block-firings-defied-by-peugeot-s-reality.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s plan to close
a factory in  France  for the first time in two decades represents
the biggest challenge to Socialist President  Francois Hollande ’s
promise to prevent a wave of job cuts.  For Hollande, who pledged during his campaign to block what
he called an expected “parade of firings,” the cuts by
France’s largest carmaker leave him squeezed between businesses
seeking measures to spur growth and demands of his union
supporters.  Peugeot, whose announcement yesterday brought its job cuts
to 14,000, is hardly alone.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is eliminating
more than 5,000 slots. Drugmaker  Sanofi (SAN)  may reduce staff by more
than 2,000. Economists say more mass firings are likely as
growth grinds to a halt.  “There’s going to be an avalanche of job cuts and the
expectations of public opinion are huge,” said Jerome Fouquet,
a director of pollster Ifop in Paris, who says that unemployment
is the top concern among voters. “This puts the government in a
very difficult position.”  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said in an
interview on RTL radio today that he was ready to “open the
books” to the government to show French labor costs are too
high. Another round of car-scrapping incentives isn’t the
answer, Varin said.  Shares Plunge  Peugeot  plunged  as much as 65 cents, or 9.2 percent, to
6.37 euros, the biggest drop since Nov. 1, and was down 7.6
percent to 6.49 euros as of 2:16 p.m. today in Paris trading.  The French economy,  Europe ’s second biggest, failed to grow
in the first three months of the year. The Bank of France
estimates that it probably shrank in the second quarter for the
first time since 2009. The number of people  looking for work  in
France was 2.92 million in May, more than at any time since
1999. The  unemployment rate  is 10 percent.  “What’s happening at PSA doesn’t take us by surprise,”
Hollande said in an interview published today by French
newspaper Le Monde. “It’s not up to me to call a meeting at the
Elysee Palace,” his residence and office. “It’s the role of the
concerned ministers to be socially involved.”  The job losses expose French voters to the economic hammer
that has already fallen on their southern neighbors in  Spain  --
where almost a quarter of the workforce is unemployed -- as well
as bailed-out economies in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Declining Support  Support for Hollande, who took office on May 15, has
dropped 7 points in the past month to 56 percent, according to
an Ifop poll published July 11. The survey of 1,005 voters has a
margin of error of about 3 percentage points.  “President Hollande needed this like he needed a hole in
the head,” said Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London . “There’s already mounting pressure on the government to
pursue more business-friendly policies. This is not going to
help matters.”  The CGT union at the Aulnay factory that Peugeot plans to
close has called on the government to intervene. Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said the government doesn’t “accept
the plan as it is.” Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault called the
closing and workforce reductions a “true shock.”  Still, any attempt to block the cuts in the short term may
backfire, economists and executives said.  “France has to remember that it’s in a globalized world
and it has competitors,” said Frederic Gonand, a professor of
economics at Paris Dauphine University and former finance
ministry official. “The government shouldn’t do things that
will discourage investment.”  Sales Slump  Peugeot,  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s No. 2 carmaker, and  Italy ’s
 Fiat SpA (F)  have posted the biggest sales declines this year in
Europe, where Peugeot expects the market to contract 8 percent.
Moody’s Investors Service in March was the last of the three
main credit-reporting companies to cut Peugeot’s debt rating to
junk.  “Peugeot is struggling with the power of Volkswagen,
especially on the credit side, as VW benefits from lower costs
of financing,” said Kristina Church, a Barclays analyst in
London with an “underweight/neutral” rating on its shares.
“More importantly, Peugeot still has an issue with overcapacity
and is in a worse position than Renault.”  Peugeot’s first-half deliveries slumped 13 percent compared
with a 10 percent increase at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand in
the period. VW is Europe’s largest automaker.  Value Drops  The French company will stop production at its 39-year-old
factory in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris, in 2014 and focus
the building of small cars at a nearby plant in Poissy, it said.
Peugeot will also curb production at a plant in Rennes to slash
operational costs.  The last French auto factory to close was a Renault plant
in 1992, according to Francois Roudier, spokesman for the
country’s automakers’ association. Renault confirmed the date.  The French company entered into a strategic alliance with
 General Motors Co. (GM)  earlier this year in which the American
carmaker took a 7 percent stake to become the second-largest
shareholder after the founding family. The two plan to cooperate
on purchasing and vehicle development to lower costs.  Peugeot’s first-half operating loss in the automotive unit
will reach 700 million euros compared with a profit of 405
million euros a year earlier. The measures are part of a plan to
cut 1 billion euros in costs in 2012, Peugeot said.  “I am aware of the painful nature of this decision,”
Varin told reporters yesterday. “The markets currently are
experiencing a brutal, wide and on-going decline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  