-- Top Kansas Court Asked for Guidance in FedEx Drivers’ Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-12T17:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/top-kansas-court-asked-for-guidance-in-fedex-drivers-case-1-.html
A U.S. appeals court reviewing the
first of 21 class-action cases by  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  drivers claiming
they’re company employees and not independent contractors asked
the  Kansas   Supreme Court  how drivers are classified under that
state’s law.  Current and former drivers sued the company’s FedEx Ground
Package System Inc. unit alleging they were wrongly classified
as contractors so the company could avoid paying costs and
expenses they incurred. The drivers also seek payment of
overtime wages.  A federal court in  South Bend ,  Indiana , in August 2010
threw out the claims of drivers who were dispatched from Kansas.
The lower court used its findings in that case to reach the same
conclusion in related suits first filed in California, New York,
 New Jersey  and other states.  “No absolute rule exists for determining whether a worker
is an independent contractor or an employee,” under Kansas law,
the Chicago-based appellate panel said in a ruling today asking
that state’s high court for guidance.  Kansas courts have varied on whether drivers are employees
or independent contractors, the judges said in the ruling,
adding they’re “unsure” about the guiding principle for making
such a determination.  Lead Case  “The question appears to be a close one. And the issue is
of great importance not just to this case but to the structure
of the American workplace,” they said.  The Kansas class-action suit has been treated as the lead
case by both courts.  The appeals panel, composed of Chief Judge  Frank Easterbrook  and Judges Ilana Rovner and John Tinder, said it
won’t rule on the appeal until it receives a response from the
Kansas Supreme Court. The panel also has delayed ruling on the
other cases until after it decides the Kansas drivers’ appeal.  George A. Barton and Peter J. Agostino, lawyers for the
drivers, weren’t immediately available to comment on the appeals
court request.  The nearly 9,000 business entities with which FedEx has
contracts “are in fact independent contractors as ruled by the
federal district court in Indiana,” Patrick Fitzgerald, vice
president of communication for FedEx Ground, said in a telephone
interview.  The case is Craig v. FedEx Ground Package System Inc., 10-
3115,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  