-- House Panel Advances Bill That Accelerates Biotech Crop Reviews
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-12T20:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/house-panel-advances-bill-that-accelerates-biotech-crop-reviews.html
A U.S. House committee advanced a
bill today that would accelerate approval of genetically
modified crops from  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and other seed makers by
limiting environmental reviews and setting decision time limits.  The provisions, part of a farm-policy overhaul approved
 35-11  by the House Agriculture Committee, would limit the
ability of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  to consider most
environmental laws in determining the safety of new biotech
crops. The crops would be approved automatically if no decision
is made within 18 months.  Grain and food providers are  concerned  the bill ignores the
threat of “premature commercialization” of biotech crops,
which may affect domestic and export markets, according to the
National Grain and Feed Association, which represents more than
1,000 companies. Environmental groups also objected.  The bill “weakens the already woefully inadequate federal
oversight of genetically engineered crops, livestock and food,”
Anna Ghosh, a spokeswoman for Washington-based Food & Water
Watch, said today in a statement.  The  Biotechnology Industry Organization , whose members
include Monsanto,  DuPont Co. (DD) , and other major seed producers,
said  July 10  that the bill would “reduce unnecessary
duplication” in the regulation of genetically engineered crops
and make the system more predictable.  The bill would bar the USDA from consulting with other
agencies and from conducting environmental impact statements
under the National Environmental Policy Act, according to a July
10  letter  to committee members from the Center for  Food Safety ,
which has successfully challenged approvals of genetically
engineered crops.  “The new deadlines and diminished review process will make
a mockery of USDA’s GE crop reviews, transforming it into a
facade of ‘rubber stamp’ approval, at the urging of the  chemical
industry ,” the center said in the letter.  The provisions weren’t debated during nearly 15 hours of
committee discussion yesterday and today on the farm bill. It
will next be considered by the full House.  The bill is  H.R. 6083 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  