-- Housing Rebound Signaled as Banks Resume Foreclosures: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-07-12T13:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/housing-rebound-signaled-as-banks-resume-foreclosures-mortgages.html
U.S. lenders are notifying more
delinquent homeowners they face foreclosure, a step toward
clearing a backlog of properties and helping to accelerate a
housing recovery.  Initial notices of foreclosure, the start of the process,
jumped 6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
first annual increase since 2009, according to RealtyTrac Inc.,
a seller of housing market data. Banks at the same time found
alternatives to the final step of  seizing  the home, either by
working with the borrower or by agreeing to sell properties for
less than what was owed, with repossessions falling 22 percent.  “You have to get to the point where the market can heal
itself and foreclosures and price adjustments are the only way
that can happen,” said Anthony B. Sanders, an economics 
professor at  George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  The housing market’s rebound has been restrained by the so-
called shadow inventory of homes with mortgages at least 90 days
delinquent, in foreclosure or already owned by banks, while
 foreclosures  had been stalled since late 2010, when state
attorneys general and federal regulators began investigating
abuses by banks, including lost or doctored paperwork. They
started to pick up again after the nation’s five biggest banks
settled the probe for $25 billion in February.  “The market has to deal with these distressed properties
at some point and I believe we’ve delayed it long enough so
seeing these increases isn’t necessarily a bad thing,” said
 Daren Blomquist , a spokesman for  Irvine , California-based
RealtyTrac. “The market has strengthened and is more equipped
to absorb this additional foreclosure inventory.”  Falling Delinquencies  Mortgage  delinquencies  are dropping, with the share of home
loans at least 30 days late dropping to 7.4 percent in the first
quarter from 7.58 percent in the prior three months, according
to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . Demand for real estate is
rising amid record-low  borrowing costs  and tight inventories of
available real estate. Contracts to buy previously owned homes
 rose  5.9 percent in May, matching a two-year high reached in
March, the National Association of Realtors said.  The shadow inventory of homes fell in April to the lowest
level in more than three years as delinquencies improve and
banks find alternative means of disposing of properties,
CoreLogic Inc. said last month. Lenders increasingly are able to
avoid taking possession of homes by modifying mortgages,
reducing principal or refinancing loans, and short sales, in
which banks allow delinquent borrowers to sell properties for
less than they owe, according to RealtyTrac.  Fewer Seizures  RealtyTrac lowered its projection for home seizures in 2012
to 700,000 from 1 million, Blomquist said. While repossessions
were down for the U.S. in the second quarter, many states that
require court approval for foreclosures are seeing increases,
Blomquist said. They jumped 45 percent in  Illinois  and 32
percent in  Florida , he said.  Foreclosure starts -- notices of default or scheduled
auctions -- increased in 31 states in the second quarter from a
year earlier. For June,  California  had an 18 percent increase in
starts, which helped boost the state’s foreclosure rate for the
month to the highest in the nation for the first time since
RealtyTrac began issuing its report in January 2005.  The foreclosure process in the U.S. increased to an average
of 378 days in the second quarter, the highest in records dating
back to 2007, RealtyTrac said. In New York, the state with the
slowest process, the average time to foreclose was 1,001 days,
down 5 percent from the first quarter. The average time to
foreclose dropped 3 percent in  New Jersey , the state with the
second-longest process.  Pushing Through  “As lenders are filtering through portfolios of distressed
loans, there’s a certain batch of those that they are deeming
aren’t a good fit for a loan modification, refinancing, or even
short sale and those are the ones they’re pushing through,”
Blomquist said.  The homes that do eventually end up in foreclosure may
initially spur another drop in prices as the inventory reaches
the market, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . He predicts that
home  prices  will decline 1 percent this year and increase by 1
percent in 2013.  “More price weakness could ignite more defaults as more
underwater homeowners think that prices aren’t going to rise
anytime soon,” Zandi said yesterday in an e-mail. “The threat
is that a vicious cycle is re-ignited. I don’t expect this to
happen, but it is a risk.”  Another dip in  home prices  could push more homeowners
underwater just as a recovery was starting to take hold. In the
first quarter, about 11.4 million properties, or 23.7 percent of
homes with a mortgage, had negative equity, CoreLogic said in a
report today. That was down from 12.1 million, or 25.2 percent,
in the fourth quarter, as prices began to rise in hard hit areas
such as  Arizona , the  Santa Ana , California-based company said.  Working through the inventory is still crucial to a
sustained rebound, Zandi said.  “It will hurt a bit over the next six to 12 months, but it
is necessary to get housing and the economy on a solid
foundation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  