-- Banks’ Funding Costs Drop to Record Low as ECB Deposits Plunge
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-12T14:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/overnight-rate-swaps-drop-to-record-low-in-euro-money-markets.html
Banks’ short-term funding costs fell
to record lows as the  European Central Bank  said overnight
deposits from financial firms plunged after policy makers
stopped paying interest on the funds.  An estimate of average overnight borrowing costs in euros
over the next three months, the Eonia OIS swap, fell to as low
as 9.5 basis points from 11.1 basis points yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The three-month euro overnight
indexed average, or Eonia, dropped nine basis points to a record
low at 13 basis points yesterday.  Banks reduced  deposits  at the ECB to the lowest in seven
months after the central bank’s deposit rate cut announced on
July 5 took effect yesterday. The ECB lowered the main
refinancing rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and reduced the
deposit rate to zero to stimulate credit supply and lending.  “It’s purely technical,” said Lars Tranberg Rasmussen, a
euro-region economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “The
Eonia rate fixing drops because the deposit rate has been cut.
One of the biggest misconceptions in the market right now is
that the fall in  bank deposits  will spur interbank lending.”  The deposit rate has steered overnight market borrowing
costs since the ECB started to provide banks with unlimited
liquidity as part of its efforts to prevent a credit crunch.  Three-month Eonia will fall further to around 10 basis
points, Rasmussen said. Eonia is a weighted average of overnight
unsecured lending transactions, derived from a survey by the
European Banking Federation.  Deposit Alternatives  Three-month Euribor fell to a record low 0.497 percent from
0.512 percent yesterday. Euribor is the rate  banks  say they see
each other lending in euros, according to the same panel of
banks as contribute to Eonia.  Banks in the 17-nation euro region placed 325 billion euros
($397 billion) with the ECB from 809 billion euros the day
before. ECB Governing Council member Josef Bonnici said the drop
in deposits is “encouraging” and that banks should “see what
alternatives there are to increase their earnings.”  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was 0.455 percent from 0.466 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 10. Libor for three-month loans
in  pounds  was 0.841 percent from 0.852 yesterday. The measure is
the lowest since Aug. 8.  Libor, which acts as a benchmark for about $360 trillion of
financial instruments worldwide, is published by the British
Bankers’ Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  