-- Lowe Says Hard to Make Strong Case Australia Dollar Overvalued
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-12T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/lowe-says-hard-to-make-strong-case-australia-dollar-overvalued.html
The Australian dollar’s sustained
strength has helped balance the nation’s economic expansion, and
it’s difficult to argue that its level is unjustified,  Reserve
Bank  Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said today.  “That’s been an important stabilizing influence in the
economy,” he told a forum of economists in Sydney today. “The
inflow of foreign capital into the  bond market  has, at the
margin, pushed up the currency a bit. But at least where the
currency is at the moment, I think it’s hard to make a strong
case that it’s fundamentally overvalued.”  The so-called Aussie has soared 100 percent since the start
of 2002 as demand for the country’s iron ore and coal to fuel
China and India’s urbanization sent prices for the commodities
soaring. The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has kept  interest rates 
higher than most other developed-world central banks to contain
inflation spurred by the export income, further adding to the
attractiveness of the currency.  The local dollar bought $1.0244 at 10:57 a.m. in Sydney,
little changed from $1.0251 late yesterday in New York. It
jumped 5.2 percent in June, the biggest monthly advance since
October, even after RBA rate cuts.  The central bank reduced the benchmark rate by 125 basis
points from November to June, including a 50-point cut in May
designed to help drive down  mortgage rates , as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis slows growth in China,  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner. Non-resource industries have received little
respite from the currency, which is trading at a similar level
to that after the Nov. 1 quarter-percentage-point cut.  Strong Growth  First-quarter gross domestic product advanced 1.3 percent
from the previous three months, a government report showed last
month. Compared with a year earlier, the economy expanded 4.3
percent, the fastest annual pace since the third quarter of
2007, the report showed.  The expansion has helped elevate the Aussie 46 percent
since 2008, the biggest gain across more than 150 currencies, as
overseas buyers raised Australian government bond holdings to
A$200 billion ($205 billion) as of March 31, from A$47 billion
three years earlier.  “If these flows of capital continue to come in for purely
financial reasons, we could face the issue where the currency is
higher for purely financial reasons and not because of the
fundamentals of the underlying economy,” Lowe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  