-- P&G CEO Under More Pressure With Ackman as Investor
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-12T20:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/p-g-gains-after-ftc-reports-deal-with-ackman-s-pershing.html
Activist investor  William Ackman 
bought a stake in  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , increasing pressure on
Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald , who already was under
attack from investors after three forecast cuts this year.  The stake is the largest initial investment in a company by
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP, Ackman said,
while declining to give a specific figure.  McDonald has faced criticism amid slowing sales in the U.S.
and Europe and questions about whether his pricing and cost-
cutting measures and his sale of the Pringles brand is enough to
improve results. The stock had dropped 8 percent this year
through yesterday.  “Procter has languished for so long,”  Connie Maneaty , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York, said in an
interview. “There has been the perception that Procter is so
big that investors have little say, and maybe the significance
is that if an activist base does grow, that meaningful change
can be effected.”  P&G, based in Cincinnati, rose 3.7 percent to $63.70 at the
close in New York, the biggest gain since Oct. 29, 2009.  P&G, the maker of Tide laundry detergent and Duracell
batteries, most recently cut its profit forecast last month,
citing currency fluctuations and rising commodity costs, even as
competitors reaffirmed their projections. In February, McDonald,
who took over three years ago, announced a $10 billion cost-
reduction plan that included 5,700 job cuts.  Canadian Pacific  Ackman this year won an effort to remove  Canadian Pacific
Railway Ltd. (CP)  CEO  Fred Green  and replace him with Hunter Harrison.  Ackman pushed  Fortune Brands Inc. (FBHS)  to break up, and the
company last year split into spirits maker  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  and a
company that sells home products such as faucets and locks. More
than two years ago, he led a failed effort to get  Target Corp. (TGT) 
to sell its card unit and divest its land holdings into a real
estate investment trust.  “He’s involved because they have several business units
that could possibly be spun off,” Louis Meyer, a special-
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York, said
in an interview.  P&G should consider a break-up if its earnings don’t
improve this year,  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report last month.  ‘Galvanize’ Investors  Pershing’s presence could “galvanize palpable investor
frustration with respect to P&G’s recent performance and current
direction,” Dibadj said today in a note. Strategies to explore
should include management changes, more rapid cost cutting and a
potential breakup, he said.  “We welcome investment in our company,” Paul Fox, a P&G
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are focused on
creating shareholder value by executing on our plan to deliver
top- and bottom-line growth through our $10 billion cost savings
program, renewing our focus on innovation, pricing initiatives
and improved execution, and reallocating resources to invest in
the highest return opportunities.”  Mitch Katz, an FTC spokesman, declined to give any details
about the deal and wouldn’t confirm the agency reviewed it. U.S.
law requires deals valued at $68.2 million or more to be
reviewed by antitrust regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  