-- P&G to Philip Morris Blame Currency for Forecast Cuts
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/p-g-to-philip-morris-blame-currency-for-forecast-cuts.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  found a common culprit for weaker
financial results in recent weeks: changes in currency values.  P&G, the world’s largest consumer products company, had
initially been counting on foreign exchange to bolster results
this year. Instead, Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  told
investors last month it’s turned into “a strong headwind” that
may have cut about $3 billion in revenue and at least $400
million in profit from previous projections.  The currency blame game is just beginning, with second-
quarter earnings reports kicking off this week. Members in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are forecast to end 10 straight
quarters of profit gains and report a 1.8 percent profit decline
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CEOs tend to point their fingers at external causes when
they come up short, even if they’re given millions in
compensation for their management prowess, said Jeff Sonnenfeld,
a professor at the  Yale School of Management  who lectures on
corporate governance. McDonald, who had total compensation of
$16.2 million last year, has cut forecasts three times this year
and come under fire from analysts who fault poor execution for
the Cincinnati-based company’s market share losses.  ‘Woe Is Us’  “From the perspective of the CEO, good news is their own
doing and bad news is an externality,” said Sonnenfeld. “It’s
Europe and currency. It’s Obamacare. It’s all this horrible
uncertainty. Woe is us. The problem is, you often have
competitors in the same industry and they aren’t all suffering
the same injury.”  P&G rival  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  reaffirmed a full-year
forecast for adjusted earnings of $5 to $5.15 a share on April
20. Analysts  estimate  sales and earnings rose in the second
quarter.  The company  generated about half of its revenue outside
 North America  last year, compared with 59 percent  for P&G .  Unless they are hedged against the risk of an appreciation
of the dollar, U.S. companies are taking in less revenue for
products sold in places like  Brazil ,  India ,  Russia  and the euro
region. The dollar erased year-to-date losses against most major
counterparts in the second quarter as investors sought the
safety of U.S. assets amid Europe’s credit crisis. The euro had
its worst period versus the dollar since the third quarter of
2011, weakening 5.1 percent.  “There may be many companies caught flat-footed on this,”
said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The long term
hedge has been to protect against a weaker dollar and a stronger
euro.”  ’Not Excuses’  P&G is focused on its top businesses, innovations and
developing markets, as well as its $10 billion cost savings
program, said Paul Fox, a company spokesman.  “Headwinds such as currency and commodities are not
excuses but are realities we feel are helpful to explain to
investors,” Fox said. “Since they are out of our control, we
are focused on what we can influence so we can return to
stronger growth.”  Some companies have found ways to mitigate the losses.
 Adobe Systems Inc., (ADBE)  which generated about 57 percent of its
sales outside the U.S. last year, used hedging to cut $10.7
million from a potential $14.5 million reduction in revenue
related to currency for the fiscal second quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in a June 19 conference
call.  Google’s Hedging  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  currency hedging probably helped the company
lessen the hit of a stronger dollar in the second quarter,
reducing revenue by 2.1 percent instead of 3.7 percent, said
Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., in a
July 11 report. The company may still miss sales estimates when
it reports next week, he said. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for
 Mountain View , California-based Google, declined to comment.  About 81 percent of Fortune 100 companies report they are
actively hedging currency in some way, according to an analysis
of regulatory filings by Fireapps Inc., a Scottsdale, Arizona-
based company that makes software to help manage fluctuations.  “Nobody should be surprised by this, that is why they have
treasury departments,” said Fireapps CEO Wolfgang Koester. The
CEO needs to ensure the treasury department has the funds to
deal with currency issues, “but a lot of the time the treasury
department isn’t given enough money to solve a huge problem.”  Philip Morris Cuts  Philip Morris  cited the dollar’s strength in cutting its
full-year earnings forecast to $5.10 to $5.20 a share on June
21, from an April prediction of $5.20 to $5.30. The New York-
based cigarette maker, a spinoff of  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , gets all
its revenue outside the U.S., including 30 percent from the
European Union last year.  “It will not come as a shock to you that currency has
moved in the wrong direction since April,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Louis Camilleri told analysts June 21.  One day earlier,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  also said headwinds from a
stronger dollar increased in the second quarter. The Purchase,
New York-based company gives its forecast on a constant currency
basis and anticipates fluctuations will equalize over time. The
snack and soda maker made about half its revenue outside the
U.S. last year.  “As it relates to currencies, we do hedge transaction to
the degree that we can,” CFO Hugh Johnston said on June 20
during the same Paris investor conference where P&G cut its
forecast.  “It’s fairly challenging to predict at this point.”  CEO Pay  CEOs are paid in part to manage outside factors such as
currency fluctuation. The adjusted average compensation of CEOs
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to $12.9 million in
2011, or 380 times the average worker’s pay, the  AFL-CIO  said in
an April report. That’s up from $625,000, or 42 times the
average worker’s pay, in 1980, based on the report.  P&G’s McDonald and Philip Morris’s Camilleri both made more
than the average CEO in the  S&P 500  last year, with Camilleri
receiving total compensation of $21.6 million. The companies are
two of the biggest in the index.  “CEOs are not hired to take blame,” said  James Post , a
professor at Boston University School of Management who has
written about governance and business ethics. “The board wants
a CEO who is going to proclaim victory, or better, achieve it.”  When a CEO is forced to admit a failure of strategy or
execution, the goal is often to find a unit or another person to
blame, Post said.  ‘So Many Excuses’  P&G’s McDonald faced such criticism from Wendy Nicholson,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, on an April 27
conference call. The owner of Tide and Gillette is scheduled to
report fiscal full-year earnings next month.  “There’s so many excuses,” she said. “‘Not our fault,
competition didn’t follow the pricing; not our fault, Venezuela
changed; not our fault, the developed consumer isn’t robust.’”  P&G’s McDonald responded by saying he would get the  right
leaders  and programs in place to deliver. The company lost
market share after raising prices and is now reducing prices in
six categories, including North American oral care, razor blades
and dish care, as well as laundry detergent in the U.S., U.K.
and Mexico.  “It is my fault,” McDonald said at the time. “I am the
CEO of the company. I do take responsibility.”  PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi also took responsibility in
February for decisions that led to a depressed share price.
Management didn’t do enough to support the brands, especially in
North American beverages, and didn’t anticipate commodity
volatility in 2010 and 2011, she told investors at a meeting in
New York.  ‘Drop of Blood’  The propensity of analysts to see any “drop of blood as a
reason to peck a company to death” fuels a reluctance by
companies and their CEOs to be any more forthcoming than
necessary, says Elaine Eisenman, dean of executive and
enterprise education at Babson College in Wellesley,
Massachusetts, and a director at shoe retailer  DSW Inc. (DSW)   “You’re in between a rock and a hard place,” she said.
“There’s a balance between what investors need to know and what
it would be nice to know. You don’t want to be premature.”  Undoubtedly, fewer CEOs were previously crediting a weak
dollar for helping profits returning to the U.S. from other
countries, said Sonnenfeld, the Yale professor.  “If you’re walking down the street, and you trip, you
think, ‘Gosh, can’t this city pave these streets?’” Sonnenfeld
said. “But if you’re watching the person, you think, ‘What a
clumsy fool. Can’t chew gum and walk at the same time.’ It
depends on whether you’re the actor or the observer. The CEO is
the actor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  