-- P&G’s Directors Said to Discuss Need to Replace CEO McDonald
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-13T16:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/p-g-board-members-said-to-discuss-need-to-replace-ceo-mcdonald.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  board members
are dissatisfied with Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald ’s
performance and are discussing a possible leadership change,
according to people familiar with the situation.  Some P&G directors are talking about contacting former
executives to potentially take the top job, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private.  James McNerney , who is chairman of the board’s
compensation and leadership development committee, has told
other members of the  board  he is unhappy with McDonald’s
performance, especially after the company cut forecasts three
times this year, another person said.  The board’s discussions in part coincide with activist
investor  William Ackman  taking a stake in P&G. Ackman plans to
press for management changes and is seeking more investors to
join his push, the people said.  The moves increase pressure on McDonald, 59, who has been
CEO for about three years and came under fire from analysts
earlier this year when P&G lost market share to competitors. The
stock had fallen 8 percent this year through July 11, giving the
Cincinnati-based company a market value of about $168 billion.
The shares rose 2.7 percent to $65.43 at 11:56 a.m. in New York.  Former Executives  “This is a really good company with some serious
problems,” said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York. He has recommended P&G consider a breakup if
earnings don’t improve this year. “A lot of those problems have
been driven by management.”  Directors don’t see a clear internal candidate to replace
McDonald, one person said. A.G. Lafley preceded McDonald as CEO,
while other former executives include Paul Polman, the CEO of
Unilever, who ran P&G’s European business until 2006.  Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G, declined to comment.
McNerney, who is also the CEO of  Boeing Co. (BA) , declined to
comment.  P&G, the maker of Tide laundry detergent and Duracell
batteries, most recently cut its profit forecast last month,
citing currency fluctuations and rising commodity costs, even as
competitors reaffirmed their projections. In February, McDonald
announced a $10 billion cost-reduction plan that included 5,700
job cuts.  ‘Smidgen Premature’  “If he has lost the confidence of the board, I’m sure they
are going to make a change,” Janna Sampson, who helps manage
about $2.9 billion, including P&G shares, at OakBrook
Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said by telephone. “But it does
seem a smidgen premature. I’m not sure the problems are of the
CEO’s making. He started in a tough economy, and it’s not gotten
much better.”  In response to Ackman buying a stake, P&G said that it
welcomes investment in the company.  “We are focused on creating shareholder value by executing
on our plan to deliver top- and bottom-line  growth  through our
$10 billion cost savings program, renewing our focus on
innovation, pricing initiatives and improved execution, and
reallocating resources to invest in the highest return
opportunities,” P&G’s Fox said in an e-mailed statement.  Ackman, who has lobbied for shakeups at companies including
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , said in an e-
mail that the P&G stake purchase is his largest initial
investment ever.  Canadian Pacific  The activist investor this year won an effort to remove
Canadian Pacific CEO  Fred Green  and replace him with  Hunter Harrison . Ackman also pushed Fortune Brands Inc. to break up,
and the company last year split into spirits maker  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  and
a company that sells home products such as faucets and locks.
More than two years ago, he led a failed effort to get Target to
sell its card unit and divest its land holdings into a real-
estate investment trust.  P&G’s other shareholders include  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
led by billionaire  Warren Buffett . The firm held a stake of
about 73.3 million shares, or 2.7 percent, as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 76.8
million at the end of 2011.  McDonald took over P&G’s top job in July 2009 after serving
as chief operating officer. A West Point graduate, McDonald rose
to lead the company’s Northeast Asia operations in 1999 after
stints in the Philippines and Japan. In 2001, he became
president of the global fabric and home-care business. Three
years later, he was made vice chairman for global operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  