-- Pena Nieto Push to Open Mexico Oil Fields Sparks Exxon Interest
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M .   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-07-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/pena-nieto-push-to-open-mexico-oil-fields-sparks-exxon-interest.html
When it was discovered in 1976,
 Mexico ’s offshore Cantarell oil field was one of the world’s
largest, and it quickly became a money machine for  Petroleos
Mexicanos , the giant state-owned  oil company  known as Pemex.  Thanks to this bonanza, Mexico became one of the top three
sources of  crude for the U.S.  and Pemex became the biggest
source of  tax revenue  for the government. Cantarell seemed to
justify Mexico’s expulsion of the big British and American  oil
companies  in 1938, and its policy ever since of forbidding
outside investors from exploring and producing in the country,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 16-22 edition. The
ban on major outside investment in Pemex is even enshrined in
the Mexican constitution.  Today, Cantarell’s output is shrinking. Pemex’s total
production declined to 2.5 million barrels a day last year, from
3.4 million in 2004, and in the last quarter oil exports to the
U.S. hit the lowest quarterly average since 1993. Pemex
estimates it has 27 billion barrels of untapped oil in the
deepwater Gulf, but it is relying on limited in-house experience
and third-party technology to exploit it. So far it has failed
to find any commercially viable crude after 20 attempts. Pemex
lost $7.4 billion last year on $126 billion in revenue, its
fifth consecutive annual loss.  Incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto has declared that
overhauling Pemex will be his “signature issue.” His
Institutional Revolutionary Party-led alliance wants outside oil
companies to invest in Pemex’s exploration and development
activities.  ‘Extraordinary Step Forward’  “He knows it would be an extraordinary step forward, as
extraordinary as was Nafta,” says historian  Enrique Krauze ,
referring to the  North American Free Trade Agreement , which was
implemented in 1994. Nafta spurred a sixfold increase in Mexican
sales to the U.S.  The prospect of Pena Nieto allowing outside investment in
Mexico’s oil fields has caught the attention of companies such
as ExxonMobil. Mexico needs to open up to “partnerships and
collaborations and bringing technology” to bear on its
resources, ExxonMobil chief Rex Tillerson said on June 27.  “The interest would be huge from the international
standpoint, similar to Iraq,” says Jeremy Martin, an oil
specialist at the Institute of the Americas in  La Jolla , Calif.  Opening up the oil sector may boost gross domestic product
by as much as 0.8 percent a year, according to research firm
 Capital Economics . Combined with the discovery of significant
amounts of shale gas in northern Mexico, tapping deepwater oil
could create an era of low energy costs for the country.  Transform the Psychology  Inviting outsiders to invest in Pemex could also transform
the psychology of business in Mexico. To change Pemex, Pena
Nieto will have to challenge entrenched interests, from the
unions to local officials, who have all benefited from Pemex’s
largesse. If he succeeds he could tackle other monopolies and
duopolies in power generation, telecom, and  cable television 
that make life so expensive for Mexicans.  It will not be easy for Pena Nieto to pull off an ambitious
reform of Pemex. The alliance led by his party, known in Mexico
as the PRI, will have 240 seats in the 500-seat lower house.  That leaves the PRI well short of the two-thirds majority
needed for constitutional changes to open up the oil industry to
private investment. One thing in Pena Nieto’s favor: The
 National Action Party , or PAN, of outgoing President  Felipe
Calderon  may back his plans to reform Pemex. PAN Senator Ruben
Camarillo said on July 3 that his party favors opening the
 energy industry  and will support reforms that benefit Mexico
regardless of who proposes them.  Building Consensus  Popular opinion is also starting to shift in favor of big
changes at Pemex.  Brazil ’s success in turning around its oil
industry and mastering the art of deepwater drilling has
Mexicans wondering why Pemex can’t do the same.  Then there’s fear of the so-called straw effect, in which
some  oil deposits  that straddle international boundaries in the
Gulf might be exploited first from the U.S. side, leaving no
crude by the time Pemex manages to obtain the technology and
experience it needs to produce from those depths.  Pena Nieto has said he may present the needed
constitutional changes after the new congress begins work
Sept. 1 and before he takes office Dec. 1.  He may have gone some way toward building consensus for the
constitutional changes within the PRI party by consulting with
Pemex’s powerful oil workers’ union and other labor groups,
which have traditionally supported the party.  “More investment means more jobs,” Pemex labor union
leader and PRI Senator-elect Carlos Romero Deschamps said in a
June 19 interview.  The president-to-be also has to woo holdouts in his own
party, which created Pemex. “Support from PRI factions is
fundamental to pass reform,” says  Jorge Chabat , a political
science professor at the Center for  Economic Research  and
Teaching in Mexico City. Some party member may still be
“against the idea of opening the sector to foreign investment,
but at the end of the day they will fall into line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  