-- Pennsylvania Is Key to Republican Vote-Blocking
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-07-12T23:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/pennsylvania-is-key-to-republican-vote-blocking.html
Other than the candidates, the most
important person in the 2012 U.S. presidential campaign so far
might be the billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , or maybe one of the
Koch brothers.  But now it looks like it could be  Pennsylvania  Commonwealth
Court Judge Robert Simpson. If he upholds a new Pennsylvania
election law at the end of this month and the decision survives
appeal, hundreds of thousands of voters, most of them Democrats,
may be disenfranchised.  That, in turn, could put Pennsylvania, once considered a
blue state, into the Romney column and swing the election.  The Pennsylvania story offers another example of the rank
cynicism of those who favor democracy everywhere in the world
except the U.S.  After I wrote last month about the Republicans’ well-
orchestrated efforts to suppress Democratic voting around the
country, I received many critical e-mails saying that people are
required to have photo ID to get into buildings, cash checks and
perform other daily tasks, so why not require photo ID to vote?  Fair enough, but what these critics don’t understand is
that in states such as Pennsylvania, the kinds of photo ID valid
for everyday tasks will no longer be good enough for voting. The
goal of these laws isn’t matching names and faces to protect the
integrity of the ballot box. The goal is to beat Democrats.  Other Shenanigans  State Representative Mike Turzai, the Pennsylvania House
majority leader, let the  cat out of the bag  at a Republican
State Committee meeting about the party’s legislative
accomplishments. “Voter ID -- which is going to allow  Governor
Romney  to win the state of Pennsylvania -- done,” he told the
applauding crowd.  Lest you think the new Pennsylvania law is merely like
gerrymandering congressional districts or the other shenanigans
undertaken by both parties for political advantage, consider
what happened next.  In the run-up to passage of the bill, Pennsylvania
Secretary of State Carol Aichele promoted a study  estimating 
that 99 percent of the state’s registered voters already have
valid photo ID from the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation that would allow them to vote. In other words,
the whole thing was no big deal.  It  turned out  that 9.2 percent of the state’s 8.2 million
registered voters -- 758,000 people -- did not have ID from
PennDOT. Very big deal.  Given that the state says more than 150,000 are inactive
voters, that there’s normally some confusion over names and
addresses, and that some nondrivers hold U.S. passports or carry
photo ID showing they are active duty military or work full-time
for the government, the actual number is probably smaller. For
the sake of argument, let’s say that 500,000 Pennsylvanians are
in danger of having their right to vote stripped away.  That’s a half-million people, some of whom have voted for
years, now discouraged from voting or potentially
disenfranchised because they don’t drive and don’t know they
need to go downtown and fill out more paperwork before they can
cast ballots.  Yes, those half-million people can get a PennDOT ID free,
so Pennsylvania is technically not guilty of applying a poll
tax, as Attorney General Eric Holder  charged   Texas  with doing
this week in a speech to the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People.  But tell me again why it’s so different than the
grandfather clauses, literacy tests and other ways that whites
kept blacks from exercising their constitutional right to vote
in the Jim Crow South?  Poll Tax  Oh yeah, it’s not blatant racism, only a huge power grab
from hundreds of thousands of people who live overwhelmingly in
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and are too poor to own cars.  Are they mostly black? We don’t know yet because Aichele,
in defiance of the spirit of public disclosure laws, is dragging
her feet on releasing the list. Philadelphia City Commissioner
Stephanie Singer says that’s because Aichele knows any sign of
racial discrimination would help the plaintiffs in their suit
against the law, which goes to state court July 25.  “People tell me, ‘We don’t know anybody who doesn’t have a
driver’s license,’” Singer told me. “I tell them, the reason you
don’t know anybody like that is that they don’t leave their
neighborhoods.”  In fact, many of the disenfranchised poor have other types
of photo ID, but those are not valid for voting under the new
law. Some people have photo ID bus cards issued by a
metropolitan transportation authority. No good. Others work for
city contractors and have city-issued photo ID that gets them
into secured buildings. No dice, unless they work for the
government directly. Veterans have photo ID that gives them
entry into Veterans Affairs facilities. Nope. Can’t use it to
vote, even if you’ve voted since the  Korean War .  Under pressure, student ID was allowed, but only if
colleges affix tens of thousands of stickers with expiration
dates. No out-of-state college ID is valid, even for students on
the Pennsylvania voter rolls. What an inspiring message for
young people, whose only offense is that they tend to vote
Democratic.  Barack Obama  carried Pennsylvania by 10 percentage points
in 2008, but some polls show him up by only five points this
time around. Pennsylvania might now be in play. If it goes for
 Mitt Romney , it’s hard to see how he loses the election.  Although Obama campaign officials say they aren’t worried
yet, they’re making contingency plans for a huge voter outreach
program. “We will pursue all legal remedies but we cannot and
will not depend on legal action alone,” Bob Bauer, the counsel
to the campaign, told me.  Obama field organizers are hoping that this grim news will
pump up volunteers, who will show residents how to obtain valid
ID and register more people in the process. But many of the
hundreds of thousands of endangered voters are presumed to be
elderly, and it won’t be easy getting them to a PennDOT office
to obtain a new card.  This election isn’t just Democrats versus Republicans. It’s
about whether we want more democracy or less.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ; Stephen L.
Carter on our  national Lincoln obsession ; William Pesek on  North
Korea ’s  opening to the West ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  Barclays Libor
scandal ; John H. Cochrane on  fixing health care ; Frederic Block
on how he  sentences federal criminals.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 