-- Pentagon Rescinds Short-Report Rule Lawmakers Criticized
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-12T18:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/pentagon-rescinds-short-report-rule-lawmakers-criticized.html
The Pentagon revoked a year-old
guideline that most reports to Congress shouldn’t exceed 10
pages after the restriction triggered protests from Republicans
on the House Armed Services Committee.  “We have rescinded the guidance,” Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  told reporters at a briefing today. “We take
seriously this concern, we’ve addressed it, and we’re turning
the page.”  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon demanded yesterday that Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
reverse the policy within 24 hours.  McKeon, a California Republican, said committee members
learned of the policy yesterday morning when they received a
shorter-than-expected annual report on  China ’s military might.
When McKeon complained to Pentagon aides who provided a
classified briefing to accompany the report, he said they told
him of the department’s short-report directive.  The policy “reeks of obstructionism, a lack of
transparency, and is harmful to constitutionally mandated
congressional oversight and national security,” McKeon wrote in
a letter to Panetta that he and fellow Republicans presented at
a news conference. “Mr. Secretary, this policy must be
rescinded immediately.”  Little said yesterday in a statement that the directive
never sought to restrict information to Congress. He said the
department prepares more than 500 reports to Congress each year
and wants to do so in a way that saves costs and provides
information “in the most readable and usable format possible.”  The flap comes at a time of tension between the Democratic
Obama administration and Republicans on the defense panel.
Republicans say the White House and Pentagon withhold too much
information on defense strategy and the impact of automatic
defense cuts that may take place in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  