-- Peregrine, Audits, Libor, Martin Marietta: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-12T13:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/peregrine-audits-libor-martin-marietta-compliance.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
futures customers won’t have their losses covered by the
Securities Investor Protection Corp. even if they were
defrauded, the fund’s chief said.  The U.S. Securities Investor Protection Act provisions make
customers of a futures commission merchant like Peregrine
ineligible for payment, SIPC Chief Executive Officer Stephen P.
Harbeck said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Harbeck said his organization, an industry fund that covers
losses from brokerage firm failures, has been told Peregrine’s
futures business is in a company separate from the registered
broker-dealer that’s covered by SIPC. Peregrine’s securities
broker traded on a so-called fully disclosed basis where the
accounts are held by a unit of Sterne Agee Group Inc., Harbeck
said.  While securities customers can look to Sterne Agee, futures
customers aren’t covered, he said. A representative of Sterne
Agee declined to comment.  “SIPC has not been informed that it is appropriate to take
action at this time,” Harbeck said.  If the information Harbeck said SIPC was given is borne
out, the collapse of Peregrine won’t unfold like MF Global Inc.
and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., where SIPC
named trustees and paid the costs of the liquidation.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation in
Chicago Tuesday after being sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which accused the firm and its founder,
Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., of misappropriating at least $200
million.  Separately, a Republican commissioner of the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, yesterday said the agency must take
immediate steps to safeguard customer funds.  The futures regulator should call an emergency meeting of
its technology advisory committee to weigh an industry-funded
system to verify customer funds daily,  Scott O’Malia  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  For more on the interview, click here.  Peregrine’s bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Compliance Policy  SEC Adopts Consolidated Audit Trail to Boost Trade Oversight  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule
yesterday that would build a single system to monitor and
analyze trading activity across U.S. equity and options markets.  In a 3-2 vote, the SEC’s members agreed to require
securities exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority to create a so-called consolidated audit trail that
will enable the reconstruction of market crises and analyze
trading on 13 equity exchanges, 10 options markets and more than
200 broker-dealers that execute stock trades away from public
venues. The effort is part of the agency’s response to the May
6, 2010, stock rout that temporarily erased $862 billion in U.S.
equity value.  “A consolidated audit trail that accurately tracks orders
throughout their lifecycle and identifies the broker-dealers
handling them will provide us with an unprecedented ability to
effectively oversee the markets we regulate,” said SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro .  The SEC has already implemented circuit breakers to halt
trading when a company’s shares move 10 percent in five minutes.
Still, Schapiro has pressed for tools that would allow faster
and broader oversight of trading activity. After the 2010 market
disruption, it took a 20-person SEC team three months to collect
and process quote and trade data that arrived in different
formats from exchanges and brokers.  Schapiro, a political independent appointed by President
Barack Obama, had to rely on the support of Republican
Commissioners Troy Paredes and Daniel Gallagher to adopt the
rule. The two Democrats on the SEC, Elisse Walter and  Luis
Aguilar , opposed the measure, saying it doesn’t go far enough.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Barclays, U.S. Say Libor Probe Has ‘No Effect’ on 2010 Case  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the U.S. Justice Department said the
bank’s settlement of allegations involving its manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate has “no effect” on a 2010
deferred-prosecution agreement.  Barclays’s conduct related to its submissions of benchmark
interest rates occurred from about 2005 through 2009 -- before
the bank signed the agreement, lawyers for Barclays and the U.S.
said yesterday in a filing in federal court in Washington.  “Because the conduct preceded the term of the DPA, which
began on August 16, 2010, it does not affect whether Barclays is
in compliance with the DPA,” according to the joint filing.  On June 27, Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($449
million), the largest penalties ever imposed by regulators in
the U.S. and U.K., after admitting it submitted false London and
euro interbank offered rates. Part of that fine went to the
Justice Department, which agreed not to prosecute the bank for
what it called “illegal conduct.”  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  on June 28 ordered the
parties to explain how the Libor settlement affected the 2010
agreement, which involves a $298 million settlement with the
U.S. over illegal dealings with such nations as Sudan and Iran.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Mark
Lane, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined to
comment.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, must
comply until Aug. 16 with the terms of the deferred-prosecution
agreement, which the judge approved on Aug. 18, 2010. Such
agreements allow a company to avoid a criminal conviction as
long as the terms of the deal are met.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Swiss Bank Regulator Assists Foreign Authorities in Libor Probe  Switzerland’s financial regulator has provided assistance
after receiving several requests for help from foreign
authorities probing the rigging of the London interbank offered
rate.  We have “given assistance already,” said Tobias Lux, a
spokesman for the Bern, Switzerland-based Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, without providing further details. “We
are in contact with foreign authorities and are talking to
Credit Suisse and UBS.”  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, are among at least 12 banks being investigated for Libor-
setting practices by regulators worldwide. Both of the Zurich-
based lenders have said they are cooperating with the
investigations.  In the Courts  Delaware Court Explains Martin Marietta-Vulcan Ruling  The Delaware Supreme Court expanded on a May 31 ruling from
the bench, concluding in a written opinion that a lower court
properly found  Martin Marietta  Materials Inc. couldn’t proceed
with a hostile takeover of rock-crushing rival  Vulcan Materials
Co. (VMC)   “It is undisputed that the confidentiality agreements in
this case were true confidentiality agreements,” violated by
Martin Marietta, the justices said in a 42-page explanatory
opinion released Tuesday.  The agreements “did not categorically preclude Martin from
making a hostile takeover bid for Vulcan,” the justices wrote.
“What they did was preclude Martin from using and disclosing
Vulcan’s confidential, nonpublic information.”  After amicable merger talks broke off, Raleigh, North
Carolina-based Martin Marietta in December offered to exchange
half a share for each share of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan
in a $4.7 billion deal that would have created the world’s
largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  The companies sued each other over the hostile bid, and in
an opinion May 4 after a non-jury trial, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine Jr. decided that Martin Marietta didn’t comply
with confidentiality provisions and said it couldn’t pursue
Vulcan for four months.  Martin Marietta appealed and the Delaware Supreme Court
agreed with Strine after a May 31 hearing.  Jamie Tully, a Vulcan spokesman, in an e-mailed comment
reiterated a company statement from May, lauding the decision
and the “court’s careful consideration” and saying management
is “committed to enhancing long-term value” for shareholders.  Andrea Calise, Martin Marietta spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on
the opinion.  The case is  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  v. Vulcan
Materials Co., CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Bayer to Pay $15 Million to Settle Aspirin Marketing Suit  A  Bayer AG (BAYN)  unit will pay $15 million to settle a lawsuit
claiming it illegally marketed aspirin mixed with supplements.  The settlement between the unit, Bayer Healthcare LLC, and
U.S. consumers received preliminary approval yesterday from a
federal judge in Brooklyn, New York.  “Clearly, this was a hard-fought case,” Judge Brian M.
Cogan said at a hearing. “The settlement negotiations were
extensive. Significant compromises were made by both sides.”  Bayer Healthcare was sued by consumers in 2008 over its
Bayer Women’s Low Dose Aspirin + Calcium and Bayer Aspirin with
Heart Advantage, containing the supplement phytosterols.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration warned the company
the same year that it considered the aspirin mixtures
“unapproved new drugs” and that they were being sold
unlawfully. Over-the-counter drugs don’t typically require FDA
approval as long as they conform to pre-approved formulas,
according to the agency’s website.  The settlement would include all U.S. consumers who
purchased the drugs within predetermined timeframes. The deal
requires final approval by the court.  Anne Coiley, a spokeswoman for Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer, didn’t have an immediate comment on the settlement.  The case is Goldberg v. Bayer Healthcare LLC, 1:08-
cv-04623, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  AU Optronics, LG Display, Toshiba Settle LCD Price-Fixing Case  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ,  LG Display Co. (066570)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  agreed
to pay $543.5 million to resolve allegations they conspired to
fix prices of flat-screen panels used in TVs and computer
monitors.  Money from the settlement will be available to consumers in
24 states who overpaid for electronics because of the alleged
price-fixing, said San Francisco attorney  Joseph Alioto , co-lead
counsel representing screen purchasers suing the companies.  The manufacturers will also pay $27.5 million in civil
penalties to eight states, bringing the total to $571 million,
he said without specifying how much each will pay. The companies
confirmed a settlement agreement was reached.  A court filing seeking approval of the settlement will be
filed today in federal court in San Francisco, he said.  Toshiba will pay $21 million if the settlement is approved
by the court, Keisuke Oomori, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based
company, said by phone today.  “Toshiba denies any wrongdoing on its part in the LCD
business, and we entered settlement to avoid further expense and
the distraction of protracted litigation,” Oomori said.  AU Optronics has already made sufficient provisions for the
settlement and expects no material impact on its operations or
finances, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in an exchange
 filing  today. Claire Ohm, a spokeswoman for Seoul-based  LG
Display (034220) , confirmed that a settlement had been reached and
declined further comment in an e-mail.  Combined with an earlier settlement with other panel makers
for $538.5 million, approved yesterday by a federal judge, the
cash settlement of more than $1 billion sets a record for
recovery in a class action, or group, lawsuit over price-fixing,
Alioto said.  The companies are alleged to have fixed prices for the
screens, driving up prices from 1999 to 2006, according to the
class-action lawsuit filed in 2007.  The case is In RE TFT-LCD Antitrust Litigation, 07-01827,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Bank of America Securities Fraud Suit Narrowed by U.S. Judge  Bank of America Corp . won a federal court ruling dismissing
claims against former Chief Executive Officer  Ken Lewis  and
others in a securities fraud lawsuit over the bank’s use of an
electronic mortgage registry.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan yesterday
granted a motion to dismiss claims against bank executives
including Lewis and board members. The judge ruled that some
securities fraud claims could be refiled and said that other
claims alleging violations of securities law are dismissed with
prejudice.  Pennsylvania Public School Employees’ Retirement System
alleged in a lawsuit the bank purposefully concealed its
reliance on Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc., or
MERS, and its exposure to billions of dollars of loan repurchase
claims arising from the sale of mortgage-backed securities.  The pension plan claimed it suffered substantial damage as
a result of purchasing securities after Bank of America
concealed this material information to facilitate the repayment
of funds it borrowed from the U.S. government in connection with
the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on Pauley’s
ruling.  The case is Pennsylvania Public School Employees’
Retirement System v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  11-cv-733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kinnucan’s Wife Tells SEC Case Judge She Has Negative Net Worth  The wife of John Kinnucan, the Broadband Research LLC
founder accused of insider-trading, is asking a federal judge to
suspend a case filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, saying she has a negative net worth.  Catherine Kinnucan, the wife of the jailed analyst, said in
a letter to U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in New York, who
is presiding over the SEC case, that she has “zero” income and
that there is “nothing for the SEC to recoup.”  John Kinnucan, who pleaded not guilty to the criminal
charges, was indicted Feb. 21, accused of passing inside tips to
hedge fund clients about  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies
Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies. He “befriended” employees of public
technology companies, obtained nonpublic information from them
and passed it to his fund manager clients, prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara allege.  “John assured me he was exercising due diligence with
respect to operating his business in full compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations,” Catherine  Kinnucan said in
an April 24, 2012, letter to Nathan made public yesterday.  John Kinnucan remains in custody in the federal jail in
Brooklyn, New York, unable to raise $5 million bond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 