-- Peru, Chile Likely to Hold Rates Steady Amid Sustained Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-07-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/peru-chile-likely-to-hold-rates-steady-amid-sustained-growth.html
Chile and Peru probably will decline
to follow  Brazil ’s lead in cutting  interest rates  today as
sustained economic growth and slowing inflation in each country
give central bankers little reason to alter monetary policy.  Policy makers in Chile will keep borrowing costs at 5
percent for the sixth straight month, while their counterparts
in Peru will keep their overnight rate at  4.25 percent  for a
14th straight meeting, according to the median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys of economists.  The two Andean economies will be among Latin America’s
fastest growing in 2012 while also posting some of the region’s
lowest inflation rates, according to International Monetary Fund
forecasts. In contrast to Brazil, where  growth  has practically
stalled, Chilean and Peruvian policy makers are under less
pressure to stimulate demand even as concerns persist over
contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis, economist Alfredo Coutino
said.  “Chile and Peru are still expanding at rates that even
exceed their potential,” Coutino,  Latin America  director at
Moody’s Analytics, said by phone from  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “The external economy hasn’t had a significant
negative impact.”  Brazil’s economy, which is Latin America’s largest, will
fall short of the region’s average in posting 3 percent growth
in 2012, according to the IMF. Brazilian industrial output fell
in May for a third month and retail sales fell by the most in
more than three years.  Regional Policies  Policy makers in Brazil yesterday led by President
Alexandre Tombini lowered benchmark borrowing costs by 50 basis
points to a record 8 percent yesterday, to revive economic
growth. They have lowered rates 4.5 percentage points since
August, the most among Group of 20 nations.  Elsewhere in Latin America, the central bank of  Mexico  has
kept its benchmark at 4.5 percent for 27 straight meetings in
contrast to Banco de la Republica  Colombia , which has raised
borrowing costs nine times since the beginning of 2011.  Gross domestic product in Chile and Peru will expand 4.3
percent and 5.5 percent respectively this year, surpassing the
3.7 percent average growth rate for the region, the Washington-
based IMF said in its latest  forecasts . Inflation will average
3.8 percent in Chile and 3.3 percent in Peru, compared with 6.4
percent for Latin America, the IMF said.  Consumer prices in Chile eased to a 16-month low of 2.7
percent in June from a year earlier, compared to the nine-month
low of  4 percent  posted in Peru.  Chile ’s central bank targets
annual inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent while Peru’s bank
targets 1 percent to 3 percent.  The most recent quarterly growth reports in the two Andean
economies support the IMF’s gross domestic product forecasts for
2012.  Growth, Exports  GDP in Chile, the world’s largest copper producer, expanded
5.6 percent in the first quarter from last year, which Peru
outpaced with a 6 percent expansion in the same period, the
fastest growth among Latin America’s seven biggest economies.  Growth in Brazil, the world’s second-biggest emerging
market after  China , decelerated to 0.8 percent in the same
period, the slowest rate among Latin America’s seven biggest
economies. At 4.6 percent, Mexico’s quarterly GDP growth was the
region’s sixth best.  With more than half of their export revenue coming from
commodities, Chile and Peru also are vulnerable to a
deterioration of the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis and
China’s economic deceleration.  The average price of commodities has fallen 7.9 percent
since the end of February, according to the  Bloomberg commodity
index , which calculates the mean of indexes including energy,
grains, food and metals.  ‘Nobody Is Bullet-Proof’  Chile in May posted its first trade deficit in nine months
on a decline in exports while the government this month cut
forecasts for 2012 economic growth and copper prices.  Chile’s  Finance Ministry  has prepared a contingency plan
that would entail tapping its $15 billion sovereign-wealth fund
to stimulate the economy if investment and hiring slow.  “Brazil practically has stopped growing and  Argentina  is
slowing abruptly, so it’s positive that our country has a
healthy economy that is able to resist,” Chilean President
Sebastian Pinera, a billionaire entrepreneur and Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard University-trained economist, said
in a July 5 speech. “But nobody is bullet-proof or shielded.”  Chile’s peso has gained 5.6 percent against the dollar in
2012, the second-best performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Colombia’s peso,
and Peru’s sol is up 2.3 percent.  ‘Rates Are Stuck’  Peru  had a $34 million  trade gap  in April, its first
deficit in three years, which widened to $106 million in May.
Year-on-year  growth  in Peru slowed to 4.4 percent in April,
though analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the
statistics agency next week will report a faster pace for May.  The government last month added $750 million to an economic
stimulus package in a move Peru’s Finance Minister Miguel Castilla described as “preventive” amid a deteriorating
outlook for metals and manufacturing exports.  Peru may reach or exceed its economic growth targets this
year, bolstered by domestic demand, central bank President Julio
Velarde, said in an interview yesterday in  Shanghai .  Chinese investment in Peru,  South America ’s sixth-biggest
economy, is projected to rise this year and next, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said in an interview in Shanghai
yesterday.  Investment may grow to $20 billion in the next six to seven
years from $2 billion, he said. China is the world’s biggest
consumer of industrial metals. Peru is the top silver producer,
number three in copper  and sixth in gold.  Increased government outlays, and annual growth of more
than 10 percent in private investment and consumer demand, will
keep Peru’s GDP rising in line with potential through 2013,
Pablo Secada, the chief economist at Peruvian Economy Institute,
said by telephone from  Lima .  “We may see an easing bias at some point,” Secada said.
“But for now, rates are stuck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  