-- Peru to Seek Investments From Singapore State Investment Firms
-- B y   A l l e n   W a n
-- 2012-07-12T02:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/peru-to-seek-investments-from-singapore-state-investment-firms.html
Peru will seek investments from
 Singapore ’s sovereign wealth firms after they indicated interest
in the Latin American country’s projects, Finance Minister
Miguel Castilla said.  “We’re going to meet the Singapore wealth funds in a
couple of days,” Miguel Castilla said in an interview yesterday
from  Shanghai . “They’ve shown interest in investing in our
assets and they’re looking into projects suitable for
investment.”  The meetings come as the  Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , the city-state’s sovereign wealth fund, and Temasek
Holdings Pte, its state-owned  investment company , seek to expand
in  emerging markets  including  Latin America  to boost returns.  Investments in Peru, South America’s sixth-biggest economy,
will help tap a market that’s the world’s top silver producer,
the third-largest copper production center and sixth for gold.
Peru may reach or exceed its economic growth targets for this
year, bolstered by domestic demand and a rebound in  China , the
president of the Peruvian central bank said yesterday.  GIC, as the Singapore fund is known, last year appointed
senior executives in new roles to reflect its push into emerging
markets, including naming Seek Ngee Huat, president of its real
estate unit, to head its Latin American business group.  The Americas made up 42 percent of GIC’s holdings, the
biggest by region, according to its  website .  Jennifer Lewis ,
spokeswoman for the manager of more than $100 billion of the
nation’s reserves, declined to comment on this report.  ‘Strategic Engagement’  Temasek, which had S$198 billion ($156 billion) of assets
as of March, hired Gregory Curl, once a candidate for chief
executive officer of  Bank of America Corp. , almost two years ago.
Curl, who has more than three decades of experience in banking
as well as mergers and acquisitions, has the role of president
of the Americas at Temasek, which said at the time that he will
support its “strategic engagement” in that region.  Temasek also expanded its investments in energy and
resources companies, which now account for 6 percent of its
holdings from 3 percent a year earlier. Latin American companies
make up 1 percent of its portfolio, according to its  annual
report  released last week.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on meetings with
officials, or whether or not such meetings are involving us,”
 Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for Temasek, said in an e-mail.  Stock Rally  Peru’s benchmark stock index will rally 10 percent or more
this year as a recovery spurs at least one more initial share
sale, Roberto Hoyle, chairman of Bolsa de Valores de Lima SA,
which runs the main securities exchange, said this week.  The Lima General Index has risen 3.2 percent in 2012 after
paring an increase of 24 percent reached April 2. Stocks have
fallen since then on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s
economic slowdown will curb Peru’s exports of commodities such
as copper and gold.  Peru may reach or exceed its economic growth targets for
this year, bolstered by domestic demand and a rebound in China
in the third quarter, Julio Velarde, president of the central
bank, said yesterday from Shanghai. Growth will be 5.8 percent
this year, the central bank said in a June 15 report.  Castilla and Velarde are part of a delegation of Peruvian
government officials traveling across  Asia , including visits to
 Hong Kong  and Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  