-- Pessimism Ebbing Among Most-Bearish European Strategists
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-13T16:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/pessimism-ebbing-among-most-bearish-european-strategists.html
European stock strategists are
backing away from their most-pessimistic forecasts as policy
makers agree on measures to tackle the region’s debt crisis.  While sticking to predictions for losses of as much as 16
percent, Morgan Stanley’s Ronan Carr raised his recommendation
on European equities to neutral on July 2 and  Alain Bokobza  of
 Societe Generale  SA said he has started to reduce the
underweight call he’s had for at least two years. Exane BNP
Paribas said investors can find bargains among companies most
reliant on economic growth.  Exane, Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale projected
average 2012 declines of 13 percent in European stock indexes at
the end of last year, the biggest among 16 banks and brokers
polled by Bloomberg in December. The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  has
slipped 3.8 percent this year, dragging its valuation to 0.93
times book value, cheaper than any time except the week markets
bottomed in March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we get positive follow through from European Union
policy makers in the coming weeks, last month’s summit will
likely represent a substantial improvement in the risk-reward
outlook for European equities,” Carr said in a phone interview
from  London . “Stocks aren’t expensive.”  SocGen’s Bokobza lifted his 2012 projection for the Stoxx
600 to 220 from 210 at the start of the year. That’s 13 percent
below the current level. Morgan Stanley’s year-end target for
the MSCI Europe Local Index is 870, about 16 percent below
yesterday’s close.  Bailout Flaws  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 3.4 percent through
yesterday after euro-area leaders agreed to address flaws in
their bailout programs in an announcement on June 29. Policy
makers eased repayment rules for Spanish banks, relaxed
conditions for possible aid to  Italy  and unveiled a $149 billion
economic growth plan.  The gains have brought the Stoxx 600’s advance in 2012 to
3.4 percent. The three most bullish brokerages polled by
Bloomberg in December -- Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Nomura Holdings Inc. and Citigroup Inc. -- predicted an average
26 percent rally in European stocks this year. The Stoxx 600
climbed 1.3 percent to 256.26 today.  The Euro Stoxx 50 of the biggest euro-region companies fell
to 0.93 times book value, or assets minus liabilities, last
month as concern grew that  Greece  will be forced to drop out of
the euro, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was the cheapest
since March 6, 2009, the week that preceded a 70 percent rally
in the equities gauge.  Depressed Valuations  “Valuations are extremely depressed,” said  Ian Richards ,
head of equity strategy at Exane, who recommends mining,
industrial, media and construction shares. “That and positive
policy catalysts make a strong argument for investing in
stocks.” Richards joined Exane in April from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Carr and his Morgan Stanley team upgraded insurance stocks
to overweight this month, saying the industry is inexpensive,
and cut consumer staples to underweight as valuations rose. An
overweight recommendation means investors should hold more of
the stocks than are represented in benchmark indexes.  Stoxx 600 insurance shares  trade at 7.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with a five-year average of 8.4, Bloomberg
data show. Consumer staples in the MSCI Europe Index trade at
15.2 times projected profit, close to the highest level since
2010, according to the data.  Economy Shrinks  Even so,  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis, which has pushed
borrowing costs to euro-era records in Greece,  Spain  and Italy,
combined with weak economic growth create potential hazards for
equity investors, Carr said. The euro-area economy will shrink
in the final three quarters of 2012, resulting in a 0.4 percent
annual contraction, economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Underlying solvency concerns in Greece and in Spain
remain,” Carr said. “We would expect growth expectations to
remain under pressure, which will act as a headwind to
markets.”  Investors’ pessimism on European stocks suggests they may
be liable for a rebound if the region’s policy makers reinforce
their response to the debt crisis, according to SocGen’s
Bokobza. In a survey of fund managers released by Bank of
America Corp. on June 12, a net 36 percent of respondents were
underweight Europe, meaning they hold fewer assets in the region
than are represented in global benchmarks.  ‘So Pessimistic’  “Decisions are starting to improve and governance is
starting to be put into place,” Bokobza said. “We have a
scenario that’s so pessimistic and there is so little
positioning in European stocks that we can have relative
performance as investors return.”  Leaders of the 17 euro nations meeting last month dropped
the requirement that governments get preferred-creditor status
on crisis loans to Spain’s banks and opened the door to
recapitalizing lenders directly with bailout funds once Europe
sets up a single banking supervisor. They also discussed
reducing the market pressure on Italy and Spain by allowing them
to access rescue loans without relinquishing control of their
economies.  The  European Central Bank  followed the June 28-29 European
summit by cutting  interest rates  to a record low on July 5. The
same day, the  Bank of England  restarted its bond buying program
after a two-month hiatus.  2011 Forecasts  None of the banks and brokerages surveyed by Bloomberg at
the end of 2010 successfully predicted that European stocks
would fall last year. The 13 strategists forecast an average
increase of 11 percent, while the Stoxx 600 finished the year 11
percent lower at 244.54.  Exane had forecast the Stoxx 600 would end last year at 305
and SocGen predicted a 310 closing level. Morgan Stanley had
estimated a 2011 close of 1,250 for the MSCI Europe Local, which
finished at 1,026.5.  Even after recent economist reports missed forecasts,
action by policy makers, including a possible third round of
quantitative easing from the  Federal Reserve , bode well for
stocks, Exane’s Richards said. Releases last week showed that
American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
predicted in June, while  U.S. service industries expanded at
the slowest pace since January 2010.  “The near-term data is causing some concern, but there is
a widespread response,” said Richards. “We think there will be
QE3 in the U.S. by September. Earnings expectations aren’t
stretched. We think they’re achievable. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  