-- Peugeot to Shut Plant to Raise Job Cuts to 14,000 Posts
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-12T13:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/peugeot-to-close-plant-as-reorganization-cuts-9-600-jobs.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, will shut the first auto factory in
 France  in 20 years and reduce its workforce by 6.7 percent in an
effort to stem widening operating losses.  The  automaker  will cut a total of 14,000 jobs, with 8,000
additional positions being eliminated on top of the 6,000 posts
already announced last year, Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said today at a press conference in Paris.  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault called the factory
closing and workforce reductions a “true shock” for employees.
Peugeot,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  have posted the biggest sales
declines this year in Europe, where Peugeot now expects the
market to contract 8 percent. Moody’s Investors Service in March
was the last of the three main credit-reporting companies to cut
Peugeot’s debt rating to junk.  “Peugeot is struggling with the power of Volkswagen,
especially on the credit side, as VW benefits from lower costs
of financing,” said Kristina Church, a Barclays analyst in
 London  with an “underweight/neutral” rating on Peugeot shares.
“More importantly, Peugeot still has an issue with overcapacity
and is in a worse position than Renault.”  Peugeot’s first-half deliveries slumped 13 percent compared
with a 10 percent increase at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand in
the period. VW is Europe’s largest automaker.  Value Drops  Peugeot  dropped  as much as 11 cents, or 1.5 percent, to
7.04 euros and was down 1.3 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has plunged 73 percent in the last year,
giving the carmaker a market value of 2.5 billion euros ($3
billion) or just 4.3 percent of 2011 revenue.  The French company will stop production at its 39-year-old
factory in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris, in 2014 and focus
the building of small cars at a nearby plant in Poissy, it said.
Peugeot will also lower production at a plant in Rennes to slash
operational costs.  The last French auto factory to close was a Renault plant
in 1992, according to Francois Roudier, spokesman for the
country’s automakers’ association. Renault confirmed the date.  “I am aware of the painful nature of this decision,”
Varin said at today’s press conference. “The markets currently
are experiencing a brutal, wide and on-going decline.”  Peugeot’s first-half operating loss in the automotive unit
will hit 700 million euros compared with a profit of 405 million
euros a year earlier, the carmaker said today.  GM Alliance  The French company entered into a strategic alliance with
 General Motors Co. (GM)  earlier this year in which the American
carmaker took a 7 percent stake to become the second-largest
shareholder after the founding family. The two plan to cooperate
on purchasing and vehicle development to help lower costs.  GM last month announced plans to shutter the first German
car factory since World War II. Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said
last week that he may close a second Italian plant after
shutting a factory in Sicily unless the automaker can use excess
capacity to build cars for  North America .  “Peugeot cannot be called a family group anymore; it has
lost all its values,” said Franck Don, head of the CFTC union.
“In 25 years of work at Peugeot, I haven’t seen anything like
this.”  Peugeot had 209,019  workers  worldwide at the end of last
year. That included 100,356 people on permanent and temporary
contracts in France. Payroll cutbacks from the reorganization
announced today include 3,000 jobs at Aulnay, 1,400 at Rennes
and 3,600 non-factory positions.  ‘True Shock’  About half the workers at the Aulnay factory will likely be
offered positions at the Poissy plant, Denis Martin, the
company’s operations director, said at today’s press conference.  Prime Minister Ayrault said in a statement that he’s
“paying great attention to the unprecedented plan announced by
PSA, which is a true shock for all employees.”  The  carmaker , which has been burning about 200 million
euros in cash monthly since the middle of last year, has a
target of restoring operating cash flow to a break-even level by
the end of 2014, Peugeot said.  “It’s hard to say if it’s enough,” said Sascha Gommel, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  with a hold rating on the
stock. “It’s difficult to calculate the financial impact of the
plan at this point.”  Industrywide deliveries in the European Union will probably
fall to 12.2 million vehicles this year, the least since 1995
and 21 percent below the 2007 peak, according to ACEA figures.
Renault sales chief Jerome Stoll yesterday scrapped the
carmaker’s sales-growth target for 2012 after reporting a first-
half sales drop of 3.3 percent, and said the European market may
not recover to pre-crisis levels until 2018.  Rising Overcapacity  The first-half capacity utilization rate at Peugeot’s
factories dropped to 76 percent from 86 percent a year earlier,
the automaker said today. Overcapacity in western  Europe  may
more than double to about 2 million vehicles in 2012, according
to research company IHS Automotive.  Peugeot sold 1 billion euros in new stock to existing
shareholders this year and plans to sell 1.5 billion euros in
asset to raise cash and lower its debt load. Peugeot is planning
to sell a majority stake in its profitable Gefco trucking unit,
Luc Nadal, the unit’s chief, said this week. Peugeot aims to
complete the sale by October, he added.  Asset disposals thus far have included the Citer vehicle-
rental unit that the carmaker sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc.
on Feb. 1 for 440 million euros and an agreement announced April
2 to sell Peugeot’s 48-year-old headquarters building in Paris
to Ivanhoe Cambridge for 245.5 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  