-- Philippines Eyes Investment Grade Rating in 2013, Abad Says
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-07-12T04:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/philippines-may-win-investment-grade-rating-in-2013-abad-says.html
The  Philippines  has a good chance of
winning an investment grade rating for the first time in 2013 as
it sustains faster growth and cuts debt levels, Budget Secretary
Butch Abad said.  Standard & Poor’s this month raised the nation’s long-term
foreign currency-denominated debt rating to BB+, which is one
step below investment grade, and the highest level since 2003.
Moody’s Investors Service boosted its outlook to positive in May,
and Barclays Plc predicts the country’s score will be elevated
from so-called junk status in 12 months to 18 months.  “We deserve it,” Abad said in an interview in his office
in  Manila  yesterday. “We are moving into a virtuous cycle of
sustained and inclusive growth. Eighteen months is too long;
they’ll have to see our performance over the next two quarters.”  Emerging nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  have won credit-
rating upgrades in the past year as governments contained budget
deficits. A higher assessment for the Philippines could help
President  Benigno Aquino  as he boosts spending to a record this
year and seeks $16 billion of investment in roads, bridges and
airports to shield the economy from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and a growth slowdown in  China .  The peso,  Asia ’s best performer this year in a basket of 11
most-traded currencies, fell 0.1 percent to 41.912 per dollar at
the noon trading break in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell for a fifth day.  The government plans to narrow the deficit to 2 percent of
gross domestic product by 2013 from a target of 2.6 percent this
year. The shortfall last month was probably wider than the 19.9
billion-peso ($475 million) figure in May, Abad said.  Productive Investments  The deficit for the first five months was 22.79 billion
pesos, less than 10 percent of the 2012 ceiling of 279 billion
pesos, Abad said. State spending was “significantly more” in
June compared to May when expenditure climbed to 151.3 billion
pesos, the highest level this year, he said.  “We want to hit the max, especially if it leads to
productive investments,” Abad said.  Increased revenues, lower interest payments and a  budget
deficit  that’s significantly below target gives the two-year-old
Aquino administration room to spend on items not earmarked in
the 2012 budget, Abad said. The government plans at least 20
billion pesos in additional outlays this year to improve access
to tourism zones, and upgrade lighting and security in airports
to ease congestion and cater to more visitors, he said.  More tourists and overseas investors will help add jobs and
boost incomes as the government improves education and health
care to reduce the poverty level to 16.6 percent by the end of
Aquino’s term in 2016, Abad said. That’s compared to 26.5
percent in 2009, at the time of the last survey.  Faster Implementation  The $200 billion Southeast Asian  economy  grew 6.4 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest pace since 2010. Second-
quarter growth will be within the 5 percent to 6 percent target
for the year, Abad said, while reiterating Aquino’s goal of
expansion of 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent by 2016.  Starting 2013, funds allocated for projects will be valid
for only a year instead of two years, to force agencies to speed
up implementation, Abad said.  “We will be able to accelerate spending further in the
second semester,” the budget chief said. “We are looking at
advancing the implementation of projects in 2013.”  The government has also stepped up efforts to catch tax
evaders and smugglers, while a so-called sin tax seeks to boost
collection from liquor and cigarette manufacturers by 30 billion
pesos per year. Aquino will also ask Congress to increase the
levy on mining from 2 percent to at least 5 percent, Abad said.  Higher taxes and collections will boost  tax revenue  as a
percentage of gross domestic product from about 14 percent to
the 20 percent level in investment grade neighbors such as
 Singapore , Abad said. Debt is scheduled to drop to 42 percent of
GDP by the end of Aquino’s term from about 49 percent.  “Our priority is dealing with poverty, governance and the
economy,” Abad said. “This is firmly founded on what every
nation needs. The high cost of doing business, corruption are
things we are already addressing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  