-- Philippine Bonds Advance on Inflation Outlook; Peso Declines
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-12T08:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/philippine-bonds-advance-on-inflation-outlook-peso-declines.html
Philippine bonds gained, with the
20-year yield approaching a four-month low, after the central
bank said inflation this year will average closer to the low end
of its 3 percent to 5 percent target range. The peso fell.  Inflation remains manageable this year and next, Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters in
 Manila  yesterday. Consumer-price gains slowed to 2.8 percent in
June from a year earlier, averaging 3 percent in the first six
months, government data showed on July 5. The  Bank of Korea 
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs for the first time in more than
three years today.  “Bonds are well supported because any chance of a rate
hike is nil,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in Manila. Authorities “have room to
lower rates if needed,” he said. “At this point, I don’t think
there’s a need because economic growth is healthy.”  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.82
percent as of 4:16 p.m. in Manila, according to data from
Tradition Financial Services. The rate reached 5.78 percent on
July 6, the lowest level since March 16.  Policy makers held the benchmark  interest rate  for a second
meeting at a record low of 4 percent on June 14. They meet next
on July 26. The Bank of  Korea  cut its key rate by 25 basis
points to 3 percent.  Peso Falls  Second-quarter growth was probably faster than the 6.4
percent expansion recorded in the previous three months on
better farm output and higher  government spending , presidential
spokesman Ricky Carandang said on July 2.  The Philippine peso had its biggest decline in almost three
weeks, dropping 0.5 percent to 42.065 per dollar in Manila,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.2 percent.  The peso has risen 4.2 percent this year, the biggest
gainer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  The central bank said on July 7 that it was prohibiting
foreign funds from investing in its special deposit accounts.
“What we don’t like to see is movement caused by speculation,”
Tetangco said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  