-- Poland May Mull Rate Cuts Amid Benign Inflation, Belka Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-12T14:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/poland-may-mull-rate-cuts-amid-benign-inflation-belka-says-1-.html
Poland’s central bank doesn’t
predict a pickup in inflation, leaving it free to cut  interest
rates  to boost economic growth if required, Governor  Marek Belka 
said.  “We have the ability to use interest rates to stimulate
the economy, if needed,” Belka told reporters today during a
trip to Beijing. Any increase in the inflation rate in the next
few months would probably stem from the statistical base of low
price growth from a year ago, he said.  Economic growth may decelerate to about 2 percent from a
year earlier for one or two quarters, Belka said, adding that
“if that were to happen, the slowdown will be followed by a
rebound.” The central bank left borrowing costs unchanged for a
second month last week, when Belka said that he’s “more worried
about economic growth and less worried about inflation” than a
month ago.  Tightening Bias  The central bank raised rates in May and has maintained a
bias toward tightening since then as inflation exceeded the
target for 20 months. The economy is set to grow 2.7 percent
this year compared with 4.3 percent last year, according to the
European Commission.  Poland ’s central bank is the only one in
the European Union to raise borrowing costs this year.  Polish companies are less confident about their business
prospects in the third quarter as the outlook for new orders
worsened “significantly,” the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank
Polski said today in a survey of 1,185 companies published on
its website.  The number of companies that see excessive inventories rose
2.7 percentage points to 13.4 percent, while capacity
utilization dropped 1.1 percentage point to 79.9 percent in the
second quarter, according to the survey.  “Confidence fell in expectations for the next 12 months as
well, though companies predict a gradual weakening of the growth
dynamics rather than sudden changes of a crisis nature,” the
bank said.  Today’s survey showed inflationary expectations by Polish
companies declined for a second quarter, the bank said.
Companies foresee a decline in prices of commodities and other
materials used in manufacturing as well as in prices of their
own products.  The zloty declined to 4.203 per euro at 3:30 p.m. in Warsaw
from 4.1869 late yesterday. The government’s two-year bond was
unchanged at 4.6 percent, while the yield on 10-year bonds fell
to 5.03 percent, a six-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  