-- Progressive Posts Lowest Profit Since 2008 on Claims Cost
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-12T20:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/progressive-posts-lowest-profit-since-2008-on-claims-cost.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-
largest U.S. auto insurer, said profit fell 52 percent to the
lowest since 2008 after claims costs increased as health
expenses climbed and the company posted an investment loss. The
shares declined in New York trading.  Second-quarter  net income  dropped to $118.6 million, or 19
cents per share, from $245.2 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based company said in a
statement today. Operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was about 20 cents a share, missing the 27-
cent average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Severity is clearly going up,” Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Renwick said at an investor meeting last month, referring
to the cost per claim. “We’re not the only ones noticing
that.”  Renwick, 57, is seeking to boost sales and improve
underwriting profit through the firm’s Snapshot technology,
which collects vehicle data and offers discounts to drivers with
the best habits. He has said margins may struggle to meet
targets as the company copes with fluctuations in claim
frequency and cost.  The combined ratio, a measure of how much of each premium
dollar is spent on claims and expenses, rose to 97.6 from 93.4 a
year earlier, missing Renwick’s target of 96.  The insurer fell 5 percent to $19.53 at 4:15 p.m., the
biggest drop since August. Progressive had climbed 5.3 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a 1.3 percent gain in
the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$10.32 a share, from $10.23 on March 31. The insurer had a net
realized loss on securities of $4.7 million, compared with a
gain of $26 million a year earlier.  The increase in medical expenses may be linked to claimants
seeking more treatment or higher emergency costs, Renwick said
in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters.  “Those things are so subtle on an individual level, but
you see it in the macro,” he said July 9. An increase in new
 car sales  and rising prices of used cars may also be driving up
claims costs, he said.  Premium Revenue  Progressive has benefited along with  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit as car owners shun agents and buy coverage
online. The number of individual auto customers who used direct
channels like the Internet or telephones to buy Progressive
coverage expanded 7 percent to about 4 million. Premium revenue
increased 7 percent to $4 billion.  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co. is the largest U.S car insurer, followed by Northbrook,
Illinois-based  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and Geico. Progressive, which
posts results monthly, had previously announced data for April
and May.  Progressive said catastrophes cost $107 million in the
three months ended June 30, compared with about $125 million a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  