-- Rabbis Urge German Jews to Ignore Ruling Against Circumcision
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-12T12:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rabbis-urge-german-jews-to-ignore-ruling-against-circumcision.html
Jews in  Germany  should keep
circumcising their boys and ignore a court ruling against the
practice, European rabbis said.  Circumcision “is a basic law of the Jewish faith,”
Pinchas Goldschmidt, who heads the Conference of European
Rabbis, told reporters today in Berlin after a three-day
meeting. The gathering was called after a district court in
Cologne ruled that circumcising children for religious reasons
amounts to bodily harm even if parents agree to it.  Goldschmidt urged  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government to
draft legislation to ensure that the practice remains legal. If
instead the court’s ruling finds its way into law, “then the
overwhelming part of the Jewish community won’t have a future in
Germany,” he said. “I’m sure that a large part would simply
leave.”  The May 7 ruling, which has also been condemned by Muslim
and Christian leaders, may spark political tension between
 Israel  and Germany. An Israeli parliamentary committee on July 9
denounced the court’s decision after it met with Andreas Michaelis, the German ambassador to Israel. Six million Jews
were murdered under the Nazis during the Holocaust. Germany,
home to about 4 million Muslims and 110,000 Jews, is working to
resolve the issue, Michaelis told the panel.  Rabbis plan to meet with Muslim imams and Christian bishops
next week in Stuttgart for a dialogue on circumcision and
religious freedom,  Avichai Apel , a rabbi in Dortmund and a board
member of the Orthodox Rabbinical Conference of Germany, said at
the conference. Those attending the meeting agreed to create an
association for recognized Jewish circumcisers, he said.  Ruling Needed  German Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger
said July 11 the best way forward would be a precedent-setting
ruling on the issue by the Federal Court of Justice or the
Federal Constitutional Court. The Cologne ruling isn’t legally
binding beyond this individual case, Holm Putzke, a law
professor at Passau University, said in telephone interview.  That’s not the preferred way for the Jewish community, Apel
said. “I don’t think anyone can assure us that the
constitutional court in Karlsruhe will decide differently,”
than the court in Cologne, he said.  The legal controversy began in November 2010, when a Muslim
couple living in Cologne asked a doctor to circumcise their 4-
year-old son. The doctor circumcised the boy using a local
anesthetic and closed the wound with four stitches. Two days
after the procedure, the mother rushed her son to the hospital
after the wound began bleeding. The hospital contacted the
police, who started an investigation that led to bodily harm
charges against the doctor.  While the Cologne court acquitted the doctor in its
decision because of the legal uncertainty at the time, it ruled
male circumcision, even when done properly by a doctor with the
permission of the parents, should be considered as bodily harm
if carried out on a boy unable to give his consent.  The child’s body would be “permanently and irreparably
changed,” the court said in its decision. The procedure goes
“against the interests of a child to decide for himself later
on to which religion he wishes to belong,” it said.  Editors: Leon Mangasarian,  Andrew Blackman .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  