-- Rabobank to Replace Head of Food and Agriculture M&A Unit
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-07-12T11:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rabobank-to-replace-head-of-food-and-agriculture-m-a-unit.html
Rabobank Groep plans to replace
Emmanuel Durand, the head of its global mergers and acquisitions
team focused on the food and agricultural industries, which are
at the core of its international business.  Jacqueline Pieters, 45, will head the lender’s global
mergers and acquisitions food and agricultural practice starting
Sept. 1, Rabobank spokeswoman Fransce Verdeuzeldonk said in an
e-mailed statement today. Durand, based in  New York , will
continue to lead the unit’s Americas region.  Rabobank, based in the Dutch city of Utrecht, currently has
food and agricultural banking operations in more than 30
countries and seeks to expand its mergers and acquisitions
practice, Verdeuzeldonk said. In 2008, the bank entered into an
agreement with Rothschild on deals and equity capital markets
advisory in food and agriculture, under which Rabobank obtained
a 7.5 percent stake in Rothschilds Continuation Holdings.  Pieters, who joined Rabobank in 1992, is currently managing
director at Rabobank International, where she built strategic
relationships with corporate clients in the food and
agricultural sectors, Verdeuzeldonk said.  Pieters and Durand, 49, will both serve on the executive
committee of the Rabobank-Rothschild tie-up, to which the two
banks remain “fully committed,” the spokeswoman said.  Durand, a Harvard-educated banker who previously led the
financial institutions group in  Latin America  for  Salomon Smith
Barney , will help Rabobank strengthen its presence in markets
including the U.S.,  Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Argentina , as well as
“explore opportunities to expand the bank’s regional
footprint.”  Rabobank was formed in 1898 as a cooperative lender serving
Dutch farmers, and has since become one of the world’s biggest
agricultural lenders. Rabobank International had 50.9 billion
euros ($62.3 billion) in loans to the food and agricultural
sector at the end of last year, accounting for 48 percent of of
the unit’s total lending, according to its  annual report .  Pieters declined to comment on the job changes, and Durand
did not respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  