-- Rajaratnam to Be Deposed in Tax-Shelter Suit, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-12T23:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/raj-rajaratnam-to-be-deposed-in-tax-shelter-suit-lawyer-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder who directed the largest hedge fund insider-
trading scheme in U.S. history, will be deposed next week from
federal prison as part of a tax-shelter lawsuit.  Rajaratnam is scheduled to give the deposition on July 16
at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts ,
where he began serving an 11-year sentence in December, said
Howard Kleinhendler, an attorney representing the plaintiffs.
Rajaratnam isn’t a defendant in the case.  New York state Supreme Justice Eileen Bransten in March
ordered Rajaratnam to answer questions from Diversified Group, a
tax-shelter promoter, as part of the 2010 suit. Samidh Guha, a
lawyer representing Rajaratnam, had opposed the request, saying
his client would invoke his right against self-incrimination
under the U.S. Constitution’s Fifth Amendment at the deposition.  “It’s certainly a possibility,” Kleinhendler, an attorney
representing Diversified Group, said in a phone interview.
“We’ll only know once we get there.”  Guha didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at
his office after regular business hours seeking comment on the
deposition.  Rajaratnam and his wife, Asha, along with Galleon Group co-
founder Gary Rosenbach and his wife, Susan, sued Diversified in
2005, saying they were tricked into investing in an illegal  tax
shelter . The lawsuit sought to recover at least $15 million in
interest, penalties and fees that Rajaratnam and Rosenbach paid
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. It didn’t seek the taxes
they paid.  Arbitrator’s Decision  Rajaratnam and Rosenbach won a 2009 arbitrator’s decision
against Diversified and its president for $5.8 million,
according to court records. Diversified and its founder were
found to have committed fraud in the marketing, promotion and
implementation of the tax shelter sold to Rajaratnam, Rosenbach
and their wives.  In 2010, Diversified sued a tax attorney and three
consulting firms over the structuring of the shelter and they
are seeking to depose Rajaratnam in that case.  Bransten also granted an unopposed request from
Diversified’s lawyers to question Rosenbach, who lives in Vail,
 Colorado . Rosenbach will be deposed next month in New York,
Kleinhendler said.  While Rajaratnam was questioned for two days in 2007 as
part of his lawsuit against Diversified, Bransten said during a
hearing in March that his testimony can’t be introduced in the
current case until he’s deposed, according to a transcript.  “The objection that the non-party may indeed assert the
Fifth Amendment privilege is not appropriately made by counsel,
but is only properly done once a question has been posed and the
Fifth Amendment privilege is asserted,” Bransten said.  The case is Diversified Group Inc. v. Marcum & Kleigman
LLP, 450286/2010, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  