-- Rand Weakens as Yields Fall to Record on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-12T14:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rand-weakens-as-yields-fall-to-records-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
The rand fell to its lowest level
this month as bond yields dropped to a record on speculation
South Africa’s central bank will follow  Brazil  and  Korea  in
cutting  interest rates  to stimulate growth.  South Africa’s currency retreated as much as 1.4 percent to
8.3645 per dollar, the weakest since June 29. It traded 1.3
percent down at 8.3544 as of 3:40 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields
on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.03 percent, set for the
lowest close according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
fell below 7 percent for the first time in earlier trading.  The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut borrowing costs for the
first time in three years while Brazil trimmed its benchmark
rate for the eighth straight time, reigniting concerns the
global economy is slowing. Commodities, which account for 45
percent of  South Africa ’s exports, dropped and emerging-market
 stocks  headed for the longest losing streak since November.  “Domestically the rate-cut fever continues to intensify,”
Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments. “Throughout this week we
have favoured trading off a long-dollar base and this has not
changed.”  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, dropped two basis points today to 5.17 percent, the
lowest since November. The rate is 41 basis points lower than
the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders see
more than an 80 percent chance of a rate cut in the next six
months.  Inflation  The central bank, which aims to keep inflation within a 3
to 6 percent target range, has left its benchmark repurchase
rate at 5.5 percent since November 201. The Monetary Policy
Committee meets on July 19 to discuss borrowing costs.  Inflation eased to 5.7 percent in May from 6.1 percent a
month earlier, the slowest pace of increase in prices since
September. Inflation is on a declining trend and will probably
remain within the range through 2014, Reserve Bank Governor Gill
Marcus said on July 4.  The risks for the economy slowing more this year have
increased, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview
in Los Cabos,  Mexico , on June 16. Gross domestic product
expanded 3.1 percent last year and will rise 2.7 percent this
year, Gordhan said in his Feb. 22 budget.  A rate cut would damp appetite for the rand from investors
who borrow in dollars to invest in high-yielding currencies. The
rand is forecast to return 6.7 percent this year in the so-
called carry trade, according to Bloomberg’s calculations based
on current market rates and currency forecasts.  “Interest-rate differentials do matter for the currency,
and especially so in a global financial-market environment where
there is little growth to be had, and which is thus
characterised by a reach for yield, risk-on and risk-off
dynamic,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  