-- RBS Asks Court to Block $1 Million Bonus to Ex-Risk Chief
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-12T15:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rbs-asks-court-to-block-1-million-bonus-to-former-risk-chief.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
asked a  London  court to approve a decision to block a 700,000-
pound ($1 million) bonus awarded to its former head of corporate
risk solutions before his dismissal.  Gary Cottle, who headed risk solutions in the investment
banking division, lost his job when the unit was restructured in
2011 and refused to accept an alternative post, RBS said in
court documents.  “If I had been offered a suitable role I would still be
there,” Cottle said by phone.  The bank said it is entitled to withhold the final payment
of a 1.9 million-pound deferred bonus granted in 2009 because
Cottle acted “unreasonably” in turning down the role,
according to the May filing.  Legal disputes in London over bonus payments have shed
light on the culture of compensation in financial services,
which some say contributed to the near collapse of the banking
industry. More than 100 bankers won a court ruling in May
against  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  to force payment of individual bonuses
worth as much as $2.6 million.  European regulators toughened bonus rules in 2011 to
discourage the type of risk-taking that led to the 2008
financial crisis. The guidelines limit cash payouts to about
one-quarter of the total to ensure incentives are linked to
long-term performance, with the rest paid in deferred
securities.  Employment Tribunal  Cottle, who joined RBS from Morgan Stanley in 2007, has
filed a claim against the bank at the central London employment
tribunal for failure to make a severance payment and unfair
dismissal, according to tribunal filings.  RBS, which is majority-owned by the British government,
wants a court declaration that it was entitled not to pay Cottle
the remaining 700,000 pounds and that Cottle acted unreasonably.
Sarah Small, a spokeswoman for the Edinburgh-based lender,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  The dismissal was surprising “given my team’s strong
performance and contribution over the previous four years,”
Cottle said.  His 2009 bonus of 1.9 million pounds was deferred over two
years and paid in RBS bonds, the bank said in court documents.
The bonds vest, or mature, at the discretion of the remuneration
committee if an employee has left the lender.  The lawsuit shows “how insecure an employee’s ability to
secure a bonus becomes, even where performance targets have been
achieved,” said employment lawyer  Samantha Mangwana  of RJW-
Slater & Gordon, “once this is subject to the discretion of
remuneration committees and the employee is no longer flavor of
the month.”  Mangwana isn’t involved in the Cottle case.  The case is The  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  v. Mr.
Gary Cottle,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division ,
HQ12X01948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  