-- RBS, Deutsche Bank May Face Biggest Libor Legal Bills
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-12T14:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rbs-deutsche-bank-may-face-biggest-libor-legal-bills.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may face the highest litigation costs of 16
banks that face potential fines and lawsuits for rigging
benchmark  interest rates ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts estimate.  Legal expenses stemming from probes into manipulation of
the  London  interbank offer rate, or Libor, could range from $59
million for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to as much as $1.04 billion
for Deutsche Bank and $1.06 billion for Edinburgh-based RBS,
according to estimates published today by Morgan Stanley’s  Betsy Graseck  in  New York  and Huw van Steenis in London. The costs
probably would apply in 2013 and 2014, they wrote.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last
month to pay 290 million pounds ($448 million) in regulatory
fines for rigging Libor, spurring resignations of the chairman,
the chief executive officer and its chief operating officer. The
fines raised speculation about penalties that may be imposed on
other banks involved and the cost of lawsuits that follow.  Banks will “pay a premium” to the fines levied on London-
based Barclays, which received a 30 percent discount from the
U.K.’s Financial Services Authority because the bank “was early
and cooperative with regulators,” according to the Morgan
Stanley report. “We calculate an implied base penalty of $650
million” on other banks, the analysts wrote.  The analysts also assume that  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest
bank, will receive reduced fines of 250 million Swiss francs
($254 million), gaining “leniency for being an early confessor
in the  Libor probe  and cooperating with the investigations.”  Total Impact  Overall, regulatory fines probably will reduce 2012
earnings per share at implicated banks by 7 percent to 12
percent, the analysts estimate. On top of that, litigation costs
could reduce earnings per share by 7 percent over 2013 and 2014,
according to the report.  To estimate litigation risk at the 16 banks named in class-
action lawsuits, the analysts assumed that that Libor was
understated every day for four years by 0.01 percentage point,
which implies a collective cost of $6 billion for all the firms.  The analysts also examined the size of the interest-rate
derivatives holdings of each bank. Because RBS and Deutsche
Bank, based in  Frankfurt , have the largest books, the analysis
estimates that those two banks would face the highest legal
costs. Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment on
Morgan Stanley’s projections.  The estimates “are the result of significant assumptions,
but we hope to at least provide a framework for how to assess
the Libor litigation risk,” the analysts wrote.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York and the sixth-biggest
U.S. bank, isn’t on the panel of firms that sets Libor rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 