-- Real Madrid Makes $62 Million Offer for Modric: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-12T08:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/real-madrid-makes-62-million-offer-for-modric-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric, Moutinho  Real Madrid bid more than 40 million pounds ($62 milllion)
for Tottenham Hotspur playmaker Luka Modric, paving the way for
Portugal midfielder Joao Moutinho to join Spurs, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Although Paris Saint-Germain and Chelsea are trying to sign
Modric, a deal may be struck with the Spanish champion in the
next few days, the newspaper said. Should Modric go, Spurs will
likely make a move for Moutinho, the paper added.  Season-Long Loan  West Ham United manager  Sam Allardyce  has been given
permission to try and sign Liverpool striker Andy Carroll on a
season-long loan, the  Sun reported .  The move, which may rest on talks between Carroll and
Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers , could lead to Carroll making
a 15 million-pound switch in 12 months, the newspaper added.  Dempsey Sweetener  Fulham manager  Martin Jol  is to offer Liverpool Clint Dempsey in exchange for taking Carroll on loan, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  West Ham and Milan are also interesting in hiring Carroll,
the Mirror said. Liverpool is keen to sign U.S. forward Dempsey,
who wants to join a bigger club, the newspaper added.  Newcastle Return  Carroll could return to his former club Newcastle, the
 Daily Express reported , citing Magpies manager  Alan Pardew .  “There will always be that link between Andy and
Newcastle,” Pardew was cited as saying.  Most-Expensive  AC Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic could become the most-
expensive player in soccer history after Paris Saint-Germain bid
for the Swede, the  Daily Mail reported .  PSG made a joint offer of 51 million pounds for Ibrahimovic
and  Thiago Silva , the newspaper said. If the 32 million-pound
component for Ibrahimovic goes through, he will have cost nearly
150 million pounds in transfer fees after spells with Ajax,
Juventus,  Inter Milan , Barcelona and Milan, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  