-- RTS Futures Rise as Valuations Hit 2-Week Low: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-07-12T23:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rts-futures-rise-as-valuations-hit-2-week-low-russia-overnight.html
Russian  equity futures  rose as
valuations on the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell to the lowest in two weeks
and speculation increased that growth exceeding earlier
government forecasts may lead policy makers to keep  interest
rates  on hold.  Futures expiring in September on the dollar-denominated RTS
index climbed 1.1 percent to 134,795. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in New York
was little changed at 88.95.  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of
Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, surged the most in 2012
after VTB Capital added the stock to its list of top picks.  Russian stocks trade at 4.9 times trailing earnings, less
than half the multiple for the average emerging-market stocks,
after the ruble-denominated Micex slumped to the lowest in July
yesterday.  Russia , the last major emerging economy to keep
borrowing costs unchanged this year, will refrain from cutting
rates for a seventh month today after a surge in inflation in
June, according to 14 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Russia’s economy may expand as much as 4 percent in 2012, more
than the government’s previous forecast of 3.4 percent, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said on June 21.  “Valuations fell to the point where it’s unaffordable not
to buy, especially stocks exposed to Russia’s domestic growth
story,” Olga Efremova, an analyst at Nomos Bank, said by phone
from Moscow yesterday. “Investors refocus on companies that get
exposure to the country’s strong macroeconomic story.”  Russia ETF Retreats  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, retreated 0.7
percent to $25.88, dropping for the fifth time in six days. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, fell 2.1 percent to 32.80.  Bank Rossii will keep the  refinancing rate  at 8 percent, a
quarter-point above the record low, at a meeting after 10 a.m.
in Moscow today, according to a Bloomberg  survey  of economists.
Policy makers will also leave the auction-based  repurchase rate ,
the main tool for offering lenders rubles, at 5.25 percent and
the  overnight deposit rate  at 4 percent, two other surveys
showed.  Russia’s international currency and gold reserves total
$511.4 billion, the nation’s central bank said in a statement
yesterday, making it the world’s fourth-largest after  China ,
 Japan  and  Saudi Arabia .  Russia’s Reserve Fund and National Wellbeing Fund, which
collect windfall oil revenue, grew to $60.5 billion and $85.6
billion respectively as of July 1, the  Finance Ministry  said in
a July 2  statement  on its official website.  ‘Good Investment Opportunity’  Gazprom Neft rose 4.5 percent to $23.82 in New York
yesterday, the biggest advance since Dec. 20. The stock was the
biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of
Russian shares traded in New York, followed by OAO GMK  Norilsk
Nickel  and OAO Lukoil.  VTB Capital prefers Gazprom Neft, Lukoil and BP Plc’s
Russian subsidiary TNK-BP against OAO Surgutneftegas, OAO
Tatneft, OAO Bashneft and  Alliance Oil (ALLZF) , the bank said in an e-
mailed note yesterday.  The Russian government derived half of its income from oil
and gas last year. That came mainly from Russia’s export duties
on crude and products as well as extraction taxes, which are
based on prices for Russia’s Ural’s crude export blend.  “The Russian oil sector represents a good investment
opportunity, despite investors’ appetite being dented by the
perception that revenue-based Russian oil taxation is
insufferably heavy,” Dmitry Loukashov, an analyst at VTB, wrote
in the note.  Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after OAO
Rosneft, gained 0.1 percent to $55.43, the highest level since
July 6. Lukoil climbed 0.1 percent to 1,804.30 rubles, or
$55.15, in Moscow yesterday.  Oil Gains  Oil for August delivery rose 0.3 percent to $86.08 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, after the U.S.
announced more sanctions on  Iran , the second-biggest crude-
producing member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Prices have decreased 13 percent this year.  Brent for August settlement climbed 0.8 percent to $101.07
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude fell 0.1 percent to $100.00 per barrel yesterday.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell 0.2 percent 290.27 while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index gained 0.4 percent to 614.91.  The ruble has depreciated 12.1 percent against the dollar
since the end of April, the most among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The ruble ended the session 0.2
percent lower at 32.78 in Moscow. The currency may fall to
33.282 in three months, according to non-deliverable forwards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  