-- Rupiah Declines Most in Three Weeks on Export Growth; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-12T08:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rupiah-weakens-most-in-two-weeks-on-export-growth-bonds-rise.html
Indonesia’s rupiah declined the most
in three weeks on concern exports will increase less than
estimated this year.  Government bonds  rose for a second day.  The nation may see little to no growth in overseas sales
this year as the debt crisis in Europe damps global demand,
compared with the 12 percent increase projected at the start of
the year, Vice Minister of Trade Bayu Krisnamurthi said
yesterday. Overseas sales contracted for a second month in May
by 8.5 percent, the most since September 2009. The  World Bank 
lowered its growth forecast to 6 percent this year, from the 6.1
percent predicted in April, according to a report today.  “Growth is certainly a concern for the rupiah,” said
Artanavaro Gasali, the head of global markets at PT Bank ICBC
 Indonesia  in Jakarta. “Our exports will continue to be hit by
the ongoing debt crisis and the global slowdown.”  The rupiah weakened 0.7 percent to 9,488 per dollar as of
3:38 p.m. in Jakarta, the most since June 19, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 9,501 earlier, the weakest level since June 28. One-
month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings
used to price options, held at 8.25 percent.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.75
percent as predicted by all 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
it said in a statement today.  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly reduced
borrowing costs today, the first time in more than three years.  “ Bank Indonesia  is unlikely to cut rates soon,” said
Gasali. “Inflation will see upward pressure in the coming
months due to the school holiday and ahead of the Eid al-Fitr”
holidays, he said.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.08
percent, the lowest since July 6, according to prices from the
Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  