-- Russia to Boost Financing Guarantees to Help New Aircraft Sales
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-07-12T18:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/russia-to-boost-financing-guarantees-to-help-new-aircraft-sales.html
Russia plans to offer government
guarantees for bank debt to help market a narrowbody aircraft
being developed by state-owned OAO United Aircraft, the
company’s chief executive officer said.  United Aircraft has been seeking to develop the MS-21
single-aisle plane that would challenge  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus
SAS and seek to attract new airlines that haven’t previously
bought planes of that size,  United Aircraft CEO Mikhail Pogosyan said in an interview at the Farnborough air show.  “You create a system of sale financing for the aircraft
you’re manufacturing,” Pogosyan said in an interview, speaking
through an interpreter. “We’re actively working on creating an
export agency in the same way as in the Western countries.”  In the U.S., the Export Import Bank guarantees bank loans
to some airlines outside the U.S. to help support job creation
at home.  France ,  Germany , the U.K. and Spain also have export
credit agencies to help support sales of Airbus planes.  The Russian aircraft, seating 150 to 212 passengers, will
offer a choice of engines by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt &
Whitney  or a Russian-developed engine. The MS-21 will compete in
the same category as Boeing’s 737 and Airbus’s A320. It will
also go up against a 168-seat model, the Comac C919, being
developed in  China , which is set for entry into service in 2016.  Initially, the Russian plane will be flown by domestic
airlines and those from countries of the former  Soviet Union .
Pogosyan said he expects  Southeast Asia  to be the most likely
region where the program will flourish in early years.  “We aren’t trying to repeat what Boeing and Airbus or
Comac are doing in the market,” the executive said. The MS-21
will have an all-composite wing, instead of the traditional
aluminum now used on narrowbody models, which he said would give
the plane a performance advantage.  The strongest prospects may be with new airlines, which may
have difficulty getting delivery slots at Airbus and Boeing,
where mounting backlogs can mean a waiting of several years for
a plane, particularly narrow bodies, he said  “Certainly many airlines will be going for Boeing and
Airbus but there are quite a number of new airlines emerging in
the Pacific region that will want to have new products, and
these new airlines would have to join a queue that lasts seven
or eight years,” he said. “They want new products right now,
so this may be an advantage for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  