-- Russian Cable Company Suspends BBC, CNN and Bloomberg Broadcasts
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-07-12T17:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/russian-cable-company-suspends-bbc-cnn-and-bloomberg-broadcasts.html
A major Russian cable operator
temporarily suspended broadcasts by the British Broadcasting
Corp., Cable News Network and Bloomberg Television, saying the
channels had ignored repeated requests to obtain licenses.  Akado, an Internet and cable-television provider owned by
Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  that distributes content
to a million households in Moscow, restored the broadcasts today
after the government licensing authority said it would
intervene. The Moscow-based cable network suspended the three
English-language news channels on July 10.  Russian lawmakers yesterday approved new controls over the
Internet criticized by web companies including Russian search-
engine operator  Yandex NV (YNDX) ,  Wikipedia  and  LiveJournal  blogging
service as well as the U.S. government.  BBC World News was temporarily taken off air on Akado in
 Russia  and the service has now been restored, the broadcaster
said in an e-mailed statement. Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg Television and Bloomberg News, is seeking a license
for Russian television broadcasts, Lindsey Oliver, commercial
director at Bloomberg Television, said in an e-mailed statement.
Christa Robinson, a spokeswoman for  CNN , didn’t immediately
respond.  There was no connection between the Internet restrictions
and the suspension of BBC, CNN and Bloomberg broadcasts, Deputy
Minister of Communications and Mass Media Alexei Volin said by
phone, adding that the stoppage was a result of “technical and
organizational trouble.”  Akado said in an e-mailed statement that it had warned the
BBC, CNN and Bloomberg twice since December about the need to
secure government licenses and hasn’t received “any formal
acceptance of this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  