-- Rwanda Agrees to Third-Party Surveillance of Border With Congo
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-12T12:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/rwanda-agrees-to-third-party-surveillance-of-border-with-congo.html
Rwanda agreed to third-party
supervision of surveillance of its border with  Democratic
Republic  of Congo after accusations it is supporting a rebellion
that has displaced more than 220,000 Congolese.  Rwandan Foreign Minister Louise Mushikiwabo said the
country agreed to “a range of measures aimed at de-escalating
the crisis” at a meeting of the International Conference of the
Great Lakes Region yesterday. The measures include renewed
action against a Rwandan Hutu rebel group in Congo’s east, she
said. It isn’t known yet who the third-party supervisor will be.  “There is a clear need to rebuild trust amidst the
swirling allegations over the past several weeks,” Mushikiwabo
said in a statement published on the ministry website today.  Since the beginning of the month, a Congolese rebel group
known as M23 has increased its control of Rutshuru territory in
Congo’s North Kivu province, causing the army to withdraw from
strategic towns near the border with Rwanda and  Uganda .  Congo and the United Nations Group of Experts have accused
Rwanda of supporting the rebellion, which is led mainly by
ethnic-Tutsi soldiers who deserted the army beginning in April.
Rwanda denies the charge.  Yesterday, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called
Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  and Rwandan President  Paul
Kagame  to discuss the crisis, according to an emailed statement
from his office. Ban “expressed grave concern over reports that
the M23 mutineers fighting government forces in North Kivu are
receiving external support,” it said.  Kagame and Kabila are due to attend the African Union
summit July 15-16 in  Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  