-- Sabathia, Dickey Go to IPads to Sign $50 Digital Autographs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-07-12T06:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sabathia-dickey-go-to-ipads-to-sign-digital-autographs-for-50.html
Miami Marlins reliever  Heath Bell 
went to games as a kid in Southern  California  with a baseball
and a pen with the goal of getting a player’s autograph.  A day or two later, Bell would be tossing the ball with his
buddies and wouldn’t even remember which Major League Baseball
player had signed it.  Now a three-time All-Star looking for a one-on-one
connection with fans, Bell is among those embracing digital
autographs. Two dozen players, including CC Sabathia of the  New
York  Yankees and R.A. Dickey of the  New York Mets , are featured
in the launch of Egraphs, which allows fans to order written and
audio messages from specific major leaguers for $50 apiece
through Aug. 12.  “What really intrigued me is you can personalize,” Bell,
34, said in a clubhouse interview. “Now, we sign something and
then they wipe off their name and resell it. This goes to the
person I meant it for.”  The first group of Egraphs players to be introduced today
in Tampa,  Florida , includes  David Ortiz  and  Dustin Pedroia  of
the  Boston Red Sox . Players such as Sabathia and Dickey will
become available on Egraphs over the next month. It will expand
to about 250 players, including Bell, on Aug. 12. Eventually,
Seattle-based Egraphs wants to provide fans access to football,
basketball and other athletes, as well as show-business
celebrities.  Sternberg Funding  Egraphs, funded in part by Tampa Bay Rays Principal Owner
Stuart Sternberg, who retired from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
2002, is in a genre of memorabilia that includes companies such
as Los Angeles-based Digigraph.me, Inc., which allows fans at
arenas to send a text message and receive computer-generated
autographed photos on their smart phones during games.  Egraphs was created last September when Brian Auld, 34, the
Rays’ senior vice president of business operations and a Harvard
Business School graduate, went to his younger brother, David,
with the idea of creating authenticated autographs.  David Auld, 28, who had been a Silicon Valley software
engineer and was a strategy consultant at Microsoft Corp.,
gathered four other engineers and founded the company. He now is
the chief executive officer of Egraphs.  “Egraphs to us is about creating that personal interaction
with a celebrity,” David Auld said in a telephone interview.
“There’s just a lot of magic involved when you meet somebody
you care about and who’s famous. And it’s really hard to do
right now.”  Audio Greeting  An Egraphs customer will go to a website and pick a player.
The customer will then type in a message, such as “Josh, Sorry
I’m missing your 14th birthday, but I’ll be on the mound at
Yankee Stadium...”, that the player will write and sign. The
player also will make an audio recording.  The recipient will get an e-mailed photo of the player with
the personalized message and autograph, and a link to the audio
greeting. It can be printed, e-mailed to friends or distributed
via  Facebook  and other social media.  “Because we’re a digital product, our consumers are going
to have full flexibility,” Gabe Kapler, 36, who played for six
major-league teams over 12 seasons and now works at Egraphs,
said in an interview before a game in Oakland, California. “If
I am trying to remove a framed photograph off my wall and carry
it to school with me, it’s not nearly as flexible as taking my
iPhone out and saying, ‘Hey, check out what I have.’”  Asking Price  Each player can change his asking price after Aug. 12
depending on demand -- someone with hits in 20 straight games
might choose to increase his price as the streak continues.  The individualized nature of the messages might keep prices
down, said Stephen R. McDaniel, a  University of Maryland 
professor who studies sports and entertainment marketing,
because there will be little resale value.  “If something is signed to a specific person, that has
sentimental value but it doesn’t have any practical collectible
value,” McDaniel said in a phone interview. “The value-added
part of it is the audio recording, but you can’t do anything
with that in terms of an after-market.”  Egraphs will be authenticated by voice and signature
profiles the company has of each player. The company also will
screen all messages to players, as well as the messages sent by
those players, to block inappropriate content.  For players, who will write and record their messages on
iPads, convenience is the key. Bell said he envisions doing his
digital autographs on planes and buses.  Digital Freedom  “I think it’s great for athletes who travel all the
time,” said  Kerry Wood , an All-Star pitcher who retired in May
after a 14-year career that included 12 years with the  Chicago
Cubs  and the 2010 season with the  New York Yankees . “Sometimes
we get locked down to having to do our fan mail at the field
because that’s where it gets sent.”  Wood, 35, who is part of the Egraphs startup group that
also includes former pitcher  Pedro Martinez  and Los Angeles
Dodgers manager  Don Mattingly , said dealing with digital
messages is better than the fans who used to ask him to sign
body parts.  “It’s a great way for guys to stay in contact with their
fans and be a little bit more personal than just your regular
piece of fan mail,” he said while demonstrating how to use the
Egraphs system last week at his foundation’s office in  Chicago .
It took Wood 37 seconds to send a digital autograph and an audio
recording to one trial customer.  McDaniel, the  Maryland  professor, said digital autographs
offer a connection for fans who can’t get to a ballpark or a
card show, plus an easy way to show off a personalized keepsake.  “There’s a portability factor that you don’t see with
other traditional collectables, you generally don’t want to take
your autographed baseball to school,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  