-- Sanofi Confirms Plan to Leave Toulouse Research Site
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-12T17:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sanofi-confirms-plan-to-leave-toulouse-research-site.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker,
told employees it will proceed with plans to end research
operations in Toulouse, on the same day  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  said
it would shut its first car factory in the country in 20 years.  Elias Zerhouni, Sanofi’s global head of research and
development, today met with about 50 employees from Toulouse, a
city in southwestern France, to discuss the plan, Marc
Bianciotto, one of the workers who attended the meeting, said
today in an interview in Chilly-Mazarin, close to Paris.
Zerhouni reiterated that Sanofi is keeping all options open for
disposing of the Toulouse site, Bianciotto said.  “He didn’t say much, and this is just adding to our
frustration,” said Bianciotto, 39, a researcher who has been
working at Sanofi for 11 years.  President’s  Francois Hollande ’s Socialist government is
facing a wave of job cuts among French companies that are
suffering from the economic crisis. Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-
biggest carmaker, plans to cut a total of 14,000 jobs, 8,000
more than previously announced, and stop production at its 39-
year-old factory in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris.  Sanofi managers told union representatives last week they
planned to end research in Toulouse, where the blood thinner
Plavix was developed, and in Montpellier, another historical
site for Sanofi’s research. The closures put 800 jobs at risk,
Thierry Bodin, a CGT labor union delegate, told reporters on
July 5. Sanofi also will cut support functions and jobs at its
Pasteur vaccine division, Bodin said.  Job Losses  The measures may lead to as many as 2,500 job losses in
 France , Jean-Francois Chavance, a CFDT labor union
representative, said in a July 9 telephone interview. This would
be in addition to about 4,000 cuts in Sanofi’s home country over
the past three years, he said.  “Sanofi showed up at the ministry to tell us they were
planning several thousand job cuts,” French Productive Recovery
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  told senators today, according to Le
Nouvel Observateur’s website. “Couldn’t you have said that
earlier on? Last year you made 5 billion euros ($6.1 billion) in
profits,” Montebourg said, according to the newspaper.  Sanofi is seeking to reorganize its French operations as
part of a wider, 2 billion euro cost-cutting plan announced in
September. Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  began
redesigning Sanofi’s research soon after taking over in 2008.
The 52-year-old CEO accelerated the overhaul after last year’s
$20.1 billion takeover of Genzyme Corp., the world’s biggest
maker of treatments for rare genetic diseases, by creating so-
called research hubs and shutting down a site in Bridgewater,
 New Jersey , which employed about 1,000 people.  Toulouse Employees  Zerhouni spent one hour with the Toulouse employees who
traveled to Chilly-Mazarin, where managers were due to meet
workers’ representatives, Laurence Bollack, a spokeswoman for
Sanofi, said in a telephone interview today.  The discussions with Zerhouni were “open, frank and
constructive,” she said.  Eight of the 50 workers spoke to Zerhouni to defend the
Toulouse site, according to Laurence Millet, a Sud Chimie union
representative who was present at the meeting.  “We were very tense,” Millet said in an interview. “I
burst out crying while I was speaking to him. I couldn’t help
myself. Someone told me it’s probably good he sees the state we
are in, but I wish I hadn’t.”  Sanofi set up an internal team to analyze the different
possible options for the Toulouse site, Bollack said.  Sanofi workers in Toulouse, Chilly-Mazarin and Montpellier
were on strike to protest the planned job cuts today.  “I remain very vigilant on the decisions that will be made
on the future of the Toulouse research site and the jobs
there,” Pierre Cohen, the mayor of the city of Toulouse said in
a July 10 e-mailed statement, following a meeting with
Viehbacher, Zerhouni and Christian Lajoux, the head of Sanofi
France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  