-- Sany Heavy Cut Excavator Sales Goal on Weak China Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T08:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sany-heavy-cut-excavator-sales-goal-on-weak-china-demand.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ,  China ’s
biggest maker of excavators, lowered its sales forecast for the
equipment as slowing economic growth and government curbs on
property market sap demand.  Excavator sales may increase 10 percent this year, slower
than a previous target of 40 percent, Vice Chairman Xiang Wenbo
said in a July 11 interview in Changsha,  Hunan province , where
the company is based. Sany will still outperform the industry,
which may see a fall in demand, he said.  “At the beginning of this year, we estimated the whole
market to grow slightly. Now it seems we were too optimistic,”
Xiang said. “The government has introduced easing measures
since the second quarter, which will only be felt by the market
later.”  Xiang said a “meaningful recovery” in demand for earth-
moving equipment may not be visible until the first quarter of
next year. China cut benchmark  interest rates  twice in a month
and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on lending costs to
spur investments. Slowing growth may also prompt the government
to loosen controls introduced to prevent a property bubble.  Sany’s concrete machinery unit, which contributes more than
half its  sales , may post little change in growth or have a
slightly higher expansion, Xiang said. The company is sending
more  employees  for training as demand remains weak, he said.  “The adjustment is in line with the current market
atmosphere,” said Han Weiqi, a Shanghai-based analyst at CSC
International Holdings Ltd., who recommends buying the stock.
“It is unexpected but understandable.”  China Market  Sales of excavators contributed to  21 percent  of Sany’s
sales last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China,
the world’s biggest market for construction equipment, accounted
for 93 percent of the company’s revenue.  Sany  rose  1 percent to 12.91  yuan  at close of Shanghai
trading. The stock has dropped 30 percent in the past year,
compared with a 22 percent decline in the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index.  China’s  economy  expanded 7.6 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, the weakest growth in three years, the National
Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today. The pace compares
with an 8.1 percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7
percent median forecast of economists.  “Stimulating economic growth still relies on fixed asset
investment and real estate,” Xiang said. “The government has
enough capability to maintain economic growth, which is China’s
biggest advantage.”  Komatsu Sales  Nationwide excavator sales plunged about 38 percent in the
first six months, according to data from consultancy China
Construction Machinery Business Online.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ’s sales of
excavators in the country fell more than half in the quarter
ended in June from a year earlier, its Chief Executive Officer
Kunio Noji said last week. Domestic and overseas suppliers of
mining equipment may have accumulated inventories of more than
six months, he said.  Sany’s  acquisition  of German concrete-pump maker
Putzmeister Holding GmbH will help the company boost overseas
sales to more than 10 percent of revenue this year, Xiang said.
Putzmeister aims to post a 20 percent growth in sales to 700
million euros ($855 million), he said.  Xiang said Sany has completed all preparations and is
waiting for the right time for its planned share sale in  Hong
Kong . He didn’t elaborate. The company postponed the offer
because of a stock market slump after trying to raise as much as
$3.3 billion last year. The size of the sale has been reduced to
about about $2 billion, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Jasmine Wang in
Hong Kong at   jwang513@bloomberg.net ; Michael
Wei in Shanghai at   mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  