-- Saudi Arabia to Send Olympic Women Athletes for First Time
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-12T16:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/saudi-arabia-to-send-women-athletes-to-olympics-for-first-time.html
Saudi Arabia will send female
athletes to the  Olympic Games  for the first time, the
 International Olympic Committee  said, ending a ban by the
kingdom where women aren’t allowed to drive.  Wodjan Ali Seraj Abdulrahim Shahrkhani will compete in judo
at the  London  Games and Sarah Attar will run the 800 meters. The
athletes, who were invited by the IOC, were submitted by the
Saudi Arabian Olympic Committee before the July 9 deadline, the
IOC said. The Saudis had previously sent all-male teams.  “This is very positive news and we are delighted to
welcome these two athletes in London in a few weeks’ time,” IOC
President  Jacques Rogge  said in a statement on the governing
body’s website.  King Abdullah  has introduced changes to the kingdom since
he came to power in 2005, facing resistance from the religious
establishment. He has granted women the right to vote and run in
the 2015 municipal elections and has said women will be selected
as members in the Consultative Council, a body appointed by the
king that acts like a parliament.  “The decision to allow women to participate in the
Olympics is part of the path of reform the king is following,”
Mohammed Al-Zulfa, a former member of the Consultative Council,
said in a telephone interview from  Riyadh .  Saudi Arabia joins Qatar and Brunei in sending female
athletes to the London Games after the three were the only
countries not to have any in Beijing in 2008.  Wahhabi Version  “With Saudi Arabian female athletes now joining their
fellow female competitors from Qatar and  Brunei Darussalam , it
means that by London 2012 every national Olympic committee will
have sent women to the Olympic Games,” Rogge said.  Saudi Arabia , which has the world’s second-largest proven
crude reserves after Venezuela, according to data from  BP Plc (BP/) ,
enforces restrictions that are interpreted from the Wahhabi
version of Sunni Islam. Women can’t travel or get an education
without male approval or mix with unrelated men in public
places.  Saudi athletes at the Olympics will be required to follow
Islamic dress code and should be accompanied by a male relative,
the al-Jazirah newspaper reported on July 2, citing Prince Nawaf
bin Faisal, head of the General Presidency of Youth Welfare.  Breakthrough  “They send two women to the Olympics and at home they
don’t allow women’s sports clubs and physical education in
girls’ schools,” Saudi activist Khulud al-Fahd said in a
telephone interview. “The women were allowed to go just so
Saudi Arabia won’t be banned from the Olympics.”  The decision is a “breakthrough” for Saudi women’s
sports,  Human Rights Watch  said in an e-mailed statement today.
“But without policy changes to allow women and girls to play
sports and compete within the kingdom, little can change for
millions of women and girls deprived of sporting
opportunities,” said Christoph Wilcke, senior Middle East
researcher at Human Rights Watch, according to the statement.  Saudi Arabia had been under pressure from the IOC to
include female athletes.  “The IOC has been working very closely with the Saudi
Arabian Olympic Committee and I am pleased to see that our
continued dialogue has come to fruition,” Rogge said.  Attar was born and raised in Escondido, California,
according to her profile on  Pepperdine University ’s athletics
website.  “A big inspiration for participating in the Olympic Games
is being one of the first women for Saudi Arabia to be going,”
the 17-year-old said at her training base in  San Diego ,
according to a statement on the IOC website. “It’s such a huge
honor and I hope it can really make some big strides for women
over there to get more involved in sport.”  About 10,500 athletes from more than 200 nations will
compete at the London Olympics, which begin on July 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 