-- Senate Democrats to Seek Campaign-Finance Disclosure Vote
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-12T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/senate-democrats-to-seek-campaign-finance-disclosure-vote.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  urged
Republicans to help advance legislation next week to require
more disclosure of donations to groups that spend money on
political campaigns.  Republicans oppose the measure, which they say would
unconstitutionally limit free speech. Democrats say it is needed
to reveal the sources of spending on presidential and
congressional campaigns after the  Supreme Court  in 2010
overturned a decades-old ban on companies using their general
funds to run ads supporting or opposing federal candidates.  “We’ve basically entered the Wild West of campaign
finance,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s
third-ranking Democrat, told reporters today in Washington.
“The scale of the problem we face is enormous, and it is just
corrosive on our democracy.”  Democrats’ move renews the congressional debate over limits
on political donations as the Nov. 6 election approaches. The
measure, known as the Disclose Act, would require corporations,
labor unions, super-political action committees and nonprofit
groups to report donations of more than $10,000 to the  Federal
Election Commission  within 24 hours of spending the money. In
addition, the measure would prevent donors to super-PACs from
hiding behind shell corporations to shield their true
identities.  60 Votes  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today he will seek to advance the bill early next week. Support
would be required from at least seven Republican senators to
gain the 60 needed votes in the chamber, which Democrats control
53-47.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said yesterday it would take “a breakthrough
on the Republican side” to advance the measure.  The Supreme Court’s 2010 ruling in the Citizens United case
led to the rise of political organizations known as super-PACs,
which can raise unlimited amounts of money from any source, and
an increase in political spending by nonprofit groups, which can
keep their donors secret. Super-PACs and nonprofits are spending
millions of dollars to try to influence the 2012 presidential
and congressional races.  Groups keeping their donors secret spent $138 million in
the 2010 midterm election, compared with $1.3 million in the
2006 midterm vote, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, which tracks campaign contributions.  President  Barack Obama  supports the measure. Republicans
say it could subject political donors to government harassment.  McConnell Speech  In a June 15 speech at the  American Enterprise Institute , a
Washington group that supports free enterprise, Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said “government-compelled
disclosure of contributions to all grassroots groups” would be
“far more dangerous than its proponents are willing to admit.”  Republicans say the legislation, S. 3369, is written to
avoid disclosure of donations to labor unions, which generally
are structured to fall below the $10,000 threshold. Labor unions
are often among Democratic candidates’ most prolific supporters,
and they already disclose some of their funding to the Labor
Department.  The House passed a slightly different version of the
disclosure measure in 2010 when Democrats controlled the
chamber. The measure failed by one vote to reach the Senate
floor because every Republican voted to block it.  House Democrats  today filed a petition to force Republican
leaders to schedule a floor vote the measure.  The lack of disclosure helps special interests enforce an
“ideological orthodoxy that is served by big money” and is
“suffocating the system, suppressing the vote, poisoning the
debate,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  