-- Senate Democrats Still Filling Blanks in Obama Tax Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-12T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/senate-democrats-still-filling-blanks-in-obama-tax-plan.html
Senate Democrats  rejected a
Republican offer for a quick vote on President  Barack Obama ’s
tax plan in part because they haven’t turned Obama’s idea into a
bill or made clear how they want to handle the  tax rate  on
dividends, the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said yesterday that Democrats are focused on language
extending expiring tax cuts for income up to $250,000, adding
that they still must figure out whether to include -- and how to
treat -- the estate tax and AMT extensions in the measure.  “Whether they will be included; I don’t know that there’s
been a decision made on that, that they’ll even be considered,”
Durbin told reporters after a White House meeting between
Democratic congressional leaders and Obama. “I wouldn’t get too
far ahead here.”  Income tax cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush  are scheduled to expire at the end of 2012. Obama said July
9 that Congress should act now to extend the cuts through 2013
for income of less than $250,000.  “So, my message to Congress is this: Pass a bill extending
the tax cuts for the middle class; I will sign it tomorrow,”
Obama said. “Pass it next week; I’ll sign it next week.”  Republican Proposal  Senate Republicans called Obama’s bluff, asking for votes
yesterday on Obama’s plan and on a Republican proposal to extend
all the expiring cuts for a year and begin a comprehensive
rewrite of the  tax code .  “If the president has a proposal, we’ll be happy to send
an intern down to the White House to pick it up,” said Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. “But we
can’t vote on a speech.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  objected, saying that the
Senate should focus on the narrower small-business tax bill
currently on the floor. The $28.5 billion measure would allow
full expensing of some business investments and offer a 10
percent tax credit for companies expanding their payrolls.
Procedural votes on that bill are scheduled for today.  Reid of  Nevada  said Democrats would vote on the broader tax
issue before Congress leaves for its August recess. He said
today that the plan would include “no big changes” to the
estate tax and that it wouldn’t address miscellaneous tax breaks
such as the research and development tax credit that expired at
the end of 2011.  Obama’s Campaign  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said
Democrats were confident they could win the public debate over
the tax cuts for the next few weeks by tying their efforts to
Obama’s continued campaign on the issue.  Late yesterday, Reid offered to set up competing votes on
Democratic and Republican bills on the expiring cuts. McConnell
rejected that proposal, arguing that he couldn’t agree to a vote
at an uncertain time on a bill he hadn’t seen.  In making his counteroffer, Reid acknowledged that
Democrats don’t yet have a bill ready to consider. Even
agreement on the ordinary income tax rates may leave issues that
need to be resolved as they turn Obama’s idea into legislation.  Obama’s budget this year calls for taxing dividends as
ordinary income for high earners at rates of up to 39.6 percent,
compared with 15 percent now. His previous budgets had called
for the top tax rate on dividends to be 20 percent, matching the
proposed capital gains rates.  Estate Tax  On the estate tax, Obama wants to return to 2009 policy,
with a $3.5 million per-person exclusion and a 45 percent top
rate. Some Democrats prefer the current parameters, which
include a $5.12 million exclusion and a 35 percent top rate.  The alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system designed
to prevent high-income taxpayers from legally dodging taxes,
includes an exemption that isn’t indexed for inflation. If
Congress doesn’t act, millions more middle-income families will
face the tax.  That so-called patch lapsed at the end of 2011, meaning
that Democrats have to decide whether to continue it for one or
two years.  Reid also signaled another likely difference between the
Democratic and Republican approaches. He criticized Republicans
for failing to offer extensions of tax credits for college
tuition and low-income families and workers. Those provisions
were created in the 2009 stimulus law and extended through 2012
in the same 2010 law that extended the income tax cuts.  Tax Increase  Failure to extend those provisions, Reid said, would mean a
tax increase on 25 million families.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
tax-writing Finance Committee, wouldn’t say what he plans to
propose on dividends and the estate tax. “That’s getting ahead
of yourself,” he said. “We’ll see.”  Baucus, who warned last month against votes before the
election that harden the parties’ positions, said there is
plenty of time to resolve these issues.  “It would be premature to say anything specific,” he
said.  Republicans, meanwhile, said Reid’s objection to scheduling
a vote stemmed from concern about exposing divisions in
Democratic ranks. Some Democrats don’t want to allow tax
increases and others want to set the threshold for high earners
at income of $1 million rather than $250,000.  “It’s pretty pathetic when they won’t even vote on what
the president has asked them to vote on,” Senator  Orrin Hatch 
of  Utah , the top Republican on the Finance committee, said in an
interview. “And the reason they won’t is that they know they
will lose a lot of Democrats.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  