-- Serbia Raises Rates as Price Pressures Outweigh Growth
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-12T14:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/serbia-raises-rates-as-price-pressures-outweigh-growth.html
Serbia ’s central bank raised
 Europe ’s second-highest benchmark interest rate for a second
month as price pressures outweighed concern that the economy is
slowing.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in a statement
that it increased the  two-week repurchase rate  by a quarter
point to 10.25 percent today, following a half-point increase on
June 7. Two of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  forecast the
move, while nine expected a half-point boost and 12 no change.
The dinar lost 0.44 percent against the euro on the day, trading
at 115.3800 at 4:33 p.m. in Belgrade.  Rate setters decided to raise borrowing costs “in order to
prevent any spillover of inflationary pressures and to
contribute to macroeconomic stabilization,” the bank said in
the statement, adding that it sees inflation above its 4 percent
target midpoint in the coming months.  With the euro region slipping toward a recession amid
budget-cutting austerity measures and a flare-up of the debt
crisis, governments across Europe have been putting off rate
increases and considering easing to help their struggling
economies.  Fiscal Plans  Serbia’s new governing coalition is drawing up a plan to
stave off bankruptcy as a record  budget deficit  and political
bickering threaten the country’s ability to finance itself.
External liquidity indicators worsened in May, with the country
spending 18 percent of GDP on debt repayments, the central bank
said in a report yesterday.  The bank raised rates by a half point last month and
tightened reserve-requirement rules to drain liquidity from the
market because of depreciation pressures on the dinar and the
government’s fiscal expansion that saw the five-month budget
deficit widen 80 percent from a year ago.  It said monetary-policy restrictiveness in the coming
period “will exclusively depend on” fiscal policy and how fast
the government adopts and implements fiscal consolidation
“along with a continuation of an IMF arrangement.”  Government Formation  The central bank has repeatedly urged lawmakers to quickly
form a government following inconclusive May 6 general elections
to trim the budget gap and limit public debt. Such moves would
help avoid a further weakening of the dinar and make room to
reduce  interest rates  to spur economic recovery.  The deficit hit 111.2 billion dinars in the first six
months of the year, compared with a full-year target of 152
billion dinars, set in the 2012 budget. The six-month deficit
also compares with a 61 billion-dinar target the IMF advised
Serbia to pursue as a proof that fiscal policies remain on track
even without an IMF program.  The lender suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan
program in February amid evidence that Serbia was already
slipping on agreed fiscal targets.  Prime Minister-Designate Ivica Dacic said his Cabinet will
consider removing Governor Dejan Soskic once it’s sworn in later
this month. Soskic may lose his job if he acts in discord with
other state institutions, which seek to stimulate growth rather
than “tighten the belt,” Dacic told the Tanjug newswire today
in an interview.  Milosevic’s Fall  Since the fall of  Slobodan Milosevic  in 2000, two central
bank governors were dismissed when new governments took office
and changed laws, while one resigned over a disagreement on
expansive fiscal policies and the lack of necessary public-
sector reforms.  The governor is elected to a 6-year term, after being
nominated by President and confirmed by Parliament. He can be
replaced if permanently incapacitated for health reasons,
sentenced and jailed for a crime, or if it’s established that
his “unprofessional” performance and “serious misconduct”
keeps the bank from “accomplishing of its primary objective,”
according to the  central bank law , which sets  price stability  as
the primary goal.  Serbia’s gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent in the
first quarter while the fiscal gap widened to 7.3 percent of GDP
in April and public debt reached at 51.1 percent of GDP at the
end of March, exceeding the government’s self-imposed 45 percent
limit. Inflation accelerated to 3.9 percent in May from a 30-
year low of 2.7 percent in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  