-- Sharp Shares Fall as Citigroup Cuts Price Estimate: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-07-12T01:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sharp-shares-fall-as-citigroup-cuts-price-estimate-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  fell to the lowest level
in 34 years in  Tokyo  trading as Citigroup Inc. cut its share-
price estimate for the Japanese electronics maker, saying the
company may face continued losses.  Sharp  declined  as much as 5.6 percent to 336 yen, the
lowest intraday price since October 1977, and traded at 338 yen
as of 10:39 a.m. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
dropped 0.8 percent.  Citigroup, which recommends selling Sharp shares, lowered
its price  estimate  for the stock to 340 yen from 400 yen. The
Osaka-based electronics maker probably faces first-quarter
losses as its businesses making large liquid-crystal display
panels, LCD televisions, mobile phones and solar panels
struggle, Citigroup analyst Kota Ezawa said in a note.  Sharp has plunged 36 percent in the past three months as
the yen strengthened 9.2 percent against the euro, the most
among major currencies, and 1.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A stronger yen cuts the
repatriated value of Sharp’s overseas earnings.  The company also fell after the Nikkei newspaper reported
Japanese electronics retailer Yamada Denki Co. will spend at
least 10 billion yen to raise its stake in domestic competitor
Best Denki Co. to more than 50 percent from 7.5 percent. The
takeover may enhance Yamada’s bargaining power, lowering the
price it pays Sharp for TVs, said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst
at Mito Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “It’s bad for Sharp’s sales and profits if Yamada and
Best’s negotiating power grows,” Wakabayashi said. “Sharp has
a large share in the domestic market.”  Sharp got 48 percent of revenue from  Japan  in the year
ended March 31, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  