-- Sina Offers Web TV Service to Win China Social Networkers
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-12T22:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sina-offers-web-tv-service-to-win-china-social-networkers.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the Twitter-
like Weibo site in China, plans to start a new Internet
television service, stepping up efforts to add multimedia
content to win social networking users.  Sina will offer the “social television” service with
 BesTV New Media Co. (600637) , according to details posted on Weibo.com.
Mao Taotao, a public relations manager at Sina in Beijing,
confirmed the contents of the site. The companies will unveil
the new service at an event in Shanghai today that will be
attended by executives including Charles Chao, Sina’s chief
executive officer.  Chao is expanding the range of services for users of Weibo,
which has signed up more than 300 million accounts, as Sina
faces competition from rivals led by  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Sina
seeks to maintain the appeal of China’s most-popular
microblogging site, as it aims to boost advertising sales.  The new service will help “retain the users Sina has for
its Weibo platform and is positive,” David Riedel, president of
Riedel Research Group Inc., said by phone in New York. “Sina’s
management team has proven itself able to make good strategic
moves in the past, so I’ll give them the benefit of the doubt.”  Sina, based in  Shanghai , rose 4 percent to $49.92 at the
close of trading in New York yesterday, the biggest gain since
May 29. The stock has lost 4 percent this year, underperforming
the Hong Kong-traded shares of Tencent, which have gained 41
percent.  Weibo Content  The new service will help Sina attract other partners in
the television industry and application developers to offer
content on Weibo, the company said on Weibo.com.  Sina Weibo is China’s most-popular microblogging service by
activity, generating four times the number of page views on
average from each user, compared to Tencent’s, according to a
April 20 report by Morgan Stanley.  Last month, Sina reached an agreement with  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  to
offer the San Francisco-based company’s “Draw Something” game
in China. BesTV New Media, a Shanghai-based provider of video
services, is a unit of state-owned Shanghai Media Group.  Still, the Chinese government, which restricts access to
foreign social networking services including those of  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , is increasing curbs of online video content.  The official Xinhua News Agency said on July 9 that the
government had called on online-video websites to examine videos
before making them available for viewing, and said that the
nation is planning an anti-pornography campaign focused on
videos, books, magazines and online content.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  