-- Singapore Gets Blogger to Apologize for Court Criticism
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-07-12T08:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/singapore-gets-blogger-to-apologize-for-court-criticism.html
A Singapore blogger deleted a post
alleging the city’s courts are biased in favor of the well-
connected after the government’s top legal adviser called the
charge “scurrilous” and threatened prosecution.  “I apologize for committing that act of contempt,” Au
Waipang, 60, said in a posting on his website on July 10 that
was drafted by the Attorney-General’s office. “I will not in
future put up any post to the same or similar effect.”  The blogger, also known as  Alex Au , implied plastic surgeon
 Woffles Wu  was “treated favorably,” by the courts, the
Attorney-General’s office said in a statement yesterday. Au’s
apology follows the jailing of British author  Alan Shadrake , who
was convicted of contempt of court in 2010 over his book “Once
a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock.”  Au didn’t respond to two e-mails seeking comment today. He
told the Singapore Straits Times that he wasn’t going to stick
his neck out for something he couldn’t prove.  Wu, a plastic surgeon, was fined S$1,000 ($800)
last month for having an employee take the blame for his two
speeding offenses in 2005 and 2006. Au suggested the judiciary
was biased because Wu was charged under the Road Traffic Act
instead of the criminal code, the Attorney-General’s office
said.  In a June 18 blog “Woffles Wu Case Hits a Nerve,” Au
wrote that police, prosecutors and judges are “indulgent
towards the well-connected,” the Attorney-General’s office said
in a July 6 letter to Au.  ‘Scurrilous’ Allegations  “The serious allegations, which are scurrilous and false,
scandalized the courts,” the Attorney-General’s office said in
yesterday’s statement. “His allegations of judicial bias in
relation to the Woffles Wu’s case were also based on a number of
distortions of the facts of the case.”  The doctor could have been jailed for as long as one year
and fined as much as S$5,000 if he was convicted under the
criminal code for  providing false information to the police. 
Wu’s charge under the traffic laws carries a maximum fine of
S$1,000 and a jail term of as long as six months. Both sections
of the traffic act and the criminal code had the same maximum
penalties before 2008, the Attorney-General’s office said.  Law Minister  After Wu’s case was discussed in Internet forums and
reported in the local media, Law Minister K. Shanmugam addressed
the issue in a post on his  Facebook page .  The speeding offense is still being investigated and there
may be further prosecution when that probe is done, Shanmugam
wrote June 17.  Hri Kumar, a lawmaker with the ruling People’s  Action Party 
and a lawyer, said in a June 14 post on his  blog  that he was
“surprised” by Wu’s fine.  “I hope there will be an opportunity for the court to
explain its reasons and how other cases where jail terms were
imposed were distinguished,” Kumar wrote. “That will promote
transparency and confidence in our legal system and deal with
allegations of unfair treatment, which have already appeared on
the net.”  Shadrake had accused the city’s judiciary of succumbing to
political influence and favoring the rich over the poor. He was
sentenced to six weeks in jail, fined S$20,000 and ordered to
pay S$55,000 in costs to the prosecution. He lost his appeal in
May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  