-- Singapore GDP Growth Probably Slowed on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-07-12T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/singapore-gdp-growth-probably-slowed-as-europe-crisis-hurt-asia.html
Singapore’s economic growth probably
slowed last quarter as the  European debt crisis  constrained
exports while elevated inflation prompted the central bank to
tighten policy.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.6 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter, less
than the 10 percent pace in the period through March, according
to the median of 14  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey. The
report is due tomorrow.  Singapore may require a further moderation in its 5 percent
inflation rate, the fastest in  Southeast Asia  after Vietnam, to
give the island more scope to join a monetary stimulus drive
stretching from Asia to Europe.  South Korea  unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  for the first time in more than three years today,
joining the  European Central Bank , People’s Bank of China and
 Bank of England  in loosening monetary policy this month.  “A modest slowdown may be welcome by the authorities, but
the key here is that it’s modest,” said Matt Hildebrandt, a
Singapore-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Weaker
growth means less tight labor markets and that should help
soften price pressures over time.”  The  Singapore dollar  is the second-best performer among 11
most-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, gaining about
2 percent against its U.S. counterpart this year. The island
uses the  exchange rate  to manage inflation, saying in April it
would allow faster gains to damp price pressures.  Resilience  Singapore has shown a high degree of resilience to global
financial shocks, despite the openness of its economy and
dependence on global trade, Moody’s Investors Service said last
month. Exports rose less than 4 percent in April and May from a
year earlier, and contracted in May from the previous month.  Retail sales  rose at a slower pace in April as spending at
department stores eased and vehicle purchases fell. Private home
sales in May slumped 32 percent from a month ago to their lowest
this year.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band and
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band.  The city-state added fewer jobs than initially estimated in
the first quarter, and the seasonally adjusted  unemployment rate 
for the three months through March rose to 2.1 percent from 2
percent the previous quarter, a report showed last month.  Europe Impact  China may report weakening growth tomorrow, according to a
separate Bloomberg News survey, putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to further ease the government’s crackdown on the
property industry.  Asian economies will expand less than previously forecast
this year, the  Asian Development Bank  said today. International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week
the lender’s new global growth forecast due this month will be
lower than the previous one.  “Europe’s debt crisis is a global drag and growth numbers
in Asia will continue to get hurt,” said  Harvinder Sian , a
London-based senior rates strategist and co-head of research for
Europe at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. It “opens up the
opportunity” for more easing in the region, he said.  Located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait and home to one of the world’s busiest container
ports, the city-state is vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas
demand for manufactured goods, even as the government has
boosted financial services and tourism to reduce reliance on
exports.  The economy probably expanded 2.3 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, according to the median estimate
of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  