-- SkyWest Sees Mitsubishi Order Kicking Off Fleet Renewal
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-12T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/skywest-sees-mitsubishi-order-kicking-off-fleet-renewal.html
SkyWest Inc. (SKYW) ’s preliminary agreement
to buy 100 regional jets from Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. is the
first step in a plan to replace hundreds of planes that will
probably trigger more orders in the next year, the company’s
chief financial officer said.  Yesterday’s letter of intent with Mitsubishi may result in
a final deal within the next month, SkyWest CFO Michael Kraupp
said. Deliveries of the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, which has as
many as 90 seats, will start in 2017 under the accord announced
at the Farnborough air show outside London. SkyWest’s commitment
is valued at $4.2 billion at list prices.  SkyWest, the world’s largest operator of  Bombardier Inc (BBD/B) .-
built regional jets, is looking to replace most of its fleet of
718 planes over the next 10 to 12 years as their leases end and
the aircraft are returned to lessors. The company is holding
discussions with Bombardier, Mitsubishi and Brazilian rival
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  as it weighs which aircraft to purchase to meet its
future needs, Kraupp said.  “Our order with Mitsubishi is really just a first tranche
within an overall fleet replacement strategy,” Kraupp said late
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’ve had ongoing dialogue
and discussion with Bombardier on new aircraft orders and that
won’t change. We will just wait and see if Bombardier is able to
bring an attractive deal to the table.”  Combined Fleet  Based in  St. George ,  Utah , SkyWest operates regional
flights for carriers that include  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   SkyWest Airlines (SXR)  and ExpressJet
Airlines, the company’s two units, have a combined fleet that
includes 291 Embraer jets and 427 Bombardier planes, according
to the company’s  website . Together, SkyWest and ExpressJet fly
266 of Bombardier’s oldest regional jets, the 50-seat CRJ200s.  “Losing out to Mitsubishi is a disappointment for
Bombardier, but there will be other orders from SkyWest and they
will be sizable,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Winning at
least a part of the follow-on business would be a big vote of
confidence in the product and help the backlog.”  Mitsubishi’s MRJ is scheduled to make its first flight in
late 2013. The Tokyo-based company has been working to reassure
potential customers about the plane after a one-year delay and
has said it is targeting airlines in  North America  and  Asia  as
Europe’s debt crisis damps optimism about sales there.  Kraupp said economics and financing availability both
played a part in SkyWest’s decision to choose the MRJ. He
declined to estimate how much SkyWest may save by flying the new
jets, citing “competitive” reasons.  Fuel Burn  The MRJ will be equipped with engines from  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit, which are similar in
design to power plants under development for Airbus SAS’s
A320neo narrow-body jet.  “The advertised economics, the fuel burn, the
technological advances that exist in this aircraft basically
make it new technology,” Kraupp said. “All of that translates
into reduced operating costs. It just so happens that we were
able to get satisfactory terms and conditions quicker with
Mitsubishi than with other parties.”  SkyWest and Mitsubishi are “very close” to finalizing the
agreement announced yesterday, Kraupp said. “We now have
attorneys that are drafting the language, the actual definitive
agreement that supports that. I wouldn’t be a bit surprised if
within the next 30 days, we end up having a formal definitive
agreement.”  Bombardier, Embraer and Mitsubishi are all in the running
for future regional jet orders, Kraupp said. The company will
also consider buying turboprops, he said.  “We like the Q400,” he said, in reference to Bombardier’s
newest turboprop model.  SkyWest’s next aircraft purchase “could happen easily
within the next 12 months, if not less than that,” Kraupp said.
“We are not going to order 100 percent of our fleet from one
particular manufacturer. We’ve been very open with the
manufacturers about that.”  Shares of SkyWest fell 1.3 percent to $7.75 at the close
in  New York , taking their decline this year to 38 percent.
Bombardier’s Class B stock fell 3.7 percent to C$3.86 in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  