-- Soccer-Starved Libya Seeks Game’s Return After Post-Qaddafi Vote
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/soccer-starved-libya-seeks-game-s-return-after-post-qaddafi-vote.html
As Libya awaits the results of its
first election since  Muammar Qaddafi  was deposed in an uprising,
local soccer officials are banking on the vote to help bring the
country’s most-popular sport out of a 17-month hiatus.  Libyans went to the polls July 7 in the first free national
election in more than four decades and amid a struggle to
restore order after Qaddafi’s rule ended in August. Once a
government is chosen to replace the Transitional National
Council, the suspension on domestic soccer will be lifted, said
Libyan Football Federation board member Issa Alsagair.  “We are determined to start in August or September because
by then we should have our national parliament,” Alsagair said
in an interview. “We have a very good chance to start the
league in August.”  No matches in the Libyan championship have been played
since Feb. 1, 2011 following the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization-backed uprising, during which Qaddafi was forced
from power and later killed. The national team hasn’t played at
home since beating Benin 3-2 in Tripoli eight days after
domestic soccer was halted.  During his 42-year rule, Qaddafi controlled every aspect of
Libyan society, including what happened on the soccer field. Al- Saadi Qaddafi, one of the dictator’s six sons, played for
 Libya ’s national team at the same time as being president of its
soccer federation. The 39-year-old is currently in Niger, where
he fled during the fight to depose his father.  Sports Dictator  “Can you imagine a dictatorship like Qaddafi’s ruling the
country for over 42 years where he has six sons who are
interfering in every move we make?” said Alsagair. “They were
leading the Libyan Olympic Committee, the Libyan Football
Federation, everything, you name it.”  Qaddafi’s regime suppressed the ability of soccer players
to become popular national figures by issuing decrees such as
banning commentators from identifying anyone other than his son
during live broadcasts of matches.  “They would not mention the names, they would say number
nine, eight, seven and so on,” Alsagair said.  Commentators would rarely mention No. 10 because no player,
anywhere in Libya, was allowed to wear that jersey number apart
from al-Saadi, and matches were fixed to favor the whims of the
ruling family, Alsagair added.  Players who spoke out against the regime suffered. Libya’s
transitional government last year approved an investigation into
the murder of Bashir al-Ryani, a soccer player who was tortured
and killed in 2005.  “He made a statement in public and after one and a half
hours or two hours he was found dead,” said Alsagair.  World Cup Bid  Although Libya has never competed at a  World Cup , soccer is
the nation’s most popular sport. It finished runner-up at the
1982 Africa Cup of Nations as host. Qaddafi even made a failed
bid to become the first African nation to stage the global
championship in 2010, an honor that went to  South Africa .  “It was a big joke really,” said Alsagair. “They knew
the influence of football and they used it for themselves. We as
Libyans know we couldn’t host a World Cup.”  The Mediterranean Knights, as the national team is known,
currently top their  African qualifying group  for the 2014
edition. The winners of the 10 four-team pools will be paired
into home-and-away series to determine the continent’s five
spots at the tournament in  Brazil .  Forced to play on the road for almost 1 1/2 years, Libya
has lost just twice in 16 games and has risen to a  team-high
39th  in FIFA’s world rankings.  Cup Final  On July 6, the day before the country went to the polls,
Libya played in the Arab Nations Cup final, losing 3-1 to
 Morocco  in a penalty shootout after the match finished 1-1. The
run at the 11-team event followed an appearance at this year’s
Africa Cup of Nations that included its first victory in the
tournament outside of Libya.  While the nation remains fractured along tribal and
political lines following the fall of Qaddafi, soccer could play
a part in bringing it together, according to Alsagair.  “All players, sportsmen and athletes are doing their best
to join the country, going from place to place to try and
encourage reconciliation because Qaddafi did a lot to damage
Libyans,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  