-- Spain Threatens Deficit-Troubled Regions, Offers Help
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-13T10:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/spain-threatens-deficit-troubled-regions-offers-help.html
Spain ’s government threatened to
take control of budgets in regions that fail to meet austerity
targets, while offering financing to help them avoid default as
the nation battles to restore investor confidence.  Regions projected to miss deficit goals this year were
given a week to take action or risk intervention, Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said in Madrid late yesterday after
meeting regional finance chiefs. Local officials, including some
from the ruling  People’s Party , resisted his demands.  “This proposal has more show than go,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group Ltd. in  London . “Spain
isn’t in any position to take on more obligations and this isn’t
going to repair the credibility of regional governments that
have been shut out of markets for a considerable time.”  The Cabinet will examine today a mechanism to provide
exceptional assistance with bond redemptions to regional
governments that are shut out of markets, Montoro said. The aid
will be conditional on additional budget cuts.  Ministers will approve Spain’s fourth round of austerity in
six months to comply with European Union demands and convince
investors it won’t need a second bailout. The plan also aims to
prevent regions from defaulting as the yield on Spain’s own 10-
year debt yields almost  7 percent  amid narrowing access to
markets.  Chiefs’ Pleas  Yields on debt maturing in April 2013 issued by Catalonia,
the biggest regional economy, were little changed at 16.4
percent at 12:29 p.m. in Madrid. Spanish yields of the same
maturity rose to 3.71 percent today from 3.56 percent, while the
nation’s 10-year benchmark yield rose to 6.66 percent.  Montoro rejected pleas from finance chiefs to relax the 1.5
percent deficit target for this year after the EU gave the
nation leeway to meet its overall goal. Accepting a 0.2
percentage point increase in next year’s goal to 0.7 percent of
each region’s gross domestic product, he toughened goals for
2014 and 2015.  Four of the 17 semi-autonomous regions voted against the
targets and two regions ruled by the PP joined the rebellion by
abstaining. Decisions are taken by majority.  “We have already made a huge effort and we wanted some
respite before intensifying budget cuts,” Antonio Fernandez,
economy chief of Extremadura, where the PP governs in a
coalition, told reporters.  Government Intervention  Montoro declined to identify the regions that risk
overshooting this year’s goal or specify how many they are.
Spain’s Cabinet may apply in one week the budget-stability law
that enables the government to intervene in regions, he said.
When that law was passed earlier this year, Montoro compared
such intervention to EU and International Monetary Fund missions
to  Greece  to oversee that nation’s bailout.  Eight states may be involved, including Valencia and
Catalonia, Expansion newspaper reported, citing people in the
regions it didn’t identify.  Some regions have been locked out of public debt markets
for more than a year and Antonio Beteta, one of Montoro’s
deputies, said yesterday they could no longer obtain financing
from banks. The government, which sought a European bailout for
its banks last month, has said it won’t let any regions fail.  The government will create a state-guaranteed fund that
regions can turn to in order to repay debt in exchange for
further budget cuts, Montoro said, without specifying whether
the fund will issue debt or pool loans, following the model used
to clear unpaid bills this year.  Flexible Instrument  “What the Treasury will do, once it identifies the
regions’ needs for liquidity and redemptions till the end of the
year, is that it’ll guarantee their needs are met,” Deputy
Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre told reporters in
 Madrid  today. “This won’t create doubts on its own rating
because the access to the funding will obey to strict
conditionality.”  Latorre said the system will remedy to the regions being
shut out of markets without hindering fiscal discipline. “On
the contrary, it reinforces the tendency to consolidate public
finances,” he said.  The mechanism turns its back on the joint debt sales
announced by Economy Minister Luis de Guindos on March 27 backed
by a guarantee from the national Treasury and aimed at reducing
borrowing costs. “This idea of hispabonds in the sense of
mutualizing risk has never been on table,” Montoro said
yesterday.  Regional Budgets  Montoro refused to provide any amount for the fund, saying
he doesn’t expect big amounts.  Cash-strapped since a post-real estate boom recession
shriveled tax receipts in 2008, the regions accounted for 69
percent of Spain’s  overspending  last year. They ran a deficit of
3.3 percent of GDP.  The government has demanded they cut the shortfall to 1.5
percent this year after keeping them afloat in the first half by
bringing transfers forward and organizing 35 billion euros ($43
billion) in loans.  The aid balanced regional budgets in the first quarter at
the central government’s expense, causing its deficit to swell
to 3.41 percent of GDP in the first five months of the year,
close to its own full-year goal.  Catalonia, Valencia and Andalusia, which account for 42
percent of the economy, are each rated junk or one notch from
junk by at least one company.  Spain’s regions face about 15 billion euros of redemptions
in the second half of the year, which will add to Spain’s
swelling debt burden following the bailout of Bankia group, the
country’s third-biggest lender.  Deficit Targets  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on July 11 the new
deficit targets set by the EU for Spain this week take into
account the country’s recession, its second since 2009.  The budget target shared by the state, the regions, the
town halls and the social security was raised to 6.3 percent of
GDP from 5.3 percent for 2012, 4.5 percent from 3 percent in
2013 and 2.8 percent from 2.2 percent in 2014.  Starting from July, regions will publish monthly budget
data, instead of every quarter, according to a statement
released by the Budget Ministry following the meeting. The
government has also asked regions to provide budget plans for
the next two years, in the same way Spain has been asked to
provide them to the EU, the ministry said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  