-- Springsteen Braves Mud, Ursula’s Bikini: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/springsteen-braves-mud-ursula-s-bikini-titian-london-weekend.html
Bruce Springsteen ,  Paul Simon  and
Soundgarden all play this weekend as Hard Rock Calling becomes
the latest event to brave the soggy British summer.  Torrential rain left Hyde Park so muddy after the Wireless
Festival that the Hit Factory Live event with  Kylie Minogue  and
Jason Donovan was canceled this week. Now wood chippings have
been put down, and Hard Rock is back on track, along with a
Madonna show on July 17 and later concerts.  Hard Rock has no Glastonbury rival this year and also
includes Iggy and the Stooges and John Fogerty. Information:
 http://www.hardrockcalling.co.uk   Galvin at Windows, atop the Hilton Park Lane, is convenient
for Hyde Park and not as expensive as you might think. The set
lunch is 25 pounds ($38.60) for two courses and 29 pounds for
three. For that, you get excellent modern French food and some
of the best views in London. Information:
 http://www.galvinatwindows.com  or +44-20-7208-4021.  Saturday  His name is Bond --  James Bond  -- and he’s expecting you.  Actor  Sean Connery  (or his wax likeness) leans coolly
against the Aston Martin 1964 DB5 parked outside the Barbican
Centre. He’s a life-sized billboard for “Designing 007: 50
Years of Bond Style,” the sprawling exhibition inside.  Cigarette-pack detonators, casino chips and sparkly gowns
feature in a tribute to the 50-year-old film franchise. Look out
for the attache case with the flick-out blade, James Bond
passports picturing the various actors, and the 1997 “Tomorrow
Never Dies” mobile phone that looks like an antique.  Original swimwear includes Ursula Andress’s belted white
bikini, looking shriveled beside the orange knockoff worn by
 Halle Berry . Fans of the Daniel Craig beach scene in “Casino
Royale” can admire his blue swimming trunks in the same
vitrine.  The show is scattered all over the Barbican. If you skip
the end, you’ll miss the special-effects shark, Madonna’s outfit
in “Die Another Day” (2002), and the Bond snowmobile.  At the Barbican Centre through Sept. 5. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk .  If you want a treat when visiting the Barbican, it’s just a
10-minute walk to Club Gascon, one of the most exciting French
restaurants in  London . Chef Pascal Aussignac serves seasonal
dishes inspired by the cuisine of southwest  France . There’s a
vegetarian menu if foie gras isn’t your thing. Information:
 http://www.clubgascon.com/  or +44-20-7796-0600.  Zetter Townhouse celebrates Bastille Day with a barbecue,
drinks, Boules and a slow bicycle race in St. John’s Square, all
to the accompaniment of an accordionist. French chefs and
restaurateurs will compete to be Petanque champion. (The event
actually kicks off on Friday, if you are free.) In the evening,
neighboring Bistrot Bruno Loubet will serve a four-course French
feast for 60 pounds. Information:
 http://www.thezettertownhouse.com/  or +44-20-7324-4444.  The Boundary is hosting a daylong event on Saturday when
Master of Wine Tim Atkin will compare French wines with their
New World counterparts. Tickets are 110 pounds, including lunch.
Information:  http://www.theboundary.co.uk  or +44-20-7729-1051.  Saturday Night  Watch the culmination of an Olympian effort at the Royal
Opera House.  “Metamorphosis: Titian 2012” has seen seven
choreographers including Wayne McGregor and Christopher Wheeldon
team up with artists, composers and poets in an Olympic-year
tribute to Titian. Dancers Carlos Acosta and Tamara Rojo (who
recently took the helm at English National Ballet) star in the
first of the four performances.  At the National Gallery, you can see the Titian paintings
that inspired the piece, and the contemporary works created by
three artists including  Mark Wallinger  and  Chris Ofili .  For information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  and
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk .  Sunday  One of London’s best-loved waterways, Regent’s Canal, is
marking its 200th birthday this weekend. The canal and footpath,
from gentrified Little Venice near Maida Vale through to
Limehouse in the east, is hosting arts events for all ages.  Those starting from the houseboat basin, once home to
 Richard Branson , can stop off at London Zoo, Regent’s Park and
King’s Place.  “Tales From the Tunnel” offers a storytelling boat trip
inside the Islington Tunnel, running all weekend and costing 7
pounds. You can also take to the water in a Venetian gondola or
watch a display of origami boats. Information: +7725-995229,
 http://regentscanalfestival.org.uk   Claude Debussy’s 150th birthday is being celebrated with
John Eliot Gardiner conducting “Pelleas et Melisande” at the
Proms. The festival starts Friday with the world premiere of
Mark-Anthony Turnage’s “Canon Fever” on a night when four
British conductors share the baton and  Bryn Terfel  sings.  Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms  or +44-845-401-
5040.  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 