-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Nicaragua (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-12T16:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-nicaragua-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Nicaragua:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation
with Nicaragua  On June 27, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation[1] and discussed
the Ex Post Assessment of Longer-Term Program Engagement (EPA)
with Nicaragua.  Background  Macroeconomic developments in Nicaragua have been broadly positive
since 2010. Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew on average 4.6
percent during 2010-11, underpinned by robust consumption and investment.
Inflationary pressures abated somewhat to 8 percent by end-2011
(from 9.2 percent at end-2010), as world commodity prices eased.
Although the external current account deficit widened in 2011
(to 18 percent of GDP), larger capital inflows (mainly sizable
foreign direct investment) produced a small surplus in the balance
of payments, thus increasing international reserves.
The fiscal outturn of 2011 surpassed expectations. The tax reform of
2009 and the strong output recovery boosted tax revenues, while central
 government spending  as a share of GDP remained broadly stable.
As a result, the central government recorded a surplus of 0.6 percent of
GDP (following a deficit of 1 percent of GDP in 2010), which was primarily
used to pay down debts of the state-owned electricity generation company.
Elsewhere in the public sector, a deterioration in the fiscal result of the
social security system, the municipality of Managua, and the state-owned
enterprises was partly offset by a smaller operating deficit of the central
bank than in 2010. On net, the consolidated public sector recorded a small
surplus for the first time since 2007.
 Monetary policy  continued to bolster the international reserves position
and conditions in the financial system strengthened. The central bank
maintained the crawling-peg system, which helped anchor inflation
expectations. Banks’ liquidity remained ample while credit growth picked
up significantly towards the end of the year. Nonperforming loans ratios
declined as banks’ profitability improved and deposits (in local and
foreign currency) rose.
Looking ahead, real GDP growth is expected to slow in 2012 and inflation
to rise to between 8 and 9 percent owing to oil price increases.
The consolidated public sector is projected to post a deficit in 2012
as some spending pressures resurface, but its fiscal position is expected
to improve gradually in the medium term with expenditure restraint at the
level of the central government, central bank, and state-owned enterprises.
The external current account balance is expected to widen in 2012 on the
back of weaker external demand and a larger oil bill, which would reduce
moderately the international reserves coverage. Risks to the economic
outlook for 2012 are tilted to the downside given  Nicaragua ’s exposure
to economic activity abroad.
The Ex Post Assessment (EPA) reviewed Nicaragua’s performance under the
2007-11 program supported by an Extended Credit Facility (ECF) arrangement.
The EPA concluded that although the Nicaraguan economy was buffeted by a
series of adverse shocks between 2007 and 2011, the ECF-supported program
was effective in helping the authorities develop an appropriate policy
framework to support macroeconomic stability. The program also paved the
way for some reforms of the tax system and the energy sector, but it fell
short in key areas, such as pensions and public financial management.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors welcomed Nicaragua’s robust economic recovery and
favorable macroeconomic performance on the back of sound policies, high
export prices, and large investment inflows. Nevertheless, Directors
underscored that important macroeconomic and structural challenges
remain to be addressed, including widespread poverty and large external
imbalances. With downside risks prevailing due to the uncertain global
environment, Directors encouraged the authorities to maintain prudent
macroeconomic policies and step up the pace of structural reform.  Directors stressed that fiscal consolidation should be the cornerstone
of macroeconomic stability. With wage bonuses and higher electricity
subsidies worsening the fiscal outlook for 2012, Directors urged firm
expenditure restraint. In the medium term, reforms to strengthen further
the revenue effort and to revamp the pension system will be critical,
alongside current expenditure restraint, in accommodating higher social
and infrastructure spending while maintaining fiscal sustainability.
Particularly important will be to widen the tax base by curtailing
exemptions.  Directors underscored that reducing external vulnerabilities related to
the large external current account deficit will be a key challenge in the
period ahead. They supported plans to cut back on oil imports and increase
international reserves. They also stressed the importance of reducing the
size and improving the composition of the public debt, and encouraged the
authorities to step up efforts to obtain debt relief on HIPC terms from
nonParis Club creditors.  Directors urged the authorities to prioritize and address the key
structural impediments to growth and poverty reduction. They highlighted
the need to strengthen governance and institutions, improve public
financial management, reduce labor market informality, and tackle
weaknesses in the energy sector.  Directors welcomed the progress in improving banking supervision,
reflected in the overall soundness of the financial system.
They encouraged concerted action to deal with remaining vulnerabilities,
including increased collaboration with regional supervisors. Directors
welcomed the creation of a financial intelligence unit, and urged the
authorities to seize the opportunity to bring the regime against  money
laundering  and terrorism financing into compliance with international
standards.  Directors welcomed the conclusion of the Ex Post Assessment that the
Fund’s engagement in Nicaragua during 2007-11 contributed to macroeconomic
stability. They noted, however, that exogenous shocks and at times weak
program ownership led to uneven progress in structural reforms. In light
of this, Directors highlighted several lessons for the future.
In particular, Directors stressed that policies should have strong
ownership by the authorities, structural reforms should be well
designed and well targeted, and implementation should be flexible
to accommodate unexpected shocks and capacity constraints.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 