-- Sun Valley Media Moguls Gain Footing With Emerging Models
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/sun-valley-media-moguls-gain-footing-with-emerging-models.html
Media moguls gathered at the annual
Allen & Co. conference have spent recent years contemplating how
to cope with technology companies drawing audiences away from
television and movies.  This time, film and TV executives like  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
Jay Rasulo know just where their businesses are headed.  Once threatened by Internet players such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,
traditional entertainment companies now view online outlets as a
rich new vein for viewers who’ll pay $8 a month for mostly older
films and TV shows. Fresher programs, such as NBC Universal’s
webcast of Olympic events, are reserved for cable and satellite
subscribers who already pay much more.  “We in the media business all have to be everywhere,”
Rasulo, Disney’s chief financial officer, said in an interview
yesterday at the conference.  The strategies of established media companies tackling
online video have evolved over the past two years, according to
Blake Krikorian, a conference attendee and director of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , one of the emerging players in film and TV
services on the Internet.  Initially, media companies such as New York-based  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  and Disney put shows up for free on websites such as
Hulu.com. Then they awoke to the decline of the newspaper
industry.  “It may be too late” for some companies,  Liberty Media
Corp. (LMCA)  Chairman  John Malone  told reporters three years ago at the
retreat in Sun Valley, Idaho. “The Internet is moving too fast,
too far.”  Best Stuff  Today, media companies are requiring usernames and
passwords, making sure everyone pays for movies and TV shows,
and reserving their newest and best material for the highest-
paying customers. Even newspapers are starting to charge for
more than limited access to their websites.  “There’s been this big push to get video content behind
paywalls with authentication,” Krikorian said. “Now that there
is this foundation in place you’re starting to see some
interesting things come out.”  Disney, he said, has introduced applications that let cable
subscribers watch live shows on an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone or iPad.
The Burbank, California-based company’s Watch Disney application
was the ninth most downloaded free iPad application last week,
according to the industry researcher AppAnnie.  Comcast Accord  Rasulo cited a 10-year programming agreement Disney reached
this year with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. pay-TV provider,
as one that underscores the industry’s emerging consensus. The
accord is worth $22 billion to $25 billion, a person with
knowledge of the deal said at the time.  While Disney isn’t getting revenue from the Watch app,
Rasulo said the arrangement reached in January included 70 other
services that extend Comcast subscribers’ access to Disney, ABC
and ESPN programs.  The agreement also ensured Comcast viewers wouldn’t lose
Disney programming to fee disputes, such as the battle between
satellite TV provider  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , which has cut off
subscriber access to networks including MTV and Nickelodeon.  Shares of the traditional cable and entertainment companies
suggest the new-found confidence is extending to investors as
well.  Comcast, owner of NBC Universal, as well as cable systems,
has gained 34 percent this year, leading the 16-company  S&P 500
Media Index. (S5MEDA)   Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is second, ahead 30 percent,
and Disney is third with a gain of 26 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average is up 3.2 percent this year.  Tech Falters  At the same time, newer Internet companies have faltered,
with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  down 19 percent from its May initial share
sale and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the online game provider, down 47 percent
this year.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of YouTube and the world’s most
popular search engine, has declined 12 percent in 2012.  The online drive by established media companies still poses
risks to their businesses, according to  Robert Johnson , a
founder of the BET cable network and the first black U.S.
billionaire.  Johnson told reporters at Sun Valley that watching shows
online will lead consumers to question how much they pay for
cable TV service, which cost an average of $80 a month last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The result may be
more pressure to sell channels individually and let viewers drop
networks they don’t like, so-called a la carte TV.  “Digital will make it more pronounced if you want to buy
one, two or three of something,” Johnson said in an interview.
“If that’s all you want to watch, that’s all you’re going to
pay for.”  Channel Choices  In an interview at Sun Valley,  Michael White , chief
executive officer of DirecTV, said his company, the largest U.S.
satellite service, isn’t looking to break up Viacom’s bundle of
channels, even though his customers would prefer not to pay for
networks they don’t watch.  Still, the sluggish economy and online services such as Los
Gatos, California-based Netflix may make satellite TV customers
less willing to pay higher rates, White said.  Jeffrey Bewkes, Time Warner Inc.’s CEO, emerged from the
Duchin Lounge, the bar at the Sun Valley Lodge, after a “very 
long discussion” on the first night of the conference with 
 Reed Hastings , the CEO of Netflix, a company he once belittled
by comparing it to the Albanian army.  In January, Netflix agreed to delay renting Time Warner
DVDs by mail to give its Warner Bros. studio more time to sell
new releases.  Bewkes said he also expects to talk with Apple CEO  Tim Cook 
about the planned AppleTV product. To get television
programming, Apple would have to be willing to pay as much in
affiliate fees as cable companies, he said.  “I don’t know if that’s Apple’s style,” Bewkes said.
“We’ll have to see.”  Krikorian, Amazon.com’s board member, sees content owners
and distributors emerging from such talks with a clearer idea of
where they are headed. While there are challenges, distributors
and content owners know each other better, he said.  “The industry is coming out of this hibernation period of
the last couple of years,” said Krikorian, who helped create
Slingbox, one of the earliest efforts to integrate the Internet
and TV. “More of the content owners and networks are looking to
play offense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  