-- Swiss Stocks Decline on Fed Minutes; Temenos Shares Drop
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-12T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/swiss-stocks-decline-on-fed-minutes-temenos-shares-drop.html
Swiss Stocks (SMI)  declined the most in
more than two weeks as minutes released by the  Federal Reserve 
disappointed investors looking for a more definitive sign of
potential new quantitative-easing measures.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  plummeted the most in 3 1/2 years after
the banking-software maker cut its revenue-growth forecast and
said its chief executive officer will step down.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) 
and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA slid at least 4 percent.  Sonova
Holding AG (SOON)  and  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  shares retreated more
than 1.5 percent.  The Swiss Market Index fell 0.4 percent to 6,147.57 at the
close of trading in Zurich, the biggest slide since June 25. The
measure has dropped 3.1 percent from its 2012 high on March 16
amid concern the euro-area debt crisis is hurting the economy.
The broader Swiss Performance Index retreated 0.6 percent today.  “Investors expected the Fed’s wording to hold out the
prospect of further QE, but the minutes give the impression the
Fed will wait for clearly worse economic indicators before
finding the majority for further measures,” said Thomas Haerter, chief strategist at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in
Zurich, where he helps oversee 51.7 billion Swiss francs. “In
addition, the current reporting season looks like it won’t help
support the market in light of bad macro data, and that we’ll
see at least slight disappointments.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 27 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Meeting  A few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said the
U.S. central bank should ease policy to move the economy toward
its targets for full employment and stable prices, according to
minutes of the June 19-20 meeting released yesterday in
 Washington . Several others said more action could be warranted
if growth slows, risks intensified or inflation seemed likely to
fall “persistently” below their goal.  A report today showed that fewer Americans than forecast
filed first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  last week.
Applications decreased by 26,000 in the week ended July 7 to
350,000, the fewest since March 2008, the Labor Department said.
Economists had forecast 372,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Temenos slumped 28 percent to 10.25 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since January 2009, after it cut the top end of its
2012 revenue growth forecast to 1 percent from 6 percent. The
company also said Chief Executive Officer Guy Dubois will step
down for personal reasons and be replaced by David Arnott, who’s
currently chief financial officer.  Temenos Downgrades  Bank of America Corp. downgraded the stock to underperform,
which means investors should sell the shares, from buy, while
Exane BNP Paribas cut its price estimate for the shares by 5
percent to 18 francs.  “Companies’ earnings may not be catastrophic in the
current reporting season, but the outlook is very cautious and
doesn’t look as good any more,” Haerter said.  Swatch,  the world’s largest watchmaker , dropped 4 percent
to 346.60 francs, while Richemont, owner of the Cartier brand,
declined 4.2 percent to 48.41 francs. Bernard Fornas, the head
of Cartier, told the Wall Street Journal that demand for its
high-end watches is slowing in  China .  Health-care shares declined, with Sonova, the hearing-aid
maker, dropping 1.6 percent to 91.20 francs and Nobel Biocare,
the world’s second-biggest maker of dental implants, sliding 3.8
percent to 8.81 francs.  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN)  slumped 5.6 percent to 235 francs,
its lowest price since Jan. 12, after MainFirst Bank AG cut the
stock to sell from neutral.  Schlatter Holding AG (STRN)  retreated 6.8 percent to 130.50 francs
after the welding machinery maker said it expects a loss for
this year because of the “difficult economic environment in the
euro area” and the strength of the franc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  