-- Syria Ambassador to Iraq Says He’s Joining the Revolution
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-12T09:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/syria-ambassador-to-iraq-says-he-s-joining-the-revolution-.html
Syria ’s ambassador to  Iraq  defected
and joined the opposition, saying the government of President
Bashar al-Assad has turned the ruling Baath party into “an
instrument to kill people.”  Nawaf al-Fares is the first Syrian ambassador to abandon
the government since the uprising against Assad began in March
2011. Mohammed Bassam Imadi, a former Syrian ambassador to
 Sweden , defected late last year and is now a member of the
Syrian National Council, the main opposition group. Last month,
a Syrian air force colonel flew a fighter jet into neighboring
Jordan, where he was granted political asylum.  Al-Fares’s resignation yesterday came less than a week
after the announcement that Brigadier-General Manaf Tlas, a
childhood friend of Assad’s and part of his inner circle, had
fled. Unlike Tlas, who has remained silent and hasn’t openly
announced his defection, al-Fares said he’s “joining the
revolution.”  “I resign from my mission as the ambassador of the Syrian
Arab Republic to Iraq,” al-Fares said in a statement to Al 
Jazeera television. “I call upon the honorable members of the
party to follow my lead. I also call on all the honorable and
free Syrians, especially military personnel, to immediately join
the revolution.”  ‘Loss of Confidence’  Al-Fares’ defection “is a symptom of a loss of confidence
even from those close to the regime that it is going to win this
confrontation” said  Paul Salem , director of the  Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace’s   Middle East Center  in
 Beirut . “They are beginning to distance themselves from this
regime and to position themselves for a post-Assad situation.”  Salem said the defection doesn’t mean the government will
collapse “in days or weeks, but likely in many months.”  “These symptoms which one saw in the first weeks of
uprisings in other countries have happened a year and a half
after the Syrian one started indicating the very difficult and
slow and costly nature of the Syrian uprising and transition as
opposed to the others,” he said. “We’re still in slow
motion.”  Assad’s government is fighting an insurrection that has
killed at least 17,000 people, including more than 4,000 members
of the Syrian military, according to Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of
the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . At least 78 people were
killed yesterday, the Local Coordination Committees in Syria
said in an e-mail.  Authorities have portrayed the unrest as a conspiracy and
the protesters as radical Islamists.  Syria’s Foreign Ministry said al-Fares made remarks that
“conflict” with his duties, which requires legal and
disciplinary measures, the state-run Sana news agency reported.  It said al-Fares “has been relieved of his duties and no
longer has any relationship with the Syrian Embassy in  Baghdad 
or the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  