-- U.K. Calls in Troops to London Olympics After G4S Shortfall
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-12T11:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-k-calls-in-troops-to-olympics-after-g4s-security-shortfall.html
The U.K. government will deploy
3,500 extra soldiers to provide security at London Olympic
venues after  G4S Plc (GFS) , the company with the contract to protect
the games, said it won’t have enough staff available.  “As the venue security exercise has got under way,
concerns have arisen about the ability of G4S to deliver the
required number of guards for all the venues within the
timescales available,” Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said in
a written statement to Parliament today. “G4S has now agreed
that it would be prudent to deploy additional military support
to provide greater reassurance.”  Speaking in the House of Commons in London, Home Secretary
Theresa May said there is “no question” of the Olympics being
compromised by the shortfall in security personnel. “There is
no specific security threat to the games,” May told lawmakers
after the opposition  Labour Party  demanded she answer questions
on the issue.  With the games set to open on July 27, the security
announcement has added to concerns that the event may not run
smoothly. Though London has got its venues ready well in advance
and spending came in below the final budget estimate,
immigration delays at  Heathrow airport  and last-minute repairs
to the hub’s main road link are threatening to disrupt
transport.  Another ‘Shambles’  Labour’s home-affairs spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , told May
the last-minute decision to deploy the extra troops, taking the
total number of armed-forces personnel at the games to 17,000,
“really looks like another  Home Office  shambles.”  May rejected Cooper’s assertion, saying “it is not a
shambles when the government takes the decision necessary to
provide the security necessary.”  She told lawmakers that the games organizing committee,
Locog, would apply any penalties to G4S. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters that “if
they’re not meeting their obligations under the contract, there
should be consequences.”  G4S fell the most in eight months in London trading today.
Shares of the Crawley, southern England-based company  dropped  as
much as 4.5 percent to 277.3 pence, the biggest decline since
Nov. 17. They were down 2.9 percent at 281.9 pence at 12:03 p.m.  ‘Very Complex’  “This is an unprecedented and very complex security
recruitment and deployment exercise which is being carried out
to a very tight schedule,” G4S, the world’s largest security
company, said in an e-mailed statement.  It said the company has 4,000 people at work across 100
venues and an additional 9,000 are going through the final
stages of training, vetting and accreditation. The contract for
the Olympics is valued at 284 million pounds ($439 million), the
 Guardian newspaper  reported.  “We have encountered some delays in progressing applicants
through the final stages but we are working extremely hard to
process these as swiftly as possible,” G4S said. “We
understand the government’s decision to bring in additional
resources and will work with Locog, the military and other
agencies to deliver a safe and secure games.”  Immigration Minister Damian Green repeated assurances today
that passport checks at BAA Plc’s Heathrow hub would run more
smoothly during the Olympics than they have in recent months,
when arriving passengers have sometimes had to wait several
hours. He said this week the airport would go into full
“Olympic mode” on July 15.  “April was a bad month,” Green told the BBC today. “We
have put more people in since then, progressively ramping up the
numbers and during the Olympics 300 officers will be on duty at
Heathrow.”  The main M4 expressway from Heathrow into the capital
remains closed as engineers try to repair a bridge carrying the
road through west  London . That’s causing congestion as motorists
are forced to switch to other routes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  