-- U.K. Home Prices Stayed Close to Four-Year High in June
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-k-home-prices-stayed-close-to-four-year-high-in-june.html
U.K.  house prices  stayed close to a
14-month high in June as strength in London and a dearth of
transactions underpinned the  property market , Acadametrics
Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home in England and  Wales  fell 0.1
percent from May to 224,102 pounds ($346,000), Acadametrics and
 LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said in a report published in London
today. Prices rose 3 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
annual gain since 2010.  “The overall trend in the average house prices continues
to be that of a gentle increase,” Peter Williams, chairman of
Acadametrics, said in a statement. “We see the minor drop this
month as merely a return to trend rather than an early warning
of a more deep-seated malaise.”  The report underscores Britain’s property divide as  London 
outpaces the rest of the country and some regions show
persisting weakness. The lack of transactions, exacerbated in
June by heavy rainfall and the holiday for Queen Elizabeth II’s
Diamond Jubilee, may continue because of the London  Olympic
Games , Acadametrics said.  London home prices increased an annual 8 percent in the
quarter through May, more than triple the 2.3 percent gain for
England and Wales as a whole, the research group said. Half of
the 10 regions tracked showed an annual decline in the period.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce their housing index.  Williams estimated the number of transactions at 57,000 in
June, the second-lowest reading since the  Land Registry  began
computerized records in 1995. He said the Olympic Games, which
open on July 27, may disrupt housing activity further.  “The road and other travel restrictions in London will,
almost certainly, curb the enthusiasm of potential buyers,”
Williams said. “The events themselves will absorb leisure time,
which might otherwise have been spent in visiting properties for
sale. Our short-term prognosis for housing transactions is
therefore one of continuing weak activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  