-- TPG, Samsung-Backed Carbon Capture Project Leads in EU Funds
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-12T14:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-k-carbon-capture-project-leads-in-eu-funding-contest.html
A U.K. carbon-capture project part-
owned by  Samsung Group  and developed by a British company held
by TPG Capital is first in line for a share of as much as 1.5
billion-euros ($1.8 billion) in European Union funding.  The Don Valley Power Project in northern England proposed
by 2Co Energy Ltd. leads a list of ventures selected as
candidates in a European Commission funding program, the
commission said today in a report on its website. Four of the
eight projects on the list are based in the U.K.  Britain’s coalition government is ahead of other European
countries having separately offered 1 billion pounds ($1.5
billion) of funding for the technology, which gathers emissions
for underground storage. Without CCS, the U.K may fail to meet
climate goals, Energy Minister  Charles Hendry   said in  February.  The Teesside CCS Project developed by a group including
Progressive Energy Ltd. in north England and the White Rose
proposal by  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  and  National Grid Plc (NG/)  in
Yorkshire are also candidates for funding awards.  The Belchatow project in Poland proposed by utility Polska
Grupa Energetyczna SA was second on the list. Third was the
Netherlands-based Green Hydrogen project developed by  Air
Liquide SA. (AI)  One CCS project was withdrawn from the program,
called the NER300, after completion of due diligence.  2Co Energy  The first two to three CCS projects on the list may be
funded “within the estimated 1.3 billion euros to 1.5 billion
euros of available funds,” according to the report. The
commission aims make award decisions by the end of 2012.  A Scottish project by  SSE Plc (SSE)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is
on a “reserve list” should a candidate drop out.  2Co Energy’s top ranking means it may receive as much as
377 million euros in European funding, including 180 million
euros from the European Energy Program for Recovery, according
to Kieron Stopforth, a CCS analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  “2Co Energy still has a long way to go,” he said by e-
mail, requiring as much as 700 million pounds in additional
financing to meet its target of 1 billion pounds in public
grants.  2Co Energy, backed by Fort Worth, Texas-based private
equity company TPG Capital, agreed to sell shares in the project
to  Linde AG (LIN)  and Samsung’s construction and trading arm Samsung
C&T this year.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  