-- U.K. Builders From SIG to Marshalls Seen Hampered by Wet Summer
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-07-12T23:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-k-builders-from-sig-to-marshalls-seen-hampered-by-wet-summer.html
SIG Plc (SHI)  and  Marshalls Plc (MSLH)  are among
the building-material suppliers that are finding it harder to
meet profit targets this year as the U.K.’s wettest summer on
record restrains construction.  Activity in the construction and property-renovation
industry is currently down about 4 percent to 5 percent amid the
inclement weather, said Chris Davies, chief executive officer of
Sheffield-based insulation distributor SIG.  “It’s a domino effect,” said Davies in an interview. “We
would expect to get quite a lot of displaced work back rather
than cancellations but the longer the bad weather goes on, the
more later projects become disrupted. It puts pressure on us for
the rest of the year to meet our profit target.”  For paving slab maker Marshalls, deluges cut sales by 10
million pounds ($16 million) in the second quarter alone, the
company said. Dublin-based  Grafton Group Plc (GN5)  said July 11 it
also suffered. U.K. construction, which accounts for 6 percent
of the economy, is already battling a slowdown and cutbacks in
 government spending . The industry shrank at the fastest pace in
2 1/2 years in June, according to Markit Economics.  “The underlying business is in reasonable shape but we are
inevitably being affected by the market conditions out there,”
said Marshalls Chief Executive Officer Graham Holden in a phone
interview. “The weather just slows everything down.” Marshalls
is “determined to make the best of it,” Holden said, when
asked about his confidence going forward.  Olympics Disruption  London ’s Olympic Games starting July 27 are a mixed
blessing, according to construction companies and their
suppliers. The 9.3 billion pounds being spent on infrastructure
have brought welcome orders, yet road closures and route
restrictions to help the 15,000 athletes get to events on time
threaten to disrupt projects elsewhere in the capital.  Some sites may grind to a halt for a few months, according
to SIG, which derives one-third of its U.K. revenue from the
southeast of  England . The majority of products are sent directly
to building sites, some of which may become difficult to access
because of route closures and the designated Olympic lanes.  SIG said it’s budgeting for a lot of clients to defer
orders, with the situation settling down in September and back
to normal in October.  State Cutbacks  Far outweighing the weather are cutbacks in infrastructure
spending, according to an official at the Union of Construction,
Allied Trades and Technicians. The government is the largest
client to the  construction industry  and reductions in spending
have caused “serious problems,” the official said.  “Cuts in the U.K. to new build public spending are
starting to hit now, so although residential is growing slightly
and non-residential is broadly stable, the public sector is
dragging spend down,” said  Charlie Campbell , an analyst at
 Liberum Capital .  New work for the construction industry declined in June
after eight months’ of growth, according to Markit Economics.
With additional threats of downpours and localized flooding in
parts of the U.K. for the remainder of the week, there’s little
respite from the weather ahead.  “At least all this isn’t happening in October or November,
so we have a bit of time to try and catch up,” SIG’s Davies
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  