-- U.K. Seen Doubling Power Price to Guarantee New Reactor: Energy
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-13T15:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-k-seen-doubling-power-price-to-guarantee-new-reactor-energy.html
The future of the U.K.’s nuclear
industry will be decided on one number: the price the
government’s willing to guarantee  Electricite de France SA  will
get for generating atomic power.  EDF and government officials will negotiate the so-called
strike price for new nuclear  power plants  by the end of the
year. To ensure the Paris-based utility makes a final decision
on a new reactor in southwest  England , the U.K. must set a price
between 95 pounds ($148) and 105 pounds a megawatt-hour in 2020,
double the level power trades at today, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  Britain, trying to replace aging plants and cut carbon
dioxide emissions, is one of just three western European
countries still pursuing plans for new nuclear stations
following the Fukushima disaster last year. Safety enhancements
have contributed to rising nuclear costs, leading to concern
U.K. consumers may pay too much for new reactors.  “Discussions are happening in smoke-filled rooms, over
champagne and croissants, to establish a price that we will all
pay,” said Ian Marchant, chief executive officer of the U.K.’s
second-largest energy supplier  SSE Plc (SSE) , which dropped plans to
develop reactors in September. “There is no transparency as to
what that price will be.”  Lead Company  A survey of eight analysts by Bloomberg News suggested a
new reactor could cost 4.9 billion pounds to 7.5 billion pounds.
EDF and partner  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest residential
energy supplier, are among four companies still considering
nuclear new-build in the U.K. Three utilities including SSE and
 Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  and  EON AG (EOAN)  have dropped nuclear new build plans
since September.  That’s left EDF as the lead company negotiating with the
government over long-term price guarantees proposed in draft
energy legislation in May. The bill seeks to alleviate the risk
of building nuclear reactors and renewable energy projects like
offshore wind farms, which are expensive to construct and can
take decades to recoup initial investments.  “The strike price will not be defined in a cozy way
through a hidden set of decisions,” said Vincent de Rivaz, CEO
of EDF’s U.K. unit. “We are in favor of a balanced deal because
what is not balanced is not stable.”  EDF rose 0.8 percent to 16.87 euros in Paris. It has fallen
12 percent this year, valuing EDF at 31.2 billion euros.  Centrica spokesman Julian Mears declined to comment.  Offshore Farms  The bill proposes guaranteeing prices for low-carbon
electricity including nuclear reactors and offshore wind farms
using a so-called feed-in tariff with contracts for difference.
Under the policy, if wholesale power prices drop below a
government-established level known as the “strike price,”
investors in nuclear power stations and renewable projects will
be compensated by suppliers up to that level. If prices are
higher, suppliers and consumers will be reimbursed by investors.  Wholesale power prices for the month ahead traded at 41.82
pounds a megawatt-hour yesterday, according to broker prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Until the bill becomes law, the government will directly
negotiate with companies like EDF and Centrica that intend to
make investment decisions within the next 12 months. The
legislation may face challenges by the European Union and energy
suppliers could be liable for the contracts, weighing on their
credit ratings, SSE’s Marchant said.  Value for Money  “It’s only in consumers’ interest if you reduce the cost
of capital to the industry as a whole,” Marchant said. “If
we’re going to go ahead and support new nuclear we should be
playing hard ball and make sure we get a good price for it.”  Any contract between a developer of new nuclear and the
government will be “subject to negotiation focusing on
delivering a fair deal which is affordable, provides clear value
for money, and is consistent with the government’s policy on no
public subsidy for new nuclear,” the Department of Energy and
Climate Change press office said by e-mail.  Rising commodity prices and the need to replace a fifth of
the U.K.’s power generating capacity over the next decade will
drive up household bills with or without reform, according to
the department.  When negotiating with the department of energy, EDF will
argue that costs of nuclear have increased significantly given
delays at reactor construction sites in France and  Finland , as
well as post-Fukushima safety precautions, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst Brian Potskowski.  Increased Capital Costs  Based on increased capital costs and a rate of return of 10
percent to 11 percent, the company will need a guaranteed power
price of 95 to 105 pounds, he said. The upper limit on this
strike price is 130 pounds, which is the compensation level for
offshore wind, he added.  “If the U.K. government really wants new nuclear built,
there aren’t any other options on the table other than EDF and
Centrica,” Daniel Grosvenor, head of Deloitte LLP’s nuclear
team in  London , said in a telephone interview. “All the
utilities are going to look at this as a robust  investment
decision . No one is going to take a punt.”  EDF has struggled to control costs and meet deadlines at
its showcase EPR reactor-site in Flamanville, Normandy. The EPR
will cost around 6 billion euros and start selling power
commercially in 2016 compared with a previous estimate of about
5 billion euros and a start date of 2014, it said in July last
year. Executives have blamed delays on the fact that the reactor
is a first-of-a-kind, unlikely to be repeated in Britain.  Prior to the Fukushima disaster, the utility said building
a new 1,600 megawatt reactor in the U.K. would cost an estimated
4.5 billion pounds a reactor.  “What you have is a whole bunch of people saying they know
what a new reactor will cost and they don’t,”  Liberum Capital ’s
Dominic Nash said by phone. “They have no idea of pre-building
expenses, the raw material costs of steel, copper and cement
eight years out, or of construction costs in the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  