-- S&P 500 Has Longest Slump Since May on Economic Concern
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-12T21:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-economy-concern.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the longest slump since May, as
concern intensified about a slowdown in the global economic
recovery and American corporate earnings.  Equities pared earlier losses as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and
Merck & Co. rallied more than 3.7 percent, while an S&P index of
homebuilders jumped 2.4 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  slipped at least 1.9 percent, pacing declines
among banks.  Supervalu (SVU)  Inc. sank 49 percent after the third-
largest U.S. grocery chain said it will review strategic
alternatives for the business and suspended its dividend.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  slid 0.5 percent to 1,334.76 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, paring a drop of as much as 1.2 percent. The benchmark
index for American equities retreated for a sixth straight day,
losing 2.9 percent over the period. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell 31.26 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,573.27, after
losing more than 112 points. Volume for exchange-listed stocks
in the U.S. was 6.5 billion shares, 3.3 percent below the three-
month average.  “There’s a worldwide slowdown,” Nick Sargen, chief
investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors in
Cincinnati, said in a phone interview. The firm oversees $40
billion. “Wall Street analysts have been reducing their second-
quarter earnings estimates as companies have guided them lower.
Profit growth, which has been a main driver for the market, will
be less supportive going forward.”  Fed Minutes  The S&P 500 closed little changed yesterday as investors
sifted through minutes of last month’s  Federal Reserve  meeting
for hints of additional stimulus. The Federal Open Market
Committee’s June 19-20 meeting debated the need for further
stimulus measures, the minutes showed. Two participants
supported additional bond purchases, while two others said only
a further deterioration in the economy would warrant them.  Equities remained lower earlier today as Labor Department
figures showed applications for  first-time claims  declined last
week more than economist forecast. The decrease reflected the
volatility of claims during the annual auto-plant retooling
period. In Asia, the Bank of Korea unexpectedly cut its key
interest rate. Data due out tonight may show China’s  economic
growth  fell below 8 percent for the first time since 2009,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  50-Day Average  The S&P 500 pared losses in the afternoon, rebounding after
dipping below its 50-day moving average for a third day.  “Technicals may be a contributing factor,”  Ryan Larson ,
Chicago-based head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset
Management (U.S.) Inc., wrote in an e-mail. His firm oversees
$250 billion in assets. “It does appear that the market is
somewhat backstopped from any meaningful losses on hopes of
further central bank intervention, specifically from the Fed.”  Bank of America strategists lowered their earnings
forecasts for S&P 500 companies by 1.4 percent for this year and
next year, citing falling commodity prices and slower global
growth prospects. Strategists Dan Suzuki, Savita Subramanian and
Jill Carey now project earnings of $102 per share for 2012 and
$109 for 2013, according to a note to clients today.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project that earnings
decreased 1.8 percent in the second quarter, the first drop in
almost three years.  Warren Buffett  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., told CNBC that economic growth in the U.S. is
slowing even as the housing market shows signs of rebounding.  “The general economy in the United States has been more or
less flat, and so the growth has tempered down,” he said today
in an interview with the television station from Sun Valley,
Idaho. Buffett’s remarks contrast with his comment a year ago to
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu in Sun Valley that the economy
and jobs will “come back big time” when residential
construction recovers. U.S. unemployment has exceeded 8 percent
for more than three years.  An S&P  index of homebuilders  rose 2.4 percent.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
jumped 3.6 percent to $31.06.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  gained 2.9 percent
to $10.84, while D.R. Horton Inc. added 2.7 percent to $18.37.  Equities also pared declines as P&G rallied 3.8 percent to
$63.70. The Federal Trade Commission cleared  William Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP to buy a stake in the
world’s largest consumer-products company. Ackman said the stake
is the firm’s “largest initial investment ever.” His interest
may signal more pressure for asset sales from P&G, which sold
its Pringles snacks unit to Kellogg Co. for about $2.7 billion
earlier this year, according to Louis Meyer, a special-
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  Merck, McDonald’s  Merck rose 4.1 percent, the most in the Dow, to $42.91. An
advisory panel recommended closing the Phase 3 clinical trial of
an experimental therapy to prevent bone fractures in women with
osteoporosis early “due to robust efficacy and a favorable
benefit-risk profile,” Merck said.  McDonald’s Corp. advanced 2.7 percent to $91.93. Sales at
the world’s largest restaurant chain probably “meaningfully”
beat even the highest analyst estimate,  Mark Kalinowski , an
analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said, citing checks
with franchisees.  Seven out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 retreated, as
technology and financial companies lost more than 1 percent. The
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to the
economy erased 0.9 percent.  JPMorgan Earnings  Financial stocks dropped as European lenders fell. Bank of
America lost 2 percent to $7.48. Morgan Stanley retreated 1.9
percent to $13.55.  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. slid 1.6 percent to $34.04. Investors
will look for Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  to restore
confidence when the company reports second-quarter results
tomorrow. The bank may say profit fell 40 percent to 76 cents a
share, excluding accounting adjustments, according to the
average estimate from analysts in a Bloomberg survey. JPMorgan
shares have dropped 16 percent since May 10, when the company
disclosed a $2 billion loss on credit derivatives.  Lexmark International Inc. slumped 7.5 percent to $24.31,
leading losses among technology shares.  Benjamin Reitzes , an
analyst with Barclays Plc, cut the maker of laser and inkjet
printers to underweight, an equivalent of sell, citing a slump
in corporate spending as more workers use mobile devices. The
stock was previously rated equalweight.  Supervalu Sinks  Supervalu tumbled 49 percent to $2.69. The company, which
last month announced layoffs in its Albertsons unit in
California and Nevada, plans to accelerate price reductions and
cut costs by an additional $250 million over the next two years,
it said in a statement yesterday. It has retained Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. to review its options, it said.  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest U.S. grocer, slumped 13
percent, the most in the S&P 500, to $15.73.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the
biggest, sank 3.7 percent to $21.96.  Marriott (MAR)  International Inc. slid 6.4 percent to $35.58 as
the hotel operator reduced its projections for revenue growth
per available room outside  North America .  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W
brands, retreated 5.3 percent to $48.66.  Airlines fell as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said analysts’
estimates for the industry are “too optimistic.” Tom Kim, an
analyst with Goldman Sachs, rated  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  sell in new coverage, saying
the two companies are most vulnerable to earnings pressure.  Delta Air fell 3.1 percent to $10.75 while United
Continental slipped 4.1 percent to $23.78.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , controlled by hedge-fund executive
 Edward Lampert , declined 5.1 percent to $53.48. The retailer’s
same-store sales probably dropped 5 percent for the second
quarter, accelerating from a 1 percent decrease in the previous
three months, Cleveland Research said, citing channel checks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  