-- U.S. Coal Rules May Allow State CO2 Markets: Forrister
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-13T15:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-utility-rules-to-allow-state-co2-markets-forrister.html
The U.S. may allow states to
regulate emissions from existing coal-fired power plants using
carbon markets, according to the president of the International
Emissions Trading Association.  The nation’s Environmental Protection Agency is set to let
states including New York and California regulate emissions in
their own way rather than via a federal power station emission
standard, assuming President  Barack Obama  wins a second term in
office, said IETA president Dirk Forrister, a former climate
adviser to U.S. President  Bill Clinton .  Federal cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the  U.S.
Senate  after narrowly passing the  House of Representatives  in
2009. Still, California’s trading program is planned for next
year and Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts,
 New Hampshire , New York, Rhode Island and Vermont formed the
 Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative  in 2008.  “A state could propose a cap-and-trade as an
alternative,” Geneva-based Forrister said July 9 in an
interview in London. Power utilities didn’t want a patchwork of
50 carbon-reduction programs, “but that may be happening.”  In announcing the first rules for carbon dioxide from
future power stations in March, EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson 
dropped a pledge to issue rules for existing plants, saying the
agency had “no plans” to develop those regulations.  As part of a legal  settlement  with environmental groups
including the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Sierra
Club, and states such as Massachusetts and Connecticut, the EPA
agreed in December 2010 to regulate carbon-dioxide emissions
from electricity plants. The EPA missed a September deadline to
issue those rules.  Legal Right  Last month, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington ruled
that the EPA acted properly when it concluded that greenhouse
gases are pollutants that endanger human health, and opponents
don’t have a legal right to challenge rules determining when
states and industries must comply with regulations curtailing
such emissions.  These states may be among those seeking to use their
markets to control emissions from existing fossil-fuel stations,
Forrister said. Coal-burning states including Kentucky and Ohio
are unlikely to adopt carbon markets in order to comply with
federal measures, he said.  Washington state and Oregon both have coal stations that
they plan to shut, John Coequyt, the San Francisco-based  Sierra
Club ’s senior representative for  climate change , said in an
interview on July 11. “I would bet the EPA would be fairly
open” to carbon markets.  Spending Proceeds  Markets have the benefit of providing funds from emission
allowances sold, Coequyt said. States in the so-called RGGI
program spent about 52 percent of proceeds to boost energy
efficiency, according to a  report  published by the market’s
administrator last year.  RGGI states have raised more than $1 billion from selling
the permits, according to the  market’s website .  Should Mitt Romney win presidential office this year,
there’s “almost no chance” he will put in place a carbon-
emissions standard for existing stations, Coequyt said.  The EPA’s proposal on March 27 would cap emissions for
plants built in the future at 1,000 pounds per megawatt hour, a
level a modern natural gas-fired plant can meet. Coal plants
would require expensive carbon-capture technology, which
industry groups say isn’t commercially available.  In the European Union, carbon allowances for December
dropped 40 percent in the past year as the region’s financial
crisis curbed demand and governments handed out too many free
permits. They fell as much as 2.6 percent today to 7.46 euros
($9.13) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  