-- U.S. Puts Sanctions on Iran Ships as Trade Noose Tightens
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-07-13T02:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-adds-sanctions-on-iran-for-proliferation-oil-trade.html
The Obama administration sanctioned
the National Iranian Tanker Co. and four alleged front companies
for  Iran ’s oil trade, the latest salvo in a U.S.-led campaign to
curtail Iran’s petroleum sales until it abandons illicit aspects
of its disputed nuclear program.  The U.S. Treasury Department announced yesterday it would
freeze American assets belonging to the tanker operator, known
as NITC, and block the company’s transactions from the U.S.
financial system. The Treasury said Iran’s government controls
the company, a former subsidiary of the state-owned National
Iranian Oil Co. that was officially privatized 12 years ago.  The Treasury identified 27 entities affiliated with the
tanker company and 58 vessels -- some of which have been
reflagged in other countries to evade international sanctions on
Iran’s petroleum sales.  The U.S. action doesn’t impose penalties on non-American
companies that continue to do business with NITC. The move is
intended to expose the tanker company’s links to the Iranian
regime and discourage refiners, traders and shippers from
dealing in Iranian oil that may be disguised as crude from
another country, according to three officials in President
 Barack Obama ’s administration who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they were not authorized to be named.  “These identifications highlight Iran’s attempts to evade
sanctions through the use of front companies, as well as its
attempts to conceal its tanker fleet by repainting, reflagging,
or disabling GPS devices,” the Treasury said in a statement.  Oil Rose  Oil rose after the U.S. announced the sanctions aimed at
the second-biggest crude producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Crude oil for August delivery
increased 27 cents to settle at $86.08 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Prices have decreased 13 percent this year,
even as the U.S. and European Union have imposed oil-related
sanctions that went into effect recently.  The Treasury moves are part of a broader effort by the U.S.
and EU to increase economic penalties on Iran to pressure its
leaders to make concessions over its nuclear program. Iran’s
main source of revenue is petroleum exports, accounting for more
than half of gross domestic product, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The EU embargoed Iranian oil and banned EU companies from
insuring Iranian crude shipments effective July 1. The
Treasury’s list of NITC’s tankers will help European shippers
and insurers comply with the EU ban, U.S. officials said.  Reflagging Tankers  In the past month, NITC changed the flags on 11 tankers to
the Tanzania Zanzibar International Register of Shipping and 20
others to Tuvalu, according to the Equasis shipping database
maintained by the European Commission. The ships were registered
under new names and companies, while NITC remained the operator,
data show.  Iran’s customers in  Asia  may be relying on NITC to deliver
the country’s oil as EU sanctions block insurance for
international tankers carrying the cargoes.  India , the third-
largest buyer of Iranian oil, asked the Persian Gulf country to
arrange transportation and insurance for its shipments, and Iran
offered to do the same for  South Korea  after the Asian nation
said it would  halt shipments  because of Western sanctions.  NITC’s tankers are the only ones heading for Kharg Island,
Iran’s largest export terminal; no other ships have signaled
from the port since the EU embargo on Iranian oil took effect
July 1, according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.
The EU ban affects insurers of 95 percent of the global fleet.  ‘Right Direction’  Representative Howard Berman, a California Democrat who in
January proposed legislation to sanction NITC and the National
Iranian Oil Co., said the Treasury’s move was “a step in the
right direction, but we still have a long road ahead of us.”  Berman has written to the governments of Tanzania and
Tuvalu to protest reflagging of NITC vessels with their nations’
flags. An Obama administration official and a foreign diplomat,
who both spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the topic, said the U.S. and its allies are in
talks with both governments on the issue.  The Treasury yesterday also identified what it called four
“front companies” engaged in Iran’s oil trade that could be
used to circumvent sanctions: Petro Suisse Intertrade Company SA
(Petro Suisse), incorporated in  Switzerland ;  Hong Kong 
Intertrade Company, based in Hong Kong; Noor Energy ( Malaysia )
Ltd, incorporated in Malaysia; and Petro Energy Intertrade
Company, operating out of Dubai.  The Treasury Department said all four were fronts for the
National Iranian Oil Co. or Naftiran Intertrade Company Ltd.,
known as NICO, and its affiliates.  Weapons Proliferation  Separately, the Treasury named individuals and entities
allegedly involved in Iranian nuclear and missile proliferation
activities, including an alleged Austrian native named Daniel
Frosch who the U.S. said owns International General Resourcing
FZE, based in the  United Arab Emirates . The U.S. designated Good
Luck Shipping of the U.A.E. for allegedly providing logistical
services to Iran’s Ministry of Defense.  Treasury also updated its list of vessels belonging to the
government-owned Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, known
as IRISL, asserting that 57 IRISL ships had been reflagged or
renamed since they were originally identified. With yesterday’s
actions, the U.S. has identified 155 ships affiliated with IRISL
whose assets are blocked and frozen in the U.S.  The Treasury also named 20 Iranian financial institutions
that were blocked from the U.S. financial system under an
Executive Order last February. While those banks have not been
sanctioned by the U.S. for involvement in weapons proliferation
or terror financing, U.S. officials said they were naming the
banks to discourage all firms concerned with their reputation
from doing business with Iran. U.S. companies and individuals
are already prohibited from engaging in most transactions with
Iran.  Iran’s Evasions  The U.S.,  Israel  and European nations accuse Iran of hiding
covert nuclear weapons activities; Iran insists its program is
for civilian energy and medical research.  Iran is “under intense, multilateral sanctions pressure,
and we will continue to ratchet up the pressure so long as Iran
refuses to address the international community’s well-founded
concerns about its nuclear program,” Treasury Under Secretary
for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence  David Cohen  said in the
statement yesterday.  The actions are “our next step on that path, taking direct
aim at disrupting Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs
as well as its deceptive efforts to use front companies to sell
and move its oil,” he said.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Washington-based
Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said Obama should support
pending legislation that would blacklist Iran’s entire energy
sector, barring international companies that do business in the
U.S. from engaging in petroleum- or gas-trade or investments
with Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  