-- U.S. Allows First Investments in Myanmar in About 15 Years
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-12T05:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-allows-first-new-investments-in-myanmar-in-about-15-years.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized
U.S. companies to invest in Myanmar for the first time in about
15 years, including with a state-run oil firm that opposition
leader Aung San Suu Kyi urged multinationals to avoid.  The  licenses  to invest and provide financial services will
require companies to submit detailed annual disclosure forms,
according to a joint statement by the State and Treasury
departments. Ventures with the  Defense Ministry  and individuals
blocked under the sanctions regime, including  businesses
connected  with Myanmar’s former junta, remain off limits.  “Easing sanctions is a strong signal of our support for
reform, and will provide immediate incentives for reformers and
significant benefits to the people of Burma,” Obama said in a
 statement  yesterday, referring to the country by its former
name. He also issued an order that allows for punitive measures
on individuals who hinder the country’s shift to democracy.  The move provides clarity to businesses following Obama’s
 announcement  in May that he would ease sanctions against Myanmar
after President Thein Sein freed political prisoners, allowed
greater media freedom and held peace talks with rebels.  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  said last month it would return to Myanmar for the
first time in 60 years once the licenses are issued, while Kevin
Thieneman, president of Caterpillar Asia, will co-lead a U.S.
business trip to the country next month.  U.S. Business Forum  Thein Sein plans to join a business forum with U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and executives from the 10-
member Association of Southeast Asian Nations tomorrow in Siem
Reap, Cambodia, according to an official who wasn’t authorized
to speak on the record. Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
will also join the event.  Myanmar dismantled a fixed  exchange rate  in April and
parliamentarians are revamping laws to attract investors to the
country of 64 million people. The nation’s per capita gross
domestic product is less than 10 percent that of neighboring
 Thailand , according to  International Monetary Fund  estimates.  “There’s an influx of interested people but still we don’t
have the influx of investment coming,” Kan Zaw, Myanmar’s
deputy minister of National Planning and  Economic Development ,
said in an interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “One thing the
investors are waiting for is the new foreign investment law.”  Investment Law  That law may take effect as early as September if a joint
session of parliament approves the bill, he said. The draft bill
would allow investors to lease land for as long as 70 years, up
from 60 years, and foreign companies would be guaranteed a level
playing field with local businesses, he said.  Thein Sein  last month pledged to create jobs and increase
incomes while targeting economic growth of 7.7 percent per year
until 2016, addressing what Suu Kyi has called a “time bomb”
of youth unemployment. About a quarter of the population lives
in poverty, agriculture accounts for 70 percent of employment
and about three in four people don’t have access to electricity,
according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Suu Kyi, a former political prisoner who was elected to
parliament in an April by-election, urged companies during a
trip to Europe last month to avoid ventures with state-run
Myanma Oil & Gas Enterprise, known as MOGE, because it lacks
transparency. The U.S. rules require businesses to notify the
State Department of ventures with MOGE within 60 days.  Myanmar plans to implement the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative, which calls for governments to disclose
all payments from oil, gas and mining companies, Industry
Minister Soe Thane said last month. The country only ranked
above  North Korea  and Somalia at the bottom of Transparency
International’s 2011  Corruption Perceptions Index  of 182
nations.  The U.S. licenses  require  companies with investments valued
at more than $500,000 to file an annual report detailing land
purchases, payments to government entities, contacts with the
military and policies on human rights and the environment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in  Phnom Penh  at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  