-- U.S. Senate Rejects Competing Small Business Tax Plans
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-13T01:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-senate-rejects-competing-small-business-tax-plans.html
The  U.S. Senate , stalled by partisan
divides over  tax policy , failed to advance rival Democratic and
Republican proposals to provide tax breaks to small companies.  Senators voted 73-24 today to reject a Republican plan to
give businesses a 20 percent tax cut. They also voted 53-44 for
a Democratic plan to offer tax breaks for hiring and capital
investment. To overcome procedural hurdles, the Democratic plan
needed 60 votes to advance.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said
opposition to his party’s plan shows that Republicans are
willing to damage the economy to help their chances in the
November election.  “We are talking about a tax cut for small businesses
here,” Schumer said. “That’s mother’s milk to Republicans.”  The votes previewed the debate over income tax cuts
scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Senators plan to
vote in the next few weeks on competing income-tax plans, and
Republicans said today’s debate ignored the uncertainty caused
by the threat of higher taxes in 2013.  “If we are serious about providing true tax relief that
will help small businesses grow, we can sit here and debate
whether a Band-Aid will be the cure to our ailing economy,”
said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee. “Or we can begin the debate over how
to prevent historic tax increases from hammering our small
businesses and farms.”  500 Employees  The $46 billion Republican proposal, passed 235-179 by the
House on April 19, would cut tax rates to companies with fewer
than 500 employees.  According to the U.S. Small Business Administration’s
 website , companies with fewer than 500 workers represent 99.7
percent of all businesses that have employees, and they employ
half of all private-sector workers.  The Democratic proposal, at a cost of $28.5 billion, would
provide a 10 percent tax credit to companies that hire employees
or expand their payrolls. The credit would be capped at
$500,000.  The Democrats’ plan also would reinstate companies’ ability
to write off 100 percent of capital investments. That break
expired at the end of 2011 and businesses this year can receive
only a 50 percent bonus depreciation.  “Small businesses can put people back to work across the
state of Connecticut and across the country,” said Senator
 Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat.  Carney Comment  “Unfortunately Republicans continue to play politics rather
than supporting concrete proposals to create jobs and strengthen
the economy,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a
statement.  On the broader tax issue, Republicans want to extend
expiring tax cuts for all income levels for a year and then
overhaul the  tax code . Democrats, including President  Barack Obama , want to extend the tax cuts only for the first $200,000
of income for individuals and $250,000 for married couples. That
represents 98 percent of taxpayers.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said today his chamber will take up its legislation during the
week of July 29.  The Republican proposal is H.R. 9. The Democratic proposal
is S. 2237.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  