-- U.S to Build Database of 100,000 Food Pathogen Genomes
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-07-13T13:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/u-s-to-map-100-000-bacteria-genomes-to-solve-food-illness.html
U.S. scientists plan to map the
genetic codes of 100,000 foodborne pathogens, including
salmonella, listeria and E. coli, in a five-year effort to find
faster resolutions to outbreaks that sicken consumers.  The sequences will be put in a public database and serve as
the nation’s road map for creating tests that identify harmful
microorganisms and provide clues to their origins, the  Food and
Drug Administration  said in a  statement  yesterday. The FDA is
working with  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and the University of  California , Davis.  About 48 million people, or one in six Americans, get sick
from food each year, and 3,000 die, according to the Atlanta-
based CDC. The sequencing, dubbed the 100K Genome Project, will
help researchers develop tests that identify the bacteria in a
sample in days or hours compared with the week or so it takes
now from diagnosis to genetic analysis, the FDA said.  “This is a very positive thing,” said Mansour Samadpour,
chief executive officer of IEH Laboratories & Consulting Group,
a Lake Forest Park, Washington-based provider of analytic
services for meat and produce companies. “It’s going to
increase our understanding and be good for researchers.”  Such a project is more possible now because the costs of
mapping genomes have fallen, he said an interview. A genome is a
full set of chromosomes.  Norovirus, Parasites  The FDA said it’s providing more than 500 completed whole-
genome draft sequences for salmonella and other support.
Initially, the project will focus on common food bacteria, such
as E. coli and listeria, Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. As the project moves forward it will include
viruses like norovirus and certain parasites such as
cryptosporidium.  The project will provide information that may help improve
rapid, non-culture tests medical professionals use when
foodborne illness is suspected in a patient, as well as tests
used by public health for tracking disease, John Besser, deputy
chief of the CDC’s Enteric Diseases Laboratory Branch, said in
an interview. The genomes will be available to commercial
developers of the tests.  “This information will allow us to better understand
disease, which in turn will allow us to better detect and
control it,” he said. “It’s a win-win.”  Santa Clara , California-based Agilent, a maker of
electronic and bio-analytical measurement equipment, will
provide scientific expertise, instrumentation and funding to
support some of the research at the  University of California .
The U.S. Agriculture Department will also collaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  