-- Hungary Yields Fall to 9-Month Low at Auction on Easing Bets
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-07-12T14:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/hungary-sells-more-debt-than-planned-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
Hungary sold three-year debt at the
 lowest  yield in almost nine months at an auction today on
speculation that talks on a bailout from the  International
Monetary Fund  will allow the central bank to cut interest rates.  The government raised 61 billion forint ($257 million) in
bonds, 17 billion forint more than planned, at the sale,
according to results from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg. The agency sold 30 billion forint in 2015 debt at an
average yield of 7.44 percent, the lowest for that maturity
since October.  The planned start on aid talks with the IMF and European
Commission next week creates room to begin monetary easing,
central bankers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said
yesterday in a joint interview in Budapest. The Magyar Nemzeti
Bank on June 26 left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 7
percent for a sixth month, with rate-setters voting six to one,
according to minutes of the meeting posted on the bank’s website
yesterday.  “The dovish Monetary Council members’ comments were the
positive catalyst, it was increased rate-cut expectations that
pulled down the yield curve,” Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based
fixed-income trader at ING Groep NV, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg after the auction.  Three-year bond yields rose to 7.63 percent yesterday from
7.47 percent on June 29 on concern that plans to tax the central
bank undermine its independence and threaten the IMF bailout
talks.  ‘Remains Cautious’  Lawmakers led by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz party
approved on July 9 levying a tax on financial transactions that
would also apply to the central bank and the state Treasury to
help compensate for a reduction in payroll taxes. Magyar Nemzeti
Bank President Andras Simor told reporters in Budapest on July 2
that the move would violate central bank independence by
limiting the use of its assets and is illegal. Hungary won’t
alter the levy even at the  European Central Bank ’s request and
will only accept IMF conditions for aid that serve the national
interest, Orban said in a HirTV interview on July 10.  “The market remains cautious as next week’s meetings with
the IMF may still bring surprises,” ING’s Sovany said.  The agency sold 21 billion forint in 2017 notes at 7.73
percent today, compared with 7.84 percent two weeks ago. The
agency raised 10 billion forint in securities maturing in 2022
at an average yield of 7.82 percent, compared with 8.50 percent
when they were last sold on June 14. The government raised an
additional 1.7 billion forint from the three maturities at a
later, non-competitive tender.  ‘Troubles’  The IMF and European Union probably “will have troubles
with the financial transaction tax, causing further delays to
backstop negotiations only a week after the central bank
independence issues have been resolved,” Peter Attard Montalto,
a London-based analyst at Nomura International Plc, wrote in a
July 10 research report.  Orban’s cabinet requested aid from the IMF and the EU in
November after the forint weakened to a record low against the
euro and government yields jumped to the highest in more than
two years.  The international lenders refused to start negotiations on
concern a law passed in December that allowed the government to
nominate policymakers without consulting the central bank
threatened its independence. The EU agreed to begin talks last
week after Parliament amended the legislation.  Hungarian assets will face a “sell off into September” as
investors realize how long it will take to reach a deal,
Montalto said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  ‘New Conflicts’  The forint, which rallied 10 percent against the euro in
the first half of this year, is the third-worst performer
worldwide so far this month after  Romania ’s leu and the Sudanese
pound, dropping 0.8 percent in July to 288.36 per euro by 4:08
p.m. in Budapest.  “Once market conditions have improved and the forint is
off the dips, the government is not shy starting new
conflicts,” Daniel Lenz, a Frankfurt-based emerging-market
strategist at DZ Bank AG, wrote in e-mailed comments yesterday.  The first round of aid negotiations between the EU, its
most-indebted eastern member and the IMF will take place between
July 17 and 25, Mihaly Varga, the minister in charge of the
talks, said in a televised interview on July 9, adding that the
negotiations will be “tough.”  “I doubt that the government really takes a U-turn on its
whole strategy” of acquiring aid, Lenz said. “It still seeks
an IMF loan, given that the euro-zone crisis and stressed market
conditions could prevail for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  