-- Hungary’s ‘Outlandish’ Policies Threaten IMF Deal, Eurasia Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-07-12T16:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/hungary-s-outlandish-policies-threaten-imf-deal-eurasia-says.html
Hungarian government measures to
address the country’s deteriorating economy and the Cabinet’s
slumping popularity result in a “diminishing” likelihood of an
international bailout agreement, Eurasia Group said.  “Despite the imminent start of talks, the government
remains comfortable pushing an outlandish and unconventional
policy agenda, contradicting both the substance and the spirit
of the negotiations they are about to enter into,” Mujtaba Rahman, analyst at Eurasia Group in  London  said in an e-mailed
note today.  Hungary will start aid talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union on July 17 after
legislators in Budapest amended a central-bank law that blocked
negotiations for seven months. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  asked
for aid in November as the country’s credit grade was cut to
junk and the forint fell to a record against the euro.  The extension of a proposed financial-transaction tax to
the central bank and plans to cut labor-related levies in 2013,
which threaten the budget outlook, “exacerbate the ongoing
trust deficit that exists between the government and its
potential creditors,” Rahman wrote.  The central bank being subjected to the transaction tax
renewed the clash between the government and the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank. The plan is “illegal” because it infringes on central-
bank independence and the tax only generates temporary revenue
for the budget, Governor Andras Simor said on July 2.  The forint has advanced 9.3 percent against the euro this
year on optimism  Hungary  will sign a deal, recovering from a 15
percent slump in the second half of 2011, the biggest among
global currencies.  International lenders will probably request changes
including in the financial-transaction tax, the 2013 budget,
property and wealth levies, as well as the personal income
taxes, Rahman said. Orban’s ability to meet the conditions of an
agreement will be “severely constrained” by the 2014 elections
as the government’s popularity falls, according to the note.  “This means the government does not really want a deal
unless there is little or no chance of surviving financially
without it,” Rahman wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  