-- Urinating Tourists Drive Jersey Shore Town to Seek Curfew
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/urinating-tourists-drive-jersey-shore-town-to-seek-curfew.html
For Dave Cavagnaro, life as a full-
time resident along the New Jersey shore came with small
headaches he expected: scant weekend parking, congestion and the
occasional piece of litter.  Nothing prepared him for what is going on these days in his
hometown of Point Pleasant Beach, about 90 minutes by car from
 Manhattan . Public urination. Beer bottles tossed on his lawn.
Screaming crowds pouring onto his street after the 2 a.m. bar
closing. He’s even caught a couple having sex against the side
of his house.  The town, which has 5,000 year-round residents and as many
as 50,000 tourists a day in the summer, is seeking to shut bars
at midnight. The move highlights a long-running tension on New
Jersey’s 127-mile coastline: Its pleasures put some locals and
tourists at odds. Nearby Sea Girt, Belmar and Spring Lake all
imposed earlier bar closings in recent years to control unruly
behavior immortalized in the MTV reality show “Jersey Shore.”  “People say ‘Why’d you move so close to the boardwalk and
to the bars?’ but it wasn’t always like this,” Cavagnaro, 63, a
retired French teacher, said during an interview in his home on
Parkway, about three blocks from the boardwalk.  “Crowds, tourists and the occasional garbage I expect,”
Cavagnaro said. “I don’t expect that when I go to bed at night
I have to worry about the safety of myself and my house.”  Beer Money  A  town  ordinance that was set to take effect July 1 would
have ordered midnight closings or forced establishments to pay a
fee for staying open later to defray the cost of additional
police. The state’s liquor regulator on June 29 blocked the law
while bars challenge it in court.  “Should the appellants prevail after a full hearing, there
is no method of redress for them to recoup the financial losses
they would incur,” Michael Halfacre, director of the state
Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control, wrote in his decision.
“I am also convinced that the ordinance in question has the
potential for a negative ripple effect on other endeavors and
enterprises in and outside of the borough.”  The beach and the 14-week summer season that brings out-of-
towners to Point Pleasant’s cottages, some that rent for as much
as $4,500 a week, have been lucrative for the town. A 2007  study 
found tourism generated $11.8 million of annual revenue for the
borough, more than six times the $1.9 million it cost to support
the industry.  Family-Friendly  Still, year-round residents shouldn’t have to shoulder the
expense of policing and cleaning the town’s boardwalk area, said
Mayor Vincent Barrella, who is seeking an emergency appeal of
Halfacre’s decision. The behavior threatens Point Pleasant’s
reputation as a family-friendly resort, he said.  The town, which has an annual budget of $13 million, has to
add 88 police officers to its 21-member force in the summer at a
cost of $398,000, plus spend another $57,000 on seasonal parking
enforcement officers, Barrella said. Last July, the borough
council approved $95,000 for increased patrols that will be
applied to this year’s property-tax bills, he said.  Cavagnaro said tourists’ behavior has devolved during his
12 years as a resident. In recent years, he’s had a glass door
panel broken and two cement lions stolen off his front lawn. He
said a neighbor awoke in the middle of the night to find
intoxicated visitors in his pool. He keeps seeing naked people.  Litter, Vomiting  Along Niblick Street, where Barrella lives, crushed red
plastic cups and empty cigarette packages sit in the gutters in
front of homes with tidy lawns. Peeled-off beer labels decorate
the grass. Residents have complained of fighting and vomiting.  Bar patrons relieve themselves on private property so
frequently that the borough was forced recently to amend its
public-urination ordinance to include defecation, Barrella said.
He called 2011 a “bad summer’ and said the community is seeking
to avoid a repeat. The town has banned most on-street parking
near the beachfront bars between midnight and 6 a.m.  ‘‘It’s only 5,000 people, but it’s a permanent population
and this is our home,” Barrella said in a telephone interview.  Barrella and Marilou Halvorsen, marketing director for
 Jenkinson’s Boardwalk , both said they don’t expect the issue to
be resolved until after the summer.  $800,000 Offer  Jenkinson’s, the borough’s largest taxpayer, is a private
company that owns most of Point Pleasant’s 1.5-mile boardwalk
and employs 16 percent of its wage-earners. Its properties
include an amusement park, aquarium and carnival games in
addition to two bars that can hold a collective 2,500 people.  Halvorsen said rental-house parties, not the bars, are the
source of many of the problems, including the trash and the
noise. She said the town rejected an offer from her company and
 Martell’s Tiki Bar  to pay $800,000 over five years to cover the
costs of increased policing. Jenkinson’s pays to haul all of its
own trash, along with all that is generated on the boardwalk,
she said.  “When a community is based on tourism, what you do to one
business is going to affect all businesses,” Halvorsen said in
a July 10 telephone interview.  Point Pleasant is 10 miles (16 kilometers) north of Seaside
Heights, home of “ Jersey Shore ,” which has followed the rowdy,
randy, drunken escapades of housemates including Nicole
“Snooki” Polizzi and Michael “The Situation” Sorrentino.  Welcome to Seaside  Seaside, which allows bars to stay open until 3 a.m.,
issued a statement that “everyone is welcome” last month after
Point Pleasant passed its early closing ordinance. The town
warned revelers not to drive drunk and said all laws would be
enforced.  Jenkinson’s puts private security, including 50 to 60 off-
duty police officers, in the streets at closing time to monitor
events, Halvorsen said. Enforcement is better than the “drastic
step of curtailing the operations of the businesses,” she said.  John “Boe” Siclari, a 49-year-old  New Jersey  Transit
supervisor from Lyndhurst who said he comes to Point Pleasant on
most weekends in the summer, had advice for both sides in the
dispute: “Everyone needs to lighten up.”  “It’s part of the Jersey Shore and it’s just something
that towns on the Jersey Shore have to live with,” Siclari said
as he was exiting his car to go to the beach the afternoon of
July 9. “Even if they close at midnight, people are going to do
the same stuff. It’s not a time thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  