-- US Airways Backs AMR Bid for More Bankruptcy Filing Time
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-13T16:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/us-airways-supports-amr-bid-for-more-time-to-file-plan.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , which seeks a
merger with AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines , backs the carrier’s
request for more time to develop a bankruptcy restructuring
plan.  American has asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in
Manhattan to extend to the end of the year its exclusive right
to file a plan as it considers mergers.  US Airways  told Lane
yesterday that the request should be granted, citing AMR’s
intention to consider strategic alternatives.  “The need for such an assessment, and the commitment to
conduct it, provide cause for the extension,” the airline said
in a court filing.  AMR Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  told employees in a
letter July 10 that it makes sense for American to consider
mergers and that the airline had discussed with the committee
representing unsecured creditors “multiple options” available
to the company.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, and the creditors
committee want the exclusive right to file a bankruptcy plan
extended to Dec. 28 from Sept. 28. Lane is scheduled to consider
the request at a July 19 hearing. An extension would prevent
others from proposing rival plans.  American and the creditors committee said in court papers
they intend to complete “a fair, balanced and transparent
strategic alternatives assessment.”  AMR Creditor  US Airways said it is a creditor of AMR. The Tempe,
Arizona-based airline owns $1 million of debt for which it paid
about $600,000, spokesman  John McDonald  said in an e-mail. The
airline bought the debt to ensure it has standing to participate
in American’s bankruptcy case, he said.  US Airways  shares  rose 3.4 percent to $14.44 at 12:37 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  “We think this will be particularly important now that AMR
has publicly committed itself to a review of strategic
alternatives,” McDonald said.  Bruce Hicks , an AMR spokesman, said in a statement that the
US Airways court filing supporting the exclusivity extension is
“a meaningless ploy to garner publicity.”  “US Airways admits they own a very small amount of debt
which gives them no special position with the court or in this
process,” Hicks said. “Our focus remains on creating the
strongest company and greatest value for our stakeholders.”  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  