-- Vivendi May Sell Its $8.1 Billion Stake in Activision
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-12T23:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/vivendi-s-fourtou-says-company-may-sell-61-activision-stake.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou said his company may sell its $8.1 billion stake in
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest U.S. video-game publisher.  “It’s a possibility,” Fourtou said today in an interview
at the Allen & Co. media conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho. Asked
if he was trying to find a buyer for the 61 percent stake at the
event, Fourtou said: “We’re always looking at opportunities for
all of our businesses.’”  Vivendi, with  interests  in music and telecommunications, is
canvassing video-game and entertainment companies for buyers,
said three people with knowledge of the matter who sought
anonymity because the effort is private. The Allen & Co.
retreat, attended by major media and technology executives, is
an ideal venue for such talks and has led to blockbuster deals
in the past.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp., China’s  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700)  and Japan’s  Nexon Co. (3659)  are among the companies that have
been approached, the people said.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, is
unlikely to bid for Activision, according to a person with
knowledge of the company’s plans.  Microsoft, while approached, isn’t actively considering a
bid, according to one person. That could change, the person
said. The Redmond, Washington-based software company would have
to consider that buying Activision may jeopardize sales of the
company’s “Call of Duty” games to  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.  Cash Sale  Wayne Hickey, an outside spokesman for Microsoft, declined
to comment. Catherine Chan, a spokeswoman for Tencent, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment outside of normal business
hours in China.  John Christiansen , an outside spokesman with
Sard Verbinnen & Co. representing Nexon, declined to comment.  Paris-based Vivendi is seeking a cash sale, one person
said. That could complicate deals with Tencent and Nexon, which
don’t have sufficient holdings for such a purchase.  Vivendi will consider selling Activision shares on the
market if it can’t find a buyer, a person with knowledge of the
matter said previously. The French company is planning to make
some announcements about its strategy when it reports first-half
earnings on Aug. 30, a person familiar with the matter said.  Fourtou made his comments today after talking with
Activision CEO Bobby Kotick at the conference. Fourtou declined
to speak on any discussions with other attendees. Kotick, who
has led Activision for at least 20 years, also declined to
comment.  CEO Search  Vivendi is searching for a new CEO and is re-evaluating its
businesses after the departure last month of Jean-Bernard Levy
in a clash over the direction of the company. Levy’s successor
will help Fourtou, who now oversees strategy, overhaul Vivendi’s
structure and restore investor confidence after the stock fell
to a nine-year low in April.  Activision, the  Santa Monica , California-based publisher of
the “World of Warcraft” online games, fell 0.5 percent to
$11.90 at the close in New York. Vivendi gained 2.4 percent to
15.24 euros in Paris.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings warned the
French company last month its debt ratings may be cut unless the
company reduces liabilities. Vivendi’s net debt totaled about
12.5 billion euros at the end of March.  Activision Value  Activision trades at 14.3 times trailing earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, below the 25.4 in
fiscal 2010 and a five-year of high of 67.6 in 2007. The company
had $3.48 billion in cash and no debt as of the first quarter,
according to company filings.  The multiple reflects investor uncertainty over growth
prospects during a transition phase for the video-game industry
with the introduction of the first new consoles in seven years,
Edward Woo, an analyst with Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC in
 Irvine ,  California , said in a recent interview.  Industry growth is now taking place on social-media
websites such as Facebook.com and away from traditional family
room consoles from Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo. U.S. sales of
packaged games like those played on Xbox or PlayStation fell 6
percent to $8.83 billion last year, according to researcher NPD
Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  