-- Warhol’s ‘Piss’ Painting, Human Skull, Clutter: Hot Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/warhol-s-piss-painting-human-skull-clutter-hot-art.html
A human skull, submerged in a fish
tank, occupies the center of Marianne Boesky’s Chelsea gallery.  Piercing light illuminates the head from above. The coral
stuck to its cheeks and one eye socket is slowly nibbling away
the bone.  Titled “Nowhere to Be Found,” the 2010 piece by Mathias
Kessler will eventually disappear thanks to the calcium-loving
creatures.  Destruction and creation coexist in “The Nature of
Disappearance,” a provocative, two-venue group show organized
by Dieter Buchhart. By the time it ends, many works will change
their appearance.  In Chelsea, slices of prosciutto on a stem resemble maple
leaves. On the opening night the meat was bright red; a day
later it shriveled and darkened. A tiered white cake, frosted
with larvae, will be eaten up by the bugs once they hatch.
There’s also an Edvard Munch landscape covered with bird
droppings.  At Boesky’s uptown location, there’s a 1978 Andy Warhol
“piss” painting which includes materials such as urine and
diamond dust. Continuing the theme of destruction, there’s Lucio Fontana’s slashed and pierced canvases.  Prices range from $5,000 to $1.5 million. The show runs
through Aug. 10 at 509 W. 24th St. and at 118 E. 64th St.; +1-
212-680-9889;  http://www.marianneboeskygallery.com   Homeless Artist  Vagabond performance artist Dawn Kasper has moved some of
her clutter to a space rented by gallery owner  David Zwirner .  You may remember her from the Whitney Museum’s biennial,
when she hung around a large room filled with her stuff.  For the Zwirner space, Kasper organized a group exhibition
titled “Fuel for the Fire.”  “He invited me to be here and do whatever I wanted,”
Kasper said in a telephone interview. “I put an open call to
friends and I invited them to invite their friends.”  Kasper’s books, records, stuffed bags and a white Singer
sewing machine clutter an alcove by the entrance.  The main space and the basement host paintings,
installations, photographs and sculptures by about 40 emerging
artists. One colorful poster sums it all up: “Very different
but much more.”  Prices range from $1,000 to $15,000. The show runs through
July 31 at 535 W.20th St.  Poetic Improvisations  At the Newman Popiashvili Gallery, the meditative
exhibition “More Songs About Buildings and Food” includes just
a few photo-based works by three artists.  A small black-and-white photo by Hungarian-born modernist
Laszlo Moholy-Nagy (1895-1946) sets the tone. The tightly
cropped image shows a table from above. The composition includes
clay pitchers, a bowl of fruit, several knives -- and a
collapsed woman. It seems at once random, perfectly
choreographed and mysterious.  So are the works by two contemporary artists, Susa Templin
and Jude Broughan.  Templin’s washed-out images of people, curtains and tables
have a retro look and an experimental feel, in part because they
are printed on unframed, curling sheets of paper. In Broughan’s
assemblage, original and found photographs of a sunset and
sliced fruit are framed by a long strap of unprimed linen.  Prices range from $1,100 to $3,800. The show runs through
July 28 at 504 W.22nd St.; +1-212-274-9166;
 http://npgallery.com .  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 