-- Wells Fargo Settles U.S. Allegations of Home-Loan Bias
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-12T18:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/wells-fargo-settles-u-s-allegations-of-home-loan-bias.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, will pay $125 million and set up a $50 million
assistance fund to settle U.S. allegations that it discriminated
against minority borrowers.  The bank will also stop using outside brokers to create
mortgages, according to a statement today from Wells Fargo. The
accord settles U.S. accusations in  court filings  that the bank
put creditworthy Hispanic and African-American borrowers into
more expensive subprime loans from 2004 to 2007, and that
mortgage brokers through 2009 added charges that caused
minority borrowers to pay higher fees, costs and interest than
similar white borrowers.  “Wells Fargo’s internal documents reveal that senior
officials were aware of the numerous tactics that subprime
originators employed to keep loans in the subprime division,”
when they could have qualified for prime loans, the  Justice
Department  alleged in a complaint filed with the settlement in
 Washington .  The San Francisco-based bank, which controls about a third
of the market for all  new home loans , denied it engaged in
illegal discrimination and said it agreed to settle solely to
avoid litigation, according to a proposed consent order. The
company reported a $15.9 billion profit last year.  “Wells Fargo asserts that throughout the period of time at
issue in this proceeding and to the present, it has treated all
customers fairly and without regard to impermissible factors
such as race and national origin,” the bank said in the consent
order, which must be approved by a federal judge.  Broker Ban  In a separate statement, Wells Fargo said it will stop
funding loans through independent mortgage brokers and after
tomorrow won’t accept new applications from them. The lender
will still process and close existing applications, and the
decision to stop dealing with brokers, known as wholesale
lending, was made “on its own volition,” according to the
statement.  The Obama administration has increased scrutiny of banks to
discourage loan discrimination as the housing bust fuels loan
defaults. The settlement with Wells Fargo is the second largest
fair-lending accord reached by the Justice Department after a
record $335 million extracted from  Bank of America Corp.  in a
deal announced in December. Countrywide, acquired by Bank of
America in 2008, assessed higher fees and interest rates on more
than 200,000 black and Hispanic borrowers, the Justice
Department said at the time.  Steering Higher  The Justice Department investigation of Wells Fargo
uncovered “systemic discrimination” in the bank’s lending
practices, Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said today at a
press conference in Washington. About 34,000 borrowers in total
were affected, according to the complaint.  In some cases, Wells Fargo steered many borrowers into
adjustable-rate mortgages with so-called teaser rates when they
qualified for more standard loans, such as those with 30-year
fixed rates, the U.S. said in its complaint. The bank created
financial incentives by sharing the higher revenue with
 employees  and brokers, the U.S. said.  The settlement ends litigation filed in  Illinois  and a
complaint from  Pennsylvania , according to the bank. Wells Fargo
also agreed to commit $50 million in direct payments for down-
payment assistance in eight U.S.  regions  where the U.S. alleges
the discrimination practices had a significant impact. Those
areas include Washington,  New York City ,  Chicago , the Oakland-
 San Francisco  area and Baltimore.  The company said it reached a separate agreement with
Baltimore in which the city will end a lawsuit filed in January
2008.  Subprime Review  As part of the accord, Wells Fargo agreed to review some
subprime loans made in its retail channel between 2004 and 2008
to see if borrowers might have qualified for prime loans. Wells
Fargo will compensate those borrowers if it finds they could
have gotten cheaper loans, Assistant Attorney General  Thomas
Perez  said today.  The Comptroller of the Currency and the Justice Department
began parallel investigations into the bank’s lending practices
in 2009. The OCC referred its findings to the Justice Department
in 2010,  Thomas Curry , the agency’s head, said today.  An administrator, who has yet to be named, will oversee the
settlement agreement.  Wells Fargo settled Federal Reserve claims last July that
it steered reliable borrowers into subprime loans and falsified
information in mortgage documents. In that case, Wells Fargo
agreed to pay an $85 million fine, the largest assessed by the
Fed in a consumer-protection enforcement case at the time, and
to compensate clients. The firm didn’t admit wrongdoing in
agreeing to settle.  Quarterly Report  Shares of Wells Fargo fell 0.9 percent to $32.98 at 1:27
p.m. in  New York  after dropping as much as 1.9 percent. The
company had said in a May regulatory filing that the Justice
Department might bring claims. The bank is scheduled to report
quarterly results tomorrow.  “Our commitment to our customers and to turning the
housing market around is stronger than ever,”  Mike Heid , head
of the mortgage business, said in the statement. “We will
continue to offer education and meaningful choices through our
retail and correspondent mortgage-lending operations.”  The company made $7.4 billion of mortgages through brokers
in the first quarter, the most of any lender and 21 percent of
the industrywide total, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade publication. The loans made up about 5 percent of the
company’s total, the bank said. Wells Fargo accounted for 34
percent of U.S. home loans in the first quarter, the biggest
market share ever recorded, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance.  The case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 12-cv-01150, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  