-- Wells Fargo Faces Borrower’s ‘Force-Placed’ Insurance Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-12T22:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/wells-fargo-faces-borrower-s-force-placed-insurance-suit-1-.html
Wells Fargo Bank NA was accused in a
lawsuit of charging inflated premiums when it procures “force-
placed” property insurance for homeowners whose coverage has
lapsed.  “The premiums are inflated to cover kickbacks in the form
of unearned commissions and bundled administrative costs not
properly charged to the consumer,”  Florida  homeowner Ira
Fladell said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida.  Fladell, seeking unspecified money damages, claims the bank
breached its contract with him and acted in bad faith. He also
said the lender bought a flood insurance policy on his Pompano
Beach home while his own coverage was still in effect. Fladell,
a lawyer, is seeking class-action status on behalf of all
borrowers in the same situation.  Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for the lender, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the San Francisco-based parent company
of the Wells Fargo bank, today agreed to pay $125 million to the
U.S. to settle unrelated allegations of bias against minority
borrowers.  Shares fell 42 cents to $32.85 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Fladell’s filing came on the same day a U.S. judge in
 Oregon  ruled that another class-action lawsuit raising similar
allegations against a unit of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp . can go forward on two of seven claims.  Contract Breach  U.S. District Judge Michael Simon in  Portland  said
borrowers Ronda and Larry Arnett could proceed with breach of
contract and conversion claims, while he threw out allegations
of unjust enrichment and breach of fiduciary duty.  The Arnetts, like Fladell, said they had flood insurance
coverage in force when the bank declared they were under-
insured, procured a policy for $250,000 coverage, the same
amount as the old one, then billed the Arnetts’ escrow account
for the $2,448 premium, according to Simon’s ruling.  They claim the bank forces class members to buy and
maintain flood insurance in amounts exceeding the requirement of
U.S. law and greater than the lenders’ secured property
interests.  Money Refunded  The judge said in his ruling that the premium money has
been refunded. Still, the contract language the bank allegedly
relied upon to deem the borrowers under-insured was ambiguous,
he said, denying the bank’s bid for judgment in its favor.  “Bank of America is pleased the court dismissed five of
the plaintiffs’ seven claims and intends to continue its defense
of the remaining claims against it,”  Shirley Norton , a
spokeswoman for the lender, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Florida case is Fladell v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 12-
cv-61368, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The Oregon case is Arnett v. Bank of America
NA, 11-cv-1372, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon
(Portland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  