-- WellPoint Agrees to Pay for 3 Children to Get Heart Gene Test
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-07-12T10:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/wellpoint-agrees-to-pay-for-3-children-to-get-heart-gene-test.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  said it will pay for
DNA testing for three children to see if they have an inherited
heart disease their father suffers from that often strikes
without warning, reversing an earlier decision to deny coverage.  The company is making an “exception” for the three
children, following a Bloomberg News story that described how
some insurers refuse to pay for genetic testing. WellPoint’s
 Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield  unit had denied the children
coverage for the test since December, calling it
“experimental” and “not medically necessary.”  The children’s father, Matthew Christman of Huntington,
 Indiana , said he wants to have the children tested before they
become teenagers. Knowing which of them has the gene for the
disorder will help the family determine who needs to be
monitored for signs of a heart ailment that can cause irregular
rhythms and sudden death, Christman said.  “We really just want to know which kids to watch,” he
said in a telephone interview. “If we know which ones are
likely to develop the disease someday, we can monitor their
activities more closely and make sure they get appropriate
testing. And the ones that don’t have the gene we won’t have to
worry about so much.”  When asked to comment, Lori McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for
Indianapolis-based WellPoint, referred to letters sent to
Christman’s physician that said the company would pay for
testing the three children.  Test Offered  Bio-Reference Labs Inc. (BRLI) , based in Elmwood Park,  New Jersey ,
offered to test the Christman children free of charge in
response to the Bloomberg story. The company has sent test kits
to Christman’s cardiologist, Michael Mirro, of Fort Wayne
Cardiology in Indiana.  WellPoint has since offered to reimburse for the testing,
said Amar Kamath, Bio-Reference’s vice president of marketing.
His company’s test is certified by the U.S.  Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services  under the standards of the Clinical
Laboratories Improvements Act, he said. Bio-Reference charges
about $350 for the test.  In families such as Christman’s, the test is more than 99
percent accurate in determining which children have a gene
mutation that’s linked to  heart disease , he said.  “When the test comes up positive, the question is simply
at what age the disease shows up and how severe it will be,”
Kamath said.  Abnormal Rhythms  Christman has hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a heart disorder
that affects about 620,000 Americans and is among the leading
killers of young athletes. It’s caused by a gene mutation that
alters the construction of  heart muscle . Each of Christman’s
seven children has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the gene.  In hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, excess thickening of the
heart wall leads to abnormal rhythms. Symptoms begin to appear
during puberty, and Mirro recommended last year that Christman’s
oldest three children -- Alexandria, 12, Luke, 11, and Marianne,
10 -- should be tested. WellPoint denied the Christmans’ request
and an appeal in writing.  “They’re hoping that people will just give up and say you
can’t fight the insurance company,” said Mirro, who called the
insurer several times to argue for testing. “The Christmans
realized that wouldn’t be the right thing to do.”  An ‘Exception’  On July 2, WellPoint sent three letters to Mirro, one for
each of the children. Each letter said the company was making an
“exception” in its policies to cover testing of the individual
child. Christman plans to have all seven children tested before
they reach puberty.  The reversal “does not constitute an endorsement of the
safety or efficacy of this service,” WellPoint said in the
letters.  Several gene mutations may cause hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. Testing a person for all those defects can cost
as much as $5,000. However, when doctors already know which
mutation is the culprit in a family afflicted by the disease, as
in the Christmans’ case, the cost of testing related individuals
drops. People without disease-linked mutations usually don’t
need annual heart scans, electrocardiograms, office visits and
other follow-up testing, Mirro said.  “It’s a very specific and accurate test,” said Robert
Nussbaum, chief of the division of medical genetics at the
 University of California ,  San Francisco . “When a child has a 50
percent chance of inheriting the disease, then the family is
living under a cloud. This test can remove that uncertainty.”  The  American Heart Association  and the  American College of
Cardiology  last year jointly recommended genetic testing for the
children, siblings and other close relatives of people with
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.  WellPoint Policies  In addition to paying for the Christman children’s tests,
WellPoint should make its policies consistent with the
recommendations of those medical groups, as some other insurers
have, said Lisa Salberg, founder of the  Hypertrophic
Cardiomyopathy Association , a patient advocacy group based in
Hibernia, New Jersey.  “These organizations recognize the role of genetic testing
in families with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,” she said in a
telephone interview. “It’s sad that WellPoint won’t comply with
the scientific proof.”  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer, has
paid for genetic testing in first-degree relatives of people
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy for two years, according to
company documents.  Insurers are concerned about the costs of genetic tests.
Annual U.S. costs for DNA testing will increase to $25 billion
in the next 10 years from $5 billion in 2010, according to a
 report  from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. insurer.
The company paid about $500 million for genetic tests in 2010,
the study said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  