-- Welspun Says India Set to Double Solar Capacity Target
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-12T18:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/welspun-says-india-set-to-double-solar-capacity-target.html
Welspun Energy Ltd., India’s biggest
developer of solar projects, said the nation will surpass its
sun-powered generation target by two-fold over the next decade
amid shortages of coal and natural gas.  “A lot of investment planned for thermal power projects
will go to renewables,” said Vineet Mittal, managing director
of the company, a unit of Welspun Group backed by Apollo Global
Management LLC co-founder  Leon Black . “Most people don’t
realize this yet but India’s power mix will change
considerably.”  The company joins other developers in diverting new
investment to renewable projects. CLP Holdings Ltd., India’s
largest wind-farm developer, said last month it’s more likely to
fund renewable projects after fuel shortfalls left a new coal-
fired plant “dead cold” since April and cut generation at a
gas-fired facility in half.  The energy unit of the group that makes pipes, builds roads
and runs the U.K. supplier of  towels  to the Wimbledon tennis
championships, has signed agreements over the past year to build
more than 1,500 megawatts of solar and wind farms that will
require about 98 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) of investment
based on current capital expenditure costs. In contrast, it has
yet to complete a coal or gas-based plant.  The government has set a goal of installing 20 gigawatts of
solar capacity by 2022. Welspun estimates that it’s more likely
to reach 40 gigawatts as renewables close in on the cost of
fossil fuel-based power and answer a need for a reliable source
of electricity in a nation beset by blackouts.  Nuclear Plants  India  will need to add 169 gigawatts of total power
capacity, equivalent to that of 154 nuclear plants, over the
next five years to maintain an economic growth rate of 9
percent, according to the nation’s Planning Commission. Gross
domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the three months ended
March, the slowest pace in nine years.  “The kind of power requirements that India has cannot be
met only with renewables,” said Rohit Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst with IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. “You need power
24 hours around-the-clock,” something only coal, gas and
nuclear plants can provide, while wind and solar are too
expensive.  Mittal says current projections overestimate the
availability of coal and gas supplies and underestimate the rate
at which the cost of fossil fuel-based power will rise.  Energy Security  The power ministry told developers not to plan any new gas-
based projects until at least 2015 because there won’t be enough
domestic supply, according to a March 14 note sent to companies.
The Central Electricity Authority plans to revise guidelines so
that new coal plants are designed to import 50 percent of their
fuel, up from 30 percent, Mittal said.  “India is different from the U.S. or  Europe ” because
renewables aren’t just competing on cost with fossil fuels,
Mittal said. “It’s a question of  energy security ,” and
renewables are attractive because they’re not vulnerable to
disruptions.  Renewables are rapidly becoming competitive, with the price
of coal-based power set to rise as high as 7 rupees a kilowatt-
hour by 2017, Mittal projects.  That concurs with estimates by Bloomberg New Energy Finance
showing the most efficient wind projects in India today can
produce power in the same cost range as new coal plants. The
best wind farms have a levelized cost of energy, a measure that
allows comparison between different fuel sources, ranging from
2.7 to 4.4 rupees per kilowatt-hour compared with coal’s 1.9 to
4.8, Ashish Sethia, head of India analysis at the London-based
researcher, said in a July 3 note.  Rail Infrastructure  India relies on coal, oil and gas for 70 percent of its
 energy supply . That supply has been disrupted by poor rail and
pipeline infrastructure constraining fuel delivery, and domestic
coal and gas production failing to meet demand.  Companies from billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Power
Ltd. to Adani Power Ltd. have stalled 1.9 trillion rupees of
investment to expand thermal power capacity amid supply
constraints, data from the Association of Power Producers show.  Solar and wind power are already cheaper than diesel, which
is used by factories, businesses and homes during chronic
blackouts and to bridge gaps in the grid.  Over the next 18 months, Welspun plans to start replacing
diesel generation at group companies with renewable
alternatives, which would help save on fuel costs and lock in
power prices, Mittal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  