-- When Every Day Is Judgment Day
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   B l o c k
-- 2012-07-12T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/when-every-day-is-judgment-day.html
There is no judge I know who does
not think that sentencing is the most difficult part of the job.
You just do not know how you will respond until you are face to
face with the person whom you have to decide whether to put in
jail -- and for how long.  Each year, I am randomly assigned 120 to 150 federal
criminal cases. More than 95 percent of the defendants negotiate
a guilty plea with the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Most who go to
trial are convicted. I sentence, therefore, about three
defendants a week.  I feel sometimes like a traffic cop just waving along an
endless flow of prisoners.  Mandatory minimum sentences had been established in the
U.S. as early as 1790, but only for capital offenses. Beginning
with the 1956 Narcotic Control Act, however, Congress began
imposing them in earnest. By 2009, the U.S. Code contained 171
mandatory minimum provisions, running the gamut from drugs and
firearms offenses to obscure crimes such as bribing a Baltimore
harbor inspector.  The hard question these minimums raise is this: When, if
ever, should Congress override the courts’ sentencing
responsibilities? Laws against child pornography illustrate why
this is an important issue. Since this industry has flourished
on the Internet, Congress has established a mandatory minimum
sentence of five years for anyone convicted of receiving or
possessing a large number of child pornographic pictures. It
also set a mandatory 10-year prison term for anyone convicted
twice for possessing even one picture.  Mandatory Minimum  In a recent case,  United States v. Polizzi , a 56-year-old
church-going man with a wife and five children, well-respected
in his community and law-abiding, was found to have a double-
locked room in the attic of his detached garage where he
collected and viewed a lot of child pornography over the
Internet. However, he never sent these photos to anyone, nor did
he enter teenage chat rooms or attempt online solicitations. He
was convicted after a trial, as the jury rejected his insanity
defense. Because of the large number of photos he had privately
collected, he faced a five-year minimum term.  The judge in the case, Judge  Jack B. Weinstein , asked the
jurors if they would have made the same decision if they had
known that the defendant faced a five-year minimum. A number of
them were shocked and said if they had known, they would have
accepted the insanity defense. Judge Weinstein ordered a new
trial.  I am hardly a fan of child pornography, but I am not at
ease with the notion that Congress can usurp the sentencing
function and reduce a judge to a bean counter. Sentencing is the
solemn and awesome responsibility of a judge -- not a
politician.  Most sentencing involves some aspect of illegal drugs. The
cases I handle typically involve couriers smuggling the drugs
into  New York ’s John F. Kennedy Airport from Colombia or the
 Dominican Republic . Usually the couriers risk their lives by
swallowing pellets, and try all sorts of things to avoid
detection. I have had before me pregnant women, blind men,
little children, even a dog that almost died on the plane. The
guy who came to retrieve the animal at the airport was arrested,
and I gave him a relatively long sentence. (The Drug Enforcement
Administration saved the dog’s life, named him Cokie and trained
him to be one of its best drug sniffers. Lots of couriers
probably got nabbed because of Cokie.)  Judge’s Reasoning  All sentences must be rendered in open court in the
presence of the defendant and his lawyer. The judge has to
explain the reasoning, and put it in writing, in case of appeal.
In sentencing one particular drug courier -- a woman from
 Colombia  -- I said the court “believes that it’s necessary to
continue to send a message, especially to those who have
Colombian roots, that they’ll be dealt with harshly by the laws
of this country.” I got reversed. The Court of Appeals noted
that a reasonable person might think my reference to “Colombian
roots” meant that the defendant’s national origin played a role
in the sentence.  Since then, I have paid closer attention to the thoughts
that come into my head. For example, when I had to sentence a
defendant who had never worked but had seven children before his
25th birthday -- three born in the same year -- with five
different women, I could not help thinking that the longer I put
him away, the fewer additional children he could father. I had
to put that idea out of my mind because simply having children
is not relevant to the goals of sentencing, which include
punishment for the crime and prevention of future crimes.
However, his irresponsible lifestyle said something about his
character, which is an appropriate factor for my consideration.
I gave him a long sentence, and told him his unwillingness to
support his children was part of the reason.  I am more forgiving of desperate people -- especially drug
swallowers -- who have no jobs or money and come from
impoverished places. If it is their first offense, I will
usually sentence them to 18 to 24 months, even though the
guidelines range is higher. Most of them are undocumented, but
some are permanent resident aliens; they will all be deported
after they serve their sentence. I am also mindful that it costs
$28,000 a year to keep a criminal in jail. I’m not sure that
this is a factor that I can legally take into account, so I
don’t. Instead, I try to arrive at a sentence that balances the
need to punish and deter drug crimes against the reality that
the defendant before me will eventually be deported.  When it comes to gun offenses, I tend to sentence within
the guidelines range. Most of these cases involve “felons in
possession.” It is a federal crime for someone who has committed
a felony to have a gun. I’m tough on ex-felons who are caught
carrying them. They are dangerous.  Realistic Terms  I believe in giving realistic sentences. For example,
Congress has required that a judge impose a period of supervised
release, usually one to five years, after a defendant serves his
jail time. Supervised release is a good idea in general but,
curiously, Congress did not carve out an exception for those
sentenced to life without parole. In my first such sentence, I
blindly followed the strictures of the law and sentenced the
defendant to 10 years of supervised release. Later I thought how
silly this was, and I did not do it the next time. I remembered
 Charles Dickens ’s lamentation about the law being an ass, and
could not bring myself to be a donkey.  Because I do not believe in artificial sentencing, I would
not have sentenced  Bernie Madoff  to 150 years. However, the
judge in his case calculated that this was what the strict
application of the guidelines called for and that, in any event,
it was an appropriate symbolic thing to do.  I once sentenced two brothers who had been convicted of
engaging in a “pump and dump” stock scheme to five years in
prison, although the guidelines range was 30 years to life.
While the defendants had pumped up the value of their stock in
their publicly traded small business by making material
misrepresentations about their business operations and then
dumped the stock at a profit, they were hardly in the same
category as murderers or the major corporate predators who had
bilked the public out of billions.  On the other hand, I have at times been so shocked at the
nature of a crime that I imposed an especially stiff sentence.
Gerardo Flores Carreto had pleaded guilty to white slavery. He
brought young women into the country from  Mexico  under false
pretenses and forced them into prostitution. The sentencing
range was 30 years to life, and I started out thinking that the
minimum would be appropriate. Thirty years is a long sentence
when no one has been killed. However, when I listened to victim
after victim tell how they were kept as prisoners, threatened
with their lives and treated like animals if they would not turn
tricks every day and hand over all their earnings to their
captor, I became upset. When the defendant showed no remorse, I
sentenced him to 50 years.  (Frederic Block is judge for the U.S. District Court in
 Brooklyn . This is an excerpt from his book, “ Disrobed: An
Inside Look at the Life and Work of a Federal Trial Judge ,”
which will be published on July 17 by  Thomson Reuters .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in  Pennsylvania ;
Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln obsession ; William
Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on  fixing health care .  To contact the writer of this article:
Frederic Block at  disrobed@live.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  