-- When Clinton Meets Mursi
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-12T23:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/when-clinton-meets-mursi.html
Hillary Clinton ’s planned trip to
 Egypt  this weekend was at one point a question mark on her  world
tour .  Officials debated whether the U.S. secretary of State
should be meeting with newly elected Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi after he called into question his commitment to the rule
of law by defying the country’s Supreme Constitutional Court.  On  Thursday, Mursi  wisely bowed to the court after it
ordered him to do so, clearing the way for Clinton to continue
on to Cairo. The next question is whether she should pursue her
original agenda: releasing U.S. economic assistance that had
been frozen in response to an earlier clampdown by Egypt’s
interim military leaders on pro-democracy groups.  The answer is a qualified yes. Egypt’s bedraggled economy
needs the help.  True, the new president’s opening act was worrying, and we
hope he has learned a lasting lesson from his overreach. The
danger is that this reversal by Mursi, an Islamist from the
 Muslim Brotherhood , was merely a tactical retreat, that he lacks
commitment to judicial independence and other hallmarks of
democracy.  Notwithstanding the motives of the court, which had ruled
that elections for a third of the seats in the Muslim
Brotherhood-dominated Parliament were invalid, the judiciary is
seen in Egypt as a highly respected and stabilizing institution.
Liberal activists were alarmed by Mursi’s move to reconvene the
Parliament, which the interim military council had dissolved in
its entirety before he took office, and prominent judges
threatened to go on strike if he did not back down.  In the end, thankfully, he did. Now there is the chance to
breathe life into Egypt’s economy. Since unrest began in January
2011, the country has used up about half its foreign reserves,
depleting them to $15.5 billion. For a year, the U.S.  has
offered  Egypt the prospect of $1 billion in debt forgiveness.
Under congressional requirements, Egypt would have to spend the
equivalent sum on internal development projects, which must be
agreed upon by the two countries.  Perhaps most important is the fate of a $3.2 billion loan
the  International Monetary Fund  has been discussing with
Egyptian authorities, on and off, for more than a year.
Brotherhood officials have been ambivalent about accepting such
a loan. Yet without the ballast of IMF support, and the
structural reforms that would come as conditions, Egypt will see
neither significant new foreign investments nor the billions
more in aid promised by the Gulf countries.  Giving the economy a boost ought to appeal to Mursi and the
Brotherhood because parliamentary elections, at least for one-
third of the seats, will  have to be held  relatively soon.  These are points Clinton can make subtly, of course, in
private discussions. In her public utterances, she almost
certainly will say that Egyptians know best how to tackle their
challenges.  Still, the U.S. should continue to communicate openly that
to be a good friend of the U.S. (which brings not only material
assistance but also a strategic alliance), Egypt must respect
 three red lines . It must not breach its peace treaty with  Israel 
or oppress Egyptian women or minorities, notably  Coptic
Christians .  U.S. officials will be watching Egypt for other signs of
reflux as well. American aid flows in a pipeline and should be
stopped again if Mursi and the Cabinet he appoints stray from
democratic fundamentals. The U.S. may not be able to push Egypt
hard for progress, but there is no reason for it to financially
support backsliding.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get;  Jonathan Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in
 Pennsylvania ; Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln
obsession ; William Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on
 fixing health care ; Frederic Block on how he  sentences federal
criminals.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 