-- Wiggins, Froome Fill Top Two Tour de France Spots as Evans Slips
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-12T23:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/wiggins-increases-tour-de-france-lead-as-froome-rises-to-second.html
Bradley Wiggins leads fellow Team
Sky rider Chris Froome in a British 1-2 atop the Tour de France
standings after defending champion  Cadel Evans  fell back to
fourth place on stage 11.  Evans, who last year became the first Australian to win
cycling’s premier event, wilted on the final climb yesterday to
slip behind Froome and Vincenzo Nibali of Liquigas. Pierre
Rolland won yesterday’s 92-mile stage in the Alps.  “It was another great day for the team,” Wiggins said in
comments on the Team Sky website. “It’s another one ticked off
and we’ve actually taken more time off Cadel which we never
expected.”  Wiggins leads Froome by  2 minutes, 5 seconds  through 11 of
20 stages. A Briton has never won the 109-year-old event, which
continues today with a 140.5-mile ride between Saint-Jean-de-
Maurienne and Annonay-Davezieux. It’s the longest stage of this
year’s race.  Nibali is 18 seconds further back in third. Evans is 3:19
behind Wiggins.  Rolland broke free of a leading group of four with about
six miles to go yesterday. The Frenchman celebrated his stage
win, the second in a row for his Europcar team, on the La
Toussuire mountain pass by lifting his bike above his head.  Evans had attacked with 40 miles left, on the out-of-
category Col de la Croix de Fer, taking the wheel of BMC Racing
teammate Tejay van Garderen. Wiggins, helped by three teammates,
quickly closed him down.  Italy’s Nibali, the 2010 Vuelta a Espana winner, twice
attacked on the final 11-mile climb, building a 30-second lead
over Froome and Wiggins.  The British duo fought back, leaving Evans behind with
three miles to go. Froome attacked with 2 1/2 miles left,
dropping Wiggins. Froome appeared to be told to slow down by
Team Sky via radio, allowing Wiggins to recover.  Froome eventually crossed the line a few meters in front of
Wiggins, who finished with the same time as Nibali.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  