-- Yahoo Says It’s Investigating Security Breach
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-07-12T21:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/yahoo-spokeswoman-says-company-investigating-security-breach.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , operator of the biggest
U.S. Web portal, said that as many as 450,000 user names and
passwords were stolen from one of its sites.  Hackers took a file on July 11 containing login credentials
for Yahoo and other accounts, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Hotmail and  AOL Inc. (AOL) , from a Yahoo site
featuring user articles, videos and slideshows, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Yahoo joins a growing list of Internet companies such as
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Last.fm music site and EHarmony Inc.
that have recently had user information compromised.  The lapse happened just before Yahoo’s annual shareholder
meeting, where interim Chief Executive Officer Ross Levinsohn
today said he’s seeking a clear strategy for the company as it
tries to restore investor confidence and find a permanent CEO.
The Sunnyvale, California-based company, which has had five CEOs
since early 2009, needs to attract more users and ad dollars as
it fends off challenges from Google and Facebook Inc.  “We are taking immediate action by fixing the
vulnerability that led to the disclosure of this data, changing
the passwords of the affected Yahoo! users and notifying the
companies whose users accounts may have been compromised,”
Yahoo said in the statement. “We apologize to all affected
users.”  Kate Wesson, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, said the company has
298 million active Yahoo e-mail users worldwide. That means less
than one percent of users were affected.  Unencrypted File  TrustedSec, a Berea, Ohio-based security consultancy,  said
that a hacker group  called D33DS had posted details of 450,000
user accounts on an unencrypted file taken from Yahoo Voices, a
site where users can share their own content.  The breached site was formerly known as Associated Content,
a portal for user-generated content that Yahoo bought in 2010
and  re-branded  last year.  Many of the victims may have been Associated Content users
who signed up for the service before it was turned into Yahoo
Voices, said Kurt Baumgartner, a security researcher at Russian
antivirus firm Kaspersky Lab. That likely explains why non-Yahoo
e-mail accounts were among the stolen data, as users could sign
up for the service with a variety of e-mail accounts, he said.  Google and Microsoft said they had identified which of
their users were affected by the Yahoo incident and taken steps
to make sure that passwords could be reset.  Password Protection  “Affected users will have to reset their password the next
time they try to access their Google account,” said Nadja
Blagojevic, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-based
Google.  The hackers, D33DS, made efforts to mask which Yahoo site
yielded the stolen passwords, but inadvertently left clues in
the file that point to the Yahoo! Voices site as the source of
the breach, TrustedSec wrote on its blog.  According to Rapid7 LLC, a computer-security company that
analyzed the hacked file, 138,000 of the accounts were Yahoo e-
mail addresses, 107,000 were Gmail, 55,000 were Hotmail and
nearly 26,000 were AOL.  Yahoo  dropped  0.7 percent to $15.69 at the close in  New
York . The shares have declined 2.7 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  