-- Yahoo Interim CEO Says He’s ‘Working Hard’ on Strategy
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-12T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/yahoo-interim-ceo-levinsohn-says-working-hard-to-set-strategy.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  interim Chief Executive
Officer  Ross Levinsohn , facing pointed questions from investors,
said he’s focused on finding a clear strategy for the company
after changes in the board and management over the past year.  Levinsohn, who became interim CEO in May, already has made
his presence felt during his short stint, bringing in new
executives and helping resolve a legal dispute with Facebook
Inc.  “We are working hard to clearly define a strategy for this
company,” Levinsohn said today at a meeting of shareholders in
 Santa Clara , California. “Once we set that strategy, we will
size the organization and spending and goals against that. And
we’re working as fast and hard as we can.”  He also said Yahoo is communicating with  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) ,
its Tokyo-based joint venture with  Softbank Corp. (9984) , to explore
all possible alternatives for the business. Yahoo in the past
has discussed a sale of its 35 percent stake in the company,
people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Yahoo’s list of possible CEO candidates narrowed last week
after  Jason Kilar , chief executive of Hulu LLC, said he didn’t
want the job. That put the emphasis on Levinsohn, who also is in
contention for the position, according to people with knowledge
of the matter.  Executive Turnover  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, which has had five
executives at the helm since 2009, is seeking a CEO who can
boost the company’s prospects for revenue growth.  Scott Thompson 
exited in May after failing to correct an error in his academic
credentials. He followed Tim Morse, who became interim CEO last
year after the company fired its previous CEO,  Carol Bartz , amid
customer and market-share losses to rivals including Google Inc.
and Facebook.  During the annual shareholders meeting, investors pressed
Levinsohn on how the company will manage spending, its plans for
providing additional content on the website and what it’s doing
to attract users who have gravitated to rivals. Levinsohn, who
answered questions for more than half of the meeting, said the
company has opportunities for growth, given its massive scale,
technology and focus on improving services.  “The culture of execution is one that we are rapidly
working on in this company,” Levinsohn said. “My leadership
team that’s currently in place is focused on that every day.”  He pointed to media partnerships that can drive growth in
users and ad dollars. That includes an agreement with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC News and a deal with online music service
Spotify Ltd. Yahoo is scheduled to report second-quarter
financial results on July 17.  Yahoo slipped less than 1 percent to $15.69 at the New York
close. The shares have fallen 2.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  