-- H.Bloom Cuts Down on Dead Flowers With Software Picking Lilies
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-21T02:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/h-bloom-cuts-down-on-dead-flowers-with-software-picking-lilies.html
After leaving the software
enterprise company he helped take public in 2009, Bryan Burkhart
spent months mulling one question: What was the biggest industry
that hadn’t been reinvented by technology?  Title insurance was a possibility. So was property
management. After interviewing flower shop owners in New York’s
Chelsea neighborhood, Burkhart became fascinated with flowers --
a $32 billion market still sometimes managed on notepads in
retail shops and grocery stores. He found that despite shop
owners’ talent for arrangements, as much as half their product
often went unsold.  “They were artists, not businesspeople,” the former
senior vice president of sales at  Callidus Software Inc. (CALD)  said.
“We thought, we’re going to hire the best designers, give them
a good salary, and they can do what they’re good at and we can
do what we’re good at.”  Burkhart, 37, teamed up with Sonu Panda, a co-worker at
software companies since the late 1990s, and started  H.Bloom
Inc. , a company that delivers flower arrangements to hotels,
restaurants, and businesses that sign up online for
subscriptions. The two-year-old company, which now operates in
five cities with 550 corporate customers, has raised $18 million
from Battery Ventures, Shasta Ventures Inc., and private
investors including ShoeDazzle.com Inc.’s Brian Lee.  Pollen Allergy  While Burkhart and Panda were not lovers of flowers before
starting the business -- Panda is allergic to pollen -- they saw
an opportunity to significantly increase the industry’s
efficiency. At H.Bloom, only 2 percent of inventory goes to
waste, Burkhart said.  Other companies, such as FTD Group Inc. and  1-800-
Flowers.com Inc. (FLWS) , sell arrangements through a local retailer
network and have limited control over quality. Burkhart’s
company buys its own flowers and designs and delivers its own
arrangements. Its software manages inventory down to the stem
and uses real-time data analysis to purchase, for example, a
variety of red rose that’s 2 cents cheaper than others.  H.Bloom -- the H doesn’t stand for anything, Burkhart said
he added it to convey a sense of sophistication -- uses software
to plan quicker delivery routes based on heat maps that show
where customer orders are concentrated, or to flag a supplier
that’s been sending too many damaged flowers.  At the H.Bloom office in  Manhattan , a hallway separates
software engineers and florists. On one side is a fresh-scented
warehouse where salsa music blares as employees assemble
shipments. On the other, Tonimarie Stanzoni, the director of
buying operations, keeps her eye on three screens that display
information from the order database, organized by type of
flower. The system will tell her how many calathea cigar or
amaryllis red lion stems she needs (and when), which of the 500
varieties of red roses are in season, and what their prices are.  Flower Choices  Stanzoni can balance the benefits of buying cheaper lilies
from  California  with importing higher-quality ones from the
Netherlands. The software also helps her choose the best kind of
flower for an order; while an oriental lily, for instance, is
more expensive than other varieties it can span eight inches,
taking up more room in an arrangement.  If the system alerts Stanzoni to a supplier with a history
of problems, she can use the data to bargain for better prices.
Mike Lenner, vice president of engineering, based the flower
trading platform on his work at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , where he ran a
set of applications that helped customers purchase mobile phones
on the site and activate them. Former co-workers at MLB.com,
where he worked after Amazon, jokingly call him “The Florist.”  Initial Skepticism  Burkhart declined to say if H.Bloom is profitable. With
expected sales of more than $4 million this year, its share of
the flower market is tiny. Going only after corporate customers
is limiting, said Jennifer Sparks, vice president of marketing
at the Society of American Florists.  “A traditional florist certainly has much more opportunity
to sell flowers in many different capacities, not just
corporate, and the everyday sales keep the business steady,”
she said. Corporate customers make up about a fifth of the
retail flower market, according to the Society of American
Florists’ website.  Potential investors were initially skeptical of H.Bloom’s
business model, Burkhart said.  “There are some investors for whom physical product, local
market rollout, and complex logistics is anathema,” he said.
“There are others that look at this and think, if you can get
it right in one market or a handful of markets, there are
clearly hundreds of markets where it could go.”  The company is beginning to deliver plants as well, and
eventually wants to expand its subscription service to other
products.  Flowers Die  H.Bloom investor Battery Ventures took a pass on some of
Burkhart’s early ideas, such as creating a luxury version of
1-800-Flowers, said Brian O’Malley, a partner at the firm
Corporate subscriptions, especially for flowers, made sense to
him.  Unlike items from startups such as Manpacks, which makes
regular deliveries of underwear and socks to men, or Birchbox
Inc., which delivers beauty products, “flowers die and you
actually want more,” he said. “You’re going to need a new
shipment every week or the week after.”  Before investing, O’Malley walked around flower markets as
Burkhart had, talking to florists about unsold goods spoiling.  “It was bad,” he said. But with H.Bloom, “because
they’re measuring everything, as it gets bigger it will only get
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Cantor at 
 dcantor5@bloomberg.net  