-- 21st Century Technology Surges on Transport CCTV: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-12-21T16:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/21st-century-technology-surges-on-transport-cctv-london-mover.html
21st Century Technology Plc (C21) , a U.K.
supplier of CCTV monitors on buses and trains, surged the most
in 10 months after saying it expects a “significant
improvement” in operating margin and profit for the full year.  The shares advanced 12 percent to 12.5 pence, the biggest
gain since Feb. 14, at the close in  London . About 1.2 million
shares traded, more than six times the three-month daily
average, giving the company a market value of 11.7 million
pounds ($18.9 million).  Cost savings and new orders will help 21st Century boost
pretax profit in 2012 to about 1.8 million pounds, a 20 percent
increase from a year ago, the Croydon, England-based company
said today in a statement. Profit after tax will increase for a
fifth year, it said.  “Despite difficult market conditions we have continued to
make good progress,” Chairman Jan Holmstrom said in the
statement. Cost savings have “borne fruit” and the board plans
to propose a dividend of at least a third of pretax profit, 21st
Century said.  While some orders anticipated for the second half of
the year won’t take place until next year, the pipeline is
strong, the company said. The appointment of Wilson Jennings
as chief executive officer in October has been “seamless,”
Holmstrom said.  Besides offering mobile surveillance systems for public
transport, 21st Century sells the EcoManager technology to help
drivers reduce fuel consumption and emissions. It also supplies
passenger counting systems that allow transportation providers
to monitor traffic patterns and audit fare revenue.  Vadim Alexandre, an analyst at Daniel Stewart who predicted
in August that the shares would more than double to 28 pence in
a year, said today he is reviewing his price target. Daniel
Stewart acts as a broker and nominated adviser for 21st Century
Technology.  The company said it intends to announce 2012 results in
late March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
eat 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  