-- Afghan Aircraft Competition Almost Complete, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-21T23:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/afghan-aircraft-competition-almost-complete-u-s-says.html
The U.S. Air Force is approaching a
decision in a stalled competition to buy 20 light-attack
aircraft for  Afghanistan ’s military, a service official said.  “I expect early next year a decision will be made,” by
April 30 if not earlier, Air Force Lieutenant General  Charles
Davis , the service’s military deputy for acquisition, said today
in an interview.  “They are not going to rush it, but they are to the point
where they are closing in on the decision process,” Davis said
of the Air Force evaluation team.  The contest pits Sierra Nevada Corp. and its Brazilian
subcontractor,  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , against Hawker Beechcraft Corp.
Brazilian officials have said they’re monitoring the case
because the deal would mark a breakthrough for their nation’s
biggest aircraft maker.  Hawker had protested the Air Force’s decision last
December, which would have given Sierra Nevada an initial $355.1
million to provide a turboprop aircraft for the Afghanistan
National Army Air Corps.  The Air Force canceled the contract in February and General
Donald Hoffman, commander of the Air Force Materiel Command,
started an investigation into its selection process.  The investigation uncovered shortcomings in the contract
evaluation process and a revised request for proposals was
issued.  Afghan Deliveries  The aircraft are expected to be delivered about a year
after a contractor is selected, or in 2014, according to Davis.
President  Barack Obama  has pledged to complete the withdrawal of
most U.S. troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  “That’s an important date,” Davis said. “It’s kind of
key we’re tracking to a schedule that aligns” with the
drawdown.  Light-attack aircraft support the U.S. intention to leave
the Afghan military with adequate “enabling” technologies to
fight the Taliban, he said.  The initial contract calls for aircraft and ground training
devices to support pilot training and support for all
maintenance and supply requirements.  A deal with the Air Force would be a “door opener” for
Embraer with the U.S. Department of Defense and in other
countries, Embraer Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said
in an interview in March.  “It would be a stamp of credibility abroad for us and a
chance to develop a relationship with the” Pentagon, Curado
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  