-- Hagel Apologizes for Opposing ‘Aggressively Gay’ Envoy
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/hagel-apologizes-for-opposing-aggressively-gay-envoy.html
Former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel apologized for remarks he once made about the prospect of
a gay U.S. ambassador, breaking his silence over criticism of
his possible nomination as defense secretary.  Hagel apologized yesterday for comments in 1998 questioning
whether an “openly, aggressively gay” person such as James Hormel could properly represent the U.S. abroad. President Bill
Clinton later named Hormel ambassador to Luxembourg when the
Senate was in recess because of opposition to making him an
envoy.  “My comments 14 years ago in 1998 were insensitive,”
Hagel said in a statement. “They do not reflect my views or the
totality of my public record, and I apologize to Ambassador
Hormel” and anyone in the gay community “who may question my
commitment to their civil rights.” He said he also supports
allowing gay Americans to serve openly in the military, which he
once opposed.  Hagel, 66, is among candidates President  Barack Obama  has
been considering to replace the departing Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, White House officials have said on condition of
anonymity in advance of a decision. Obama announced yesterday
that he will nominate Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts
Democrat, as secretary of state without offering any comment
about who will head the Pentagon.  Opponents of nominating Hagel, a Nebraska Republican, have
cited a number of his past comments, from opposition to the
troop surge in the  Iraq  war to a reference he once made to the
influence of the “Jewish lobby” that supports Israel.  ‘Unacceptable Comments’  While Hagel has left it to allies and supporters to rebut
those criticisms, he commented on gay issues in response to the
Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
advocacy group in  Washington . Gay organizations have been among
Obama’s biggest supporters and campaign contributors.  “Senator Hagel’s unacceptable comments about gay people,
coupled with his consistent anti-LGBT record in Congress, raise
serious questions about where he stands on LGBT equality
today,” Chad Griffin, the group’s president said in a
statement. “For him to be an appropriate candidate for any
administration post, he must repudiate his comments” about
Hormel and support “equal benefits for lesbian and gay military
families.”  Hagel, a decorated  Vietnam  War veteran, continued to
attract criticism by former Senate colleagues over his past
positions on foreign policy and military intervention.  Senator John Cornyn of  Texas , who is slated to become the
No. 2 Republican leader in January, said yesterday that he will
oppose Hagel if Obama nominates him, according to Scott Gosnell,
a Cornyn spokesman. Cornyn made the comment in an interview with
Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin.  ‘Pro-Israel Lobby’  Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican, said yesterday
that Hagel would face tough questioning in a Senate confirmation
hearing.  “I’ve known Senator Hagel for many years,” McCain, a
Vietnam veteran, told reporters. “I appreciate also his service
in Vietnam. I am concerned about many of the comments that he
made, and has made, like reference to a, quote, Jewish lobby,
which I don’t think exists. I think a pro-Israel lobby exists.
And I think many of those comments and other positions he has
taken will be the subject of the Senate Armed Services
Committee.”  Asked Dec. 20 about the opposition to Hagel, White House
press Secretary Jay Carney said the former senator “has been a
remarkable servant to this country” and cited the two Purple
Hearts he was awarded for his service in Vietnam. Carney
declined to comment about potential administration appointees.  ‘Cheap Smear’  Hagel’s supporters have sought to rebut criticism, saying
his past statements are being overblown or taken out of context.  “Chuck Hagel’s knowledge, experience and relationships in
this region, including  Israel , outclass his critics,” Andrew Parasiliti, who served as Hagel’s foreign-policy adviser from
2001 to 2005, said this week in an e-mailed statement. “To tag
him as ‘anti-Israel’ is simply wrong and a cheap smear.”  Hagel irked members of President George W. Bush’s
administration and some fellow Republicans by opposing the surge
of 30,000 U.S. troops to Iraq in 2007. Hagel argued the
administration lacked a coherent strategy and was inflaming
anti-U.S. sentiment in the region.  Asked whether he would support Hagel, Senator Orrin Hatch,
a Utah Republican said, “I like him personally, so the odds are
that I will. But like everybody else, I’m waiting to see what
happens.”  Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, said he “has
deep concerns about some of the things he’s said about Cuba and
Cuba policy. I’m equally troubled by some of the things he’s
said about Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  