-- AirAsia Says GE, Safran No Shoe-In to Power Latest Airbus Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-12-21T14:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/airasia-says-ge-safran-no-shoe-in-to-power-latest-airbus-jets.html
  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  said it will run a
contest to pick an engine supplier for its latest crop of Airbus
A320 planes rather than automatically select its normal
supplier, a  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  venture.  Pratt & Whitney  will get the opportunity to pitch for the
contract to power 100 planes ordered earlier this month, said
Anaz Ahmad Tajuddin, the airline’s head of engineering for Asia.  AirAsia, the region’s biggest discount airline, and
Airbus’s biggest A320 customer in Asia, unveiled an order for
the jets earlier this month. The contract includes 36 current-
generation A320s and 64 fuel-efficient A320neos.  “We have to look at fuel savings provided by both engine
suppliers and maintenance costs: those are the two drivers,”
said Tajuddin. The airline will make a decision by the end of
January, he said.  The CFM International partnership of GE and Safran is the
current supplier for all A320s that have been ordered by
AirAsia. It chose GE over  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney for the first 200 Airbus A320neos the airline ordered.
Tajuddin said the airline is running a contest to get the best
offer.  “We’ve had CFM the last seven years, we know the engine,
we know the issues, and CFM wouldn’t want to lose the deal,” he
said. “I’d say we’re in a good position” in running a contest.  The A320neo is a newer version of the A320 that will offer
more fuel efficient engines from late 2015.  AirAsia competes with the budget or regional arms of flag
carriers including Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Qantas Airways
Ltd. The airline, based in Sepang, Malaysia, has set up ventures
in the  Philippines , Japan, Thailand and Indonesia, and also
faces growing competition from emerging discount carriers
seeking to win passengers who demand low-cost travel options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  