-- Alliance Bank to Continue Asset Hunt After Case Dropped
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-12-21T10:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/alliance-bank-to-continue-asset-hunt-after-case-dropped.html
AO Alliance Bank (ASBN) , the first Kazakh
lender to default in 2009, vowed to continue with its pursuit of
damages from the former management team after a U.K. appeals
court ruled that the bank’s case was beyond its jurisdiction.  “Alliance Bank will continue to seek recovery of the
damages caused as a result of the defendants’ actions both on
the territory of  Kazakhstan  and abroad regardless where their
assets are located,” the Almaty-based lender said in a
statement e-mailed today.  The bank defaulted in April 2009 after government-appointed
managers found $1.1 billion of liabilities that weren’t
reflected on its balance sheet. Kazakh authorities arrested or
issued warrants for seven executives at the time, including the
former chairman and co-owner Margulan Seisembayev and former
Chief Executive Officer Zhomart Yertayev.  The U.K. court  dismissed  the bank’s appeal on Dec. 12,
saying “Alliance had not established that the English court is
clearly and distinctly the most appropriate forum for the
resolution of the disputes.” The judge also ruled that the
worldwide freezing order “should now be set aside, subject to
any argument concerning its continuation pending a possible
further appeal.”  Seisembayev, whose whereabouts are unknown, couldn’t be
reached for comment. He has said the money he and other
executives are accused of stealing was invested to support
Alliance.  Yertayev declined to comment today, saying by phone that he
considers his court involvement with the bank to be
“completed.”  ‘Important Step’  The defendants “consider the decision an important step in
establishing the truth in the case around Alliance Bank and
believe the court put a full stop in the proceedings,” Interfax
quoted Seisembayev as saying in a Dec. 19 statement.  Courts in countries including  Switzerland , Lichtenstein and
the  United Arab Emirates  have dismissed accusations and halted
proceedings against the bank’s former management, the Russian
news service reported, citing the statement.  In March, a Kazakh court overturned a ruling that awarded
Alliance 177.5 billion tenge ($1.2 billion) in damages from its
former management. While the court in the financial capital of
Almaty struck down the damages ruling, it upheld a conditional
prison sentence of two years and a 378,000 tenge fine for both
Seisembayev and Yertayev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  