-- Halozyme Jumps Most in Six Years on Pfizer Partnership
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-21T21:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/halozyme-shares-jump-on-pfizer-development-deal.html
Halozyme Therapeutics Inc. (HALO) , a
developer of drug-delivery systems, jumped the most in six years
after announcing a collaboration with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to develop as
many as six injectable medicines.  Halozyme  rose  27 percent to $7.01 at the close in  New York ,
its largest single-day increase since December 2006. The deal
includes an $8 million payment to Halozyme, future fees that may
reach $507 million and the potential for royalties based on
sales of licensed products, the San Diego-based company said in
a statement today.  Halozyme, which had $56.1 million in sales last year, uses
human enzymes to modify biotechnology medicines so they can be
administered through an injection, rather than intravenously.
The agreement includes a license to develop two specific
treatments and the right for Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, to choose as many as four other targets, according to
the statement.  The deal “has the potential to enhance Pfizer’s ability to
optimize treatments for patients,” Jose Carlos Gutierrez-Ramos,
a senior vice president at New York-based Pfizer, said in the
statement.  “What this does is just expand the universe of when people
think about how this technology can be used for biologics,”
Gregory Frost, Halozyme’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “On the partnership side, this certainly warms
things up, but I think folks have had a lot of interest in the
pharma space for our technology in general.”  Halozyme had fallen 42 percent this year through yesterday
as U.S. regulators rejected an immune-deficiency treatment the
company developed with  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and halted a
study involving the therapy in collaboration with  ViroPharma
Inc. (VPHM)   Pfizer fell 1.4 percent to $25.08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  