-- American Dream Fades for Generation Y Professionals
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/american-dream-fades-for-generation-y-professionals.html
After being dismissed from her job
as a Midtown Manhattan  securities  attorney in October 2009,
Christina Tretter-Herriger hitched a used horse trailer to her
Dodge Ram pickup and drove 1,628 miles to  Texas .  The 32-year-old lawyer sold skin-care products in Houston
before finding work as the assistant general counsel of a
futures-trading firm where an irate customer punctuated a
recorded voice-mail message with gunfire.  “No one was left with the impression that he just happened
to be phoning from a sporting clays range,” she says.  Eighteen months and two busted jobs later, the daughter of
a retired physician and a former editor at Vogue circled back to
upstate  New York  and hunkered down at a small legal office that
pays about one-quarter of her former $165,000 salary.  Generation Y professionals entering the workforce are
finding careers that once were gateways to high pay and upwardly
mobile lives turning into detours and dead ends. Average  incomes 
for individuals ages 25 to 34 have fallen 8 percent, double the
adult population’s total drop, since the recession began in
December 2007. Their  unemployment  rate remains stuck one-half to
1 percentage point above the national figure.  Three and a half years after the worst recession since the
Great Depression, the earnings and employment gap between those
in the under-35 population and their parents and grandparents
threatens to unravel the American dream of each generation doing
better than the last. The nation’s younger workers have
benefited least from an economic recovery that has been the most
uneven in recent history.  ‘Permanently Depressed’  “This generation will be permanently depressed and will be
on a lower path of income for probably all of their life -- and
at least the next 10 years,” says Rutgers professor Cliff Zukin, a senior research fellow at the university’s John J.
Heldrich Center for Workforce Development. Professionals who
start out in jobs other than their first choice tend to stay on
the alternative path, earning less than they would have
otherwise while becoming less likely to start over again later
in preferred fields, Zukin says.  Michael Greenstone , who was chief economist at the White
House Council of Economic Advisers in 2009 and 2010, says the
shift to a downwardly mobile society may be lasting. “Children
are not earning as much as their parents, and I think we’re
laying the seeds for that to continue into the future,” he
says.  Only one-fifth of those who graduated college since 2006
expect greater success than their parents, a Rutgers survey
found earlier this year. Little more than half were working full
time. Just one in five said their job put them on a career path.  Disappearing Jobs  Those who finish only high school or drop out fare worse.
Almost four out of five jobs destroyed by the recession were
held by workers with a high school diploma or less, according to
 Georgetown University ’s Center on Education and the Workforce.  Middle-income jobs are disappearing for a wide range of
young professionals. The number of financial counselors and loan
officers ages 25 to 34 has dropped 40 percent since 2007,
outpacing the 30 percent drop in total jobs for the profession,
according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Similarly, the number of hours logged by first-year and
mid-level legal associates -- a productivity measure of young
lawyers -- fell 12 percent from 2007 at some of New York’s
largest law firms, says Jeff Grossman, national managing
director of Wells Fargo Private Bank’s Legal Specialty Group in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Yet profits per partner climbed
$50,697 to $1.5 million on revenue of $66 billion last year,
according to a separate survey of 86 of the world’s top law
firms by The American Lawyer magazine.  Lost Faith  “I had a lot of faith in the system, the mythology that if
you work really hard you can achieve anything, and the stock
market always goes up,” says 2009 law school graduate Elizabeth
Hallock, 33. “It was pretty naïve on my part.”  Hallock is the named plaintiff in one of  14 lawsuits 
against some of the nation’s best-known law schools, including
her alma mater, the University of San Francisco  School of Law .
The civil complaints, filed in 2011 and 2012, accuse the
institutions of overstating graduates’ job-placement results and
incomes.  Young Americans are struggling to reconcile their lack of
economic rewards with their relatively privileged upbringings by
Baby Boomer parents and the material success of their older
peers, Generation X, born in the late 1960s and 1970s, says
Kathy Sheehan, general manager of GfK Consumer Trends and Roper
Reports, a unit of German-based research firm GfK.  Great Expectations  “It’s a generation that had really high expectations, in
some part driven by the way they were raised by their boomer
parents,” she says. “Yet in the past five years they have had
reality slammed in their face by the employment situation.”  About 61 million people, one-fifth of the  U.S. population ,
work at jobs where median earnings declined since 2007 even as
the 1.2 million households whose incomes put them in the top 1
percent saw their pay rise 5.5 percent last year. Younger
workers are experiencing the worst of the disparity in part
because they’re being displaced by older workers. The number of
employees ages 55 to 64 is expected to  surpass  the under-24
working population by 2020 for the first time since at least
World War II, according to the BLS.  Dashed expectations crimped even some of the most
innovative corners of the economy. Daniel White was wrapping up
a week-long vacation to  Vermont  two summers ago when a co-worker
at Chicago-based  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  called to share the news that
White was about to be fired from the e-commerce discounter.  Father’s Power  The 27-year-old business school graduate was living from
paycheck to paycheck, cold-calling hair salons and pizza parlors
in Youngstown,  Ohio , from crowded offices at company
headquarters when he found himself out on the street.  “To be honest, I’m glad it happened,” he says. “I guess
I owe that to  Steve Jobs , who made getting fired cool.”  This year, White says, he hopes to earn $2,000 at his own
startup Web-sales venture in Burlington, Vermont, seeing
technology as the one path to potentially matching his father’s
generation, “the people with the money and power.”  In more traditional jobs, the fallout from the subprime-
mortgage collapse a half-decade ago continues to pummel people,
including the architects who designed homes. The number of them
ages 25 to 34 has fallen by 41 percent since 2007, compared with
the total drop in the profession of 25 percent.  At the Seattle architectural firm of Callison LLC, faces
and names began to disappear from the staff directory almost
immediately after new hire Eli Hardi joined in January 2008.  Smaller Paychecks  “People would drop off on a daily basis,” says Hardi, 28,
a recent graduate of a five-year architecture degree program in
 California . Within a few months, Hardi rose from an hourly to
salaried position. The promotion wiped out overtime pay and
reduced his annual income by 12 percent to $39,500, he says.  The smaller paycheck reflected cost-cutting that has erased
 40 percent  of U.S. architectural firms’ revenue and almost one-
third of their personnel since early 2008, according to the
 American Institute of Architects  in  Washington .  Hardi worked through Christmas and New Year’s before being
laid off during the first week of January 2009, 13 months after
his hiring. He walked home in the cold to his apartment and new
big-screen TV that was now a symbol of his uprooted ambitions.  “It’s a bit sudden, a bit jarring,” he says. Still,
“there’s a certain sense of relief that you don’t have to deal
with the sword hanging over your head. I almost felt worse for
the people who had to stay, knowing they might lose their
jobs.”  Highest Unemployment  Architecture graduates ages 25 to 29 had the highest
 unemployment rate  of 57 degree programs surveyed by the
Education Department in 2009. Their 9.6 percent jobless level
rivaled the 10.6 percent unemployment for all Americans ages 25
to 29 that year, including those without college degrees.
Nursing fared the best with a 1.5 percent jobless rate.  Hardi was called back, at his previous salary, in January
2010 as Callison won store-design work for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “The hours were long, the pay was low and we got a notice
saying the bonus would be minimal,” he says. “The hardest
part, I found, is to maintain your own self respect and
dignity.” In March, he quit to join a smaller firm where he
works on historical renovations.  The same housing crash that hammered young architects and
loan officers also slammed lawyers. Law schools are turning out
about 45,000  degree  holders a year for about 25,000 full-time
positions available to them, according to the National
Association for Law Placement Inc. in Washington. The class of
2011 had the lowest placement with law firms, 49.5 percent, in
36 years.  Tougher Path  “It is not the perfect path to wealth and success that
people may have envisioned,” says Robin Sparkman, editor in
chief of The American Lawyer magazine in New York.  Some of the disenchanted have taken their complaints to
court. Plaintiffs’ attorneys and recent law-school graduates are
pushing to change what they call law schools’ overstated reports
of post-graduation employment numbers. The results are used in
magazine rankings of the institutions and to recruit new
applicants. In state-court lawsuits, the former students allege
false advertising and consumer fraud.  The claims are “meritless,” says Angie Davis, spokeswoman
for the University of San Francisco  School of Law . “We are
sympathetic to the difficulty faced by law school graduates
nationwide in finding employment on the heels of the Great
Recession,” she says, adding the university helps students find
work, and many have found “successful, rewarding careers.”  Contested Lawsuits  With the lawsuits playing out, the Chicago-based  American
Bar Association  began requiring accredited schools to disclose
far more detailed information about new graduates’ employment
beginning in December 2011.  This July, San Francisco County Superior Court Judge Harold Kahn allowed lawsuits against USF and Golden Gate University to
proceed, ruling that some law-school graduates may have a basis
for claims that they were deceived. Judges in Illinois and
 Michigan  rejected similar complaints.  “It’s hard to look at the information the schools were
putting out and say it’s not misleading,” says Derek Tokaz,
research director of the nonprofit Law School  Transparency 
initiative. It published research showing that the chance of
recent graduates getting permanent full-time work in law was far
lower than the 80-95 percent total employment rates the schools
typically boasted.  Lehman Fallout  Tokaz, 28, worked with Tretter-Herriger at the Manhattan
law firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP. She joined
the firm in September 2008, the same month that Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed, gradually setting off panic on  Wall
Street  and around the world.  The late nights and long weeks awaited by first-year
associates as a grueling rite of passage didn’t come, she says.
Instead, there was so little work to do that the hedge fund
lawyers and recruiters she worked with frequently retreated
after lunch to a street-level pub to watch English soccer.  Tretter-Herriger says she and some other first-year
associates were fired 13 months later with the proviso they
could keep their desks and look for jobs through October. She
found one at the Houston futures trading firm. When it later
outsourced some of its legal work, she moved on again and
answered an ad on Craigslist for a job in Buffalo, New York.  She now complements her $45,000 lawyer’s salary by training
horses and giving riding lessons. She says she’d like to buy a
rental property and become self-sufficient in case she loses
this job.  “As it is, all of my possessions still fit in the back of
my truck,” she says. “I can pack it in a couple hours, pick up
the trailer and horses and move anywhere the gas tank will take
me at the drop of a hat. What can the system take away from you
when you have that kind of freedom?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka in Boston at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  