-- Manchin NRA A-Rating Gives Cover for Gun-Control Dialogue
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2012-12-21T23:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/manchin-nra-a-rating-gives-cover-for-gun-control-dialogue.html
The  West Virginia  Citizen’s Defense
League is organizing a protest tomorrow at the offices of U.S.
Senator  Joe Manchin , one of Congress’s strongest supporters of
gun rights.  The group’s Facebook page dedicated to organizing the event
includes a photo of Manchin shooting a rifle with the word
“hypocrite” underneath. One Facebook user posted the question
“Pitchforks okay?”  Three days after the Dec. 14 shooting deaths of 20 children
and six adults at a Connecticut elementary school, Manchin
suggested it was time to talk about  gun  control. He was the
first politician with a top rating from the  National Rifle
Association  to invite such a conversation, and others quickly
followed, placing Democrat Manchin, 65, at the center of the
first gun-control debate in  Washington  in more than a decade.  After the NRA broke its silence today and called for
placing armed guards in every school, Manchin wrote in an
opinion piece for The Washington Post that such increased
security is worth addressing though it “can’t be the only
measure that comes out of this.”  He called for a national commission on mass violence to
look at guns, violent entertainment and mental health issues.  “We need to address all of them,” he wrote. “I, for one,
simply cannot support any proposal that doesn’t address all
aspects of this problem.”  Manchin, an avid hunter, first spoke out on MSNBC Dec. 17.  ‘Innocent Children’  “Seeing the massacre of so many innocent children has
changed everything,” he said. “I want to call all our friends
at the NRA and sit down. They have to be at the table. This is a
time for all of us to sit down and move in a responsible manner.
I think they will.”  Manchin already had been making those calls. He  said  Dec.
19 on West Virginia MetroNews that every day since the
Connecticut shooting he’d been talking to representatives from
the NRA, the nation’s largest gun lobby, which endorsed him in
his November re-election and gave him an “A” rating.  The Fairfax, Virginia-based group, which claims 4 million
members, spent $12 million in an unsuccessful attempt oust
President  Barack Obama . Before making its armed guard proposal
today, the NRA had said on Dec. 18 that it would “offer
meaningful contributions” to avoiding another tragedy like the
one at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown.  Manchin didn’t respond to calls and e-mails for this
article.  Manchin’s Past  His response to the crisis came as no surprise to those
who’ve watched his career. Manchin was born and raised in the
coal-mining town of Farmington, West Virginia, and served in
state politics before coming to Washington. He also started a
small coal brokerage in Fairmont, now controlled by his son.  As West Virginia’s governor from 2005 to 2010, he earned a
reputation as someone who could get opposing sides to work out
problems.  “Joe has a way of bringing people together,” said Larry
Puccio, chairman of the West Virginia  Democratic Party . “He
believes that when there is an issue to be dealt with, you don’t
run from it, you bring people together, sit down, and deal with
it.”  Compensation System  Manchin had barely crossed the threshold of the governor’s
mansion in Charleston in 2005 when he called Steve Roberts,
president of the state’s Chamber of Commerce, and said he
intended to fix the state’s workers’  compensation  system which
was deep in debt and at risk of collapse.  For almost a year, Manchin brought Roberts and other
business leaders into meetings with the heads of the teachers
union, the mineworkers’ unions, and claimants’ lawyers.  “He didn’t turn them over to an assistant,” Roberts said.
“He came to the table and sat at the head of the table and said
we can work this out.”  In the end, Manchin privatized the workers-comp system, and
spread the pain around by insisting businesses contribute to
paying the system’s debt while making it harder for workers to
qualify for benefits.  Pulling off a similar victory at the national level on an
issue as politically volatile as  gun control  won’t be easy.
Still, the West Virginian who’s been in the Senate for just two
years has a unique advantage: bona fides with gun owners in his
state and elsewhere who trust that he knows weapons and doesn’t
think gun owners should be treated as criminals.  “I’m an avowed Republican, but I did split my ticket and
vote for Joe,” said Cliff Vinson, an ex-Marine and Vietnam
veteran who is a licensed bounty hunter and trains people to use
guns in his son’s Martinsburg, West Virginia shop.  Bounty Hunter  Vinson is concerned that lawmakers who know nothing about
guns will pass new bans on weapons they don’t understand.  “See this?” he says, holding up a long black shotgun that
looks like it could be in a movie about a hostage standoff.
“Does this look scary to you?”  He then reaches into a tall, black safe at the back of
GlockCop Guns & Ammo and pulls out a Remington 870 hunting
shotgun with a wooden stock.  “This is exactly the same gun. I changed the pistol grip
and the butt stock and that changed a deer-hunting shotgun into
a shotgun that a SWAT team would use,” says Vinson, who sports
a USMC tattoo down his left forearm.  Vinson says the popular ideas on gun control, banning
assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition clips, may not be
effective. A good shooter can reload in seconds, he says, and
the line between hunting rifle and assault rifle is blurry.  “A lower capacity magazine is not the answer. The answer
is better  psychological  evaluations of gun users,” Vinson says.  Fine Line  Manchin earned the support of Vinson and other small-
government West Virginians by walking a fine line in a state
that’s historically been Democratic but has been turning
Republican. From 1976 to 1996, the state voted Democratic in the
presidential race in every election except  Ronald Reagan ’s
landslide re-election in 1984. Starting in 2000, West Virginia
has backed the Republican candidate in the last four White House
contests, including  Mitt Romney  over Obama last month, 62
percent to 36 percent.  Manchin was elected to the Senate in 2010 in a campaign
held after the death of the incumbent, DemocratRobert C. Byrd.
Manchin was re-elected last month after keeping his distance
from Obama and positioning himself as a defender of both
workers’ and gun owners’ rights. He opposes gay marriage and
abortion rights, and is a critic of the Environmental Protection
Agency, which is unpopular in his coal-dependent state.  Rifle Ad  In his first race, Manchin aired an ad in which he slowly
loaded a rifle and shot a hole into a copy of legislation
designed to cut greenhouse-gas emissions from coal.  During his two years in Washington, he’s bucked his party
by supporting a minimum 30 percent tax rate for the wealthy and
voting in favor of building the  Keystone XL (GUKYF)  gas pipeline, a
project many Democrats opposed because of concerns about its
environmental impact. He sits on the Energy and Natural
Resources and Armed Services committees.  In the emerging debate over gun control, Manchin hasn’t
endorsed any particular proposals or path ahead. In a 16-minute
interview on West Virginia MetroNews, he declined to say whether
he’d support additional restrictions on guns.  Still, he said, everything should be on the table, and for
some West Virginians having Manchin in the room is crucial to
ensuring a balanced and credible result.  ’Knee-Jerk’  “The political discussion has become uninformed, knee
jerk, vitriolic, and charged with emotion,” said Father Eric
Hall, pastor at St. Joseph’s Catholic Church in the center of
Martinsburg.  “What does gun control mean? We need to have a sensible
conversation about what this means,” Hall said in his spare
office where an American Girl-style doll dressed as a nun rested
on a shelf. The voices of children on the playground from the
church’s school could be heard through the window.  Hall doesn’t own any guns, and is a vegetarian. He’s
supportive, though, of West Virginia gun owners’ rights. He says
several of his parishioners depend on hunting for a large
portion of their food.  Hall said he admires Manchin because he thinks for himself.  “One of my beefs with politicians is when they vote party
line,” he said. “He doesn’t. That’s what I find healthy about
him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  