-- Tanker Carrying Bakken Oil to Canadian Refinery Runs Aground
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2012-12-21T23:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/tanker-carrying-bakken-crude-to-canadian-refinery-runs-aground.html
An oil tanker carrying Bakken crude
to Irving Oil Corp.’s refinery in Canada from  Albany , New York,
ran aground yesterday in the Hudson River, delaying the first of
what is expected to be many voyages on the route.  The 600-foot (183-meter) vessel Stena Primorsk returned to
the Port of Albany today from an anchorage point near
Stuyvesant, New York, said Richard Hendrick, general manager of
the port, in a phone interview. Hendrick said the cargo of about
11.7 million gallons (279,000 barrels) of oil would be offloaded
to Buckeye Partners LP’s terminal and then be loaded on barges
for shipment over the next few days.  U.S. federal law requires companies to obtain licenses from
the Commerce Department to export crude oil. The department’s
policy is “to approve applications for exports of crude oil to
 Canada  for consumption or use therein,” according to the
department’s Export Administration Regulations. U.S. crude
exports averaged 57,000 barrels a day in the first nine months
of this year, the most since 2000, Energy Department data show.  “Exports to Canada will probably pick up quite a bit in
the next year,” Amrita Sen, chief oil market analyst for Energy
Aspects Ltd., said yesterday in  London . “The repercussions will
have more to do with how much the U.S. continues to displace
West Africa. That’s the one that really competes with Brent.”  Double-Hulled  The outer hull of the double-hulled tanker was breached,
the U.S. Coast Guard said in a statement today.  The accident occurred about 10 miles south of Albany at
about 7 a.m., Coast Guard Petty Officer 2nd Class Erik Swanson
said yesterday. Swanson said earlier today that divers were
assessing the damage at Stuyvesant Anchorage, where the vessel
stopped after the grounding. He said the assessment was the
Coast Guard’s priority at the time, rather than determining the
cause of the accident.  “We’re still investigating whether it did run aground or
hit something in the river,” Swanson said.  Demand to ship crude abroad is increasing as domestic
production surges. U.S. crude output rose last week to the
highest level since January 1994, Energy Department data show.
The gains have been primarily light, low-sulfur oil from Bakken
and Eagle Ford shale formations in North Dakota and southern
 Texas . Refiners including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Irving are
seeking to use North American crude in eastern Canadian plants
to replace cargoes from across the Atlantic Ocean.  Bakken Discount  Bakken oil in Clearbrook,  Minnesota , was about $27 a barrel
less expensive than North Sea Brent crude, the benchmark for
overseas imports, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A glut of oil in the upper Midwest, where North Dakota
output has jumped 57 percent in the past year, has led producers
to ship oil out of the region to the East and West Coasts by
train.  Rail shipments  in the third quarter have jumped almost
fourfold from a year earlier, according to the Association of
American Railroads.  The vessel was en route to Irving’s St. John refinery in
New Brunswick, Canada, Hendrick said yesterday. Shipments from
Albany were scheduled to take place every eight days, which
would make the daily rate about 35,000 barrels.  “This is the first of a long string of planned shipments
from the Port of Albany to Irving,” Hendrick said.  Valero Approval  Valero has received approval from the Commerce Department
to ship crude from the U.S. Gulf Coast to its Quebec City
refinery, Bill Day, a company spokesman in San Antonio, said in
an e-mail.  At 131 feet across, the Stena Primorsk is somewhat wider
than other Hudson River-going vessels, Ian Corcoran, vice
president of the Hudson River Pilots Association, said
yesterday.  “I haven’t spoken to the pilot yet, but if the ship loses
the ability to steer, the width doesn’t really matter,”
Corcoran said. He called it an unfortunate coincidence that the
first tanker shipload of Bakken from Albany ran aground.  Buckeye (BPL)  said in October it reached a multi-year agreement
with Irving to provide crude services at Albany. Buckeye has 1.8
million barrels of storage there, and is making modifications to
increase its rail capacity to 135,000 barrels a day.  Hendrick said Buckeye and another terminal run by  Global
Partners LP (GLP)  receive more than one unit train a day of crude from
North Dakota at the port.  Spokesmen from Irving and Buckeye didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  