-- Apple Patent Review Limits Leverage of Smartphone Rivals
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/apple-patent-review-with-years-to-go-limits-rivals-leverage.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patents behind the
pinch-to-zoom, bounce-back and multitouch features of its iPhone
aren’t invalid, at least not yet.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s initial rejections
in recent weeks were consistent with a process in which most
patents challenged over the past three decades, including ones
rejected at some point, survived in original or modified forms,
according to data compiled by the office.  That process can take years. In the meantime, Apple’s
patents will be considered valid and enforceable in the global
smartphone-patent litigation among it,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit.  “The Apple patents have not been held to be invalid by a
court, and certainly not by an appellate court, so they are
still enforceable,” said Robert Resis of Banner & Witcoff in
 Chicago , who’s not involved in the case. “Just because there’s
an action going on in the patent office doesn’t render them
unenforceable.”  The biggest practical impact of the review is that it gives
Samsung an argument that Apple shouldn’t be able to collect the
full $1.05 billion jury award the iPhone maker won against the
Korean handset maker in San Jose,  California , in August.  “It has to weigh on the judge’s mind on how much damages
to award,” said Scott Daniels, a patent lawyer with Westerman
Hattori in Washington who specializes in re-examinations, as the
reviews are called. “If these are patents of questionable
validity, can the judge in good conscience drop the hammer on
Samsung?”  Jobs Patent  Two of the Apple patents, for a way that the screen seems
to bounce back after it reaches the end and for the use of a
pinching motion to zoom in, were found to be infringed in the
San Jose case. The third patent, which is part of an Apple case
against Samsung at the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , is for touch-screen technology co-invented by Steve Jobs, Apple’s late co-founder.  The patent office tends to issue notices in bunches when
the reviews involve similar technology or the same company, and
in this case has so far issued three non-final decisions in the
past two months.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose will decide
whether to uphold the verdict or even increase that amount.  Judges have discretion whether to consider the patent
office review, said Rob Sterne of Sterne Kessler in Washington,
editor of “Patent Office Litigation,” a book on how the agency
is used more in litigation. Sterne has represented Apple and
Google, and said he couldn’t address the specific Apple fight
with Samsung.  Multiple Layers  According to patent office statistics from 1981 through
June, owners get all of their patent confirmed in 22 percent of
re-examinations, and all of the claims canceled 11 percent of
the time. The rest involve modifications of the patent, which in
some instances means the patent owner changes the wording of the
patent, removes elements, or even gets to add more claims.  The amount Samsung owes could be altered if Apple amends
the patent claims that were part of the litigation. The U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, which
specializes in patent law, has ruled that patent owners who
amend their claims during the review can’t collect damages for
any period that occurred before that change.  Apple has at least a month to respond to the issues raised
by the patent office examiner, and then a second notice is
issued. Apple also can request an interview with the examiner
handling each review.  If the claims are still rejected, the Cupertino,
California-based company can appeal to a board within the agency
and then to the Federal Circuit. That’s the same court that will
hear the appeal of the San Jose case.  Two Years  The ITC is scheduled to end its investigation by March 13,
and it has ruled in other cases that it won’t wait for the
patent office to complete its work.  The patent office has sought to speed up the process. Even
so, it would probably take at least two years, and possibly
longer, before reaching a point where the Federal Circuit could
rule on whether to cancel any of the patents, Daniels said.  In court cases, jurors are told that patents are presumed
valid, and the accused infringer has a high burden to overcome
that. At the patent office, the examiner has no such
constraints.  “You have the grizzled eyeshade of the examiner rather
than the wide-eyed juror as the decision maker,” Daniels said.  Because of the different standards, the court and patent
office could come to different conclusions. In May, the Federal
Circuit  upheld  a finding by the office that a patent on a
hemodialysis machine was invalid, while two years earlier it had
affirmed a jury verdict in favor of the patent owner.  ‘Validity Apple’  More technology companies are using the patent office as a
second route to challenge patents asserted against them in
lawsuits. They “are viewed as an insurance policy or a second
bite at the validity apple,” Sterne said.  “The patent owner has to win in the district court and the
re-exam process,” he said. “The challenger only has to win in
one of those processes to win overall.”  For Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the preliminary
rulings are good for its public image, Resis said.  “You’ve got a favorable ruling, you want to tout it,” he
said. “This might be one item that helps their overall
arguments. But it’s not an argument by itself, alone, that’s
going to cause the judge to pause.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  