-- ArcelorMittal Reports $4.3 Billion Writedown of Europe Unit
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-12-21T17:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/arcelormittal-posts-4-3-billion-writedown-on-goodwill-in-europe.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, will write down the goodwill in its European
businesses by about $4.3 billion as the region’s weakening
economy erodes demand and leaves producers with excess capacity.  The writedown will take the form of a non-cash impairment
charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Luxembourg-
based company said today in a statement. Steel consumption in
 Europe  has dropped by about 8 percent this year, it said.  “The outlook remains challenging,” said  Tim Cahill , an
analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin. “The disappointing
thing is that this announcement does not include further plant
shutdowns. The only real solution to the structural problems in
the European steel market will be further plant closures.”  ArcelorMittal is among European steelmakers grappling with
how to shutter unneeded furnaces, whose output is weighing on
prices. The region can produce about 210 million metric tons of
steel a year, while demand in a “normal market” is 150 million
to 160 million tons, according to industry lobby group Eurofer.  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as Europe’s economic
crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity
prices. ArcelorMittal reported the lowest quarterly profit in
almost three years in October and is moving output to cheaper
locations and idling plants. India’s  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  said Nov.
23 it was cutting 900 jobs and closing 12 sites in the U.K.  Stock Slumps  ArcelorMittal fell 2.5 percent to 12.88 euros by the close
in Amsterdam trading, the biggest decline in  seven weeks . The
benchmark Amsterdam Exchanges Index dropped 0.7 percent.  The “weaker demand environment, and expectations that it
will persist over the near and medium term, led to a downward
revision of cash-flow expectations underlying the valuation of
the European businesses to which goodwill has been allocated,”
ArcelorMittal said.  When companies make an acquisition, the difference between
the value of the target’s hard assets and the purchase price is
known as goodwill. That gets carried on the company’s balance
sheet as an asset and is reviewed periodically by public
companies.  ArcelorMittal’s  net debt  and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, as well as compliance with debt
covenants, are unaffected by the impairment, it said.  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said
yesterday it will book a $4.2 billion charge that includes a
reduced valuation on its 22 percent stake in aluminum producer
 Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)  The Brazilian company cited “macroeconomic
uncertainties” confronting Europe.  In  Germany , steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  took a 3.6 billion-
euro ($4.8 billion) writedown on its Americas unit on Dec. 11.  ArcelorMittal today had its debt rating cut to BB+ from
BBB- by Fitch Ratings, which cited a “more challenging than
previously expected outlook for western European steel markets
in 2013.” The downgrade follows a move by  Standard & Poor’s  to
lower ArcelorMittal’s rating to junk on Aug. 2 and a cut by
Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  