-- Argentine Forecast Gap Keeps Wheat Market Guessing
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-21T15:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/argentine-forecast-gap-keeps-wheat-market-guessing.html
The global wheat market has the
least clarity in five years on  South America ’s biggest crop as
Argentine growers hit by adverse weather say the government is
exaggerating harvest estimates to contain price increases.  The government’s forecast for the crop farmers started
harvesting in November is 7.1 percent higher than the Buenos
Aires Grain Exchange’s, the largest discrepancy since at least
2007.  Argentina ’s biggest grain bourse estimates output will
slump 30 percent to a three-year low of 9.8 million metric tons,
while the government estimates 10.5 million tons. The Bahia
Blanca exchange says output may fall to 8 million tons.  Argentina’s wheat crop has been harmed by heavy coastal
rains and the first inland dust bowl in 85 years after drought
curbed output in the U.S.,  Russia  and Australia. The
government’s reluctance to fully acknowledge the impact of bad
weather on wheat production adds to a track record of
challenging double-digit inflation data from private
forecasters. The country’s anti-inflation policy this month led
it to halt exports of the grain to ensure domestic supplies.  “The Buenos Aires Grain Exchange does a phenomenal job
because they put out something weekly and it’s a fantastic
report,” Mike Zuzolo, president of Global Commodity Analytics
in Lafayette,  Indiana , said in a Dec. 18 interview. “The
government says production is higher because they want to keep
prices down so they don’t have to worry about inflation.”  Price Surge  Wheat prices gained 0.2 percent to $7.92 a bushel at 9:31
a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Through yesterday, the price
had gained 21 percent this year after droughts in the U.S.,
Australia and Russia, last year’s biggest exporters, cut
production.  Wheat traded on the Rosario Futures Exchange in Argentina
has surged 90 percent in the same period, reaching a record high
on Sept. 14.  “Argentina is more of a global force in the corn and soy
markets than in wheat but any and all restrictions on Argentine
crops of any kind will be deemed important by global grain
traders,” said  Sal Gilbertie , who helps manage $69 million of
assets as the president and chief investment officer of Teucrium
Trading LLC in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  Presidential Denial  Since 2007, when President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
predecessor and husband  Nestor Kirchner  overhauled the
statistics agency, Argentina’s inflation data have been disputed
by economists and politicians. The country has reported average
inflation of 8.8 percent a year since then. Opposition lawmakers
say prices rose 25 percent in November from a year ago.  President Fernandez denied any wrongdoing on the way
Argentina reports inflation as recently as September in a speech
at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . Alfredo Scocimarro, a
spokesman for Fernandez, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment on official inflation figures.  Argentina’s official wheat estimate has exceeded the  Buenos
Aires  exchange’s forecast in seven of the past nine years by 5.4
percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The discrepancy has narrowed some since Nov. 22, when the
government forecast 11.1 million tons. Still, the exchange for
the Bahia Blanca area, which produces about half Argentina’s
wheat crop, expects production to decline to as low as 8 million
tons after damage from heat and wind, said Aldana Ferradas, an
agronomist at the bourse.  Shipment Halted  The Aaprotrigo growers association estimates output of as
little as 9 million tons, said Alejandro Conti, a member of the
group’s board of directors who gave up on planting the grain in
the past two years because of government policies, switching to
barley and soybeans.  “The reports from the cereals exchange end up matching
what we hear from the field so we have no reason to doubt the
reports,” Teucrium’s Gilbertie said by telephone on Dec. 18.
“I rely on reports from the field from Argentina.”  Even as the government is slower to cut its outlook than
grain exchanges and growers associations amid damaging weather,
this week it halted all wheat shipments to avoid domestic
shortages that would push up prices. Wheat exports were
suspended until at least the end of January, Oscar Solis, an
undersecretary at the  Agriculture Ministry  said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  No Rule Changes  “We’ve always said that we’re a government that aims to
privilege the local consumer,” Solis said of the exports
suspension. “We’re not changing the rules of the game.”  The South American country will produce 11.5 million tons
of wheat in the current 2012-13 season, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said in a Dec. 11 report, in line with the Argentine
government’s October estimate. The USDA adjusted its productions
forecasts in the December report for  Canada  and Australia so
that they coincided with the projections from government
agencies in those countries.  Argentina’s exports will total 5.5 million tons, making it
the eighth-largest shipper of the grain, according to the USDA.
The U.S. is expected to be the world’s largest wheat exporter,
followed by Canada,  Australia , Russia,  Kazakhstan ,  India  and
Ukraine, the agency said. The 27-country European Union will
account for 18 million tons in exports.  “Local buyers are tired of this policy that destroys
transparency in the price formation because it’s a market under
government intervention,” Aaprotrigo’s Conti said. “The
government figures are wishful thinking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  