-- Las Vegas CityCenter Condos Sell in Bulk for $119 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-12-21T23:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/las-vegas-citycenter-condos-sell-in-bulk-for-119-million.html
The owners of CityCenter, an $8.5
billion Las Vegas Strip development that opened amid the city’s
real estate crash, said they sold 427 condominiums in a bulk
transaction for $119 million.  The residences are at the 669-unit Veer Towers, built as
part of CityCenter, a joint venture of  MGM Resorts International (MGM) 
and Dubai World’s Infinity World Development Corp., they said
today in a statement. The condos’ buyer is Ladder Capital
Finance Holdings LLLP, said Tony Dennis, executive vice
president of CityCenter Residential. The CityCenter hotel,
casino and condo complex opened in 2009.  “We built in the best of times and opened in the worst of
times,” Dennis said in a telephone interview. “We’re seeing
significant improvements in the market.”  Investors have been buying homes to hold as rentals in Las
Vegas and other cities hit by foreclosures, seeking to take
advantage of low prices and demand for housing from people who
can’t buy because of damaged credit.  The median Las Vegas home price was $143,000 last month, up
24 percent from a year earlier, DataQuick reported today. They
remain 54 percent below the November 2006 peak. Home sales in
Las Vegas fell 7.7 percent from a year earlier as fewer
properties priced less than $200,000 traded hands, the San
Diego-based research firm said.  Ladder Capital, a New York-based commercial real estate
finance company, plans to hold the condominiums for as long as
four years, selling them as the Las Vegas market recovers,
Dennis said.  ‘Feel Confident’  “We feel confident about the investment potential of these
condos,” Brian Harris, Ladder Capital’s founder and chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “Vegas is one
of the condo markets that has not yet come back, but we think it
will.”  The company probably plans to rent the condos out until
prices recover, said Brian Gordon, principal with Applied
Analysis, a Las Vegas-based real estate consulting company.  “The buyer clearly sees the opportunity to generate
sufficient return during the hold period and ultimate resale,”
Gordon, who wasn’t involved in the transaction, said in a
telephone interview.  The condos sold for about $300 a square foot, more than
other recent sales in the city and less than a third of their
listing price before the towers opened, Gordon said.  The transaction joins other bulk purchases in the city.
Blackstone Group LP’s Hilton Worldwide, based in McLean,
 Virginia , bought 300 condos at the Trump International Hotel Las
Vegas, New York-based Trump Organization said in September.  Mandarin Oriental  In addition to condos, CityCenter -- located on 67 acres
(27 hectares) between the Bellagio and Monte Carlo casinos --
includes Aria, a 61-floor, 4,004-room gambling resort; a
Mandarin Oriental hotel and residences; Vdara Hotel & Spa; and
500,000 square feet (46,000 square meters) of retail space.  Veer Towers are now 98 percent sold, with 11 penthouses
remaining. The deal will allow CityCenter’s owners to focus on
the sale of the 160 remaining condos at the Mandarin Oriental,
Dennis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  