-- Asian Stocks Fall as Republicans Cancel Budget-Plan Vote
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-21T10:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/asian-stocks-gain-as-u-s-economic-data-lifts-confidence.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index heading for the first two-day loss in five weeks,
after U.S. House Republican leaders canceled a planned vote that
would permit higher taxes amid stalled budget talks.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , a maker of power tools that gets
72 percent of its sales in  North America , dropped 1.3 percent in
 Hong Kong .  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  slid 4.1 percent in  Seoul 
after the European Union said it’s preparing an antitrust
complaint against the maker of TVs and smartphones. Innolux
Corp., a maker of liquid crystal display products, slumped 6.9
percent in Taipei on a report the price of large LCD panels
declined.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.7 percent to 128.32
as of 7:07 p.m. in  Tokyo , reversing a 0.6 percent gain that was
driven by reports which added to signs the U.S economy is
recovering. About three stocks fell for each that gained. For
the week, the measure has risen 0.7 percent, heading for a fifth
weekly advance.  “It’s cutting it quite close, and the pressure is
definitely on the politicians,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based
head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost
$130 billion under management. “If they go off the fiscal cliff,
the U.S. economy could go into a recession. At stake is the U.S.
economy and by implications the global economy.”  Asia’s benchmark equities index has risen about 13 percent
this year as central banks around the world boosted stimulus and
on signs of recovery in the U.S. and  China . The gauge traded at
14.6 times average estimated earnings compared with 13.9 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1 percent with
trading volume 72 percent greater than the 30-day average as the
yen advanced against all of its 16 major counterparts. South
Korea’s Kospi Index fell 1 percent. The nation may get a growth
boost next year as President-elect Park Geun Hye abandons fiscal
restraint and increases spending on welfare.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.2 percent and New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index slipped 0.5 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
fell 0.7 percent, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped
0.7 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index declined 1 percent and
Singapore’s Straits Times Index slid 0.4 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500 index  fell 1.2 percent after
slumping as much as 3.4 percent. House Republican leaders
canceled a planned vote on Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to raise
rates for taxpayers making more than $1 million, as time runs
down in budget talks.  Vote Delay  A House leadership announcement said the chamber will hold
no more votes until after the Christmas holiday and will return
“when needed.” Fewer than two weeks remain to avert more than
$600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases, known
as the fiscal cliff, set to take effect in January.  Exporters to the U.S. dropped, with Techtronic falling 1.3
percent to HK$14.72.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building-
materials supplier that gets 67 percent of sales from the U.S.,
dropped 2.8 percent to A$9.10 in Sydney.  Samsung dropped 4.1 percent to 1,442,000 won in Seoul after
the EU’s competition commissioner said yesterday it faces a
complaint over its use of standard-essential patents in legal
disputes with Apple Inc. The two companies are fighting each
other in courts on four continents over patents used in mobile
phones.  Stocks gained earlier after purchases of existing houses
increased 5.9 percent to a 5.04 million annual rate, the most
since November 2009, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. The data reinforces forecasts that the industry is
set to contribute to annual economic growth for the first time
since 2005.  ’Reasonable Growth’  A separate report from the Commerce Department showed the
 U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, compared with a previously estimated 2.7 percent
expansion.  “The U.S. data has been very good and it all points toward
reasonable growth going forwards,” said Oliver at AMP Capital.
“We have a tug of war in the share markets, with the flow of
positive economic data against the concerns about the fiscal
cliff.”  Innolux and AU Optronics Corp. fell the most on the MXAP
Asia Pacific measure as Economic Daily News reported a drop in
the price of large LCD panels. Innolux dropped 6.9 percent to
NT$16.3 and AU Optronics declined 6 percent to NT$13.3.  Japan’s realtors  advanced as the Nikkei newspaper reported
the  Bank of Japan  will probably adopt an inflation target in
January. The central bank expanded its asset purchases yesterday
at its first meeting after the  Liberal Democratic Party 
reclaimed power in the Dec. 16 election. The LDP has called on
the Bank of Japan to add more monetary stimulus.  Mitsubishi Estate Co. gained 2.9 percent to 1,897 yen and
Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. added 3 percent to 2,643 yen.
Tokyo Tatemono Real Estate Sales Co. surged 16 percent to 332
yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  