-- Asian Budget Carriers to Win 50% of Regional Market, Airbus Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-12-21T14:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/asian-budget-carriers-to-win-50-of-regional-market-airbus-says.html
Asian low-cost airlines will win
more than 50 percent of the region’s market, surpassing the
portion taken by U.S. and European discount peers in their own
markets amid a wave of first-time air travelers, an executive at
planemaker Airbus predicted.  Seat capacity offered by low-cost carriers in the  Asia 
Pacific region currently comprise 19 percent of the whole
market, rising to 32 percent in southeast Asia, according to the
CAPA Center for Aviation. In  Europe , the figure is about 30
percent.  Asia is catching up fast with the low-cost air travel
markets established in more mature markets. The region is even
more suited to budget carriers such as  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Airbus’s
biggest customer in the region, because train and road travel is
restricted by seas, said Kiran Rao, executive vice president for
sales, marketing and strategy at Airbus.  “The Asian market lends itself more to the low-cost model
in terms of mentality and the market, as they’re bringing in
people who didn’t travel in the past,” he said. “These people
in the past simply didn’t fly.”  India  has more than 300 planes in operation, with already
half of those belonging to low-cost carriers, the executive
said. With the advent of carriers such as Air Deccan, the
traditional two-class service offered by  Air India  has given way
to single-class services on most routes, he said in an interview
after a ceremony to market Airbus’s first delivery of an A320
with sharklet wingtips, to Air Asia Bhd.  Japan  is another market where low-cost service has surged,
he said.  ’’We’re seeing a tremendous shift in traffic from the
traditional ways of flying in Japan,’’ he said. AirAsia recently
created a Japanese subsidiary, with plans to amass a fleet of at
least 30 planes within five years, and All Nippon has taken a
stake in low-cost Peach Aviation, started in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  