-- Massachusetts Sees Third Senate Race After Kerry Pick
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/massachusetts-sees-third-senate-race-after-kerry-pick.html
Democratic Senator  John Kerry ’s
nomination to become secretary of state, if confirmed by his
colleagues, will result in Massachusetts’ third  U.S. Senate 
contest in the last three years.  The seat in the state where Democrats dominate politically
could be up-for-grabs for either party because of the possible
candidacy of Republican  Scott Brown , 53.  Brown, who won a 2010 special Senate election in
Massachusetts and then lost his bid for a full term in last
month’s general election to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , 63, would
be the favorite to gain his party’s nomination for another try.  “The nomination is his, if he wants it,” said Jeffrey Berry, a political science professor at  Tufts University  in
Medford, Massachusetts. “There is no firebrand conservative
here who could overtake him. He would, however, be no shoo-in
for the special election.”  If Kerry’s appointment by President  Barack Obama  wins
confirmation, Governor  Deval Patrick  will appoint someone to
hold the Senate seat until a special election is held to select
a successor through the 2014 election.  Patrick said yesterday he wouldn’t announce a Senate
replacement “until the confirmation process is complete” and
Kerry has resigned his seat, according to a transcript of his
remarks in Boston. State law calls for the special election to
be held between 145 to 160 days following the vacancy. The
special election would be preceded by party primaries.  Kennedy’s Death  The churn in the state’s U.S. Senate members began after
the August 2009 death of Senator  Edward Kennedy , 77, who had
held his seat for almost 47 years.  Kennedy’s widow, Victoria, has been mentioned as a possible
Democratic candidate for Kerry’s seat, although she’s also sent
signals that she doesn’t intend to run.  “There really is no way to predict who will be the
favorite, if Vicki Kennedy doesn’t run,” said Berry of the
Democratic nomination race. “There is not much in the way of
visible campaigning so far.”  Other Democrats receiving attention in the Massachusetts
media as possible candidates include former governor and 1988
presidential nominee Michael S. Dukakis and Edward M. Kennedy Jr., the son of the late senator and a Connecticut resident.
Also mentioned are actor  Ben Affleck  and Margaret Marshall, the
retired chief justice of the  Supreme Judicial Court  of
Massachusetts, and three of the state’s House members --  Edward Markey , Michael Capuano and Stephen Lynch.  Frank’s Prospects  Retiring Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank  hasn’t
ruled out accepting the interim appointment until a special
election could be held next year. Frank told Politico in a Dec.
19 interview that Patrick “ought to be free to make whatever
choices he makes.” He said accepting or rejecting offers that
have yet to be made would be “presumptuous.”  Patrick, a Democrat, said “maybe” when asked yesterday by
reporters if he would pick either Edward Kennedy’s widow or son
to fill the post temporarily.  A third election featuring Brown as a Senate candidate is
unlikely to be a repeat of his prior races, said  Jennifer Duffy ,
an analyst with the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in
Washington.  “It is curious how both parties appear to be looking at
the special through the lens of 2010,” said Duffy. “It’s
almost as if they are preparing to fight the last war all over
again. It will be a different race, even if some of the faces
are the same.”  Different Race  Duffy said a main difference is that Democrats won’t again
take victory in a special election for granted, as they did
during most of the brief campaign in the 2010 vote. Also,
Patrick’s interim appointment for Kerry’s seat could be someone
who will then run in the special election.  Patrick filled Kennedy’s seat with Democrat Paul G. Kirk Jr., who had pledged not to run in the special election.  He said yesterday that, for Kerry’s seat, “I expect to
appoint someone who does not plan to run for the seat because
practically I think that’s going to be hard for that person to
do successfully.”  Still, he didn’t definitively rule out naming someone who
then becomes a candidate.  If Brown seeks the Republican nomination, Duffy said he
will need to run a different kind of race than in 2010.  “He
has now served in the Senate and has a voting record,” she
said. “It is pretty hard for him to run as an outsider.”  Brown Election  In the January 2010 special election, Brown defeated
Democratic state Attorney General  Martha Coakley , 52 percent to
47 percent -- an upset that gained national attention.  Obama had flown to Massachusetts the weekend before the
vote to rally Democrats, saying his party’s priorities would be
threatened by Brown, who had pledged to vote against Democratic
health-care legislation and a proposed fee on large financial
institutions.  The race drew outside political spending from both sides.
The Tea Party Express, which opposed Obama’s health-care plan,
strongly backed Brown.  Once in office, Brown emphasized his independence from the
 Republican Party , which was aimed at shoring up his support in
Massachusetts. In his 2012 re-election bid, he sought to appeal
to Obama backers by using images in ads of himself with the
president.  Warren Win  Brown lost to Warren, whose attacks on  Wall Street  helped
fuel her political ascent. She became the first woman elected as
a U.S. senator from Massachusetts. She is a Harvard University
professor who helped Obama establish the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank law that set new
rules for Wall Street.  To boost her candidacy, Democrats gave Warren a prime-time
speaking role at their national convention in September. She
also attacked Brown for voting against a measure making it
easier for women to sue for equal pay, health insurance coverage
for  birth control  and one of Obama’s Supreme Court nominees.  Warren, who will take office in January, beat Brown 54
percent to 46 percent.  In general elections, the state tends to vote
overwhelmingly Democratic.  Mitt Romney , the 2012 Republican
presidential nominee, won just 38 percent in the state, despite
strong Massachusetts ties that included being a former governor,
basing his campaign headquarters in Boston and owning property.  Brown had been aided in his 2010 victory by relatively low
voter turnout, which could again work to his advantage in a 2013
special election.  In last month’s Senate race, more than 3.1 million ballots
were cast. In the 2010 special election, the turnout was more
than 2.2 million.  Kerry, 69, was the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee,
losing that race to incumbent  George W. Bush . Kerry was first
elected to the Senate in 1984 and won his fifth term in 2008
with 66 percent of the vote.  In the new Senate that convenes in January and will include
Kerry, Democrats will control 55 seats to 45 for Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  