-- MasterCard Sued by Sainsburys, Deutsche Bahn Over Card Fees
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-21T09:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/mastercard-sued-by-sainsburys-deutsche-bahn-over-card-fees.html
MasterCard Inc (MA) , already facing at
least 12 U.K. lawsuits after European Union regulators outlawed
cross-border card fees, was sued by  Deutsche Bahn  AG and  J
Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)   The German state rail company’s case, filed in a London
court on Dec. 18, has over 21,000 other claimants spread across
five separate corporate groups. They’re suing over “unlawful
interchange fees,” Nicola Boyle, a lawyer at Hausfeld LLP
representing the groups, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The EU antitrust agency said in 2007 that MasterCard’s fees
for cross-border card payments violated antitrust rules,
unfairly inflating what retailers pay to process payments. In
May, the Purchase, New York-based company lost a bid to overturn
the EU decision. It’s appealing the ruling to the bloc’s highest
court.  Sainsbury, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket company,
filed a separate suit against MasterCard in London on Dec. 19
over  interchange fees , Tom Parker a spokesman for the grocer
said in an e-mail.  Philipp Bruechert, a MasterCard spokesman in Brussels,
declined to comment as the company hasn’t formally received the
lawsuits yet.  Six British retailers, including the owner of the Topshop
clothing chain, filed similar suits in October. They followed
five other retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda and
the U.K.’s fourth largest grocer, William Morrison Supermarkets
Plc, who filed lawsuits in May claiming “anti-competitive
conduct,” according to court documents.  $33 Billion  The fees cost stores about 25 billion euros ($33 billion) a
year, according to a May statement by EuroCommerce, a group
representing European retailers. The second-biggest card
network, supported by banks such as HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, has said the so-called multilateral
interchange fees were crucial for sharing the costs of debit and
credit-card payments.  Visa Inc. (V)  is the world’s biggest
electronic-payments network.  Visa and MasterCard won preliminary approval last month in
the U.S. for a $7.25 billion accord to end a merchant fee price-
fixing case. More than 7 million retailers may be eligible to
sign up for the deal, which is the largest-ever antitrust
settlement. Opponents to the deal lost a bid this month to
appeal the judge’s authorization. A final approval hearing is
set for September.  A spokesman for Deutsche Bahn didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  The case is: Deutsche Bahn AG and 21441 other Claimants v.
MasterCard Incorporated in the  High Court  of Justice, Chancery
Division, case no: HC12E04911  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  