-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Indictment May Mean No Plea Talks
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-21T22:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/mathew-martoma-indicted-for-alleged-276-million-insider-trade.html
Mathew Martoma, the former SAC
Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager accused in what
prosecutors have called the biggest  insider-trading  case in
history, was indicted, a sign that he may not be considering a
plea deal.  Martoma, 38, was accused today of using illegal tips on
testing of an Alzheimer’s disease drug to help SAC, the hedge
fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen , to profit by $276 million from
trading in shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC. He was arrested
at his  Boca Raton ,  Florida , home on Nov. 20 and originally
charged in a criminal complaint.  Prosecutors faced a Dec. 26 deadline to indict Martoma or
ask the court for more time. Today’s move shows the government
is turning up the heat in its efforts to get Martoma to
cooperate with its investigation of SAC, according to  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at  St. John’s University  in New York.  “This is telling Martoma: You don’t want to deal with us?
Fine,” Sabino said. “You’re going to go up the river by
yourself, so think about that over Christmas.”  If convicted, Martoma faces as many as 20 years in prison
on the securities fraud charges and five years on the conspiracy
charge.  ‘No Surprise’  “Though disappointing, today’s events come as no
surprise,” Martoma’s lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said in a
statement. “The simple fact is that Mathew Martoma did not
trade on inside information, is innocent of all these charges
and we look forward to his ultimate vindication.”  As in the criminal complaint, the 12-page indictment
alleges Martoma used the illegal tips to advise an unnamed
“hedge fund owner” to trade in the shares of Elan and Wyeth. A
person familiar with the case identified Cohen as the fund owner
last month.  Prosecutors said Martoma and the hedge fund owner spoke on
the phone for 20 minutes on July 20, 2008, the day before SAC
started dumping its Wyeth and Elan stock. Martoma’s testimony
about that telephone call and other contacts with Cohen
concerning Wyeth and Elan would be key to any attempt to
prosecute Cohen.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment on the indictment. Gasthalter has
said Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making the trades.
Cohen hasn’t been charged criminally or sued by regulators in
the case.  Cooperation Rejected  Martoma rejected several bids by prosecutors for his
cooperation, according to a person familiar with the case. When
first confronted by an FBI agent in the front yard of his
mansion last year, he fainted, another person said.  “It’s another step on the government’s march into Cohen’s
office,”  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of Michigan 
Law School and Ross School of Business, said in an e-mail after
the indictment. “Given the prosecutors’ success in getting
convictions and serious jail sentences, it’s time for anyone at
SAC who is connected with insider trading to start having
nightmares.”  The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe,
a former federal prosecutor and in-house lawyer for Time Warner
Inc. He was appointed by President  George W. Bush  and took the
bench in 2008.  Portfolio Manager  Martoma worked as a portfolio manager for CR Intrinsic
Investors in Stamford,  Connecticut , a unit of SAC Capital. The
indictment claims that from sometime in 2006 until July 29, 2008,
he participated in a scheme to get inside information about
clinical trials of bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug intended to
treat  Alzheimer’s disease . Martoma got the tips from an unnamed
cooperating witness, according to the indictment.  A complaint filed last month by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission identified the cooperating witness as Dr.
Sid Gilman, a University of Michigan neurologist who was head of
the safety monitoring committee for the drug trial. Martoma had
42 paid consultations with Gilman through an expert networking
firm, according to the government. Gilman worked with Gerson
Lehrman Group, according to his curriculum vitae.  Gilman, 80, has entered into a non-prosecution agreement
and is cooperating with prosecutors.  At the beginning of the relationship, the doctor passed
along generally positive safety data about the trial, according
to the government. Martoma allegedly bought shares of Elan and
Wyeth for his portfolio. The hedge fund owner also bought Elan
and Wyeth, based on Martoma’s recommendation, prosecutors said.  Secret Data  In mid-July 2008, the doctor passed Martoma secret data
showing that bapi failed to halt progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said. The hedge fund
owner, at Martoma’s recommendation, sold off almost all of the
fund’s $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the
stock short, prosecutors claimed.  When the clinical trial results became public, shares in
both companies plunged, allowing the hedge fund to make
$276 million in profits and losses avoided, according to the
government. Martoma received a $9.3 million bonus as a result,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-973, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court, at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  