-- Autism Cures Promised by DNA Testers Belied by Regulators
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/autism-cures-promised-by-dna-testers-belied-by-regulators.html
April Hauge , a nurse practitioner in
Weimar,  California , spent $500 on a genetic test for her
autistic son in 2009 that led to purchasing thousands of dollars
in vitamins and supplements. Impressed with the results, she’s
now selling advice on the approach to others.  There’s just one problem: the DNA tests and related
treatments have scant backing from science and U.S. government
officials. They’re untested, unproven, and may constitute
“health fraud,” doctors, regulators and concerned parents
said.  For alternative-medicine providers in general, the genetic
tests are nothing but a “marketing tool” to sell unproven
treatments, said James Laidler, a retired physician and adjunct
professor at Portland State University whose 19-year-old
autistic son has tried alternative therapies.  “You always hear the testimonials from the people who got
better, not the people who stayed the same or got worse,”
Laidler said. “They don’t want to hear somebody saying this is
snake oil.”  Doctors and clinics across the U.S. are using the exploding
science of DNA testing to feed anxieties and sell hope to people
with autism and other hard-to-treat disorders.  Emboldened by meager state and federal regulation,
purveyors of alternative medicine offer genetic tests costing
hundreds of dollars to worried parents and patients, and then
sell advice on supplements and diet based on results purporting
to spot disease-causing deficiencies. They claim to be the
panacea for everything from autism to chronic fatigue syndrome
to the effects of aging.  ‘Health Fraud’  “A lot of this skims on the edge of health fraud,” said
Janet Woodcock, director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, referring to
the use of DNA testing to recommend alternative therapies.  Patients and practitioners say the tests and treatments are
beneficial. The medical establishment has yet to catch on to the
importance of common gene mutations, said Ben Lynch, a licensed
naturopathic physician in  Seattle  and owner of a nearby
supplement company.  Lynch’s  website  focuses on a gene called MTHFR, and says
that mutations in the gene are “a highly significant public
health problem that is completely ignored.”  “It takes a long time for standard medicine to learn about
these things,” he said. Those who dismiss the gene variants as
unimportant “are totally wrong.”  Unethical Approach  Lynch says his focus is on diet and lifestyle changes
first, before supplements.  “I agree with some of these critics who say that if
doctors are using genetic tests to sell lots of supplements,
that is not ethical,” Lynch said.  Mapping the genome is becoming a standard tool of medical
care with new and cheaper DNA sequencing machines helping
doctors unravel inherited diseases that once took years to
diagnose. By searching for mutated genes in tumors, doctors can
sometimes target them with special drugs that counteract the
effect of rogue genes.  Researchers once hoped that common genetic variants would
help predict the likelihood of major diseases like autism.
Understanding the genetic component of autism has proven to be
anything but simple. While scientists have documented thousands
of statistical associations between genetic variants and
diseases, definitive links haven’t been confirmed in most cases.  Unsupported Tests  After saying for about a decade that it has the power to
regulate genetic testing, the FDA has yet to exercise its
authority for most DNA diagnostics. While the U.S. Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services regulates testing labs, it doesn’t
ensure that the tests are medically significant, or that doctors
use them appropriately.  Alberto Gutierrez, director of the office of in vitro
diagnostics and radiological health at the FDA, said the agency
is “very concerned” about complex genetic tests being sold by
laboratories, often over the Internet, whose claims are
difficult to evaluate. Often, it may be difficult to even know
who did the testing, he said.  “Nobody has looked at the evidence to support these
tests,” said Gutierrez, who wouldn’t comment on specific
genetic tests or test providers. “I am concerned that patients
are being given unproven information that may result in less
than optimal management of their disease.”  Following public hearings in July 2010, the agency
developed guidance for regulating complex genetic and other
tests sold by laboratories. The rules have been under review by
the Obama administration since late 2011, he said. Until they
are finalized, the agency is “somewhat hamstrung” in cracking
down on companies that sell the tests, Gutierrez said.  ‘Fringe’ Medicine  Testing laboratories facing potential new regulation “are
concerned about the impact of what the FDA may do,” he said.  In the meantime, patients and doctors “should proceed with
caution” as some of the tests have not been well validated,
Gutierrez said.  The vast majority of laboratory genetic tests provide valid
medical information and are processed accurately and responsibly
by licensed professionals, said Alan Mertz, president of the
American Clinical Laboratory Association, a Washington-based
industry group. Some doctors use valid tests to support
“fringe” medicine, he said.  “The lab is just performing the genetic tests and
reporting what the genetic makeup is of that DNA,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They don’t know whether it’s being used
to prescribe supplements. They may have no idea what the doctor
does with the information.”  Approval Process  FDA approval procedures are too expensive and time-
consuming for low-volume DNA tests processed by small labs, and
would stifle the development of new tests that are now being
developed by the hundreds, Mertz said. The group supports
legislation by  Texas  Republican Representative Michael Burgess
that would expand power at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services to ensure that genetic tests give useful medical
information.  One popular area in which genetic testing has taken hold is
autism. Providers of alternative medicine treatments say the
tests reveal toxicities and imbalances that may contribute to
the mysterious, incurable brain disease.  Amy Yasko, a former biotechnology researcher with a Ph.D.
in microbiology and immunology from Albany Medical College, has
been touting “nutrigenomics” tests for autism for years. Most
of the time she doesn’t see patients in person or on the phone.
Instead, she communicates with parents in online forums and puts
out free Web lectures and books, including one called “Autism:
Pathways to Recovery,” full of complicated biochemistry lingo
and diagrams of something called “the methylation cycle.”  ‘Customized Protocol’  “Each child is completely unique -- with a genetic profile
unlike anyone else’s,” says her website, www.dramyyasko.com.
“That’s the reason you need a customized protocol just right
for your child.” The website says Yasko has had “considerable
success in halting and in many cases reversing” diseases
including autism, Alzheimer’s disease, and amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis.  The program usually starts with a genomic test “created by
Dr. Amy Yasko, which can be ordered here,” her website says.
Clicking the link goes to another website of a company called
Holistic Health International that sells a $495 nutrigenomics
test, and supplements called “RNA Mutation Specific Formulas”
for $85 each, as well as a variety of other treatments.  Parents of two autistic children who previously ordered
Yasko’s nutrigenomics test shared the results with Bloomberg.
Both reports have Yasko’s name on the front page and contain a
chart of mutations in genes with names such as MTHFR, COMT, ACE,
followed by a pages-long list of suggested supplements based on
the genetic results.  Little Evidence  In fact, there is little evidence suggesting that mutations
in the genes can be used to design personalized autism
treatment. A quick search of  PubMed , a portal to scientific
literature, instantly pulls up more than 4,800 scientific
studies that mention the MTHFR gene, which has been studied in
connection with a wide variety of disorders.  One 2012 study shows that a MTHFR mutation is just as
common in migraine patients as people without the condition.
Another research effort from the past year fails to show an
association with schizophrenia.  Some of the strongest connections between MTHFR and disease
were found in the 1990s, when preliminary research hinted that
common mutations might boost heart disease risk, said Michael
Tsai, a geneticist at the University of Minnesota.  Research Stopped  Later studies cast doubt. In a  2012 study  in Plos Medicine,
researchers combined data from unpublished studies of over
116,000 patients and found no link between an MTHFR genetic
variant and heart risk. Earlier studies to the contrary may have
had “methodological problems”, it concluded.  Tsai studied possible links between MTHFR genetic mutations
and heart disease in the 1990s, but has since stopped working in
the area because there is little evidence that it’s important,
he said.  “It doesn’t seem that it is an important risk factor for
anything,” he said.  Yasko, in a telephone interview, says she cannot recall how
many years ago she developed the nutrigenomics protocol and
doesn’t know how many people have used it. Her website says that
6,000 families are using “the Yasko Protocol” and that she has
worked with families of autistic kids since 2003.  “I keep myself completely devoid of the business aspect of
things,” she said. “I am not involved with the sale of
anything.” She said she also isn’t involved in the preparation
of nutrigenomic test reports.  No Promises  “What I do is I give information based on my reading and
research that people can then go to their doctor with and
utilize,” Yasko said. “I don’t promise anybody anything other
than to say there are no magic bullets.” She said she
recommends safe, low doses of supplements.  In a brief telephone interview, Ed Yasko, Amy Yasko’s
husband, said he ran “the business end of things.” He said the
nutrigenomic test is performed by an outside lab that he
wouldn’t identify. Holistic Health International “is a retail
outlet; we sell some supplements and we sell these tests,” he
said.  After reviewing the nutrigenomic test reports for the two
autistic children,  Daniel Coury , medical director for the Autism
Speaks  Autism Treatment Network , said there was no scientific
evidence that the recommendations would combat autism.  Healthy People  Many genetic mutations examined in the test are also found
in healthy people and there is no good evidence they cause
autism, said Coury, who is also a developmental pediatrician at
Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus,  Ohio . The mutations,
while they are real genetic variants, haven’t been linked to
nutritional deficiencies in autism patients, such as low levels
of folate, which could easily be treated with vitamins, he said.  “It sounds scientific, but the connection to autism isn’t
there,” he said. “I don’t see any evidence that it is
useful,” he said.  A 2007 commercial lawsuit filed by Garry Gordon against the
Yaskos said that the couple had formed a partnership to sell
proprietary RNA supplements based on discussions starting in
2003, leading to the creation of a company called Nature’s
Formula that was led by her husband.  Amy Yasko and Gordon “were expressly not included” as
owners of Nature’s Formula or Longevity Plus, another company in
the partnership, “in an effort to insulate them from potential
liability” if users of the products brought successful claims,
according to the lawsuit in federal district court in  Arizona .  ‘Just Laughable’  The parties sold “several million dollars worth of
proprietary RNA supplements” during an almost three-year
period, according to a separate 2007 lawsuit filed by Nature’s
Formula against Longevity Plus. Amy Yasko said she couldn’t
comment on the legal actions.  The whole concept of RNA supplements to treat specific
genetic variants, such as ones sold by Holistic Health
International, is “just laughable,” said Laidler, the
professor who has an autistic son. “Some of these families,
they are so desperate.”  Yasko “is exploiting the desperation of parents of
autistic children,” Laidler said. “She is selling them false
hope.”  April Hauge started reading medical textbooks about genetic
diseases of metabolism after her son got sick. Hauge, who was
then a nurse practitioner for Sutter Health, heard about Yasko
through a patient who had used Yasko’s test on her autistic son.  Full-Time Job  Skeptical at first, Hauge grew more interested after she
went to a science lecture and, afterward, overheard several
researchers vigorously debating whether Yasko’s approach had
merit. After trying Yasko’s method on her own son, she soon
started using a similar method to treat friends and family
members suffering from various ailments.  She eventually was getting so many requests for help that
she quit her nurse practitioner job and made it into a  business .  “Five years ago, I would have laughed at anyone who told
me about this,” Hauge said. “This isn’t accepted science.”  Hauge now sells consultations for $190 an hour on
nutrigenomics-based therapy for autism, Parkinson’s disease,
multiple sclerosis, and a host of other ailments. The
consultations must be paid in advance, according to her website.
In an interview, Hauge said she was booked through April 2013.  “I believe in this 100 percent,” Hauge said. Patients
with incurable ailments such as Parkinson’s “don’t have 20
years to wait” for formal studies. She said she doesn’t sell
supplements and barely breaks even on consulting because she
does some work pro bono for people who can’t afford to pay.  Taking ‘Crapshoot’  That kind of strong belief isn’t enough to convince parents
such as Kim Wombles to put her children on therapies that
haven’t been proven through rigorous scientific trials.  Some parents end up forcing 50 capsules down the throats of
their young autistic kids daily, said Wombles, a blogger and
mother of three autistic children in Abilene, Texas, who is
highly skeptical of Yasko and others selling similar treatments.  “There is no way to know” about the safety of such
complex supplement regimens, she said. “You are taking a
crapshoot every time.”  Parents may spend years trying to get the supplements to
work, putting more and more money into more testing and
supplement-dose tweaking, before they give up, Wombles said.  “It’s hard to accept that you have been duped,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  