-- Aviva Sells U.S. Life Business to Apollo for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-12-21T11:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/aviva-sells-u-s-life-insurance-unit-to-athene-for-1-8-billion.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, agreed to sell its U.S. life unit for
$1.8 billion to a division of  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC to increase its financial strength.  Aviva will receive $1.55 billion of cash from the sale
after it pays off external debt, the London-based company said
in a statement today. Aviva Chief Financial Officer Pat Regan
said last month that the company planned to sell the U.S.
business for a “significant discount” to its June book value
of 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion).  “The sale of Aviva USA is an important step forward in the
delivery of our strategic plan,” Chairman John McFarlane said
in the statement. “It considerably strengthens Aviva’s
financial position, increases group liquidity and improves our
economic capital surplus, whilst also reducing its volatility.”  McFarlane has pledged to exit 16 businesses that together
tie up 6 billion pounds of capital as the insurer seeks to build
up reserves depleted by the European sovereign debt crisis.
Aviva’s capital has been hurt by the crisis more than any other
U.K. insurer because it gets 40 percent of its life insurance
operating profit from the region and holds more euro region
sovereign debt than competitors.  Aviva fell 4 pence, or 1 percent, to 380 pence as of 11:23
a.m. in London trading. The stock has gained 26 percent this
year, valuing the company at 11.2 billion pounds.  Capital Boost  Apollo (APO) , a New York-based private-equity firm, is buying
Aviva’s U.S. life and annuity business through its Athene
Holding Ltd. unit. Apollo in October boosted capital at Athene
by contributing assets worth more than $800 million from a
publicly traded fund it manages. Annuities are investment
products sold by life-insurers that offer guaranteed income for
retirees.  Aviva added the U.S. unit when it agreed to buy  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based AmerUs Group Co. in July 2006 for $2.9 billion. The
deal was Aviva’s largest-ever acquisition at the time and part
of then Chief Executive Officer Richard Harvey’s strategy of
taking advantage of the U.S.’s retiring Baby Boom generation,
the 78 million people born in the country between 1946 and 1964.  Aviva this month said it would sell its joint venture in
Spanish life insurer Aseval to  Bankia SA (BKIA)  for about 608 million
euros ($803 million). The transaction was also part of Aviva’s
strategy of selling non-core businesses to build up its
reserves, McFarlane said in a Dec. 18 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  