-- Tax-Status Threat Fuels Worst Losses Since Whitney: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/tax-status-threat-fuels-worst-losses-since-whitney-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is poised for its steepest monthly decline since 2010 as
investors spooked by threats to the debt’s tax-exempt status
withdrew the most money in almost two years.  Demand from individual buyers, who own about 70 percent of
U.S. local debt, collapsed last week as yields set four-decade
lows. At the same time, talks between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders over a deal to avert tax increases and
spending cuts set to start in January included measures that may
cap munis’ tax exemption. Investors pulled $2.3 billion from
muni mutual funds this week, the biggest exodus since January
2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  State and local debt has lost 1.9 percent this month, on
pace for the worst return since December 2010, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. That’s when banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  predicted “hundreds of billions of dollars” of muni
defaults, helping propel 29 straight weeks of fund outflows.  “So much has changed in a week,” said  John Dillon , chief
muni strategist in Purchase,  New York , at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, which handles about $150 billion in local debt. “It’s
the reality that the exemption is not fully in the clear.”  Rally Threat  While Whitney’s forecast proved incorrect and the default
tally is set to be the lowest since at least 2009, the selloff
in the past two weeks threatens to end a five-month rally.  Muni bonds surged after the Nov. 6 U.S. election, pushing
yields to the  lowest  since 1965 as buyers including  Bill Gross 
of Pacific Investment Management Co. bet that Obama would raise
the top federal tax rates to curb deficits.  Investors then switched their focus to another aspect of
Obama’s policies -- his proposal to limit the income-tax
deduction on local debt to 28 percent. Analysts at Citigroup
Inc. said this month that such a move could reduce the value of
the market by $200 billion and cause investors to demand an
extra 0.6 percentage point of yield.  Yields on AAA munis due in 10 years reached  1.8 percent 
yesterday, the highest since August, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The  interest rate  touched 1.4 percent Dec. 6, the lowest
for a Bloomberg Valuation index that began in January 2009.  Armageddon Recalled  “The market had been embracing the concept of higher
marginal rates and completely discounting any mitigation of the
value of the  tax exemption ,” Dillon said. The yield reversal
“makes me think of back when we had the muni Armageddon
concerns in late 2010,” he said.  Institutional bondholders such as mutual funds put $1.4
billion of munis up for sale last week, the most since Dec. 14,
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was less than a week
before Whitney’s default forecast on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  Munis have fallen faster than Treasuries this month, with
local-debt underperforming federal securities by the most since
August 2011, Bank of America data show.  The yield on benchmark 10-year munis is about even with
that on Treasuries. The  ratio  of the two exceeded 100 percent
this week for the first time since Nov. 8, showing munis have
cheapened relative to federal debt.  “Municipal ratios relative to taxables had gotten too
expensive,” said Craig Pernick, a senior managing director at
Chevy Chase Trust Co., which oversees about $1.2 billion in
local debt in Bethesda,  Maryland . The company “had not been
active at all” in munis in November as yields fell, he said.  December Warning  Analysts such as Michael Zezas at Morgan Stanley warned
this month that buying munis with yields at four-decade lows
might be a losing bet.  “The market may be ignoring a real threat of a cap to the
muni tax exemption in 2013,” Zezas wrote in a Dec. 4 report.  Efforts to avert the more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts set to start next month deteriorated
yesterday. The White House warned business leaders this week
that talks between the president and Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner  were regressing.  “Municipals more or less have been a sacred cow that --
along with mortgage interest and charities -- have not been
touched,” Pernick said. “If there’s going to be a grand
bargain, municipals may not have that status.”  Following is a pending sale:  OKLAHOMA MUNICIPAL POWER AUTHORITY plans to sell about $118
million of revenue bonds as soon as the week of Dec. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  rates
the debt A, sixth-highest. (Added Dec. 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  