-- Mayan ‘Apocalypse’ Fills Mexico Hotels as Travel Rises to Record
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-21T15:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/mayan-apocalypse-fills-mexico-hotels-as-travel-rises-to-record.html
To some doomsday interpreters,
completion of the Maya calendar cycle today is a sign of an
impending apocalypse. For  Mexico ’s tourism industry, it’s hardly
the end of the world.  Curiosity about the ancient Maya culture sparked by
predictions for the end of days helped draw a record of at least
23 million visitors to Mexico this year, said Deputy Tourism
Minister Carlos Joaquin Gonzalez.  Grupo Aeroportuario del
Sureste SAB , the airport operator, said Maya-fueled travel
boosted passenger traffic to Cancun to an all-time high in 2012,
and hotelier  Grupo Posadas SAB (POSADASA)  says it helped spur a 40 percent
jump in net income at beach destinations.  The Maya flourished in Mexico and Central America in cities
with tens of thousands of people until about 1,000 AD. Their
calendar’s 394-year count, known as a baktun, ends its 13th
cycle today, sparking doomsday theories. Much like interpreters
of the calendar who say today marks the beginning of a new era
rather than an apocalypse, Mexican companies say they’re seeing
a revival in tourism nationwide.  “Mexico is on a roll,” Ruben Camiro, chief financial
officer of Mexico City-based Posadas, said in a telephone
interview from  London . Hotel bookings “really started to pick
up by the second quarter and now we see a whole machine coming
our way.”  Mayan Travel  Tourism is one of the biggest sources of foreign currency
for Mexico’s $1.16 trillion economy after auto exports, oil
production and remittances, bringing in  $11.7  billion in 2011.
Gonzalez said that while visitor numbers have climbed to a
record this year, spending by tourists still ranks below a high
of $13.3 billion in 2008, before the global recession and
financial crisis.  More than 35 million international and domestic passengers
will arrive this year at airports in the five Maya-area states
of Quintana Roo, Yucatan, Chiapas, Tabasco and Campeche, an
increase of about 12 percent from 2011, Gonzalez estimated in a
telephone interview.  Visits from abroad will climb to 23 million or 24 million
by year-end, he said, topping a previous record 22.6 million in
2008.  “Worldwide there’s a special interest in Mexico and in the
Mayan world that means many more people are coming,” said
Gonzalez, a former tourism minister in the state of  Quintana
Roo , whose beaches include Cancun, Cozumel and Playa del
Carmen.  Cultural Importance  Rather than playing up the apocalypse predictions, which
Gonzalez said he doesn’t believe, “we’ve been promoting the
cultural and historic importance this event has for the world,”
he said.  Events to mark the calendar’s end include the release of
dozens of macaws, birds that the Mayans saw as representing the
sun, as well as a floating candle ceremony at tourist venues,
according to the Cancun Tourism Board.  Hotels in Cancun are booked at up to 100 percent capacity,
compared with a maximum 98 percent last year, said Ximena de
Cordoba, a public relations manager at the Cancun Tourism Board.  Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, known as Asur, celebrated
this year’s 14 millionth passenger to Cancun yesterday,
surpassing last year’s 13 million record, with a Mariachi band,
Eduardo Rivadeneyra, a public relations director for the Mexico
City-based company, said in a telephone interview.  “The Mayas had no idea they were giving us a marketing
tool when they stopped writing their calendar,” Rivadeneyra
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 