-- BAE’s $4 Billion Oman Order Extends U.K. Fighter Heritage
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-21T14:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/bae-s-4-billion-omani-order-extends-british-combat-jet-heritage.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s 2.5 billion-pound
($4 billion) order to supply fighter planes to Oman will assure
British military-jet production past 2020.  Oman agreed to buy 12 Eurofighter Typhoon fighters and
eight Hawk 128 advanced jet trainers. Work on the contract will
begin in 2014 with deliveries starting in 2017, London-based BAE
said. The deal also boosts Hawk sales to 998 aircraft.  The country is the second purchaser of Typhoons in the
vital Middle East export market, following an order from Saudi
Arabia in 2007. BAE, working to sustain its fighter production
line past 2020 while countering defense spending drops in the
U.K. and the U.S., is trying to interest the United Arab
Emirates in the twin-engine combat jet as the Persian Gulf
federation considers buying as many as 60 aircraft.  “We will be selling more Typhoons and manufacturing them
into the next decade,” Chris Boardman, managing director of
BAE’s military air and information business, said in a telephone
interview. “We see very strong prospects in the Gulf region, as
we would given where the tensions are in the world.”  The contract, announced during a visit to Oman by British
Prime Minister David Cameron, is part of a broader U.K.
government drive to secure sales of more than 100 jets to the
Gulf region that could generate 6 billion pounds in revenue to
British firms over coming years. Saudi Arabia’s Typhoon purchase
was followed by a 1.6 billion-pound order for 22 BAE Hawks this
year.  Typhoon Talks  BAE, which attempted a merger with Eurofighter partner
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  this year to create the
world’s biggest aerospace and defense company by sales, pledged
to complete the Omani contract before 2013 after the combination
failed because of German government opposition.  The merger proposal was borne out of discussions between
BAE Chief Executive Officer Ian King and his EADS counterpart,
Tom Enders, over how to improve Typhoon’s export chances.  Talks with Oman slowed earlier this year because the
sultanate was dissatisfied with progress on a delayed naval-
vessel contract and differences over support conditions for the
fighter.  BAE  fell  as much as 2.8 percent to 338.2 pence and was
trading down 2 percent at 2:03 p.m. in  London . U.K. stocks slid
the most in five weeks today after Republican leaders in the
U.S. scrapped a vote on a tax plan, fueling concern that party
members would prevent politicians from agreeing on a compromise
budget.  Eurofighter Partners  The Typhoon is built by the Eurofighter GmbH venture of
BAE, EADS and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  The deal announced today also
supports  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the U.K. supplier of engines
for the planes.  Export opportunities for the Typhoon include  Kuwait , which
recently conducted a flight evaluation, Boardman said. The sales
effort is being led by Rome-based Finmeccanica. Libya could also
become a buyer as the country rebuilds its fleet following the
NATO-led air war last year, he said.  The Oman order comes after setbacks for Eurofighter in
 India ,  Japan  and Switzerland, where the partnership lost
competitions to rivals from  France , the U.S. and  Sweden .  India, which began contract talks with  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) 
to buy at least 126 Rafale fighters in January, remains a
target, Boardman said. “We are ready with a much improved offer
should those discussions not come to fruition,” he said.  Saudi Delay  BAE said it expects to resume deliveries of Typhoons to
Saudi Arabia next year, even as discussions over pricing of the
combat aircraft continue. The company, which had hoped to
conclude those talks this year, said Dec. 19 that negotiations
over “acceptable pricing” may not be completed in 2012,
reducing full-year earnings per share by 3 pence.  Saudi Arabia has taken delivery of 24 Typhoons, with plans
to buy at least 48 more aircraft.  The Oman deal “neatly substitutes an expected inflow from
Saudi that is seen as necessary to trigger a share buyback,”
Andrew Gollan, a London-based analyst at Investec, said in a
research report. The contract should bring 500 million pounds in
cash from customer advances, he said.  BAE expects Hawk production also to last past 2020,
Boardman said, as countries need better training aircraft to
prepare pilots for the modern fighters they’re buying. Hawk
sales will be spurred by exports not just of the Typhoon, but of  other combat jets such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint
Strike Fighters, he said.  One example is Japan, he said, which a year ago agreed to
order the F-35 on which BAE is partner. The U.S. also is
planning to buy new jet trainers.  BAE said the Oman contract will support 6,000 jobs mainly
at its Warton, Samlesbury and Brough production sites in
 England . All have been subject to job cuts in recent years as
BAE has tried to adjust to declines in U.K. spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  