-- Bank of America Misses Lending ‘Money Machine’: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/bank-of-america-misses-lending-money-machine-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  are missing out on the biggest mortgage profits on record
after catastrophic losses during the  housing crash  made them
wary of offering new loans.  “Loans have never been safer, they’ve never been more
profitable,” said  Scott Simon , the mortgage head at Pacific
Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s largest bond
fund. “Bank of America is the biggest mystery to us. Now I get
that they got their faces torn off. But this is a different
environment.”  Their reluctance is restraining Federal Reserve efforts to
revive the U.S. housing market with central bank officials
expressing frustration that lender  profit margins  are wide as it
 purchases  $40 billion of mortgage bonds each month. The lack of
competition also means billions of dollars of revenue are being
funneled to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the two
biggest home-loan originators.  Bank of America’s mortgage originations plunged by 37
percent to $21.3 billion in the third quarter from a year
earlier, according to newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. The
bank has cut lending to reduce assets considered risky by
regulators after its ill-timed purchase of Countrywide Financial
Corp. in 2008. Once the largest home lender, the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank has slumped to fourth, Inside Mortgage
Finance data show, after it closed a business that bought debt
marketed by third-party firms.  Citigroup Decline  Residential mortgage lending at Citigroup dropped 5 percent
to $16.6 billion in the last quarter, from a year earlier,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance. Citigroup, which said in
February it would stop using brokers to originate mortgages,
this quarter fell below Quicken Loans Inc., the home lender
founded by Cleveland Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert , to sixth in
the newsletter’s rankings.  “We continue to believe that mortgages represent the
greatest risk to any major bank balance sheet and a number of
headwinds remain,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 59,
said in an April call with investors. The firm continues to
reduce what Gerspach and Chief Executive Officer Mike Corbat
describe as “non-core” assets at Citi Holdings, which contains
$95 billion of U.S. mortgages.  ‘Money Machine’  “How does it get more ’core?’” Simon said. “If you’re
Wells Fargo you sell six products to the average person who has
a mortgage with you. It’s unbelievable. It’s a money machine.”  Even with Citigroup and Bank of America’s diminished
participation, the top five companies reported a record $8.35
billion in income from mortgage banking during the third
quarter, Inside Mortgage Finance data shows.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, made $141
billion in mortgage loans in the third quarter after second-
quarter mortgage lending led to a record $2.89 billion in
mortgage-banking income. The bank, which has about 30 percent
market share, urged employees this year to strive for 40 percent
of the new home-purchase loan market.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, made $50 billion
of home loans in the quarter, a 29 percent increase from the
prior year, according to the newsletter data.  Mortgage-production margins are “very high” at “well
over” 2 percent, up from less than 1 percent historically,
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, said on an October
conference call about its record $5.7 billion in quarterly
earnings.  ‘Significant Growth’  “As of September, 2012, Citi has shown significant growth
and expanded market share during each of the past four quarters
in retail-originated loans,” Sanjiv Das, CitiMortgage’s CEO,
said in an e-mail. The bank said it made more than $60 billion
in “new high quality real estate loans” in the same period.  Bank of America has focused “mortgage origination efforts
entirely on our direct-to-consumer channels,” said  Terry Francisco , spokesman for Bank of America Home Loans. This has
“produced steady retail-originations market share growth
throughout 2012.”  The industry is unable to expand to meet current demand in
the refinancing market today, according to  Paul Miller , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. Retail lending won’t be
enough to make up for the capacity that has been taken away from
all the mortgage banks that went out of business in 2008, he
said.  Refinancing Rising  Lending will total $1.75 trillion this year, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  estimated last month, the highest since
2009, when originations were $2 trillion. The group projects
refinancing will account for 71 percent of the volume, up from
46 percent in 2008.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.37
percent in the week ended yesterday, up from 3.32 percent,
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The
average 15-year rate slipped to 2.65 percent from 2.66 percent.  Still, borrowing costs could be about 0.5 percentage point
lower, if the gap between the two matched its size in the five
years through 2007. The spread between so-called primary and
secondary rates is now more than 1 percentage point, after
spiking to more than 1.8 percent when the Fed announced its $40
billion of monthly government-backed mortgage bond purchases
that began in September.  “The fact that mortgages are being offered at stubbornly
high rates suggests that lenders are reluctant to engage in
mortgage banking despite the profit potential,” said Merrill Ross, an analyst with Baltimore-based Wunderlich Securities Inc.
in a report this week. “This is slowing the recovery in home
prices and slowing the potential benefits to the economy of
lower  interest rates .”  Bernanke Frustrated  The failure of central bank policy to loosen mortgage
credit has frustrated Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Shaun Donovan , secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development. They’ve expressed concern that banks are preventing
qualified borrowers from taking advantage of the record low
interest rates as the housing market recovers after a six-year
slump and federal incentive programs encourage homeowners to
refinance.  “All these national players are doing are the perfect
loans,” said Miller, a former examiner with the Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia. “They don’t want to take any risk, and
that’s where marginal borrowers are being forced out.”  Borrowers whose loans closed in November, 68 percent of
which were refinancings, had an average credit score of 750,
according to data compiled by Pleasanton, California-based Ellie
Mae. Homebuyers with  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac loans made down
payments averaging 21 percent.  ‘Ironclad’ Loans  Banks have to make sure the loans they originate are
“ironclad,” Bank of America’s Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said last week during a speech at the Brookings
Institution in Washington. “There’s no doubt that post-crisis
credit is tighter.”  Margins have widened after firms cut staff and closed down
operations, leaving lenders with more business than they can
handle. The mortgage banking industry has shed about $1 trillion
of capacity to make home loans since 2005, according to FBR
Capital Markets, after the housing market burst and triggered
the global credit crisis three years later.  Bank of America closed Countrywide Financial Corp.
operations, JPMorgan shut down Washington Mutual Inc.’s mortgage
business, and Citigroup and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s GMAC Mortgage
are playing a much smaller role in the overall lending market,
according to Miller.  Credit Losses  Bank of America and Citigroup suffered a combined $258
billion of writedowns and credit losses, mainly from mortgages,
from the third quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The banks took $45
billion each in government bailout funding, the most of any
other lenders.  Losses from Countrywide, the largest U.S. mortgage lender
as recently as 2007 before billions of dollars in soured loans
prompted its sale to Bank of America, have continued to plague
the lender, leading to more than $40 billion in losses and its
retreat from the market. Last year, Moynihan, 53, stopped
reverse-mortgage lending and shuttered the business that bought
loans from correspondent providers.  “We are not doing the job we need to do” in mortgages,
Moynihan said this month at a  New York  investor conference
sponsored by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “We know that, everybody
knows that. The volumes are high, the process is difficult.”  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other buyers of mortgages have
demanded compensation for shoddy loans created by Countrywide,
claiming home loans were based upon flawed data about the
properties and borrowers.  Toxic Assets  Bank of America’s Countrywide unit also has been locked in
litigation with MBIA Inc. since 2008. The lender said last week
it issued a notice of default to MBIA, after buying some of the
bond insurer’s notes in an attempt to block a legal maneuver in
their dispute over toxic mortgage assets. MBIA Inc. is
separately suing the bank, seeking to force it to buy back
faulty loans in insured mortgage-backed securities, and it
claims the bank is delaying that case to starve the insurer of
cash.  Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, Citigroup and Ally
set aside almost $3 billion to buy back bad home loans in the
first half of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages rose 12 percent to $25.5 billion as of Sept. 30,
fueled by disputes with Fannie Mae and private investors, the
firm said.  Capacity Constraints  Adding to capacity constraints at banks is the difficulty
in managing the volume of employees through a refinancing wave
“since a modest rise in interest rates could eliminate 80
percent of the business and leave the originators with expensive
fixed costs,” Deutsche Bank AG analyst Steven Abrahams said in
a Dec. 12 report.  About $4.5 trillion in agency mortgage-backed securities
have “meaningful refinancing incentives” and with the debt
averaging $176 billion in the last three months, it would take
more than two years to work through it all, according to
Deutsche Bank.  “It seems unlikely that capacity could grow quickly enough
to reduce the backlog and spur rate competition,” Abrahams
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  