-- Billionaire Usmanov Seeks to Boost Stake in VKontakte Next Year
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-12-21T11:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/billionaire-usmanov-seeks-to-boost-stake-in-vkontakte-next-year.html
Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  said he
plans to boost his stake in VKontakte, Russia’s largest social
network, next year, adding to his investments in competitors to
 Facebook Inc. (FB)   Usmanov is ready to boost the stake at a reasonable price
and is in talks with VKontakte shareholders, the billionaire
told state television Rossiya 24 today. Usmanov’s Internet
holding  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , which controls Russian social
networks Odnoklassniki and My World, owns a stake of almost 40
percent in VKontakte.  Usmanov is also in talks about an acceptable ownership
structure with VKontakte founder Pavel Durov, who wants
VKontakte to stay operationally independent from Mail.ru, the
billionaire said, calling Durov a genius.  Mail.ru has been seeking control of St. Petersburg-based
VKontakte to cement its dominance in the Russian social-
networking market. VKontakte leads the market, followed by
Moscow-based Mail.ru’s Odnoklassniki and My World. Mail.ru may
consider selling its stake in VKontakte as attempts to gain
control could turn “counter-productive,” Ivan Streshinskiy, a
board member of Mail.ru, said earlier this month.  Any move that curtails Durov’s leadership might hurt
VKontakte, Streshinskiy said at the time.  Vyacheslav Mirilashvili and Lev Leviev, who helped
programmer Durov set up the company in 2006, have no plans to
sell their combined 48 percent stake, Leviev said in an
interview in October. Leviev couldn’t be reached for comment
today.  Vladislav Tsyplukhin, a spokesman for Durov, who holds a 12
percent stake, declined to comment on the matter.  Usmanov in May transferred the voting rights from his stake
to Durov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  