-- Bloomberg Sees Threat of Post-Holiday School Bus Driver Strike
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-21T16:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/bloomberg-sees-threat-of-post-holiday-school-bus-driver-strike.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said the union representing yellow school-bus drivers has
threatened a post-holiday strike affecting more than 150,000
students as the city seeks to reduce costs.  The drivers, who work for private companies, are protesting
the city’s request for bids on  service  without promising to
protect jobs based on seniority. The Court of Appeals, the
state’s highest tribunal, has ruled that municipalities must
seek competitive bids and can’t guarantee jobs based on length
of service, Bloomberg said.  No negotiations with the union have been held because the
court decision bars the city from agreeing with their demands
and because the drivers aren’t city workers, the mayor said.
Michael Cordiello, president of  Local 1181  of the Amalgamated
Transit Union, didn’t immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment on the possible strike.  “There’s nothing to talk about,” the mayor said at a City
Hall news conference. “I just hope they have the good sense not
to walk off their jobs.”  The largest U.S. school system serves 1.1 million students,
most of whom walk to classes or use mass transit. A strike would
affect students from pre-kindergarten through high school,
including 13,600 special-education pupils, and students who
attend parochial and other private schools, the mayor said.  Rising Costs  The city’s school-transportation costs have increased to
$1.1 billion from $71 million in 1979, the mayor said. The
contract expires in June 2013, at the end of the school year.  The city’s Department of Education has sent out letters to
parents and guardians detailing contingency plans in the event
of a strike, including the distribution of free MetroCards to
pay fares on buses and subways. Those caring for pre-school and
special-needs children may request MetroCards for themselves to
escort students, the department said.  Parents who must drive students to work may apply to the
city for reimbursement at a rate of 55 cents per mile, Bloomberg
said.  The union raised similar objections last year when the city
sought bids for service on some of its 7,700 routes, yet no
strike was called.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg news
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stacie Sherman at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net  