-- Boehner’s ‘Plan B’ Failure Leaves Him Without Alternative
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-12-21T13:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/boehner-s-plan-b-failure-leaves-him-without-alternative.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
“Plan B” wasn’t supposed to be his real plan.  The proposal, which called for a tax increase on income
above $1 million, was designed in part to push fellow
Republicans closer to Boehner’s original offering to President
 Barack Obama  in budget talks that called for a combination of
revenue increases and spending cuts, according to two people
with knowledge of the strategy.  “Plan B,” though, proved more alluring within the
speaker’s caucus because it would have raised taxes on fewer
people than the larger deal Obama wants, and some  House
Republicans  started to gravitate to it. Then, even after House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said yesterday that the measure had
sufficient support, Boehner had to pull the bill last night
because it would have failed in a vote.  House Democrats were prepared to oppose it as a bloc, and
they would have been joined by enough Republicans who continue
to oppose any tax increases to kill the measure.  The flawed approach left Boehner embarrassed and
Republicans without a clear alternative to Obama’s proposal to
raise $1.2 trillion in taxes on high earners and cut $1.2
trillion in spending. And it threw into doubt whether Congress
can pass any agreement before Jan. 1 to avert more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases for all wage earners
-- the so-called fiscal cliff.  Insufficient Support  “The House did not take up the tax measure today because
it did not have sufficient support from our members to pass,”
Boehner said in his statement on “Plan B” last night. He will
hold a news conference today at 10 a.m. Washington time, his
office said in a statement.  Boehner’s decision to cancel the vote is a “reflection of
the inability of the entire House leadership” to persuade
enough of the chamber’s other Republicans to avoid the fiscal
cliff, Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said in an interview
with  MSNBC .  U.S. index futures slumped after the vote’s cancellation.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures dropped 1.2 percent to 1,423
as of 7:26 a.m. today in  New York  after falling as much as 3.4
percent earlier in the day, the biggest intraday slide since
November 2011.  Moving a Bill  Boehner’s “Plan B” was designed to start the process of
moving a bill that would prevent the automatic spending cuts and
tax increases set to start in January, according to a House
Republican aide who asked not to be named to discuss the
negotiations.  Boehner had told Obama of his decision to present the
fallback plan the night before he pitched it to fellow
Republicans on Dec. 18. The speaker had informed his leadership
team of it the day before, according to the two people familiar
with his strategy.  Once it became public, “Plan B” became more popular with
some Republicans than the party’s House leaders envisioned.  “I am not for Plan A,” Representative Dan Burton, an
Indiana Republican said, referring to the outlines of the more
sweeping budget accord that Boehner and Obama have been
negotiating. “I am for ‘Plan B.’ We had a big long conference
about it.”  More Concessions  Boehner’s legislative tactic was designed to extract more
concessions from Obama, said  David Carney , who served as White
House director of political affairs under President  George H.W. Bush .  “The point is, you have to do something to get the White
House to come more to our side,” Carney said.  In closed meetings with House Republicans, Boehner said
that “if negotiations were going swimmingly with the president
we wouldn’t need a ‘Plan B’,” Representative Steve LaTourette,
an  Ohio Republican , told reporters.  Carney said Boehner is “in a tough spot, but he’s dealing
with the cards he’s got. We’re not dealing with a level playing
field. The president is bigger, more powerful and has a bigger
megaphone than the House and the Senate.”  The support of some Republicans for “Plan B,” which also
got an endorsement from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, wasn’t
enough to sway those party members refusing to support any tax
increases in dealing with Obama on the fiscal cliff.  Thwarting “Plan B” keeps Republicans from “caving on
core principles,” Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas
Republican, told reporters last night.  Boehner said the next move is up to Obama. “Now it is up
to the president to work with” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, to craft legislation “to avert the
fiscal cliff,” Boehner said in his statement.  A House leadership announcement said the chamber won’t have
any votes until after the Dec. 25 Christmas holiday and will
return “when needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  