-- BOJ Holdings of JGBs Exceed 100 Trillion Yen for First Time
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-12-21T08:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/boj-holdings-of-jgbs-exceed-100-trillion-yen-for-first-time.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s holdings of the
government’s bonds exceeded 100 trillion yen ($1.2 trillion) for
the first time, raising the risk that yields will jump on
perceptions that it is financing public spending.  The central bank held 104.9 trillion yen of the debt at the
end of September, 11.1 percent of all  government bonds , a
quarterly central bank report showed today in Tokyo. The BOJ
said it was the highest on record. Bond holdings by foreign
investors rose to a record 9.1 percent.  The BOJ yesterday expanded its asset purchase program for
the fifth time this year, with half of the 10 trillion-yen
increase to be spent on JGBs. Incoming Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
wants more central-bank action to defeat deflation and has
pledged fiscal stimulus to stoke growth, even as he’s
constrained by the  world’s largest public debt .  “Doubt will increase about whether the BOJ is financing
government debt given the prospects for more monetary
stimulus,” said Tsuyoshi Ueno, a senior economist at NLI
Research Institute in Tokyo. “Once investors start to price
this in, yields will go up and  Japan ’s finances will be
unmanageable.”  The central bank said it will buy 44 trillion yen of bonds
by the end of next year through the asset-purchase fund, equal
to the amount of new government bonds issued this fiscal year.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said yesterday that the bank
will not directly finance government debt, which rose to 948
trillion yen at the end of last quarter, according to today’s
report.  The BOJ has a self-imposed rule of keeping the value of its
bond holdings below the amount of cash in circulation. Excluding
the asset-purchase program, which the BOJ counts separately from
other bond holdings, the central bank holds 67.4 trillion yen in
bonds, compared with 82.5 billion yen in cash circulating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  