-- Brady Says Congress Unlikely to Avoid Fiscal Cliff (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-12-21T22:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/brady-says-congress-unlikely-to-avoid-fiscal-cliff-transcript-.html
Republican Representative Kevin Brady predicted in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
Congress won’t reach a deal this year to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to start in January.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Republican Congressman
Kevin Brady of  Texas , deputy whip, a senior member of the House
Ways and Means Committee, and about to be the chairman of the
Joint Economic Committee. Congressman, we’re in a mess. You
couldn’t pass plan B. The House has gone home. What’s going to
happen? Are we going - it’s now likely we’re going over the
fiscal cliff.  KEVIN BRADY: I think it is. I think this was what everyone
hoped would not happen. In fact, because of the severity of
this, the House acted last summer to actually avoid these
problems, but it takes two to make this work. It is past the
election. I think with the clock ticking, it just becomes
increasingly unlikely we can come together before New Year’s
Day.  HUNT: So what happens then? Do you think there’s a mad rush
after Jan. 3 to - in the next week to put something together
then?  BRADY: One, I think there’s going to continue to be good-
faith efforts to try to solve this.  HUNT: Boehner and Obama will keep talking, you think?  BRADY: Yeah, I believe they will. But what’s happened is
that in trying to build this bridge, we’ve tried to build one
from the House side trying to pull all elements together that
does everything that needs to be, both avoiding those tax
increases, actually authentic spending cuts, and our belief
still is the big issues, our tax code, Social Security,
Medicare. We can’t keep putting that off. It’s clear that bridge
isn’t going to be built next week from the House side, so now
it’s really up to the president and the Senate Democrats to
start building the bridge from the Senate side.  HUNT: You noted that you got to deal with Medicare. You got
to deal with Social Security. You got to deal with the taxes
obviously. There was an election.  Barack Obama  campaigned on
ending the tax cuts for the wealthy. That was something people
knew. He has gone now - he’s gone from $250,000 cutoff to
$400,000. That’s movement. He also has said he’ll go along with
a cost of living adjustment on Social Security. That’s a big
deal. And he has clearly indicated he’s willing to consider and
actually go along with means testing for affluent Medicare.
That’s real movement, Congressman.  BRADY: Well, let me just tell you, I think he hasn’t come
close to matching what we’ve agreed to do, which is to take
revenue - significant amounts of revenue - and put them on the
table. And all those proposals that address Social Security,
Medicare, are only because we have pushed so hard as Republicans
to make that happen.  HUNT: But he’s done it.  BRADY: And I will tell you while he has talked about doing
that, Democrats in the House and Senate this week were insisting
that they come off the table. And so I don’t think he’s actually
even sold that to his own party for the most part.  HUNT: Let me ask you this. If you called his bluff, if you
put a bill on the floor in early January that does COLAs, that
does means testing for Medicare, that has a $400,000 cut off,
it’s not everything you want to be sure, but if you put that
bill on the floor and said, all right, you deliver Democrats,
we’ll deliver over half the Democrats, we’ll deliver about half
the Republicans, could you do that?  BRADY: Why wait until after the first of the year?  HUNT: OK. Well, do it then.  BRADY: Senate comes back on the 27th. Democrats control the
Senate. The president obviously has strong leaders there. Why
don’t they move that bill out of the Senate and so that the
House can take up those provisions, if they’re real, with real,
authentic spending cuts, and then let’s see if we can’t build
that bridge.  HUNT: But could you - but that bill that I just outlined,
which would be about a billion dollars of cut, you got to do
them next year but that would be the promise, COLAs, means
testing, $400,000 cut off, maybe $500,000, could you reluctantly
support that kind of a bill?  BRADY: I don’t think it has enough spending cuts. Because
most of what we’ve seen coming out of the president actually is
just taking the cuts that were already in place in the automatic
cuts and just counting them a second time. We actually think for
us to avoid, we think, another potential downgrade of our credit
and because the steps in Social Security and Medicare are baby
steps, we think, we think we need to go farther than that if
we’re really serious about these issues.  HUNT: Tell me specifically what you need to do then that
goes beyond COLA, beyond - that goes beyond means testing. What
do you need to do?  BRADY: I think clearly in both Social Security and Medicare
we need gradually to raise the ages of those programs because we
are living longer.  HUNT: We are doing that on Social Security.  BRADY: We are, but the president hasn’t agreed to. And I
think the steps forward on - on reducing future benefits I think
is a solid step because most people don’t realize each
generation actually gets about a 23 percent bump over the
generation ahead of them. So I think that’s actually a good
step.  HUNT: He’s going to do that. So what else do you want him
to do?  BRADY: Well, we want authentic spending cuts and a
commitment on fundamental tax reform. And we just haven’t seen
that. We also believe, and I know you know this from our
beliefs, is that the more we tax the small businesses and
professionals, the harder it is for our economy to recover and
the harder it is to do fundamental tax reform.  HUNT: Will you put specific spending cuts on the table in
the next week?  BRADY: We already have. In fact, that was voted on the
House floor last night.  HUNT: Well, what was voted on the House floor was to cut
food stamps instead of the military sequestration, but I’m
talking about specific entitlements.  BRADY: It did not do that. In fact, what it did was tackle
very wasteful spending. For example, sending government checks
to people who aren’t eligible, aren’t here legally, don’t have
kids who exist. That’s wasteful spending.  HUNT: You and I are against that, but we also know it’s
real small stuff. It’s not big stuff.  BRADY: It’s seven and a half billion.  HUNT: Let me ask you this. Are you going to put entitlement
cuts - new entitlement cuts on the table in the next week?  BRADY: Will House Republicans do that?  HUNT: Yes.  BRADY: No. It is - because we’ve already made those
proposals -  HUNT: In the Ryan budget -  BRADY: - now it’s time for the Senate and the president to
pass a bill and send it to us. Because clearly we are having
trouble building that bridge from our side.  HUNT: One other subject, gun control. You have been a
strong gun advocate. The terrible horror that occurred a week
ago in  Connecticut , did that change the atmosphere?  BRADY: I don’t think so. One, I think everyone shares the
horror of this. The question is why are we having these
rampages. And I - and I think it is much deeper and broader than
just a couple gun control - the old warmed-up debates on this.
We don’t know the answers. I think we have a culture of violence
in America. I don’t think that’s coming from sportsmen or
hunting families or those who have to have weapons protecting
themselves. So I think it’s much broader.  HUNT: I think you’re no doubt right about that, but in
other countries they see violent movies. They have violent video
games. That’s clearly part of this culture, but that’s true
elsewhere too. The one thing that’s different here is guns, and
isn’t guns part of it, and shouldn’t you deal with all of it,
including guns?  BRADY: Al, let me just tell you this. Connecticut already
had some of those - significant number of those gun control
provisions in place and it didn’t prevent this, so we’ve got to
ask why. I’ll tell you - and we don’t talk about this much - but
in my family, my father was killed in a shooting in a courtroom
leaving my mom to raise five of us by ourselves. We’ve been
through the criminal justice. We know what it’s like to grow up
without a parent. And I don’t want that to happen to any other
family, but I am not convinced that the gun control provisions
that are out there will change that or prevent that. I think,
frankly, we need to take a much broader look at this.  HUNT: OK. Congressman Kevin Brady, merry Christmas to you.  BRADY: Thank you, Al.  HUNT: Get some rest after this last week and we’ll see you
next year. Thank you so much.  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 