-- Brazilian Arabica Coffee Trades at Discount, U.S. Roaster Buys
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-12-21T10:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/brazilian-arabica-coffee-trades-at-discount-u-s-roaster-buys.html
Arabica coffee beans of good cup
quality from Brazil, the world’s largest producer of the
commodity, were trading at a discount this week, with a U.S.
roaster buying, according to Flavour Coffee.  The beans traded at a discount of 18 cents a pound to the
price on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York , the Rio de
Janeiro-based broker said in a report e-mailed today. That
compares with a discount of 19 cents a pound last week. Arabica
coffee futures slid 0.2 percent over the past week as a record
crop in Brazil continued to put pressure on prices. The
commodity has dropped 37 percent this year, making it the worst
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of raw materials.  “Reasonable volume of good cup qualities traded this week,
all for nearby January shipments,” Flavour Coffee said. “It is
noticeable a purchase made from one major USA roaster.”  Arabica coffee beans of fine cup quality were at a discount
of 10 cents a pound to the futures price, according to the
broker. That compares with 9 cents a pound a week earlier. Fine
cup beans are usually more expensive due to their taste profile.  Coffee output in  Brazil  this year rose more than previously
forecast to a record 50.8 million bags, the government said this
week. The estimate was raised from 50.5 million bags forecast on
Sept. 6, the  Agriculture Ministry ’s Conab crop-forecasting
agency said. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds.  Conillon Premium  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were at a
premium of 12 cents a pound ($265 a metric ton) to the price on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , down from 15 cents a pound a
week earlier, according to Flavour Coffee data. Offers for beans
from the next crop, with shipment in May and June, were at a
premium of 5 cents to 7 cents a pound, the broker said.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored
for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
Robusta beans are harvested mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa 
and are used in instant coffee and espresso.  Robusta coffee for March delivery slid 0.6 percent to
$1,876 a ton by 9:39 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee for March
delivery was unchanged at $1.4295 a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 