-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Rise as Unemployment Rate Falls; Real Drops
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-12-21T17:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-unemployment-falls-currency-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose for a
fourth day after the  unemployment rate  dropped to a record low
for the month of November, fueling speculation that the central
bank will raise borrowing costs to control inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2015 climbed five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.87 percent at 3:23 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, extending its weekly increase to 23 basis points, the
biggest since the five days ended May 25. The currency
depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0770 per  U.S. dollar  after
advancing yesterday to 2.0693, the strongest since Nov. 14.  Unemployment fell to 4.9 percent last month from 5.3
percent in October, the national statistics agency reported
today. The reading was lower than forecast by all except two of
33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was
for the jobless rate to decrease to 5.1 percent.  “The labor market is a factor of concern for inflation,”
Rafael Laurindo, an economist at Porto Seguro Investimentos in
Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The tendency is for
the job market to remain heated.”  Swap rates climbed two days after Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  said Brazil will allow gasoline prices to rise in 2013,
heightening concern inflation will accelerate.  Brazil’s annual rate of consumer price increases as
measured by the benchmark IPCA index has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 27
consecutive months. Annual inflation unexpectedly accelerated to
5.53 percent in November from 5.45 percent the month before, the
statistics agency reported Dec. 7.  Target Rate  Policy makers left the  target lending rate  at a record low
7.25 percent last month following 10 straight reductions to
support  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The real rallied yesterday to a one-month high after Carlos
Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic policy, said
a weaker  exchange rate  has contributed to inflation. Brazil sees
2.05 per dollar as more “adequate” when creating its economic
forecasts than 2.10, Hamilton said.  The real advanced earlier this week as as the central bank
eased  reserve requirements  on bets against the dollar to boost
the local currency. Financial institutions are required to
collect reserve requirements on short-dollar positions above $3
billion instead of the previous $1 billion level, the central
bank announced Dec. 18 in a move to boost the local currency. A
short is a bet an asset will lose value.  The real has risen 0.4 percent this week, paring its drop
in 2012 to 10 percent, still the worst performance among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A weaker exchange rate
can add to inflation by making imports more expensive.  U.S. Budget  Speculation that policy makers favor a boost in the
currency to curb inflation has been offset by concern that the
U.S. budget impasse will stall global economic growth and limit
gains in emerging-market assets.  “The signal is that the government wants the real stronger
than 2.1 because a less depreciated real can be positive for
inflation,” Laurindo said. “But this discussion of the U.S.
budget is generating pessimism among investors.”  Policy makers have swung this year between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The central bank auctioned dollar credit lines for a fifth
straight day to stimulate liquidity. The credit lines help boost
the supply of U.S. currency as Brazilian companies send dollars
abroad to balance their books at year-end.  December was headed for the biggest net outflow of dollars
in two years as the central bank reported $4.2 billion this
month through Dec. 14, compared with $4.3 billion in June 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  