-- Brazilian Stocks Tumble as Vale Retreats on $4.2 Billion Charge
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-21T14:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/brazilian-stocks-tumble-as-vale-retreats-on-4-2-billion-charge.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index retreated from a
three-month high, paring its weekly gain, as mining company Vale
SA sank on plans to book a $4.2 billion charge after reviewing
the value of its nickel and aluminum assets.  Voting shares of Petroleo Brasileiro SA led declines by
raw-material producers as commodities fell after U.S.  House
Republicans  canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners,
fueling concern a failure of budget talks will cause a
recession. Vale headed for its biggest one-day slump in five
weeks and contributed the most to the gauge’s decline.  The Bovespa index tumbled 1.6 percent to 60,309.75 at 11:53
a.m. in Sao Paulo, reducing this week’s gain to 1.2 percent.
Sixty-two stocks fell on the gauge today while four advanced.
The real slid 0.2 percent to 2.0729 per  U.S. dollar . The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials lost 0.3
percent, with oil down 1.1 percent.  “Vale’s impairment is negative for the stock and helps
push the Bovespa index lower,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst
at Futura Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.
“The market is also being dragged down by the concern about the
fiscal cliff. If the U.S. falls into a recession next year, the
consequences for the world economy would be terrible.”  Vale fell 2.2 percent to 39.93 reais. The company said
yesterday in a  statement  that it will take a $2.85 billion
pretax writedown on a nickel project after operations stopped
and prices for the metal declined. The producer also said it
will also recognize a $1.3 billion pretax impairment on its 22
percent stake in Oslo-based Norsk Hydro.  Vote Canceled  Stocks tumbled worldwide after House Speaker  John Boehner 
scrapped a plan to allow higher tax rates on annual income above
$1 million, stalling talks on budget issues referred to as the
fiscal cliff. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said that a
failure to avert the more than $600 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts scheduled to start in January would probably lead
the U.S. to a recession in the first half of 2013.  The voting shares of Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is
known, dropped 2.8 percent to 20.57 reais.  Brazil ’s  unemployment rate  fell to 4.9 percent in November
from 5.3 percent in October, the national statistics agency said
today. That compares with the median forecast of 5.1 percent
from 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the jobless rate was a positive sign for Brazil’s
economic activity, it was overshadowed by concern about U.S.
budget talks, said Gustavo Mendonca, an economist at Oren
Investimentos.  ‘Good Shape’  “The report was good news for consumer  stocks (MXWD) , as it shows
that labor market is still in good shape, but in a day like
today the external outlook ends up overshadowing everything
else,” Mendonca said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , the electricity utility,
serving the state of  Minas Gerais , gained 4.3 percent to 26.71
reais after Banco Bradesco SA’s brokerage unit raised its
recommendation to the equivalent of buy.  The Bovespa index has climbed 15 percent from this year’s
low in June as stimulus from central banks around the world
eased concern about an economic slowdown while record low
benchmark lending rates has pushed some investors to move into
stocks from fixed income.  The index  trades  at 11.4 times analysts’ earnings estimates
for the next four quarters, which compares with 11 for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 6.53 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday. That compares with a daily average of
7.28 billion reais this year through Dec. 19, according to data
compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  