-- British Lawmakers Demand Osborne Strengthens Bank-Firewall Plans
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/british-lawmakers-demand-osborne-strengthens-bank-firewall-plans.html
U.K. lawmakers urged Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne to give the government powers to
break up banks should they fail to comply with proposed rules to
erect firewalls around their retail operations.  The  Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards  also
called in a report published in London today for a “periodic,
independent review of the effectiveness” of the firewall every
four years to assess whether banks are implementing the policy
properly “and to advise whether a move to full separation
across the banking sector as a whole is necessary to meet those
objectives.”  “The proposals, as they stand, fall well short of what is
required,” Andrew Tyrie, a legislator from Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative Party and the chairman of the panel, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Banks need to be discouraged from
gaming the rules. All history tells us they will do this unless
incentivized not to.”  The panel’s recommendations may anger Osborne, who
appointed the commission earlier this year and told it last
month not to overstep its remit and unpick the consensus on how
to make Britain’s banking system safer. The recommendations are
not binding on the chancellor, though he may meet political
opposition if he chooses to ignore them.  The Treasury made no commitment to implement the panel’s
recommendations, saying in a statement in response to the report
that they will be considered when the bill begins its passage
through Parliament next year. It reiterated the government’s
commitment to building consensus in the past, suggesting
Osborne’s department has little appetite to reopen the debate on
how best to make banks safer.  No Guarantee  The panel recommended that banks’ retail units, while
protected by the firewalls, should have no government guarantee.
It demanded greater powers to scrutinize detailed legislation in
future to prevent safeguards being undermined.  Tyrie said a move to give the government the power to
enforce separation of banks’ retail and non-consumer activities
would be aimed at deterring aggressive lobbying to water down
implementation of the rules.  Successive witnesses at the committee’s hearings have
expressed concern that proposals by the  Independent Commission
on Banking , led by Oxford University Professor John Vickers,
which provided the basis of the legislation, will be diluted by
the banks before they are properly implemented.  ‘Enhanced Scrutiny’  The commission, made up of members of both houses of
Parliament, said a “specific statutory provision for enhanced
parliamentary scrutiny” was needed after it found that that
Osborne’s existing draft primary legislation to establish the
firewalls gives little clue on how regulators will enforce the
changes on banks. The absence of secondary legislation spelling
out details “seriously impeded” the panel’s work.  “The commission for much of the time was working in the
dark,” Tyrie said.  The panel also called on the government to include in the
Financial Services Reform Bill stronger powers for the
Prudential Regulation Authority -- the new overseer of bank
stability within the Bank of England.  Bank retail businesses should have operational independence
when it comes to governance, risk management, treasury
functions, capital and liquidity, the panel said. Bank board
members should have a statutory duty to protect the integrity of
the firewalls.  The commission also demanded that the Bank of England be
given the duty of setting leverage ratios during the second
quarter of 2013 and called for ‘bail-in’ powers -- in which
bondholders as well as shareholders shoulder the cost of
resolution of a failing financial institution -- to be
strengthened. Banks should also be allowed to hold simple
derivatives inside their retail operation, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  