-- HTC Said to Plan Windows Tablets to Challenge Apple’s IPad
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-12-21T19:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/htc-said-to-plan-windows-tablets-to-challenge-apple-led-market.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  plans to make tablets
based on the  Windows operating system , giving   Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
another ally in its challenge to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in
the $63.2 billion market, people familiar with the matter said.  HTC, excluded earlier this year from the first batch of
Windows tablets, is working on a 12-inch device and a 7-inch
version that can also make phone calls, according to a person
familiar with the company’s plans, who declined to be identified
as the information isn’t yet public.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is racing
to get more Windows-based tablets into stores, making up for
delays that have made it harder to catch Apple, Google and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in a market projected by researcher NPD to
almost double to $123.5 billion in 2015. Microsoft will end the
year with a 2.9 percent share, compared with Apple’s majority
and Google’s more than 40 percent, according to IDC.  “No matter where you look, there’s not a breadth of
devices to look at,” Wes Miller, an analyst at Directions on
Microsoft, said in an interview. While “more variety of
hardware might help,” he said, “good devices with good battery
life and price,” as well as compelling applications would have
to come together.  Sally Julien, a spokeswoman for HTC, and  Mark Martin , a
spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, declined to
comment.  More Tablets  HTC’s products, to debut in 2013, will be based on the
Windows RT version of Microsoft’s operating system, designed for
machines with chips using technology from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ,
according to a person familiar with the plans. Delays in those
machines, as well as another version running on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
chips, have meant Microsoft has few Windows devices capable of
challenging Apple’s iPad.  A 7-inch tablet would be the first of that size for Windows
RT, as Microsoft tries to compete with the iPad mini, Amazon’s
Kindle Fire and Google’s Nexus 7 in the market for smaller,
cheaper tablets.  HTC’s tablets are tentatively scheduled for release in the
third quarter and would run on chips from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , one
person said. Production details and exact schedules haven’t been
finalized, the person said.  Partner Search  HTC had also been considering a tablet with Windows 8
running on Intel, but scrapped those plans because the company
determined it would have to charge too much -- around $1,000 --
for the device, making it difficult to sell enough of them.
Microsoft’s own Intel-based Surface tablet with Windows 8, will
cost $899 or $999, depending on the model, when it goes on sale
next month.  HTC was turned down for participation in the initial round
of Windows RT devices, a process Microsoft controlled tightly,
people familiar with the matter said in June. As it turned out,
most of the devices greenlighted through that program weren’t
ready for sale when Windows RT was released in October.  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ’s machines have been scrapped altogether.  That may have left Microsoft, which has grown closer to HTC
in the smartphone market in recent months, on the hunt for more
willing partners.  Sales of Microsoft’s own Surface tablet have been
disappointing, according to analysts such as Craig Berger at FBR
Capital Markets & Co. He and other analysts have expressed
concern that it’s hard to find many Windows tablets at retail
outlets. Microsoft hasn’t disclosed Surface sales figures.  Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based HTC is looking for new revenue
opportunities as it has  lost share  of the Android phone market
to Samsung Electronics Co. HTC in October forecast fourth-
quarter revenue that would mark its lowest sales in 11 quarters.  Earlier this month, HTC also canceled a project to make a
larger-screen version of its Windows Phones because of concerns
the screen would have a lower resolution than competing models,
a person familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  