-- California Gasoline Gains on January Trading, Refinery Repairs
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-12-21T23:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/california-gasoline-gains-on-january-trading-refinery-repairs.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles 
advanced for the fourth straight day as trading began for
January delivery and on speculation that refiners are buying
fuel before shutting units for maintenance next month.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  plan to shut
production units at their Southern California refineries next
month for planned maintenance turnarounds, according to people
familiar with the work schedules. The plants together make about
a third of California’s refining capacity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, supplies rose for the
third straight week in the seven days ended Dec. 14, gaining
273,000 barrels to 6.54 million, the state Energy Commission
said. Output of the fuel, meanwhile, dropped 9.1 percent to 6.19
million barrels, the lowest level since Nov. 2, the agency said.  Carbob in Los Angeles jumped 9.5 cents to a premium of 1
cent a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
contract, which rolled into January today, is being traded
against February Nymex gasoline futures, which settled 1.9 cents
below January futures.  Carbob in San Francisco, which also rolled into January,
narrowed its discount to futures by 16 cents to 1 cent a gallon.  The premium for California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los
Angeles widened 0.25 cent to 2 cents a gallon versus Nymex
heating oil futures. The fuel in San Francisco widened its
discount by 3.25 cents to 5.25 cents a gallon.  In  Portland ,  Oregon , conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to
be blended with ethanol strengthened by 3.5 cents to a 6.5-cent
discount to gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland’s
strengthened 1.5 cents to 1.5 cents a gallon above heating oil
futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  