-- Cameron Says U.K. May Put Troops in U.A.E.
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/cameron-says-u-k-may-put-troops-in-u-a-e-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said British troops may be stationed in the  United Arab Emirates 
as both countries develop their defense ties.  Cameron concluded a two-day visit to British troops in
Helmand, southern Afghanistan, today before flying to  Oman  to
coincide with the sale to the Persian Gulf country by BAE
Systems Plc of 12 Eurofighter Typhoon combat jets and eight Hawk
128 advanced trainers. The U.A.E. has shown interest in ordering
as many as 60 Typhoons.  “What you’re seeing specifically with the U.A.E. is not
just a plan to sell Typhoon aircraft, but a big significant
defense cooperation which could, yes, lead to British troops
stationed in their country,” he told reporters in Camp Bastion,
 Afghanistan , before boarding a flight to Oman. “This is an
exciting possibility for both countries to have a proper
strategic defense relationship.”  Cameron’s comments echo those made by General David Richards, the chief of the U.K. defense staff, earlier this
week, signaling that British joint-forces units will spend
longer periods of time deployed in the Gulf. The U.K. has some
units already based in the Gulf, including naval vessels and a
command unit in Bahrain, as well as aircraft in the U.A.E. and
Qatar.  The prime minister said last month he wants to arrange the
sale of more than 100 planes to the Gulf region in the coming
year. He visited the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia  in November to
promote the planes. The Typhoon is built by Eurofighter GmbH,
made up of BAE, Finmeccanica SpA and European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co.  Cameron said today that Britain’s relationship with the
U.A.E. in terms of the Typhoon sale is “looking good.”  In his speech, Richards also referred to “traditional but
potentially enhanced roles” for U.K. forces in Oman, Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia as he set out their role after the end of combat
operations in Afghanistan in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Afghanistan at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  