-- Canada Slow Inflation and Growth Signal Modest 4Q Rebound
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-21T21:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/canadian-inflation-slows-in-november-to-least-in-three-years.html
Canada ’s slowest  inflation  rate in
more than three years and meager output growth signal the
fourth-quarter economic rebound will fall short of central bank
governor  Mark Carney ’s forecast.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.8 percent in November from
a year ago on a moderation in gasoline costs and a decline in
automobile prices, Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa.
 Gross domestic product  grew 0.1 percent in October after
stalling in September and shrinking 0.1 percent in August, the
agency said in a separate report.  The Canadian dollar and two-year bond  yields  extended
declines after the reports, which BMO Capital Markets deputy
chief economist  Doug Porter  said show that fourth-quarter
economic growth may be less than half the 2.5 percent the
central bank has called for. Carney reiterated Dec. 4 he may
raise his 1 percent benchmark interest rate even as central
banks in  Japan  and the U.K. have been easing.  “The combination of growth and inflation coming in slower
than expected means the Bank can maintain accommodative
conditions,” said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada. “Growth in the fourth quarter
is very modest, and certainly suggesting growth under the bank’s
2.5 percent.”  Inflation, which has run less than the central bank’s 2
percent target since May, is now outside the 1 percent to 3
percent target band. The November rate was the slowest since the
0.1 percent reading in October 2009 following the country’s last
recession.  Dollar, Bonds  Core inflation , which excludes eight volatile items, slowed
to 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast that the total rate would be 1.1 percent and
core inflation would be 1.3 percent.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.6 percent to 99.32 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 4:15 p.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys $1.0068.
Two-year government bond yields fell two basis points to 1.11
percent, with the price of the 1 percent securities due in
February 2015 gaining 4 Canadian cents to C$99.78.  “Canada’s economy has slowed to a crawl, and another
roadside shock could conceivably push us into a downturn,”
Porter of BMO Capital Markets said in a telephone interview.
“But I think that’s very much an outside risk at this point.”  The economy will probably grow at a 1 percent pace this
quarter, Porter said, adding Canada is still at risk from the
prospect of more than $600 billion of U.S. tax increases and
spending cuts due next year unless Congress acts. Canada sends
three-quarters of its exports to its southern neighbor.  GDP Details  The Bank of Canada is relying on consumption and business
investment to lead an expansion over the next two years, and
forecast that  growth  would rebound after slowing to a 0.6
percent annualized pace in the July-September period on drops in
investment and shipments abroad.  The GDP report showed wholesale trade increased 0.8 percent
in October, rebounding from a 1 percent drop the month before,
with gains in farm products, food and tobacco,  Statistics Canada 
said. Retailing increased 0.3 percent on  motor vehicle  and part
sales.  Consumer confidence  declined for a third month in December,
the  Conference Board of Canada  said today, with its index
falling by 2.4 points to 77.9 on increased pessimism about
future financial and job prospects.  Mixed Signs  Companies linked to household spending are showing mixed
signs about consumer confidence. Cadillac Fairview Corp. said
Oct. 23 it will spend C$350 million to expand the Sherway
Gardens mall in Toronto starting in January.  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) ,
the biggest coffee and doughnuts chain in Canada, said Nov. 8
its third-quarter earnings were restrained by “continued
sluggish economic growth and fragile consumer confidence,
leading to constrained discretionary spending.”  The  National Hockey League ’s lockout and the cancellation
of games led to a 1.6 percent decline in arts, entertainment and
recreation. The industry’s C$10.7 billion contribution makes up
about 0.8 percent of the world’s 11th largest economy.  The spectator sport, performing art and heritage
institution category fell to the lowest in October since the
last NHL disruption in 2005. The sector’s output of C$4.91
billion was the lowest since May 2005 and down from C$5.72
billion a year earlier, or by 14 percent.  Mining excluding oil and gas dropped 0.4 percent, as
falling coal production outweighed increases in the extraction
of metals such as copper, nickel and lead. Manufacturing was the
biggest drag on growth in October, down 0.4 percent.  Temporary Closings  Machinery making dropped and the temporary closing of an
 Alberta  meat plant curbed  food processing . XL Foods Inc.’s
factory in Brooks, Alberta, had its license suspended by
Canada’s Food Inspection Agency Sept. 28 after testing showed
bacteria contamination.  Food inflation slowed to 1.7 percent from 2 percent in
October as the cost of meat rose 4.3 percent while fresh
vegetable prices dropped 5.8 percent. Gasoline prices rose 0.4
percent in November from a year earlier, slower than October’s 4
percent advance. Automobile prices fell 1.8 percent, the biggest
drop since June 2011.  Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in
Toronto, predicts fourth-quarter growth of 1.2 percent, and BNP
Paribas SA economist Bricklin Dwyer said it would be 1.4
percent.  The next two monthly output reports would need to show
growth of about 0.6 percent to reach the central bank’s 2.5
percent forecast according to Krishen Rangasamy, senior
economist at National Bank Financial in  Montreal .  “The inflation data confirms what the GDP data tells us
about the growing economic slack in Canada,” Rangasamy said.
“While that may not be enough to get the  Bank of Canada  to
remove its tightening bias, that will certainly reduce the odds
of rate hikes in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  