-- Canada Oct. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-21T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/canada-oct-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Oct. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product edged up 0.1% in October,
following no growth in September and a 0.1% decline in August.
The output of  service industries  advanced 0.1% in October,
primarily a result of increases in wholesale and retail trade.
The increases outweighed declines in transportation services and
in the arts and entertainment sector. Goods production was
unchanged in October. Increases in mining and oil and gas
extraction and utilities were offset by declines in
manufacturing and construction.  Wholesale and retail trade rise  Wholesale trade rose 0.8% in October, after declining 1.0%
in September. Increases were recorded in the wholesaling of farm
products, food, beverage and tobacco products, as well as  motor
vehicle  and parts. In contrast, wholesaling of petroleum
products and machinery and equipment declined in October.  Retail trade (+0.3%) also rose in October. The most notable
increases were at motor vehicle and parts dealers, clothing and
clothing accessories stores, food and beverage stores as well as
gasoline stations. On the other hand, activity at furniture and
home furnishings stores and electronics and appliance stores was
down.  Mining and oil and gas extraction increases  Mining and oil and gas extraction increased 0.3% in October.
Oil and gas extraction grew 0.4%, as both crude petroleum
production and natural gas extraction advanced. Support
activities for mining and oil and gas extraction (+1.3%) also
rose, as a result of an increase in drilling and rigging
services.  In contrast, mining excluding oil and gas extraction
declined 0.4%. A decrease in coal production outweighed the
increases in copper, nickel, lead and zinc as well as gold and
silver mining.  Utilities advance  Utilities increased 1.2% in October, following two
consecutive monthly declines. Both electricity production and
natural gas distribution advanced.  Manufacturing output decreases  Manufacturing output declined 0.4% in October. Durable
goods production fell 0.5%, mainly as a result of declines in
machinery manufacturing. Non-durable goods manufacturing
decreased 0.4%. Declines in food, chemical, as well as plastic
and rubber products manufacturing outweighed increases in
beverage and tobacco products, printing and related support
activities and petroleum and coal products. Food manufacturing
was down mainly because of the temporary closure of a meat
manufacturing plant in  Alberta .  Construction edges down  Construction edged down 0.1% in October. A decline in
residential and non-residential building construction more than
offset an increase in engineering construction and repair work.  The output of real estate agents and brokers declined 1.4%
in October, as activity in the home resale market decreased.  Other industries  Transportation and warehousing services declined 0.6% in
October, mainly because of declines in truck and rail
transportation, support activities for transportation as well as
pipeline transportation.  The arts and entertainment sector declined 1.6% in October,
partly because of a labour disruption that resulted in the
cancellation of regular season games in professional hockey.  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) edged up 0.1%.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2012. In the context of the
comprehensive revision to the Canadian System of National
Accounts, historically-revised data of monthly GDP by industry
are planned for release on January 31, 2013. These revisions
will extend back to January 2007 and will reflect conceptual,
classification and statistical improvements. For more
information about monthly GDP by industry, see the National
economic accounts ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index -
eng.htm) module on our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  