-- Canada’s October Economy Grew 0.1% on Oil Production
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-21T14:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/canada-s-economy-grew-0-1-in-october-on-service-industry-gains.html
Canada ’s economy expanded for the
first time in three months in October as increases in oil and
gas production countered manufacturing declines.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.1 percent to an annualized
C$1.29 trillion ($1.30 trillion) after stalling in September and
shrinking 0.1 percent in August, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The increase matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg
economist  survey  with 23 responses.  Without the 0.4 percent rebound in oil and gas extraction,
the first increase since April, Canada’s economy would have
stalled in October, leaving little optimism growth in the fourth
quarter will be as strong as predicted by the Bank of Canada,
said Ian Pollick at Royal  Bank of Canada .  “By no means does this mean that the quarter is saved in
terms of forecasts,” said Pollick, senior fixed-income
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets unit.
“As you start to get some more data during the quarter, you are
going to see estimates get revised down. It’s going to be a
large divergence from what the bank of Canada thinks growth will
come in at this year.”  The Bank of Canada is relying on consumption and business
investment to lead an expansion over the next two years, and
forecast that  growth  will accelerate to a 2.5 percent annualized
pace this quarter after slowing to 0.6 percent in the July-
September period. Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated Dec. 4 he may
raise  interest rates  even as central banks in Japan and the U.K.
have been easing.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 99.24 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:12 a.m. in Toronto, after depreciating to 99.29
cents, the weakest since Dec. 7. One dollar buys $1.0075.  Wholesale trade increased 0.8 percent in October,
rebounding from a 1 percent drop the month before, with gains in
farm products, food and tobacco, Statistics Canada said.
Retailing increased 0.3 percent on  motor vehicle  and part sales,
according to the report.  Cadillac Fairview Corp. said Oct. 23 it will spend C$350
million to expand the Sherway Gardens mall in Toronto starting
in January.  Mining excluding oil and gas dropped 0.4 percent, as
falling coal production outweighed increases in the extraction
of metals such as copper, nickel and lead.  Manufacturing was the biggest drag on growth in October
with a 0.4 percent decline,  Statistics Canada  said. Machinery
making dropped and the temporary closure of an Alberta meat
plant curbed  food processing .  The  National Hockey League ’s lockout and the cancellation
of games led to a 1.6 percent decline in arts, entertainment and
recreation. The industry’s C$10.7 billion contribution makes up
about 0.8 percent of the world’s 11th largest economy.  Gross domestic product grew 1.1 percent in October from a
year earlier, Statistics Canada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  