-- Canadian Dollar Touches Two-Week Low on Budget Impasse
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-21T13:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/canadian-dollar-touches-two-week-low-on-budget-impasse.html
The Canadian dollar touched a two-
week low against its U.S. counterpart as House Republican
leaders scrapped a plan to allow higher taxes, throwing budget
talks into turmoil.  The Canadian currency extended the decline after the
nation’s economic expansion in October matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
plan to allow tax-rates to rise on people with annual incomes
over $1 million failed to garner votes from his own party,
causing Boehner to withdraw the proposal.  “Equities had rallied on the back of markets anticipating
a resolution, and I think given what’s happened overnight that’s
looking further away,” said David Bradley, director of foreign-
exchange trading in Toronto at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of
Scotiabank. “There was a lot of good news priced in over the
last few weeks.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percent to 99.20
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 8:34 a.m. in Toronto. Earlier it had
touched 99.21 cents, the weakest level since Dec. 7. One loonie
buys $1.0081.  Futures of  crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export, fell 1.2
percent to $89.09 a barrel. The MSCI World Index of stocks
declined 0.3 percent.  Higher tax rates on the wealthy have been a key demand of
President  Barack Obama  in reaching a budget deal to avoid $600
billion in mandatory tax increases and spending cuts which could
plunge the U.S. into recession if they take effect in January.
Obama had promised to veto the proposal for not raising enough
new  tax revenue .  Gross domestic product  grew 0.1 percent to an annualized
C$1.29 trillion ($1.30 trillion) after stalling in September and
shrinking 0.1 percent in August,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. The increase matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg
economist survey with 23 responses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  