-- Chicago to Explore Leasing Midway Airport, Emanuel Says
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-12-21T17:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/chicago-to-explore-leasing-midway-international-emanuel-says.html
Chicago  plans to explore leasing
Chicago Midway International Airport and would proceed with a
deal only if a transaction would benefit taxpayers and
travelers, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said today.  The decision by Emanuel, who has criticized a 75-year lease
of the city’s parking-meter system pushed by his predecessor,
Richard M. Daley, revives an idea that died in 2009. The new
proposal envisions a lease of fewer than 40 years, and the city
would retain ownership. The airport is Chicago’s second-biggest,
behind O’Hare International.  The city said it will submit a preliminary application to
the Federal Aviation Administration that would preserve a slot
to make such a deal through the Airport Privatization Pilot
Program. Emanuel described the move as “exploratory” and said
no decisions have been made about leasing the facility. Initial
proceeds would be used to pay debt that Chicago issued in 1996
to rebuild Midway.  “I am exploring all options on behalf of taxpayers,” the
mayor, a Democrat, said in a news release today. “We all know
the parking meter deal was bad for taxpayers and the city, and I
have instructed my staff to ensure we mandate significant
changes that protect us from the mistakes made with the parking
meter deal.”  Deficit Plug  Daley came under criticism for using meter revenue to plug
operating deficits. Emanuel said the city would receive a
percentage fee from the lease deal as well as an annual cash
stream.  The federal program is designed to enable airports to raise
private capital for development and improvements. It allows as
many as 10 public airport sponsors to sell or lease an airport,
according to a statement from the FAA. The deadline to
participate is Dec. 31.  Puerto Rico in July received a $2.6 billion offer in a
proposed 40-year lease of its San Juan airport, the busiest
airport in the Caribbean.  Midway was dedicated in 1927 and is home to the Chicago
operations of  Southwest Airlines Co.. (LUV)  The facility handled about
16.4 million passengers in 2012 through October. That was up 4
percent from the previous year, according to the Chicago
Department of Aviation’s website. In comparison, 56.7 million
passengers traveled through O’Hare during the same period.  Midway had $1.4 billion of debt as of Dec. 31, 2011,
according to an annual fiscal report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  