-- Chinese Officials Flock to Microblog as Weibo Shapes Opinion
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/china-officials-flock-to-microblog-as-social-media-shape-opinion.html
The number of verified government
accounts on  China ’s most-popular microblog service tripled in a
year, underscoring how Communist Party officials have come to
recognize social media’s power in controlling public opinion.  Verified government accounts on Weibo, the Twitter-like
service run by  Sina Corp. (SINA) , rose to 60,000 from 18,132 through
the 12 months ending Oct. 31, according to a report released
this month by a People’s Daily Online agency that monitors
public opinion. The total number of users on the service doubled
to 424 million in the 12 months through Sept. 30.  The Chinese government has become a savvy user of the
Internet, which it censors heavily to control public opinion,
said Doug Young, author of the book “The Party Line: How the
Media Dictates Public Opinion in Modern China.” Authorities
allow conversations online to continue on approved topics while
deleting or blocking posts and other information it deems
detrimental to the Communist Party’s ability to rule.  “The propaganda ministry is very active about staying in
touch with social media and traditional media, updating them
about what is and isn’t allowed,” Young, also a journalism
professor at Fudan University in  Shanghai , said in a phone
interview. “They watch out for this stuff, and if they see a
sign of trouble, a particular demonstration taking shape that
they don’t like, they’ll just grab the phone and call Sina.”  Internet Regulation  The report on Weibo usage  was released  Dec. 3. The state-
owned People’s Daily newspaper published front-page editorials
this past week calling for more regulation of the web and saying
people want the “chaotic Internet” to be controlled.  “Regulating the Internet by law is an urgent matter for
China,” one editorial said.  Zhu Huaxin, the co-author of the report and secretary of
the office at People’s Daily Online that monitors public
opinion, declined to comment on the data, saying he wasn’t
authorized to speak with foreign media. Zhu’s office began
releasing reports on government Weibo use last year.  Mao Taotao, a Sina spokesman, didn’t answer an e-mail or
calls to his mobile phone and landline seeking comment.  It’s still comparatively rare for individual government
officials to set up accounts, said Lo Shih-hung, an associate
professor at the National Chung Cheng University’s Department of
Communication in  Taiwan . Lo estimates the total number of
microblogs verified as being owned by government officials and
agencies across all service providers has reached about 70,000.  Most Influential  Chen Shiqu, director of the Ministry of Public Security’s
anti-human trafficking office, was ranked in the report as the
government official with the most-influential microblog based on
metrics including numbers of followers, volume of posts and the
effectiveness of communication. Chen had 3.18 million followers
as of yesterday.  The report showed that lower level officials are more
likely than more senior officials to set up public accounts.
Only 34 individuals identified by the report were provincial or
ministry level government officials.  The government can stifle information even as it pushes its
version of events through social media, said  David Bandurski , a
researcher at the University of  Hong Kong ’s China Media Project.  “Social media are increasingly where stories break, and
where public opinion is formed,” Bandurski said. “This is the
major reason why government Weibo accounts are growing rapidly,
because they are one key way the government can stay on top of
breaking stories and try to head off unwanted news, rumors or
speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  