-- China Eases Rules on Overseas Listings as IPO Requests Swell
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-21T04:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/china-eases-rules-on-overseas-listings-as-ipo-requests-swell.html
China  relaxed rules for overseas
listings, scrapping decade-old financial requirements on
companies seeking to sell stock abroad as regulators study ways
to clear a backlog of applications for domestic offerings.  New  guidelines  for first-time share sales on overseas
markets, posted to the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s
website late yesterday, will from next year replace a  document 
issued in 1999. The rules “better accommodate” the financing
needs of smaller companies, the regulator said.  The number of companies awaiting approval for IPOs in China
swelled to more than 800 in December as regulators held back
from reviewing new applications on concern a flood of shares may
further weigh on the nation’s benchmark stock market, which is
headed for a third straight year of decline. Domestic IPOs in
the first 11 months raised less than half the amount a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under the previous rules, companies were required to
achieve annual net income of at least 60 million  yuan  ($9.6
million) and have net assets of 400 million yuan before they
could apply to list outside China. The size of the IPOs could
also be no less than $50 million, according to the 1999 rules.  The new rules don’t include these requirements. A company
can apply with the CSRC to list overseas if it meets the
standards of the market where it wants to sell stock, the CSRC
said. Companies do need to meet other requirements, including
getting relevant approvals from China’s environmental protection
ministry and for government enterprises to have the approval of
the state-owned assets supervisory commission.  Hong Kong will benefit from China’s policies to support
companies’ overseas expansion, according to Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. Measures such as lowering the threshold for
companies seeking to list in  Hong Kong  will encourage more small
Chinese businesses to raise money in the city, the accounting
firm said earlier this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  