-- China Publishes Anti-Smoking Plan, Won’t Have Pack Photos
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/china-publishes-anti-smoking-plan-won-t-have-pack-photos.html
China  published a plan to reduce the
world’s largest population of smokers as part of a 2005 treaty,
without implementing recommendations such as warning labels that
include photos of rotten teeth and diseased lungs.  China plans to cut the number of smokers to 25 percent of
the population by 2015 from 28.1 percent in 2010, according to
the plan published by the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology yesterday, seven years after the country signed the
 treaty  that recommends the graphic warning labels.  The government will “comprehensively” prohibit smoking in
public places and ban ads, promotion and sponsorship by tobacco
companies, according to the plan. There is no mention of tax
rates in the plan.  China has more than 300 million smokers, including half the
adult male population, and about 740 million people are exposed
to second-hand smoke risks, the ministry said. The tobacco
industry accounts for 20 million jobs and contributed 6 percent
of fiscal revenues in 2010, the ministry said.  “The plan carries a heavy smell of cigarettes,” Wu Yiqun,
a director at the Beijing-based  ThinkTank Research Center for
Health Development . “It’s a compromise result between the
tobacco industry and the Health Ministry, and it seems the
tobacco side has the upper hand.” The State Tobacco Monopoly
Administration was involved in the plan’s preparation.  Wu, a former deputy director at the Chinese Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, singled out the lack of graphic
photos as a weakness.  Australia ,  Canada  and most European Union
members have introduced such warnings or have agreed to do so,
according to the  World Health Organization  website.  ‘Weak’ Efforts  “It means China’s tobacco control efforts will be weak
compared to mainstream international practices,” Wu said. The
lack of any plan to increase taxes on tobacco is another
weakness, she said.  The  WHO  recommended in March that China should almost
triple excise taxes on tobacco products to 70 percent from  26
percent, to dissuade young people from taking up the habit. Half
of the country’s smokers spend 5  yuan  (80 cents) or less for a
packet of 20 cigarettes, the WHO said.  Smoking, which is linked to 1 million deaths a year in
China, is endangering the labor force, Health Minister Chen Zhu
said in April.  Using cigarettes as gifts or gestures of friendship is
still a popular practice in the country, and many poor regions
rely on the industry to generate jobs and fiscal revenue, the
industry ministry said.  Increasing Consumption  Cigarette production and consumption in China both
increased by 3 percent last year, according to data from
Bloomberg Industries. China’s share of world cigarette
consumption increased to 40 percent last year from 35 percent in
2006. Consumption in the rest of the world has declined steadily
since 2000.  The brother of Chinese Vice Premier Li Keqiang should be
removed from his post as a top official in China’s state-owned
tobacco monopoly to avoid conflicts of interest, according to a
report published by the Washington-based Brookings Institution
in October. Li last month took the No.2 position in China’s new
leadership and is now oversees public health.  China’s new tobacco plan was jointly prepared by the
ministries of industry, health, finance and foreign affairs; and
the general administrations of tobacco, customs, safety and
industry and commerce.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  