-- Citigroup Top Lobbyist Turns Christmas-Tree Seller for Holidays
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-12-21T18:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/citibank-s-top-lobbyist-turns-christmas-tree-seller-for-holidays.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Executive Vice
President Candi Wolff can talk about Christmas trees for hours.
She can tell you how an electric tree baler works, the
difference between a Colorado Blue Spruce and a Douglas Fir, and
that tree sales are a year-end economic indicator, although she
can’t quite tell you why.  Wolff can also recall the times former Vice President  Dick Cheney  and former President  George W. Bush  would phone while she
was working on her family’s Christmas tree farm in Round Hill,
Virginia.  “I’d say, ‘Hold on, I’m out selling trees, hold on!’” she
said in an interview. “And I’d run somewhere where I could
actually have a conversation.”  Wolff, 48, Citigroup’s head of global government affairs
and a former assistant to Bush for legislative affairs, has been
escaping the Beltway -- literally and figuratively -- for
Snickers Gap Tree Farm every winter since 1994. That’s when she
met her hydrogeologist husband, Mark Wolff, whose father started
planting trees on the 40-acre farm in 1981.  The mountainside farm 55 miles from the White House
provides a welcome break from Wolff’s corner office on
Pennsylvania Avenue, she says. There, she directs a staff of 42
and oversees Citi’s relations with more than 100 governments,
including the U.S. Aside from the poinsettia on her office
coffee table, you might not know that the lobbyist, named one of
 Washington ’s 25 most influential women in 2012 by the National
Journal, is also a Christmas tree aficionado.  ‘Getting’ Friends  You won’t know, that is, until she’s “gotten to you” --
her phrase for inviting you out to Snickers Gap -- as she’s done
with many Washington friends over the years.  “I would get my Hill colleagues,” said Wolff, who worked
for the Republican Senate Steering Committee and Policy
Committee during her first few years of farm visits. “We sort
of had this high-priced crowd out there -- we were the lawyers
or lobbyists.”  In those early days, Wolff helped work the baler, a netting
machine, because she had smaller fingers than the farm men and
was better at tying knots. Today, Snickers Gap trees have grown
too big for her to lift easily, so she sticks to customer-
related tasks like refilling the apple cider heater, giving
directions and handling the money -- a fitting job for someone
who has been a bank executive since May 2011.  Wolff says she enjoys interacting with customers, many of
them longtime Snickers Gap visitors, and that she finds the
retail experience “grounding,” in part because not all the
customers know who she is.  Wearing Jeans  “I’m wearing jeans and I’m kind of getting back to the
earth, if you will,” Wolff said.  As much as Wolff enjoys the farm, she says she doesn’t mix
business with pleasure. She chuckles at the mention of
agriculture policy, which she jokes about avoiding while at the
White House.  “It was never really my interest,” she said while walking
through a plot of firs. “I can do this and this is fun, but I
don’t want to understand ag policy.”  Fun it may be, though not exactly relaxing. The choose-and-
cut farm, which opens the weekend after the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday, is usually so busy during the first two weekends of
December that Wolff doesn’t have time to check her Blackberry
until sundown.  This year, Snickers Gap sold out of all but the largest
trees early, giving Wolff more time to chat with her family: Her
brother-in-law now owns the farm, her niece and nephew run the
“Snack Shack,” and her husband and teenage daughters help
customers claim their trees from the hillside.  Wolff says the simple human interaction away from
Washington’s Scrooges and stress is one of the tree farm’s
greatest holiday gifts.  “They’re out there for Christmas,” Wolff said. “For the
most part there’s not a bah-humbug mood. Occasionally you get a
few Grinches, but most people are just happy to be out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  