-- Citigroup Said to Give CCA Managers 75% Fund Stake for Free
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-12-21T15:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/citigroup-said-to-give-cca-managers-75-stake-in-funds-for-free.html
Among Vikram Pandit’s last jobs as
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s chief executive officer was to decide the fate
of the bank’s hedge-fund unit, which employs some of his oldest
colleagues. He agreed to give them most of it for free.  While Citigroup is keeping a 25 percent stake, managers at
the Citi Capital Advisors unit will pay nothing for the
remaining 75 percent of that business as it becomes a new firm
managing as much as $2.5 billion of the bank’s money, according
to people with knowledge of the plan. The lender will pay the
executives fees while gradually pulling out assets to comply
with impending U.S. rules, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the terms aren’t public.  The deal was Citigroup’s response to the Volcker rule,
which seeks to protect the financial system by restricting
banks’ hedge-fund investments and proprietary trading. Instead
of selling the funds or winding them down, the New York-based
bank will give managers time to attract money from other
investors while also granting them control of the business. CCA
executives, who make bets on assets ranging from risky European
loans to complex credit instruments, can wager with the lender’s
money until it’s withdrawn.  “They’re getting a couple of years to diversify the client
base away from Citi and to build a stand-alone firm,” said
Craig Cognetti, a partner with  Grail Partners LLC  in  New York .
“If these efforts are successful, this could be very lucrative
for the owners of the business.”  ‘Extremely Generous’  Jonathan Dorfman, 50, and  James O’Brien , 52, who once
worked with Pandit at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and are currently co-heads
of CCA, will run the new entity, the people said. They will own
about 25 percent of the firm. CCA portfolio managers and
employees will share a 50 percent stake, the people said.  If the deal proceeds, Dorfman and O’Brien could end up in
charge of a firm valued at more than $100 million, according to
Cognetti and Ezra Zask, the head of New York-based  SFC
Associates , which consults on hedge funds. They based their
estimates in part on internal CCA performance data in a report
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “The details of this spin-out seem to me to be extremely
generous to current employees,” said Gerald Hanweck, a former
Federal Reserve economist who’s now a finance professor at
 George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia. “It seems like an
awfully good deal. The alternative is for Citi to sell it off.
What’s stopping them from doing that?”  ‘Stable Transition’  The new firm, which has yet to be named, may include about
10 funds overseeing roughly $3.4 billion that use shareholders’
cash for bets on everything from mortgage-backed securities to
the debts of struggling companies, according to the CCA data,
which, according to the internal report, is unaudited. Citigroup
has as much as $2.5 billion invested in CCA hedge funds, one of
the people said.  Citigroup explored other options in a “thorough process”
for complying with the new regulation before deciding on the
current plan, said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
the bank, who declined to comment on the deal’s terms.  “The board and management both concluded that this
transaction allows us to accomplish our objectives and balance
the interests of the affected stakeholders,” she said in an e-
mailed statement. “It allows us to withdraw our proprietary
capital in an orderly manner, mitigates risk for shareholders
and provides a stable transition for investors.”  Careers Entwined  James von Moltke, a senior Citigroup investment banker,
helped design the deal, the people said. Pandit hired von Moltke
from Morgan Stanley in 2009 to help him dispose of unwanted
assets after the lender almost collapsed and took a $45 billion
bailout from U.S. taxpayers. Von Moltke declined to comment.  The Citigroup board ousted Pandit on Oct. 16 and replaced
him with  Michael Corbat , 52. Directors awarded Pandit $6.7
million in 2012 compensation and barred him from working for CCA
and a group of competing banks for a year. The board inserted
the CCA restriction into his pay package to avoid any suggestion
of a conflict of interest, according to a person with knowledge
of the directors’ intentions.  The careers of many of the Wall Street veterans who run CCA
have long been tied to Pandit’s. Citigroup bought Pandit’s Old
Lane Partners LP hedge fund for $800 million in 2007 in a deal
that brought him to the lender. CCA executives Mukesh Patel,
Rajeev Narang, Derrick Queen, Manu Rana and Kevin Bespolka also
joined from Old Lane, which the bank closed the next year.  Volcker Rule  Pandit’s first job at Citigroup was to lead the fund unit,
which managed about $11 billion of the bank’s money in private
equity,  venture capital  and hedge funds. Within months of his
arrival, Citigroup purchased Carlton Hill Global Capital LLC, a
hedge fund that O’Brien and Dorfman founded after they left
Morgan Stanley. They later rose to become co-heads of the unit
while Pandit became CEO.  Before his ouster, Pandit was among Wall Street CEOs
grappling with the approaching Volcker rule. The proposed
regulation, named after former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , bans
deposit-taking banks from owning more than 3 percent of a hedge
fund’s assets or investing more than 3 percent of  Tier 1 capital 
in the funds.  While the rule doesn’t go into effect until 2014, Wall
Street firms have begun to comply.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank , pulled about $800 million from hedge
funds this year through September, reducing the fair value of
its total investments to $2.45 billion, according to regulatory
filings. Morgan Stanley’s investments in hedge funds have
dropped 61 percent since the end of 2009 to $939 million,
filings show.  Few Choices  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. bank,
doesn’t operate in-house hedge funds, according to Jackie Fine,
a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender.
Investments with outside managers are a “small portion” of the
bank’s $1.45 billion “strategic capital portfolio,” Fine said
in a phone interview.  Pandit may have had few choices as he considered CCA’s
future, according to  Charles Whitehead , a law professor at
 Cornell University  who’s written about the Volcker rule.
Shutting the funds and quickly withdrawing Citigroup’s cash
could result in losses because the money may be tied up in
complicated bets, while granting managers a stake in the new
firm could provide incentive to improve returns and maximize the
bank’s stake, he said in a phone interview.  “Giving them 75 percent to divide up among themselves --
that’s a pretty strong incentive,” said Whitehead, a former
Citigroup executive who has no knowledge of the bank’s hedge-
fund strategy.  Management Fees  The new firm’s structure was based in part on Overland
Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that traces its roots to  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The
San Francisco-based bank spun off the fund in 2010 before
selling a majority stake to a company controlled by managers in
February. The lender didn’t disclose how much the managers paid
for Overland.  Citigroup hasn’t disclosed how much it intends to pay the
CCA executives in fees for managing its assets. That makes it
difficult to accurately value the firm, said Elizabeth Nesvold,
managing partner with Silver Lane Advisors LLC, an investment
bank that specializes in mergers and acquisitions of asset-
management companies.  Hedge-fund managers typically earn 2 percent of assets they
oversee and 20 percent of the profits. Citigroup may have
secured a “sweetheart” deal on management fees because it was
the early-stage investor in many CCA funds, which could reduce
the new firm’s initial value, Nesvold said.  ‘Highly Lucrative’  “The spinoff can still be highly lucrative for the
managers and Citigroup, if fund performance is compelling,”
Nesvold said.  That prospect wasn’t enough for Rajesh Kumar, head of the
unit’s mortgage hedge fund, who’s leaving in a dispute over the
new firm’s pay structure, the people said. Rather than receive
regular management fees, portfolio managers will instead get a
bigger slice of their funds’ profit, the people said. Kumar
thought this policy was unsustainable and would encourage
managers to take too many risks, one of the people said.  Kumar declined to comment on his plans when reached by
telephone. Romero-Apsilos also declined to comment.  Kumar was one of CCA’s best performers after he set up the
Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund in May 2008 with $200 million
of the bank’s money. His team returned 17 percent for the rest
of that year, as delinquent mortgages soared in the U.S. and
lenders including Citigroup teetered on collapse.  Outside Money  The fund invests in securities tied to mortgages, including
bonds backed by risky home loans and shares in real estate
investment trusts, or REITs. Kumar’s team gained 24 percent this
year through Nov. 8, the third-best performance among CCA
strategies, internal data show. The fund, which has about $460
million, most of which belongs to Citigroup, will still be part
of the new firm, the people said.  Kumar’s departure could harm the new entity’s efforts to
attract money from outside clients, said Don Steinbrugge,
managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-
based advisory firm. Investors tend to associate a fund’s
historical performance with its managers and that credibility
can suffer if the person leaves, he said.  CCA manager Mark Franklin also won’t be part of the new
entity and neither will his $1 billion  Emerging Markets  Special
Opportunities fund, or EMSO, the people said. The fund, CCA’s
biggest, will be part of a separate firm that he’ll run,
according to the people. Romero-Apsilos declined to comment on
who’ll own the business.  Other Funds  EMSO was one of CCA’s steadiest funds, internal data show.
It bets on developing-market debt and has returned an average 10
percent annually since it opened in May 2000. The fund gained
6.8 percent this year through Nov. 8, the data show.  Franklin has also had success raising money from new
investors. The New Mexico Educational Retirement Board, which
manages almost $10 billion, invested $75 million this year in
EMSO because it was “head and shoulders above the rest,”
according to minutes of a July 2011 meeting posted on the
 Albuquerque , New Mexico-based pension fund’s website.  While Citigroup’s investment in CCA represents a fraction
of the bank’s  $1.9 trillion  in assets, the unit’s strategies
show the risks that U.S. lenders are still able to take while
regulators prepare to enforce the Volcker rule. For Citigroup in
2012, many of those risks were rewarded.  Synthetic Portfolios  CCA’s London-based  European Credit Opportunities Fund 
soared 41 percent this year through Nov. 8, returning a profit
to the bank, which owns most of its $232 million in assets, one
of the people said. CCA executive Michael Micko invests in
leveraged loans and riskier debts of European companies,
according to the bank’s website.  Fred Hoffman oversees about $418 million in two CCA funds
that invest mostly Citigroup’s money in complicated credit
instruments, the people said. The Strategic Credit fund gained
14 percent through Nov. 8, reversing a loss of a similar size
last year, the data show.  Former Old Lane and Citigroup proprietary trader
Ramakrishna Putcha joined the Strategic Credit fund this year to
help it profit from riskier bonds and collateralized loan
obligations, or CLOs. These are holdings that bundle high-yield
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return.  Hoffman’s Synthetic Portfolio Equity fund, which invests
the bank’s money in complex credit derivative products, jumped
30 percent this year. Credit funds on average  gained  10 percent
in 2012 through October, according to a Bloomberg index.  Not ‘Efficient’  Others CCA funds haven’t performed as well. Bespolka’s $239
million  Global Macro Fund , which wagers on  interest rates  and
currencies, is down about 6 percent this year, the documents
show. The fund has gained less than 1 percent since its November
2008 inception, compared with the 9 percent increase in  a
Bloomberg index  of macro funds.  CCA managers also run a $322 million fund called D-Star,
which invests money for Singapore’s sovereign-wealth fund and is
up about 21 percent this year. A $517 million fund called C-Star
invests Citigroup’s money in other CCA funds, the people said.
The fund has gained 13 percent this year, the data show.  As regulators push banks to invest in safer assets to
prevent another financial crisis, keeping Citigroup money in
hedge funds is “not an efficient way” to use the bank’s
capital, said  Mark Williams , a lecturer at  Boston University  and
former Fed examiner.  ‘Lion’s Share’  “Citi  shareholders  are paying a cost right now for a
decision made a decade earlier to venture into risky hedge
funds,” Williams said. “They’ve got billions of dollars of
shareholder capital, which is really held hostage in this hedge-
fund segment.”  Pandit had to do something to respond to the Volcker rule
and withdrawing too quickly from CCA funds could destroy an
“immense amount” of shareholders’ money, Williams said. Still,
if the new firm is a success, the deal should ensure that
shareholders benefit as much as the CCA managers, he said.  “There’s got to be upside given back to the shareholders
who took the risk,” Williams said. “The Old Laners should not
be the ones that gain the lion’s share of the profit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  