-- CME Seen Next Predator as Speculators Mull NYSE: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-12-21T14:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/cme-seen-next-predator-as-speculators-mull-nyse-real-m-a.html
IntercontinentalExchange (ICE)  Inc.’s deal
to buy NYSE Euronext is pressuring  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
largest operator of futures exchanges, to mount a response.  IntercontinentalExchange is purchasing NYSE Euronext in an
$8.2 billion transaction announced yesterday to expand into
European derivatives as well as U.S. stocks and options. Even
before the bid, Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange was
 forecast  to boost sales almost three times faster through 2015
than CME, which has suffered from less trading of interest-rate
futures, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The increasing threat from IntercontinentalExchange could
compel CME to attempt to make an acquisition, Aite Group LLC
said. CME, like IntercontinentalExchange, has expanded in the
past decade through deals, buying the Chicago Board of Trade and
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and unsuccessfully trying this year
to purchase the London Metal Exchange.  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  Group Inc.
rallied the most since July yesterday, while  CBOE (CBOE)  Holdings Inc.
rose to a 29-month high, indicating takeover speculation,
Caldwell Securities Ltd. said.  “CME should be wary of this combination because it looks
to be pretty formidable,”  Michael Holland , who oversees more
than $4 billion in assets as chairman of New York-based Holland
& Co., said in a phone interview. “The ICE people have done a
very smart thing. CME should be concerned.”  Interest Rates  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based CME,
declined to comment on potential deals, as did New York-based
Nasdaq OMX’s Joseph Christinat and Chicago-based CBOE’s Gail Osten.  Founded in the 19th century, CME’s business spans
agricultural, energy, metal and financial futures linked to
things such as corn, oil, gold and  interest rates . The $17.1
billion company  expanded  in the past decade through
acquisitions, cementing its dominance in futures with the
Chicago Board of Trade and  New York  Mercantile Exchange owner
Nymex Holdings Inc.  If the deal for NYSE Euronext is completed, in 11 years
IntercontinentalExchange Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher  will have transformed an oil exchange in London into
the world’s second-biggest futures market by volume, according
to data compiled by the Futures Industry Association.  “What this means for the CME is a restructuring or
reorganization of their chief competitors,” James Angel, a
finance professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said
in a phone interview. “ICE has been a thorn in the CME’s side
for a number of years, and now they’re going to be bigger and
have even more products to compete against the CME.”  Biggest Business  Interest-rate futures are CME’s biggest business,
accounting for  27 percent  of clearing and transaction fees
revenue in 2011. NYSE Euronext’s Liffe market offers the
contracts in Europe, meaning Sprecher is buying a business that
puts him in more direct competition with CME. While trading has
slowed with central banks holding benchmark lending  rates  at
record lows since the global financial crisis,
IntercontinentalExchange’s purchase may be a sign it expects a
rebound, according to Stifel Financial Corp.’s Matthew Heinz.  “The market’s view is that this enhances the potential
competition around CME’s business within interest rates,”
Heinz, a Baltimore-based analyst with Stifel, said in a phone
interview. “But I see it a little bit different. To me, this is
a confirmation that Jeff Sprecher -- who’s tended to be a pretty
smart guy about these things -- believes there’s going to be a
turn in the interest-rate business eventually and he wants to be
there for it.”  Equity Options  IntercontinentalExchange is also expanding into U.S. stock
options by purchasing New York-based  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which in
November handled 25.6 percent of American trading volume,
according to data compiled by OCC. CME isn’t in that business,
nor is it involved with equity trading, an industry where the
New York Stock Exchange is among the biggest venues.  IntercontinentalExchange has a better growth outlook than
CME, with a projected 31 percent revenue increase from 2011 to
2015 versus 12 percent at the Chicago-based exchange operator,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.
IntercontinentalExchange offers futures based on energy
commodities such as  Brent crude , natural gas and heating oil,
and agricultural products such as coffee, cocoa and sugar. The
company also owns the world’s largest clearinghouse for credit-
default swaps, ICE Clear Credit LLC.  Hong Kong  CME tried to purchase the London Metal Exchange earlier
this year, and so did IntercontinentalExchange and NYSE
Euronext. The contest was ultimately won by  Hong Kong  Exchanges
& Clearing Ltd., which closed the 1.4 billion pound ($2.2
billion) transaction this month. CME never publicly entered the
bidding war for NYSE Euronext last year, when Deutsche Boerse
AG’s agreement to purchase the company prompted a joint
counteroffer from Nasdaq OMX and IntercontinentalExchange. Both
proposals were rejected by regulators.  The NYSE Euronext takeover agreement may have sparked
speculation yesterday of more deals in the industry, said  Thomas Caldwell , who oversees about $1 billion as chairman and chief
executive officer of Toronto-based Caldwell Securities.  While shares of CBOE and Nasdaq OMX rose after the
transaction was made public, CME’s stock retreated 2.3 percent
yesterday, a possible sign some investors anticipate CME also
doing a deal, he said. CBOE climbed 4 percent to $30.68, and
Nasdaq OMX advanced 3.5 percent to $26.11. Today, CBOE lost 1.2
percent at 9:37 a.m. New York time, while Nasdaq OMX declined
2.6 percent.  ‘Spook Somebody’  “It could spook somebody to do something,” he said in a
phone interview. The surge in CBOE’s stock “would be for no
reason other than the possibility that it could be considered in
play. Everybody is looking for a dance partner.”  A deal for CBOE, which owns the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange , or Nasdaq OMX would put CME on even footing with
IntercontinentalExchange in U.S. equity derivatives. CBOE
handled 26.4 percent of American trading last month, while
Nasdaq OMX controlled 25.6 percent, OCC data show.  CME and CBOE already have a common bond: exclusive rights
to futures and options, respectively, linked to the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. That shared connection would probably make it
easier for CME to buy CBOE,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at
Sandler O’Neil & Partners LP in New York, said in July.  Deals in the exchange industry are being driven by the
desire to diversify, said Howard Tai, a  Kansas City , Missouri-
based analyst with Aite Group.  “It makes total sense for me that CME will now try to find
an acquisition target, preferably with a stock-listing
business,” he said in a phone interview.  Stock Duopoly  While U.S. stock trading is spread across dozens of venues,
including exchanges run by Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct
Edge Holdings LLC, NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX have a duopoly
for stock listings in the nation. Even though American equity
trading has slowed, it’s not inconceivable that
IntercontinentalExchange and CME would position themselves for a
recovery, Tai said.  “When commodities are no longer en vogue, maybe stocks
make a comeback,” he said. “The point is, you want to be
diverse. You don’t want to have all your eggs in one basket.”  Still, given that CME is the leader in the futures
industry, it doesn’t necessarily have to make a purchase in
response to IntercontinentalExchange’s transaction, said  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $7.5 billion as a  money manager  at
Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc.  “I don’t see a major concern for CME right now,” he said
in a phone interview. “Just because one does a deal doesn’t
mean the other is forced to, but they do have to be more nimble.
They’re obviously sharpening their pencils and looking at what
they can and can’t do going forward.”  Caldwell says CME may feel compelled to strike a deal.  “I’d stay tuned,” he said. “These tend to happen in
bunches. I wouldn’t be surprised if CME said, ‘Why don’t we make
a bid?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  