-- Colombia Cuts Rate to 4.25% to Lift Slowest Andean Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-12-21T23:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/colombia-cuts-policy-rate-to-4-25-to-lift-slowest-andean-growth.html
Colombia ’s central bank cut interest
rates for a second consecutive meeting today, as policy makers
try to revive the slowest economic growth in the Andean region.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, cut its  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter point to
4.25 percent, as forecast by 11 of 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twenty-one analysts forecast no change in the rate.
Uribe said the vote wasn’t unanimous.  “The Colombian economy is growing below its potential, and
observed and projected inflation is falling below the 3 percent
target with no looming upward pressure on it in the future,”
policy makers said in their  statement  posted on the bank’s web
site. Speaking after the decision in Bogota, Finance Minister
Mauricio Cardenas said the economy’s potential growth rate is
4.3 percent to 4.8 percent  Policy makers have lowered borrowing costs at four of their
last six board meetings, citing the weakening global economy,
giving Colombia the lowest borrowing costs in the region
alongside  Peru . Today’s decision comes after the Andean nation’s
growth rate fell to a three-year low in the third quarter, and
inflation slowed below the mid-point of its target range for the
first time since April 2011.  “We see inflation that is under control, that could end
the year at 2.5 percent,” Juan David Ballen, an analyst at
brokerage Alianza Valores SA, said in a phone interview from
Bogota before the decision. “The bank has the space to keep
cutting the rate to react to the possibility of an equally bad
fourth quarter.”  Slowing Down  Ballen, who has the most accurate track record of calling
Colombian central bank decisions in Bloomberg survey, changed
his forecast to a cut from a hold after the national statistics
agency yesterday reported a slump in growth in the third
quarter. He expects one more quarter-point cut in January.  The economy grew  2.1 percent  in the third quarter from a
year earlier, compared with 4.9 percent in the previous three
months. The result was weaker than all 28 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey, where the median estimate was 3.9 percent.  Uribe today said that domestic demand “decelerated
significantly.” Growth trailed Peru,  Chile  and  Mexico , while
out-pacing  Brazil ’s, the only other major Latin economy that has
cut borrowing costs over the past six months.  Cardenas today said that fourth quarter growth will be
better than the third quarter result and that 2013 growth will
be closer to potential.  The yield on the government’s 9.25 percent debt due in May
2014 fell 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 4.57
percent this week, as traders increased bets on  interest rate 
cuts.  Prices, Growth Potential  Consumer prices fell 0.14 percent in November, pushing
annual inflation to 2.77 percent from 3.06 percent the month
before. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus
one percentage point.  The central bank may trim its 2013 forecast after measures
of so-called “core” inflation, which exclude volatile food and
fuel prices, slowed last month, Uribe said in a Dec. 12
interview. Policy makers’ current forecast is for prices to rise
3 percent next year.  When inflation is close to the central bank’s target, rate
policy depends to a large extent on whether the economy is
growing faster or slower than its so-called potential rate,
board member Cesar Vallejo said in a Dec. 18 telephone
interview.  The bank estimates the economy can expand 4.2 percent to
5.3 percent a year without triggering faster inflation.  Analysts surveyed by the central bank forecast inflation of
2.64 percent this year, and 3.10 percent in 2013, according to
the most recent monthly survey.  Consumer credit  expanded 18.8 percent in October from a
year earlier, compared with 21 percent in June. The central
bank’s concern over excess consumer credit has “diminished
significantly” as loan growth slowed this year, Uribe said Dec.
12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 