-- Colombia Bonds Rally on Tax Rate Cut for Foreigners; Peso Rises
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-12-21T23:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/colombia-entices-foreign-investors-by-halving-bond-tax-to-14-.html
Colombia ’s bonds jumped, pushing
benchmark yields to record lows, and the peso gained after
Congress voted to reduce a tax on foreigners’ bond profits by
more than half.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
securities due in 2024, known as TES, dropped 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.72 percent, the lowest level
since the securities were issued in 2009, according to the
central bank. The bond’s price gained 1.315 centavos to 135.444
centavos per peso.  The levy will fall to 14 percent from 33 percent for
foreign investors except those from countries considered  tax
havens , who will be taxed at a 25 percent rate, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters in Bogota yesterday. The
changes are part of a wider tax initiative approved by Congress
today that lowered payroll contributions while increasing taxes
on revenue.  “This is bullish for local bonds,” said  Camilo Perez ,
head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s second-biggest
bank.  Local peso bonds also gained on speculation the central
bank would lower the  overnight lending rate  today for a second
straight month to buoy growth in the Andean country, according
to Perez.  After the close of market, Banco de la Republica announced
it lowered the key rate a quarter point to 4.25 percent, as
forecast by 11 of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The other
21 analysts forecast no change in the rate.  The peso climbed 0.7 percent to 1,776.85 per  U.S. dollar ,
the strongest level on a closing basis since July 18. It
extended its rally this year to 9.1 percent.  Cardenas said the government may take measures to stem
gains in the peso should the tax cut lead to further
appreciation. In August, the Treasury joined the central bank in
buying dollars in the foreign-exchange market to curb the peso’s
rally.  ‘Other Instruments’  “If this leads to problems with the  exchange rate , we’ll
resort to other instruments,” Cardenas said. “We can’t lose
the chance of lower borrowing costs in Colombia.”  Yesterday’s agreement between the lower house and the
Senate ended weeks of negotiations that caused volatility in the
local  debt market . Lawmakers rejected a Senate initiative for a
rate of 25 percent for all foreigners. The government proposed
the bill to lure more foreign investment to the  bond market  and
reduce its borrowing costs.  Yield Spread  Colombia’s benchmark local bonds due in 2024 yield 1.52
percentage points more than its overseas peso securities,
compared with a gap of 2.18 percentage points in November.
Nomura Holdings Inc. forecasts the gap between local securities
and the overseas bonds will narrow further.  “The reduction in the tax could trigger an important
inflow into the local market,” Mario Castro, a strategist at
Nomura, wrote in a report today. “Foreigners will gradually
migrate into the local market because it is more liquid and
offers more attractive yields than Global TES.”  About 3 percent of TES securities are held by foreigners,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  