-- Congress Probably Can’t Avoid Fiscal Cliff, Brady Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/congress-probably-can-t-avoid-fiscal-cliff-brady-says.html
Congress won’t reach a deal this
year to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic spending
cuts and tax increases scheduled to start in January, a senior
House Republican predicted.  “With the clock ticking, it just becomes increasingly
unlikely we can come together before New Year’s Day,”
Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  House Speaker  John Boehner  and President  Barack Obama  will
continue talking over the next 10 days, Brady said. He didn’t
rule out using Obama’s latest offer to Republicans as the basis
for an eventual agreement with additional spending cuts added.  “Why don’t they move that bill out of the Senate and so
that the House can take up those provisions, if they’re real,
with real, authentic spending cuts, and then let’s see if we
can’t build that bridge,” said Brady, a member of the tax-
writing Ways and Means Committee. “We are having trouble
building that bridge from our side.”  Boehner’s “Plan B,” which would have extended tax cuts on
incomes below $1 million, fell apart Dec. 20 amid resistance
from Republicans who didn’t want higher taxes on anyone. Boehner
scrapped a scheduled vote after he and other leaders had
declared confidence that Republicans would pass it.  January Impact  If Congress doesn’t act, more than $600 billion in spending
cuts and tax increases will begin taking effect in January. As
many as two-thirds of households won’t be able to file tax
returns until at least late March, and the economy would
probably go into recession in the first half of 2013, according
the  Congressional Budget Office .  Obama said yesterday he has urged leaders of both parties
to get working on an interim measure to prevent taxes from
rising on middle-income Americans even as they work on a more
comprehensive package.  “I am still ready and willing to get a comprehensive
package done,” Obama said less than 24 hours after Boehner
failed to deliver enough Republican votes for his own plan.  The president met earlier yesterday at the White House with
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, to discuss
a strategy for advancing the negotiations.  Like Boehner, Brady called on Obama and the Democratic-
controlled Senate to come up with a plan that both parties can
accept.  Entitlements Push  Before Boehner moved to Plan B, Obama had offered to start
 tax rate  increases at $400,000 instead of $250,000, reduce
future increases in Social Security benefits and drop his tax
increase demand to $1.2 trillion from $1.4 trillion.  Brady, 57, said Obama’s most recent offer needs more
spending cuts, such as raising the retirement ages for Social
Security and Medicare.  “He hasn’t come close to matching what we’ve agreed to do,
which is to take revenue -- significant amounts of revenue --and
put them on the table,” said Brady, who has been in Congress
since 1997. “And all those proposals that address  Social
Security , Medicare, are only because we have pushed so hard as
Republicans to make that happen.”  Just as Boehner wasn’t able to deliver Republican votes for
a higher tax rate, Obama may not be able to deliver Democratic
votes for benefit cuts, Brady said.  Gun Control  “While he has talked about doing that, Democrats in the
House and Senate this week were insisting that they come off the
table,” he said. “And so I don’t think he’s actually even sold
that to his own party for the most part.”  On guns, Brady said the question of why there are mass
shootings is “much deeper and broader” than the “old warmed-
up debates” on  gun control .  Brady recounted how his father was killed in a courthouse
shooting, leaving his mother alone with five children.  “I don’t want that to happen to any other family, but I am
not convinced that the gun control provisions that are out there
will change that or prevent that,” he said. “I think, frankly,
we need to take a much broader look at this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  