-- Americans Look Past Fiscal Debate as Spending Rises: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-21T21:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/consumer-spending-in-u-s-rose-in-november-as-incomes-rebounded.html
Americans looked past the debate on
fiscal policy in November as  consumer spending  and demand for
durable goods climbed, indicating the economy strengthened
heading into the current impasse on tax rates and spending cuts.  Household purchases rose 0.4 percent last month after a 0.1
percent drop in October that was smaller than first estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . Orders
for long-lasting items such as machinery and computers increased
0.7 percent, more than twice the 0.3 percent advance projected
by the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
according to other Commerce Department data.  Gains in employment and housing encouraged consumers to buy
gifts for the holidays last month and replace autos damaged by
superstorm Sandy. Concern that lawmakers will fail to avert more
than $600 billion in tax increases and  government spending  cuts
slated to begin in January contributed to a slump in household
confidence this month and caused stocks to tumble today, raising
the risk that the rebound will be short-lived.  “The numbers are encouraging,” said  Brian Jones , a senior
U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York , who correctly
forecast the increase in spending. “There’s business that has
to get done whether or not these guys iron out this thing in
Washington in a timely fashion. We’re going to start the year
off slowly and gradually build momentum” because there will
probably be a last-minute deal, he said.  Shares Sink  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 at the close in New York after House Republican leaders
canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners, sending budget
talks deeper into turmoil. All 10 groups in the equity benchmark
fell.  Globally, Britain’s economy expanded less than previously
estimated in the third quarter and the  budget deficit 
unexpectedly widened in November, complicating Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s attempts to bolster the recovery.  Economists’ projections for November U.S. consumer spending
ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.7 percent. The Commerce
Department initially reported that October spending dropped 0.2
percent.  The report also showed  incomes  climbed 0.6 percent in
November, the most since February, after a 0.1 percent increase
the prior month. Superstorm Sandy cut pay by about $18.2 billion
at an annual rate in October, the Commerce Department said.
Economists projected incomes would increase 0.3 percent,
according to the median estimate.  Wages Rebound  Wages and salaries also advanced 0.6 percent in November
after falling 0.3 percent a month earlier. Because the increase
in pay surpassed the gain in spending, the saving rate climbed
to 3.6 percent in November from 3.4 percent the prior month.  Industry figures show car and light truck  sales  rebounded
in November as buyers returned to showrooms following the storm.
Light vehicles sold at 15.5 million annual rate last month, the
most since 2008, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  The  holiday shopping season  also started off strongly, with
consumers spending 13 percent more during the four-day U.S.
Thanksgiving weekend than in the same period in 2011. Purchases
rose to $59.1 billion from Nov. 22 through Nov. 25 from $52.4
billion last year, according to the  National Retail Federation .  Today’s report showed inflation-adjusted spending, the
figures used to calculate economic growth, increased 0.6 percent
in November, the biggest gain since August 2009. Price-adjusted
purchases of durable goods, including automobiles, rose 2.9
percent after a 0.9 percent October drop.  Durable Goods  The increase in demand for durable goods such as machinery
and electronics in November showed companies were planning to
expand next year as they looked beyond the tax increases and
spending cuts slated to take effect.  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future business investment, rose 2.7 percent last
month after a revised 3.2 percent gain in October that was
larger than previously estimated, today’s report on durable
goods showed.  Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 1.8 percent in November, the biggest
gain in eight months, after a 0.6 percent advance the prior
month that was previously estimated as a 0.1 percent decline.
The back-to-back advance indicates business spending is
rebounding this quarter.  Companies will probably be more willing to invest as global
growth stabilizes and American consumers keep spending.
Manufacturers such as  Comtech Telecommunications Corp. (CMTL)  are
looking for clarity from Washington to spur a rebound in
government orders.  Washington ‘Paralysis’  “The ongoing paralysis in Washington continues to make the
receipt of orders a challenge” Fred Kornberg, chief executive
officer of Melville, New York-based Comtech Telecommunications,
said on a Dec. 7 earnings call referring to demand from
government customers. “We were hoping for some additional
clarity once the presidential election was over. But worry about
the election has now been replaced by panic about the fiscal
cliff.”  Concern about the deliberations was evident as another
report showed  consumer confidence  slumped this month. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer sentiment  index
decreased to 72.9, the weakest since July, from 82.7 in
November. Economists projected a final reading of 75 for
December, according to the median of 66 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Today’s figure was lower than a preliminary report
earlier this month.  The figures contrast with Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort
Index, which climbed to an eight-month high last week as the
housing rebound and a drop in gasoline prices helped offset
concern about the tax outlook.  Jobs, Incomes  The strength of consumer spending early next year depends
on whether  job creation  will feed into income growth and whether
Congress allows taxes to rise in January, thereby eating into
Americans’ paychecks. A healing housing market will also help
stir spending by boosting household wealth, and  falling  gasoline
prices could shore up buying power.  “Consumers will need to prioritize how and where they are
spending,”  Robert Hull , chief financial officer of home-
improvement retailer Lowe’s Cos. Inc., said during a Dec. 5
investor conference. “The lead-up to the fiscal cliff and its
outcome has the potential to negatively impact both consumer and
business spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  