-- Oil Declines Most in Two Weeks on U.S. Budget Delay
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-12-21T12:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/crude-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-july-on-u-s-economy.html
Oil declined the most in more than
two weeks because of concern that U.S. lawmakers may fail to
avert spending cuts and tax increases that threaten the economy
of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  West Texas Intermediate dropped as much as 1.6 percent,
paring a second weekly gain, after House Speaker  John Boehner 
scrapped a plan to allow higher tax rates on annual income above
$1 million, throwing talks on budget issues known as the fiscal
cliff into turmoil. Oil rose a fifth day yesterday, the longest
rally since September, after government data showed the  U.S.
economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
higher than a previous estimate of 2.7 percent.  “We are seeing a negative reaction to Republicans
rejecting the latest proposal on tax hikes,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a commodities analyst at VTB Capital in London,
said in an e-mail. “It could have a U.S. demand impact.”  WTI for February delivery fell as much as $1.45 to $88.68 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest drop since Dec. 6, and was at $89.23 at
12:21 p.m. London time. Prices are up 2.9 percent this week. The
volume for all West Texas Intermediate futures today was about 4
percent lower than the 100-day average.  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid as much as $1.05, or 1 percent, to
$109.15 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was at a $20.47
premium to WTI, from $20.07 yesterday. The volume traded for all
Brent futures today was about 33 percent lower than the 100-day
average.  Brent-WTI Spread  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its forecast for Brent’s
premium to WTI by $10 a barrel after a Bloomberg report that the
upgrade of the largest crude unit at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting refinery
was delayed.  The bank cut its three-month outlook for the U.S. benchmark
to $101 a barrel from $111, while leaving its target for Brent
at $115, thereby moving the forecast for the Brent-WTI spread to
$14 from $4.  WTI has dropped 9.7 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s largest
storage hub and the delivery point for New York futures. That
has left it at an average discount of $17.44 a barrel to Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the five
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has climbed 2 percent this year.  The fiscal cliff refers to more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases are set to start in
the U.S. next month unless an agreement to avert the measures is
reached. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said that failing
to resolve the issue would probably lead to a recession in the
first half of 2013.  Budget Talks  House members and senators won’t vote on the end-of-year
budget issues until after Christmas, giving them less than a
week to reach an agreement.  “The fiscal cliff is the key driver,” said Ric Spooner, a
chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The GDP figure
helped to create a bit of confidence and perhaps caused some
upward adjustments to growth forecasts.”  Crude also fell as a technical indicator showed futures
have risen too quickly for further gains to be sustainable. On
the daily chart, crude settled above its upper Bollinger Band
yesterday for the first time since mid-September. The indicator
was at $90 a barrel today. Investors typically sell contracts
when the market is overbought.  Oil may advance next week as stronger demand for fuels
reduces inventories, a Bloomberg survey showed. Twelve of 31
analysts and traders, or 39 percent, forecast crude will rise
through Dec. 28. Eleven respondents, or 36 percent, predicted a
decrease and eight forecast little change. Last week, 39 percent
of those surveyed projected a decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  