-- Currency War Looms as Central Banks Talk Forex: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/currency-war-looms-as-central-banks-talk-forex-cutting-research.html
Emerging markets  may have further
reason to complain about perceived currency wars next year as
central banks in rich nations become more aggressive in chasing
the economic boost of weaker exchange rates.  After a year in which developing nations such as Brazil
accused the U.S. and other advanced economies of driving
exchange rates down through quantitative easing, strategists at
Royal Bank of  Canada  say Group of 10 central banks are becoming
even more active in trying to lower currencies.  “We find substantial evidence that exchange rates are
playing a greater role in central banks’ policy decisions,”
said strategists  Adam Cole  and Elsa Lignos in a Dec. 14 report.
“It would seem that G-10 is doomed to follow EM central banks
down the path of rising intervention or at least exchange rate
driven policy.”  They found many of the G-10 central banks are increasingly
highlighting currency concerns and signaling they may do
something about them.  To measure that, the authors created a so-called verbal
intervention index, trawling through three years of monetary
policy statements and assessments for currency references. They
then designed a scorecard running from zero to 10. The lowest
number amounts to a mere comment and the highest refers to
explicitly setting monetary policy to achieve a certain exchange
rate.  The findings show that aside from the  Swiss National Bank ,
which caps the franc against the euro, Norway’s central bankers
indicate the highest level of concern by often linking a strong
krone to the possibility of an  interest rate  cut. Sweden’s
Riksbank has shown spikes in concern, such as in September after
the krona strengthened.  The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  appears to be the most
sensitive to a change in its dollar, raising the level of verbal
intervention one month and dropping it the next, RBS said. By
contrast, the  Reserve Bank of Australia  shows the lowest level
of worry.  The RBC strategists omitted the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
 European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  from their indexes
because they had not made any relevant currency references
during the sample period.  Aggregating the results, RBC’s intervention index shows a
reading of four, up from around one at the start of 2011. A four
may mean the central bank is expressing a negative opinion on
currencies or that the exchange rate is a barrier to growth.  With Japan’s incoming prime minister, Shinzo Abe, also
eyeing a weaker yen, global policy makers are already on guard.  “My concern is that in 2013 we’ll see the growth of
actively managed exchange rates as an alternative to the use of
domestic monetary policy.” Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said Dec. 11.  * * *  Manhattan  apartments may present less of a money-making
opportunity at the moment even if their market values remain
below 2008 highs, according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York .  While most of the U.S. witnessed sharp declines in housing
prices, the drop in Manhattan was not as sharp, economist Jason Bram wrote in a  New York  Fed  publication  this week.  His study of price-rent ratios in the borough showed that
while apartment rents are driven by supply and demand,
speculation powers sale prices to levels that can become out of
line with rents.  Current rent levels,  mortgage rates  and property taxes make
it difficult to account for the high price of apartments without
assuming future price appreciation of at least 4 percent a year,
Bram said.  He said recent reports of accelerating rents and stable
apartment prices suggest people may already have “tempered
their expectations for price appreciation.”  * * *  U.K. senior citizens are increasingly driving British
employment.  There are now almost one million people aged 65 or older in
jobs, double the number from 10 years ago and up 13 percent over
the past year, according to a Dec. 12  report  by the London-based
Institute for Employment Studies.  Although these workers comprise only three percent of the
 working population , they account for 20 percent of the recent
growth in employment, Jim Hillage, director of research, said in
the report.  Thirty percent work in managerial and professional jobs,
compared with only nine percent of 16 to 24 year olds. By
contrast, 34 percent of the young work in sales, care and
leisure, compared with only 14 percent of the old. Almost four
in 10 older workers are self-employed, compared with five
percent of younger workers.  Reasons for the trend: Employers want to retain skills,
the self-employed want to maintain their interests and some
older people find their pensions inadequate, Hillage said.  * * *  Sprinter Usain Bolt and cyclist Bradley Wiggins have
another reason to celebrate their Olympic victories this year:
They are likely to live longer.  A study published in this month’s British Medical Journal
found more Olympic medalists were alive 30 years after their win
then the general population.  Medalists lived an average of 2.8 years longer the rest of
the population. It’s all right to be less than the best: gold,
silver and bronze winners all had similar survival advantages,
the study showed.  Medalists in endurance sports such as long distance
running had a larger survival advantage than those in power
sports such as weightlifting, the  report  said.  It was based on 15,174 athletes from nine countries who won
medals in the  Olympic Games  from 1896 to 2010.  * * *  European governments could spur economic recoveries by
removing barriers to business investment.  That’s the recommendation of McKinsey & Co.’s research arm,
which calculates in a report on its website this month that
private investment dropped by 354 billion euros ($469 billion)
from 2007 to 2011 -- 20 times the fall in private consumption.  That’s even though publicly traded companies in the 27-
member European Union had 750 billion euros in excess cash
holdings in 2011, close to the most in two decades, the McKinsey
Global Institute  said . That provides a potential  power source  at
a time when debt is crippling consumers and governments.  “By removing regulatory barriers, European governments
could, at a relatively low cost, unlock short-term private
investment that would contribute to growth -- and inspire
confidence in firms that have hesitated to launch their own
dormant investment plans,” the report said. Sectors such as
energy and transportation are especially ripe, it said.  * * *  Women wanting to earn more money should avoid careers
dominated by men, according to a study published this week in
the British Sociological Association’s Sociology journal.  The survey of 20 advanced economies found that in places
where men and women tended to work in different occupations, the
pay inequality between them was lower. The biggest gap was in
Japan. Slovenia was fairest to women, who earned slightly more
than males.  The greater the degree of segregation, the less the
possibility for discrimination against women, the researchers
said. In nursing, for example, the fewer the number of male
nurses, the more senior positions must be filled by women.  Average pay was almost equal across the sexes in  Mexico ,
 Brazil , Sweden and Hungary, according to the researchers from
Warwick Business School, University of Cambridge and Lakehead
University in Canada. The U.S. ranked sixth.  Women in the Czech Republic,  Austria  and the Netherlands
fared particularly badly, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  