-- Cyprus Writeoff Prospect Roils Policy Makers Plotting Bailout
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-21T09:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/cyprus-writeoff-prospect-roils-policy-makers-plotting-bailout.html
European policy makers struggled
with the prospect of a writeoff of Cyprus’ debt, stuck between
their pledge that  Greece  was a one-off and an International
Monetary Fund push for sustainable finances there.  It’s “foreseeable” that Cyprus’ debt level after a
bailout to aid its banks will be so high that “it is no longer
sustainable,” European Central Bank Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen said on  Germany ’s ARD television today.  The former deputy German finance minister was contradicted
minutes later by  Jean-Claude Juncker , Luxembourg Prime Minister
and head of the group of euro finance ministers. “We made an
exception for a private-sector debt writedown in Greece, we
didn’t say Greek-speaking countries,” he told Deutschlandfunk.  European leaders imposed losses on holders of Greek notes,
in the biggest sovereign restructuring ever. Standard & Poor’s
cut Cyprus’s long-term debt rating for the third time in five
months and said today it sees the risk of a sovereign debt
default as “considerable and rising.”  Cyprus’s public debt will be 97 percent of gross domestic
product next year and 103 percent in 2014, the European
Commission forecasts. S&P expects it to rise “well above 100
percent” in a bailout aimed at shoring up the country’s banks.  Cyprus has been bogged down in negotiations with the IMF
and European authorities since June, when it became the fifth
euro-area nation to request assistance. Cypriot banks lost more
than 4 billion euros in Greece’s debt restructuring.  ‘Unhealthy’ Speculation  “I don’t expect a debt writedown to be one of the priority
instruments and I’d like to rule it out,” Juncker said in a
radio interview with Deutschlandfunk. “It would be unhealthy to
speculate about that.”  The IMF said yesterday “discussions continue between the
Cypriot authorities, the IMF and the European partners on
determining a financing solution for the country that is
consistent with debt sustainability,” raising the prospect of a
write-down.  The IMF added it doesn’t expect discussions to conclude
this year.  Cyprus Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said a writedown
would be pointless since most  government bonds  are held by local
banks, Athens News Agency reported today.  Juncker said he hopes the euro area’s 17 finance ministers
will “almost conclusively” deal with issues related to Cyprus
at a meeting in January. “It will be tough to explain to the
northern European taxpayer that we have to act on Cyprus, still,
it needs to happen,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  