-- Democrats in Congress Say Boehner Must Seek Bipartisan Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-12-21T21:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/democrats-in-congress-say-boehner-should-work-on-bipartisan-plan.html
Democratic leaders in Congress
called on House Speaker  John Boehner  to resume talks on averting
more than $600 billion in tax-and-spending changes starting in
January, saying a solution must be bipartisan.  President  Barack Obama  plans to make a statement on the
budget today at 5 p.m.  Washington  time, the White House said.
Obama was meeting with Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
according to an administration official who spoke on condition
of anonymity.  “A comprehensive solution to the looming fiscal cliff will
need to be a bipartisan solution,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
said on the chamber’s floor today. “No comprehensive agreement
can pass either chamber without both Democrats and Republican
votes.”  Late yesterday, Boehner scrapped his plan to allow higher
tax rates on annual income above $1 million because he lacked
the votes in his Republican caucus to pass it. His action threw
the already-stalled budget talks into turmoil as Boehner said
Obama and Reid should come up with legislation to avoid the
spending cuts and tax increases in 2013.  “Let’s go back to the negotiating table,” House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said at a news
conference.  Reid said Republican divisions in the House are the reason
no budget deal is getting done.  “It’s because the Republicans in the House are fighting
among themselves,” Reid said.  Until Dec. 17, Obama and Boehner had been edging closer to
a deal that would have included about $1 trillion each in tax
increases and spending cuts.  After Christmas  Now that Boehner has pulled his plan, the House and Senate
don’t plan to return until Dec. 27 to address the end-of-year 
budget issues. That will give them less than a week to reach 
agreementvto avert the tax increases and spending cuts set to 
take effect in January.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the ranking
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said Boehner “should
bring a bipartisan bill to the floor and let the House work its
will.”  “This House will say yes to a bipartisan bill,” said  Van
Hollen .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 at the close of trading in  New York . The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid 120.9 points, or 0.9 percent, to
13,190.84. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.75 percent at
2:59 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data.  ‘Perception’ on Taxes  Earlier today, Boehner said some members of the Republican
caucus refused to back his tax measure because they didn’t want
to be accused of raising taxes.  It was “not the outcome I wanted, but it was the will of
the House,” said Boehner, 63, of  Ohio . “They were dealing with
the perception that someone might accuse them of raising
taxes.”  Democrats and Republicans are fighting over whether George W. Bush-era tax cuts due to expire Dec. 31 should be extended
for everyone, as Republicans want, or whether rates should rise
for top earners, as Obama and other Democrats advocate.  Boehner said he pushed his alternative plan in the House to
“jump start and try to kick into gear some action by the Senate
to avert these tax increases going into effect Jan. 1.”  Boehner said he and Obama had traded “bottom line” offers
on spending cuts and taxes. The speaker urged the Senate to take
up legislation the House passed Aug. 1 that would extend the
current rates on all taxpayers.  Proposal ‘Laughable’  In the Senate, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said Democrats should bring that bill up, allow
amendments “from all sides,” and take the measure to a
conference committee with the House.  Reid called the proposal “laughable.” McConnell “is
struggling to find a way to blame Democrats,” Reid said. “To
blame us for that travesty that took place over there” in the
House, “that is pretty incredible.”  In his most recent tax proposal, Obama said he would be
willing to extend tax cuts for households earning as much as
$400,000 a year. Until Boehner made his $1 million threshold
offer last week, Republicans had opposed tax rate increases for
any income level.  If Congress doesn’t act, the policy changes starting in
January include higher income tax rates at all income levels,
the end of a 2 percentage point cut in the  payroll tax , higher
tax rates on  capital gains , estates and dividends, and automatic
spending cuts, about half in defense programs.  Next Year  “It looks like, to me, that obviously this is going to
drag on into next year, which is going to hurt our economy,”
Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for the program “Capitol
Gains,” airing Dec. 23. “So this will just drag on and on.”  Still, Chad Stone, chief economist at the  Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities  in Washington, said this month that
instead of “fiscal cliff,” he prefers the term “fiscal
slope” to describe how the effects would accumulate gradually
over a matter of months during 2013. The components also can be
reversed if a deal is reached early in 2013, he said.  In a message to Treasury Department employees, Deputy
Secretary Neal Wolin said day-to-day operations wouldn’t change
dramatically in January if the automatic cuts take effect.
Furloughs may be possible later if the issue is unresolved for
an extended period of time, he wrote.  Political Forces  The failure of Boehner’s proposal cast doubt on his ability
to navigate the competing political and legislative forces
bearing down on him. To get a tax-and-spending deal, Boehner
must gain enough support from Republicans to keep control of his
party while relying on Democrats for the votes needed to send
any measure to Obama.  “It weakens the entire  Republican Party , the Republican
majority,” said Representative Steven LaTourette, a nine-term
Ohio Republican who is retiring after this session. “If you’re
not a governing majority, you’re not going to be a majority very
long.”  That view was underscored by the results of an
ABC/Washington Post poll released this morning. In it, 53
percent of Americans said the Republican Party needs less
conservative policies that are more focused on middle-income and
lower-income Americans, while 38 percent said the party needs
better leaders to sell its policies. The telephone poll of 1,002
adults, conducted Dec. 13-16, has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  