-- Desert Locusts Threaten Egypt, Saudi Arabia as Swarms Lay Eggs
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-21T16:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/desert-locusts-threaten-egypt-saudi-arabia-as-swarms-lay-eggs.html
Egypt, Sudan and Saudi Arabia face a
threatening desert-locust situation as winter breeding of the
pest insect is in progress, the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization said.  Small swarms arrived on the Red Sea coast last month from
summer-breeding areas in the interior of Sudan and laid eggs
that recently hatched, the UN’s Rome-based agency wrote on its
 Locust Watch  website today.  Egypt is Africa’s biggest wheat grower, with expected
output of 8.5 million metric tons in 2012-13, according to the
International Grains Council. An adult desert locust can eat its
own weight in food daily, according to the FAO.  “Egg laying is continuing in Egypt and control operations
are in progress,” the UN agency wrote. “So far, infestations
are confined.”  In southeast Egypt and northeast Sudan, immature locusts
known as hoppers are forming bands, while on  Saudi Arabia ’s
coast north of Jeddah control operations are in progress against
hoppers, with more hatching expected in coming weeks, the FAO
said.  Ground-control operations continue in northern  Niger  and
western  Mauritania  against hoppers and adult locusts, the FAO
said. In  Algeria , control teams treated small groups of hoppers
and egg-laying adults along the country’s southern border with
Mali and Niger.  “Strict vigilance should continue in Mauritania, Morocco,
Algeria and Libya during the coming weeks to detect any groups
or swarms coming from the Sahel,” the FAO wrote. “Thereafter
the threat should subside.”  Swarms containing tens of millions of locusts can fly as
much as 150 kilometers (93 miles) a day, and a female locust can
lay 300 eggs in her lifetime, according to the agency.  Desert locust distribution can extend over 60 countries
during plagues,  covering  about 29 million square kilometers or
about a fifth of the world’s land, according to the FAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  