-- Deutsche Telekom CEO Succession Signals Shift to Cost Cut
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-21T08:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/deutsche-telekom-ceo-succession-signals-shift-to-cost-cut.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s plan to hand
the chief executive officer’s job to its finance director
suggests the future of  Europe ’s telecommunications industry may
hinge more on wringing out cost savings than on innovation.  Rene Obermann will step down from Germany’s largest carrier
at the end of 2013 and be succeeded by Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges. Explaining the decision to the supervisory
board yesterday, 49-year-old Obermann expressed frustration with
efforts to persuade regulators to rethink rules that govern a
shrinking industry, said a person familiar with the matter,
declining to be named because the meeting was private.  Deutsche Telekom and European peers such as  France Telecom
SA (FTE)  have been hurt by authorities slashing the fees they can
demand for calls terminated on their networks. The most recent
disagreement, with  Germany ’s network regulator, centers on the
Bonn-based carrier’s push to win the rights to offer faster
Internet services on existing copper wires -- a move that would
help reduce spending on more expensive fiber-optics connections.  “Under Obermann’s leadership the company hasn’t really
been able to reinvent itself within an industry that is
performing very poorly,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-
based strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “It seems that innovation
ideas weren’t the solution and now it’s time to focus on seeking
more efficiencies.”  Cost Cutter  Hoettges, 50, will assume the additional role of deputy CEO
in January before fully taking over from Obermann in 2014. Under
Hoettges, Deutsche Telekom reached a three-year 4.2 billion-euro
($5.5 billion) cost-cut target ahead of schedule. He then set
out a year ago a new goal of 1 billion euros in savings by 2015
through the merger of the internal computing and communications
systems into a T-Systems unit.  Hoettges also wants to reduce some of the 12,000 staff in
Germany who perform internal control functions such as measuring
business processes, a person familiar with the matter said this
month.  The CFO, who has been with Deutsche Telekom since 2000, was
also credited for halting a slide in market share for the
Internet business as head of the German fixed-line division. He
became CFO in March 2009 and was involved in the setting up of a
U.K. wireless venture with France Telecom, resolving a
shareholders’ dispute over its Polish unit, and more recently,
in negotiating the sale of T-Mobile USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  -- which
was opposed by regulators -- and then the October merger
agreement with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   Dutch Auction  In Europe, a three-year debt crisis has left Deutsche
Telekom struggling to return revenue to growth and this month
forced the carrier to follow peers including  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and
France Telecom and cut its dividend.  Telecommunications stocks are the  worst-performing industry 
group in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index this year. Phone companies
have to spend billions of dollars to upgrade networks while
regulators in the region are making it more difficult to make
money from users of smartphones and Internet services.  Last week’s Dutch auction of wireless frequencies, in which
a Deutsche Telekom unit took part, raised a greater-than-
expected sum of 3.8 billion euros, indicating that the building
of faster networks may be more expensive. The excessive costs
caused the shares of Royal KPN NV, the Netherlands’ former phone
monopoly, to drop the most in 11 years.  ‘Little Time’  Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.4 percent to 8.59 euros at 9:33
a.m. in  Frankfurt . It has lost 3.1 percent this year and fallen
about a third since Obermann took over from Kai-Uwe Ricke in
November 2006. The carrier, whose  biggest shareholder  is the
German government with a 32 percent stake, has a market value of
37.1 billion euros.  “This company is highly influenced by regulation, by
political things and so forth,” Obermann said on a conference
call yesterday. “There’s little time for me, personally too
little time to really deep dive into operational topics and I’d
like to go back to the basics, to the machine room if you
want.”  By the time Obermann steps down, he will have been with
Deutsche Telekom for 16 years, including seven years at the
helm. He joined Deutsche Telekom in 1998 and became a board
member as well as head of T-Mobile International in 2002. While
he built T-Mobile USA into Deutsche Telekom’s fastest-growing
unit in the early years by offering e-mail devices such as the
BlackBerry, the unit is now struggling to halt customer losses
to AT&T and Verizon Wireless.  T-Mobile USA wants to return to growth by 2015, a challenge
which will mean outselling  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and nabbing
customers from market leaders Verizon Wireless and AT&T.  ABC Telecom  At home, Deutsche Telekom is trying to defend its fixed-
line market share against cable providers including  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s Unitymedia KabelBW. Obermann and Hoettges pledged
this month, at an investor conference in Bonn, to return
Deutsche Telekom to sales and profit growth by the end of 2014.
That plan comes at the cost of 30 billion euros of network
spending over the next three years.  Obermann’s career began when he co-founded ABC Telekom, a
retailer of answering and fax machines, as a 23-year-old student
at the University of Muenster in Germany. He ran the company
from his apartment and later rented a 60-square-meter office
with a double garage. At the time, ABC had several retail
outlets and about 20 franchise retailers.  Youngest CEO  Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa (13)  Ltd.
bought ABC in 1991, after the company had grown to 20 million
deutsche marks ($13 million) in annual revenue and 60 employees.  When Obermann took over as Deutsche Telekom chief in 2006
at age 43, he was the youngest among the 30 CEOs of companies on
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index. His total compensation last year
was 3.27 million euros, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  As CEO, Obermann has targeted new businesses such as
payments by phone, telemedicine and websites to download games
and music. Hoettges said yesterday he would have some catching-
up to do.  “I admire Mr. Obermann’s charm as well as his intuition
when it comes to new business ideas,” he said. “I really have
to familiarize myself more with the topic of innovation
management.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  