-- Dialog, Vopak Sign Customers for Oil Storage Terminal
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-12-21T04:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/dialog-vopak-sign-customers-for-oil-storage-terminal-correct-.html
(Corrects designation of Ngau in second paragraph in story
published on Dec. 20.)  Dialog Group Bhd., (DLG)  Malaysia’s
second-biggest oil and gas services provider, said it signed
some customers for the 1.9 billion-ringgit ($620 million)
storage terminal it’s developing with  Royal Vopak NV. (VPK)   Talks with other potential clients are continuing, Dialog
Executive Chairman Ngau Boon Keat said in an interview Dec. 18
at Pengerang, Malaysia’s southern Johor state neighboring
 Singapore .  Dialog, Vopak and local government are developing the site
at Pengerang, with initial capacity of 1.3 million cubic meters,
to meet rising demand for oil storage in Asia and as space in
Singapore dwindles. The companies are betting on the terminal’s
location to capture trade flow between  China ,  India  and Asia,
Ngau said at the site.  “Our location is blessed with 24-meter deep natural berth
able to bring in very large crude carriers,” said Law Say Huat,
chief executive officer of the venture developing the Pengerang
terminal. “We are offering an alternative to the crude oil
traders, refiners, or the suppliers to be able to bring here to
blend up, to break bulk or to make bulk.”  The tanks will be for clean products and crude oil and will
begin operating from 2014, Ngau said. Clean products include
fuels such as gasoline, naphtha, diesel and kerosene. The
company has no immediate plans to build fuel oil tanks.  “At the moment, there is quite a lot fuel oil storage,”
Ngau said. “We’re more targeting crude oil storage.”  Profit Boost  The project will help drive annual  profit  growth at Dialog
by more than 20 percent in the next few years, Ngau said.
Earnings will also be supported by ventures to provide services
to oil and gas explorers, he said.  Dialog last month said it will take a 50 percent stake in
Halliburton Bayan Petroleum, which has a $1.2 billion contract
to provide services for a oil field off eastern Sarawak state.
Dialog is also partnering with Roc Oil  Malaysia  (Holdings) Sdn.
to develop a cluster of fields off Sarawak.  “Over the next three years we might have a quantum leap
because we have invested in the terminal and we also have the
upstream side,” Ngau said.  Dialog and Vopak are also planning to develop a 4.1 billion
ringgit liquefied natural gas terminal in the same area as part
of future expansion, the companies said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  