-- Diane von Furstenberg Wins Bid to Block Discount Sales
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-12-21T20:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/diane-von-furstenberg-wins-ruling-in-case-against-distributor.html
Diane von Furstenberg Studio LP won
a court order prohibiting a distributor from selling the luxury
brand’s inventory to discount retailers.  ID Beauty International Distribution Ltd. can’t sell any
licensed DVF products to TJX Cos.’ TJ Maxx and Marshalls or to
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK) , Delaware Chancery Judge J. Travis Laster
said yesterday in a ruling. The judge lifted a broader temporary
restraining order against ID Beauty in favor of the narrow
injunction.  ID Beauty’s license agreement required it to consult DVF
about any retail channel less prestigious than specialty and
high-end retailers such as  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  Such
consultation never occurred, DVF argued. Laster’s order allows
ID Beauty to continue selling licensed products in compliance
with the agreement.  “We are very satisfied that the Chancery Court judge
overruled any  product recall  and that our sales are still
permitted to most authorized retailers,” Alexandre Cukier,
London-based ID Beauty’s president and chairman, said in a
statement.  Diane von Furstenberg, based in  New York , terminated a
license agreement with ID Beauty last month and sued the
distributor for allegedly destroying the value of its brands by
selling DVF products at deep discounts.  The injunction is in effect until there is a trial on the
merits or a decision by an arbitration panel. The two companies
have been in arbitration before the  International Chamber of
Commerce .  The case is Diane von Furstenberg Studio LP v. ID Beauty
International Distribution Ltd., CA8097, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  