-- Dickens’s Revamped London Home Reopens for Christmas
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/dickens-s-revamped-london-home-reopens-for-christmas.html
The  London  townhouse where Charles Dickens penned “Oliver Twist” and fathered two of his 10
children has just reopened after a 3.1 million pound ($5
million) facelift as the climax of the bicentenary of his birth.  The Georgian edifice in Bloomsbury -- now the Charles
Dickens Museum -- has been refurbished in time for Christmas, a
tradition that the author helped develop with his 1843 novel “A
Christmas Carol.” The museum is organizing a series of themed
events for the occasion (see details below).  “Dickens didn’t exactly invent Christmas, but he was
instrumental in shaping Christmas as we celebrate it today,”
says Florian Schweizer, the museum’s 35-year-old director.  According to Schweizer, “A Christmas Carol” and Dickens’s
other related stories and books “redefined the way people go
into Christmas: They think about others, about philanthropy,
about charity as a key component.”  The museum has been refurbished mainly with Lottery money:
The Heritage Lottery Fund gave 2.4 million pounds. Coaxed by the
Dickens bicentenary, other donors gave the rest, including the
Wolfson and Garfield Weston foundations.  Before, the museum was “a very static environment, with a
few display cases scattered about, and random objects put
inside,” not to mention linoleum flooring in some areas, says
Schweizer.  “What we now have is a themed, atmospheric museum,” he
says. “You can read information about  Dickens , but you can also
just enjoy the space as a beautiful recreation of a Victorian
interior.”  Staid, Seedy  Twenty-five-year-old Dickens originally rented the house
for 80 pounds in 1837. It was located near the staid law offices
of Chancery Lane, as well as the seedy thieving dens that
inspired the character of Fagin (in “Oliver Twist”).  “With the success and the money that he’d earned from the
publication of ’The Pickwick Papers,’ Dickens was able to step
up the social ladder,” says Schweizer. “He was gladly accepted
by the landlord, because Boz, his pen name, was a very strong
currency at the time.”  Dickens described the house as a “frightfully first-class
family mansion, involving awful responsibilities.” It consisted
(as now) of six rooms on three floors, three attic rooms and a
basement, and was on a portered, gated street. Dickens employed
a cook, a housemaid, a nurse, and a manservant or groom,
according to the cash-book of household expenses he kept.  The tour starts in the small, ground-floor dining room,
where Dickens, a bon vivant, threw dinners so lavish they looked
unaffordable.  Family Crest  On the dining table are blue China plates picturing regular
attendees, including author William Thackeray. A vitrine
showcases the gold-rimmed porcelain they all dined on --
emblazoned with the socially ambitious Dickens’s initials and
the family crest he made up: a lion holding a Maltese cross.  As you head up the stairs, look in the vitrine against the
wall: It has Dickens’s tatty leather briefcase, a chain-mail
money purse, a  theater token  and a silver matchbox holder.  Upstairs, in the narrow study with a view of the back
garden, is the tired, leather-topped desk at which Dickens wrote
“Great Expectations” and “A Tale of Two Cities.” A large
bookcase contains pages of the “Oliver Twist” manuscript: The
ink has gone brown, and blurry in parts. “Oh no they ain’t!”
reads one sentence.  Dickens only wrote in the morning. He spent afternoons at
his club, on charitable work, and on long strolls that fueled
his imagination. In just two and a half years on Doughty Street,
he produced two novels, a couple of plays, and one opera
libretto as well as editing a literary magazine and the memoirs
of the clown Grimaldi.  Actress Affair  On the floor above are glimpses of Dickens the family man:
the small bedroom shared with Catherine, a newspaper editor’s
daughter, and containing one of his armoires. The letters and
texts on display all relate to his subsequent separation, and
reveal Dickens’s hatred of his wife’s “wicked mother.” (The
author secretly took up with an actress late in life; she was 18
when they met.)  At the very top are mementoes of Dickens’s impoverished
childhood, including a grille from the prison where his father
was locked up for running up too many debts, forcing his 12-
year-old son to get a job in a squalid shoe-polish factory.  The Dickens Museum is holding a series of Christmastime
events. From Dec. 24 to 26, film screenings of “A Christmas
Carol” (the film) and story readings will be accompanied by
mince pies and mulled wine -- mixed according to Dickens’s own
recipe. There are also guided walks evoking Dickensian London.  The museum is at 48 Doughty Street, London WC1N 2LX and
open Monday to Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information:
 http://www.dickensmuseum.com  or +44-20-7405-2127.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Mark
Beech  on music,  Richard Vines  on food and  Lewis Lapham  on
history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 