-- Disney Wins EU Approval to Buy ‘Star Wars’ Producer Lucasfilm
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-21T12:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/disney-wins-eu-approval-to-buy-star-wars-producer-lucasfilm.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  won European Union
approval to buy George Lucas’s Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4.05 billion
in cash and stock, combining two of Hollywood’s most lucrative
film franchises.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
said overlaps were “very limited” for the two companies’
activities in home entertainment, gaming software, film
production and distribution and licensing for both broadcast
rights and merchandise, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  “The commission therefore concluded that the transaction
would not significantly impede effective competition” in
 Europe , the Brussels-based authority said in the statement.  The deal, announced in October, will add “Star Wars” and
“Indiana Jones” to Disney’s roster of film hits including
“The Avengers” and “Finding Nemo.” The “Star Wars” films
have generated $4.54 billion in worldwide ticket sales, second
to Warner Bros.’ “Harry Potter,” according to Box Office Mojo.
“Indiana Jones” pictures have collected $1.95 billion.  The acquisition complements Disney Chief Executive Officer
Robert Iger’s focus on sequels and film franchises, fitting the
same profile as its purchase of Marvel three years ago. Disney
paid a combined $11 billion for Pixar and Marvel in the past
decade.  Lucas, 68, the sole owner of Lucasfilm, will receive half
of the purchase price in cash and the balance in stock, becoming
a major investor in the film, theme-park and TV company,
according to an Oct. 31 statement from Burbank, California-based
Disney. Lucas will receive about 40 million Disney shares,
becoming the second-largest non-institutional shareholder with
about 2.2 percent of the company,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show. The largest is the trust of late Apple Inc. co-founder
Steve Jobs, who sold Pixar to Disney in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 