-- Djokovic Hires IMG to Manage Career After Leaving CAA
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-21T13:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/djokovic-hires-img-to-manage-tennis-career-after-leaving-caa.html
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic signed a
multiyear management agreement with  IMG Worldwide Inc. , joining
a stable of tennis stars that includes  Rafael Nadal , Maria Sharapova and Venus Williams.  Djokovic said in August that his contract with Creative
Artists Agency had expired after four years. He will work with
IMG to build his brand through “marketing, endorsements,
appearances, licensing deals and select global business
initiatives,” the New York-based company said in a statement.  “I’m very happy with how my career has been advancing
these past few years,” Djokovic said. “Working with IMG will
continue to build off of that momentum. IMG’s expansive global
footprint will offer me a truly unique set of resources to
explore business opportunities that simply do not exist anywhere
else in the industry.”  Djokovic, a 25-year-old Serbian, is a five-time Grand Slam
champion, having won the Australian Open in 2008, 2011 and 2012,
as well as Wimbledon and the U.S. Open a year ago. He is ranked
No. 1 on the ATP World Tour.  Djokovic has won $45.7 million in prize money in his
career, and was  ranked 61st  in annual earnings on Forbes’s June
list of the world’s highest-paid athletes at $20.6 million in
tournament purses and sponsorships. His endorsement deals
include  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes Benz, airplane maker  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B) ,  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ’s Uniqlo clothing stores, Serbian phone
company Telekom Srbija AD, watchmaker Audemars Piguet Holding
SA, and sporting goods maker  Head NV (HEAD) , and he also helps promote
children’s charity Unicef, according to his website.  IMG manages athletes in other sports such as football
player Peyton Manning, baseball player Joe Mauer and skier
Lindsey Vonn.  Roger Federer , the winner of a men’s record 17 Grand Slam
singles championships, and his agent, Tony Godsick, left IMG in
June when their contracts ran out. The Swiss player is the
sport’s top money maker, with an annual income of $52.7 million
according to Forbes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  