-- Dodd-Frank Swap Rules Delayed Six Months for Overseas Trades
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/dodd-frank-swaps-rules-delayed-six-months-for-overseas-trades.html
The largest Wall Street banks and
foreign-based financial companies won a six-month delay in some
swap regulations for overseas trades, even as they must begin
registering with U.S. regulators by year-end.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, voted 4-1 to leave the registration
deadline in place while providing a delay until July 12 for
capital and other requirements for overseas operations of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks,
the agency said in a statement yesterday. The CFTC also reduced
the number of overseas offices immediately registering.  “There is a lot of work to be done with international
regulators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a telephone
interview. “It’s my firm belief that if reforms were not to
cover the branches and affiliates of U.S. entities either
directly or through substituted compliance the public would be
left without critical protections.”  The international reach of CFTC swap rules has been one of
the most controversial elements of the agency’s Dodd-Frank Act
rules, prompting opposition from financial companies including
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The agency has also
faced criticism from European and Asian regulators over the
reach of a rule requiring trades to be guaranteed at
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  ‘Better Coordination’  “It is important that the commission provide relief for
better coordination with regulators in other jurisdictions to
avoid unnecessary fragmentation, duplication and conflict among
rules for derivatives markets,”  Tim Ryan , president and chief
executive officer of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, said in a statement. The CFTC is working
with international regulators to determine when overseas rules
can be used to substitute compliance with Dodd-Frank measures.  Under the exemptive order, foreign-based banks and overseas
operations of U.S. banks don’t need to count trades they have
with non-U.S. clients to determine whether they cross the
threshold requiring registration with the CFTC. The agency also
sought additional public comment on how to define U.S. entities
and foreign branches of U.S. companies.  “We think it’s appropriate to give some more time on the
issues of substituted compliance and the issues as to how the
overseas branches and overseas guaranteed affiliates will be
regulated with their outwardly facing trades, not the trades
facing the U.S.,” Gensler said in the interview.  Dennis Kelleher, CEO of Better Markets, a Washington-based
organization advocating stricter financial regulation, said the
delay fails to protect U.S. taxpayers.  “ Wall Street  and its army of lobbyists will use the
additional time to continue their war on financial regulation
that may hurt their profits, but which will protect the American
people from having to bail them out again,” Kelleher said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  