-- Dollar Stores’ Rise Was More Than a Century in the Making
-- B y   W e n d y   W o l o s o n
-- 2012-12-21T17:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/dollar-stores-rise-was-more-than-a-century-in-the-making.html
By all accounts, dollar stores are
doing quite well. Reports for the third quarter of 2012 show
that the largest of them --  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) ,  Dollar
General Corp. (DG)  and  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR)  -- are all enjoying booming
sales.  Such one-price stores have been popular since the 19th
century, offering an eclectic and ever-changing inventory at
steep discounts. They have provided an efficient way for
manufacturers and distributors to dispose of goods that are
otherwise difficult to sell. And they have brought an array of
 consumer goods  within reach of even the most cash-strapped
Americans.  Frank Winfield Woolworth, the founder of F.W. Woolworth
Co., is typically considered the father of the dime store, the
precursor to today’s dollar stores. But in an autobiographical
account in 1919, Woolworth freely admitted that he didn’t invent
even the “germ” of the five-and-dime concept. His recollection
of exactly who did was fuzzy. It was around 1870, in or near
 Boston , he said, that somebody “conceived the idea of opening a
store containing exclusively goods to sell at 99 cents. Who this
pioneer was I have never been able to discover.”  ‘Small Profits’  Woolworth may have been thinking of H. Peyser, who was
advertising his Boston-based Bellevue 95 Cent Store -- “Our
Motto, ‘Quick Sales and Small Profits’” -- as early as 1869.
(Though Peyser wasn’t the first, as George Husted’s 25 cent
store in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , had already been operating
for three years, selling jewelry, ice pitchers, wood and coal.)
As with many of today’s dollar stores, not all of Peyser’s stock
was priced at 95 cents, but much of it was. At Peyser’s, 95
cents could buy 5 yards of blue denim, two pairs of ladies’
drawers, a heavy-wool man’s shirt, four oversize linen towels,
nine bundles of cotton batting or a pair of gloves.  Due to rising prices after the Civil War, such stores soon
became so popular as to be a nuisance. In less than a decade,
one-price stores appeared in cities across the country, from
T.L. Chiek’s Great 49-Cent Store in Peoria,  Illinois  (“creating
tremendous excitement … jammed full from morning until night”),
to Theo S. Renard’s 95-Cent Store in Cincinnati (“Over two
thousand styles of Bohemian Vases and Toilet Sets, only 95c”),
to Valentine’s 99-Cent Store in Omaha,  Nebraska . “Dollar stores
have become chronic in Boston, ninety-five cent stores are
nearly so, and ten cent stores are getting quite numerous; but
the newest one is the ninety-nine cent store,” Cincinnati’s
Christian Standard newspaper said in an 1871 editorial.  These shops catered to various groups of consumers, not
just penny-pinching housewives. In the depression year of 1873,
the Yale Courant remarked, “The 99 cent store is becoming a
favorite resort for students.” Similarly, the Williams Vidette
noted, “Just the knick knacks a student desires are to be found
at the ’99 cent’ store in North Adams, and any thing in the
store for less than a dollar.” In 1875, editors of the
Publishers’ Weekly suggested that 99 cent store merchandise
might appeal to the striving classes, as well: “You can get
opera chains, enameled slide and tassels, heavy seal charms for
gents, Waverley novels, Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe novels, solid
gold engraved rings, Dr. Holland’s works, sets of dessert-spoons
... all of the choicest poetical works, gilt edge, bound
beautifully, in diamond and large edition; beautiful engraved
lockets, and other articles too numerous to mention.”  An Epiphany  Woolworth first recognized the potential of selling goods
fast and cheap when, in 1873, a 99 cent store opened up across
from the dry-goods store where he worked as an errand boy. The
store was “crowded from the first day,” Woolworth recalled. Also
inspiring the young entrepreneur was a story he had heard about
a traveling salesman who partnered with a Michigan dry-goods
store to sell handkerchiefs below cost, at 5 cents apiece, to
get people into the store. To make a profit, they sold “other
notions and stuff” along with the handkerchiefs.  Looking around the store, the salesman ingeniously
identified “a lot of old dead goods that had been lying on his
counters for years.” He placed the items on a counter and marked
them all at 5 cents. It was a great success: Together, the
higher- and lower-value goods were equally attractive, and
people made purchases beyond the 5 cent counter, generating
business in other departments.  By 1878, Woolworth was working as a clerk at the Moore &
Smith dry-goods store, where he saw the 5 cent counter in
action. Stocked with $70 worth of new items made specifically
for selling at 5 cents, plus “a lot of other old trash which had
been accumulating in the store for years,” the counter was a
hit. “It did not make any difference whether the goods had any
value or not,” Woolworth observed. “Any old stuff we could find
around the store would be fired on that counter and would sell
immediately.”  Based on this success, and the sudden appearance of 5 cent
stores in nearby towns, Woolworth saw an opportunity slipping
away. In early 1879, he borrowed money to start “Woolworth’s
Great Five Cent Store” in Utica,  New York .  By the early 1880s, Woolworth, in partnership with his
brother, had expanded into Harrisburg, Scranton and York,
Pennsylvania, and added a 10 cent line of goods. But the stores
were struggling. By the summer of 1882, the business was dead,
and most competitors had returned to the traditional dry-goods
model or given up on retail altogether. Woolworth chose to stay
loyal to the 5 and 10 cent strategy (“no higher”), which
ultimately proved quite successful -- by the early 20th century,
Woolworth’s consisted of six chains of affiliated stores. The
stores’ success was due largely to retail innovations that
continue to benefit today’s dollar stores, especially the one-
price model in which all goods cost the same seemingly low
price, whether they are worth it or not.  Woolworth believed that his early competitors failed
because they diluted their brand: “They introduced into their
stores higher priced goods, which apparently took away the charm
of the 5 and 10-cent business, and their sales fell off
accordingly.”  Whether today’s dollar stores will similarly lose their
“charm” by offering goods priced at more than $1 remains to be
seen. For now, in our recessed times, the stores continue to be
successful, bringing in more people looking for great bargains
and cheaper goods, from cans of cat food to packages of
underwear and everything in between.  (Wendy Woloson is an independent scholar and consulting
historian. Her most recent book is “In Hock: Pawning in America
from the Revolution to the Great Depression.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Wendy Woloson at
 wendy@repositoryofusefulknowledge.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 