-- Medtronic Recalls Drug Pumps After Infusion Failures
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-12-21T21:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/medtronic-recalls-drug-pumps-after-infusion-failures.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s largest
heart device maker, recalled two types of drug infusion pumps
after reports they may fail to properly deliver medicines,
leading to a return of symptoms and potentially death.  Medtronic sent an urgent medical device safety notification
to doctors on Nov. 9 that the motors may stall on the SynchroMed
II and SynchroMed EL pumps. While the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  classified the letter as a recall, the machines
remain on the market, said Donna Marquard, a spokeswoman for the
Minneapolis-based company.  The pumps are more likely to stall and not properly
administer medications when they are used with unapproved drugs,
the agency said today in a posting on its website. The failure
rate is 2.4 percent when used exclusively with approved drugs,
and 7 percent with unapproved medicines after 6.5 years of use,
according to an FDA summary. Medtronic and the agency said only
approved drugs should be used with the pumps and patients should
be closely monitored for return of symptoms.  “The SynchroMed pump continues to demonstrate reliability
at or above expected levels,” Marquard said in a telephone
interview. “We remain confident in its ability to deliver safe
and effective therapy to those who need it.”  The company isn’t aware of any deaths related to the pump
and they aren’t being removed from the field, she said. The
company is investigating the risk of motor gear corrosion, which
has been deemed a primary contributor to the pump stalling.  The pumps were manufactured from May 1998 to November 2012.
The risk of corrosion that causes the motor to stall or seize
was first identified in October 2007. There have been 567
complaints about the problem, the FDA said in a July 17 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  