-- Egypt’s Islamists to Rally on Eve of Constitution Vote
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-21T16:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/egypt-s-islamists-to-rally-on-eve-of-constitution-vote.html
Egyptian Islamists and opposition
supporters clashed in Alexandria on the eve of the final round
of voting on the country’s new constitution, which appears to be
heading for approval.  Police sprayed tear gas as they sought to break up
skirmishes between rival groups of Islamists and demonstrators
supporting the “no” campaign outside the Al Qaed Ibrahim
mosque in the coastal city,  Al Jazeera  reported. The channel
aired images of black smoke rising above the skyline as night
fell. After nearly two hours of street battles that the Health
Ministry said injured 32 people, the area was mostly cleared,
according to the online news agency Ahram Gate.  Fighting broke out in Alexandria before the first phase of
the referendum last week after a preacher urged worshipers to
vote “yes” during his sermon. Opposition protesters besieged
him in the mosque until he was rescued by an armored vehicle.
Today’s rally is to protest “aggression on the houses of God
and the besieging of scholars,” Muslim Brotherhood spokesman
Mahmoud Ghozlan said by phone yesterday.  President Mohamed Mursi’s efforts to push the constitution
through and expand his own powers have led to weeks of protests
and sometimes deadly clashes. Supporters of the charter argue
that it will help stabilize the country and boost economic
recovery. Critics say it was drafted by Islamists, won’t protect
basic rights and is opposed by enough Egyptians to make it
unrepresentative.  ‘Turbulent Year’  “Given that the president appears to be forging ahead with
political changes, including the charter, with little regard for
the opposition, it does not bode well for  Egypt ’s transition,”
Said Hirsh, head of economics at Maplecroft, a risk adviser
based in the U.K., said in response to e-mailed questions.
“Regardless of whether the constitution is adopted or not,
Egypt is a set for a turbulent year.”  Unofficial counts showed the charter was endorsed by 57
percent to 43 percent in the first phase. Giza, Menoufiya and 15
other provinces are due to vote tomorrow.  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index  rose for a third week, adding
5.4 percent after the initial vote passed without violence in
much of the country. The pound was little change after sliding
the previous week when Egypt postponed a loan accord with the
 International Monetary Fund .  Fewer Voters  About 33 percent of eligible voters cast ballots in the
first round, according to state media, down from a 41 percent
national turnout in a referendum in March last year on temporary
changes to the constitution.  “To vote ‘no’ is to take a position against the Muslim
Brotherhood’s attempts to take over this country and dominate
its fate,” the National Salvation Front, an umbrella group for
opposition, said in a statement. The Front has demanded the vote
be postponed.  The opposition bloc and several rights groups say the first
round of voting was marred by irregularities, prompting Justice
Minister Ahmed Mekki to order an investigation.  “If others respect the democracy that they talk about and
respect the will of the people, then they must stop the chaos
they are stirring now,” the Brotherhood’s Ghozlan said.
Adopting the constitution “will lay the foundation for the
democratic transformation and for parliamentary elections” so
the country “can relatively stabilize.”  ‘Yes’ Margin  Yasser El-Shimy, Middle East analyst at the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group , said he expects the “yes” margin
to widen in the second round as the two main cities Cairo and
Alexandria, where opposition support is strongest, voted last
week.  The political turmoil threatens to set back Egypt’s efforts
to consolidate democracy and rebuild the economy after the
uprising last year that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Mursi, who became
Egypt’s first freely elected civilian leader when he won a
presidential vote in June, last week postponed Egypt’s
application for a $4.8 billion IMF loan.  “Given his recent moves on the political front, President
Mursi has made his job of implementing economic reforms
particularly difficult,” Hirsh said. “There may will be
further delays as the government finds it difficult to comply
with conditions, or the IMF loses confidence in its ability to
deliver on its promises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  