-- Lehman’s Year-End Fees, Filings Match Up With Biggest Bankruptcy
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-12-21T15:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/lehman-s-year-end-fees-filings-match-up-with-biggest-bankruptcy.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
aims to pay creditors $65 billion by 2016 or so, enters the New
Year with statistics to match the biggest-ever bankruptcy it
filed more than four years ago.  The defunct investment bank added 10,000 filings to its
court docket in 2012, bringing the total toward 33,000, as it
slashed 67,000 payment demands for $1.2 trillion by almost 70
percent to $370 billion. It paid advisers $600 million in its
last year of bankruptcy, or a total of $1.8 billion since 2008.  By contrast,  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage, which also
collapsed in 2008, counts 5,162 filings and 16,519 claims for
$17.3 billion of lost principal; its advisers took $646 million.
AMR Corp., the American Airlines parent that filed for
bankruptcy a year ago, has more than 5,800 filings and accrues
professional fees of about $15 million to $20 million a month.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, is still
liquidating from offices in  Manhattan ’s Time & Life Building
after exiting bankruptcy in March. It herded creditors such as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  into groups during the credit crisis
and issued 379 bulk objections to their claims. Lehman also
settled a fight with creditors in a payment plan that allotted
more money to derivatives claimants including Goldman Sachs and
less to bondholders such as Paulson & Co. Both groups proposed
rival plans to pay Lehman’s debt.  Lehman collected $16.8 billion from 1.7 million derivatives
trades and agreed to sell apartment owner Archstone Inc. for
$6.5 billion, after a court fight with one of the eventual
buyers,  Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential.  Lifetime Case  “The Lehman case is and was the most unique and different
bankruptcy/restructuring case to emerge since the inception of a
bankruptcy law in the U.S.,” said  Harvey Miller , the Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP partner who has been Lehman’s lead lawyer
since the bankruptcy. “It was the case of a lifetime, both
frustrating and gratifying, sometimes almost concurrently.”  Lehman’s fee bills are “not excessive,” Miller said,
considering the “almost miraculous result” of the case, which
ended with Lehman winning creditors’ backing for its liquidation
plan.  Traders turned over an average of $2 billion of claims on
Lehman a month, or $100 billion from September 2008 through
November 2012, according to SecondMarket Holdings Inc. Trades in
the MF Global Inc. brokerage formerly headed by  Jon Corzine  have
totaled $4.6 billion since it filed the eighth-biggest U.S.
bankruptcy in October 2011, the data firm said. AMR trading is
about $740 million.  Small Number  About the only small number associated with Lehman is the
18 cents on the dollar it has said its average creditor will get
eventually. Enron Corp.’s payback to general unsecured creditors
was about 53 percent through October, albeit with a long wait;
the former energy trader came out of bankruptcy in 2004, and has
almost 32,000 filings on its docket. Lehman has already made two
payments totaling almost $33 billion, or about 9 cents on the
dollar.  “We have been executing on our plan for managing and
monetizing assets, mitigating claims and making cash
distributions to creditors and will continue to do so in 2013,”
said Lehman Chief Executive Officer John Suckow, an executive of
restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal. Just this year, Lehman has
collected about $16 billion from assets and receivables.  The word “unprecedented” appears six times in Alvarez &
Marsal’s June request for $91 million in incentive fees for
managing the large-scale bankruptcy, after making hourly fees
totaling almost $536 million. Lehman judge James Peck awarded
$42 million in incentives, saying A&M “voluntarily” reduced
them.  Fee Bonanza  The U.S. Trustee who supervises bankruptcies for the
 Justice Department , Tracy Hope Davis, has objected to the Lehman
fee bonanza. Using Gleacher & Co. as an adviser for months
without officially hiring the firm, Lehman ran up fees that were
“not reasonable,” Davis said. She criticized creditors such as
Goldman Sachs, who fought Lehman to improve their own payout,
then asked the bankrupt estate to pay their lawyers.  The Madoff brokerage trustee, who topped Lehman in
litigation by filing 1,000 lawsuits, has gathered $9.3 billion,
or more than half of the $17.3 billion claimed by the con man’s
investors. He has paid $3 billion from a customer fund. Some
customers have been fighting for interest payments or fake
profit on their account statements.  Worst Slump  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, filed bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets
of $639 billion. It failed because of too much debt and risky
real estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s
report.  Recalling the chaos after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  bought bankrupt
Lehman’s North American business, Miller said, “Lehman had no
employees, no effective  information systems  and was confronted
by over 50 different international insolvency proceedings
challenging Lehman’s claims to various assets. Essentially, the
administrators and professionals at Lehman started from  ground
zero .”  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  