-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most in Six Weeks on U.S. Budget
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-21T22:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-six-weeks-on-u-s-budget.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in six weeks as mounting concern over the U.S. budget standoff
sent commodity producers in  Russia  and  Brazil  lower.  OAO Transneft, the state-run oil pipeline operator,
declined in Moscow, while Cia Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s
third-biggest steelmaker by output, dropped the most in three
weeks. Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. was the worst performer on
 India ’s  Sensex (SENSEX)  Index, which posted the biggest retreat since
Oct. 30.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones and televisions, dropped the most in more than three
months after the European Union said it’s preparing an antitrust
complaint.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.9 percent to
1,043.03 in  New York , the biggest drop since Nov. 8. The gauge
was little changed for the week. U.S. House Republican leaders
canceled a vote that would permit higher tax rates amid stalled
budget talks to avert more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts set to start on Jan. 1. The 21 nations in the
developing-nations gauge send about 17 percent of their exports
to the U.S. on average, World Trade Organization data show.  “Every market is watching the U.S.,”  Benoit Anne , the
London-based head of emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA, said by phone. “Commodities are global risk
indicators, and they might be under pressure if we continue to
be nervous about the fiscal cliff.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has risen 14 percent this
year, beating the 13 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades at 12
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After Christmas  The S&P GSCI Spot Index fell for a second day, declining
0.7 percent as crude oil slid 1.6 percent to $88.66 a barrel in
New York, the first drop in six days.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  scrapped a plan to allow
higher tax rates on annual income above $1 million, yielding to
anti-tax resistance within his own party. House members and
senators won’t vote on the end-of-year budget issues until after
Christmas, giving them less than a week to reach agreement to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.2
percent to $42.27. The ETF has gained 14 percent this year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, jumped 2.5 percent to 20.53.  Bovespa Retreats  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  retreated 0.4 percent, its biggest
decline in two weeks, and trimmed its weekly gain to 2.4
percent. CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica Nacional is known, dropped 2.3
percent, the most since Nov. 30. B2W Cia Global Do Varejo fell
5.2 percent, the biggest slump in two months, after shares were
downgraded to sell from hold at Deutsche Bank AG.  Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA was the best performer on the
emerging markets gauge, surging 9.1 percent, the most in four
years. Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s biggest
electric utility, also rallied the most in four years as Banco
Bradesco SA recommended investors buy the stock. The company,
known as Cemig, rose 6.1 percent, the most since Oct. 2008.  The  Argentina Merval Index (MERVAL)  fell 2.6 percent, the most in
four weeks.  Pampa Energia SA (PAMP) , the nation’s largest electricity
company, fell 4.3 percent to lead declines in  Buenos Aires .  India’s Sensex dropped 1.1 percent, the most since Oct. 30
as Jindal, the nation’s second-biggest steelmaker by value,
declined 3.5 percent. Sterlite Industries Ltd., India’s biggest
copper producer, fell 3.3 percent, snapping a five-day rally.  Post Loss  Russia’s Micex Index retreated 0.7 percent, paring its
weekly advance to 0.8 percent. Transneft shed 1.8 percent, while
OAO Bashneft, a regional oil producer, lost 0.9 percent.
Benchmark indexes in Poland and Turkey also declined.  Netia SA (NET) , a Polish phone company, sank 16 percent, its
biggest fall in more than nine years, after the company said it
may post a loss this year because of an asset writedown in the
fourth quarter.  South Africa ’s rand weakened 1.4 percent against the
dollar, the most in three weeks. Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.8
percent amid concern about a widening current-account deficit.
India’s rupee lost 0.4 percent.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  and South Korea’s  Kospi index  dropped
1 percent, with trading volumes in Seoul 34 percent above the
30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong , slipped 1.1 percent, the most since Dec. 3.  Technology Slump  Samsung led a gauge of technology companies to retreat 2
percent, the most among 10 industry  groups  in MSCI’s emerging-
markets index. Samsung sank 4.1 percent, the biggest loss since
Aug. 27, after the EU said it is probing whether the company
violated agreements to license key patents to other mobile-phone
makers on fair terms. The EU will issue a notice listing
antitrust concerns as soon as the end of this year, the bloc’s
competition commissioner said yesterday.  LG Display Co. (034220)  slid 3.5 percent, while memory-chip maker  SK
Hynix Inc. (000660)  slipped 3.4 percent to a two-week low.  Innolux Corp. (3481)  and  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  lost at least 6
percent in Taipei after the Economic Daily News reported a drop
in prices of liquid-crystal display panels.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose for a fourth day
and  government bonds  advanced on speculation the nation will win
an investment-grade rating next year after  Standard & Poor’s 
raised its credit outlook to positive.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 265, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  