-- Eni-Anadarko African LNG Plant to Be World’s Second-Largest
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-12-21T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/eni-anadarko-plan-world-s-second-largest-lng-plant-in-africa.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
agreed to build the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas
plant in  Mozambique  to start exporting fuel in 2018.  Italy’s largest oil company and Anadarko will coordinate
development of gas fields and cooperate in the construction of
the plant in the Cabo Delgado province of northern Mozambique,
which could have an eventual capacity of about 50 million tons a
year, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said today in a
statement. That would make it the largest LNG plant outside
 Qatar , the world’s biggest exporter of the fuel.  Mozambique’s offshore fields may hold as much as 250
trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet world consumption for
more than two years, according to national oil company Empresa
Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos. Companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP)  have indicated an interest in joining projects
in East  Africa , while both Anadarko and Eni have said they may
sell some of their assets in Mozambique to cut costs.  The agreement will “lead to a unitization agreement to
further facilitate the efficient development of the common
resources, as well as the independent reservoirs on both blocks,
enabling enhanced economies of scale through shared
infrastructure and facilities,” Anadarko Chief Executive
Officer Al Walker said in the statement.  Mozambique is competing with neighbor Tanzania to produce
 East Africa ’s first LNG.  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  today
 announced  the third gas discovery in the Lavani-2 well off
Tanzania.  Africa Rises  “If the recent discoveries of natural gas are confirmed,
Mozambique will rank fourth in the world for natural-gas
reserves -- behind Russia, Iran and Qatar,”  Marin Katusa , an
analyst at Casey Research LLC, wrote in a report released this
week. “It’s not far-fetched to imagine that Africa -- not the
 Middle East  -- will be the most important energy producer for
the world in 2040 or even 2030.”  Eni and Anadarko will have “separate yet coordinated
offshore activities,” in both Area 4, operated by Eni, and Area
1, operated by Anadarko, the Italian company said in a separate
 statement . They “will jointly plan and construct common onshore
LNG liquefaction facilities.”  BG Group Plc (BG/) , which also explores for gas in Tanzania, may
join forces with the Statoil-led venture to build a unified LNG
plant in the African nation. At the same time,  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  of  Brazil  plans to sell its assets in Tanzania
where it explores with Shell.  Awarded Contracts  Anadarko and Eni awarded front-end engineering and design
contracts for both onshore LNG construction and offshore
installation, the U.S. explorer said.  Technip SA (TEC) , a venture
between  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC)  and  Saipem SpA (SPM) , and  McDermott International
Inc. (MDR)  together with Allseas USA Inc. will design the offshore
infrastructure.  The LNG engineering will focus on production units, also
called trains, with a 5 million-ton-a-year capacity, according
to Anadarko. The plant’s gas supply will be split evenly between
the Anadarko-led project and Eni’s development,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , a
partner in Anadarko’s project said today in a  statement .  Bechtel Group Inc. and ventures between  JGC Corp. (1963)  and  Fluor
Corp. (FLR) , and Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. and  Chiyoda Corp. (6366) , will
design the LNG plant, according to Anadarko.  The Eni-led venture holds about 23 trillion cubic feet of
gas “exclusively” in its Area 4, the company  said  Dec. 5. The
Rome-based company in October said it has been examining plans
for a separate development of this resource, including a
possible floating LNG plant or a compressed natural gas facility
for exports to neighbor countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  