-- Entergy Plant Boosts Lift Nuclear Output to 3-Month High
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-12-21T16:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/entergy-plant-boosts-lift-nuclear-output-to-3-month-high.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  returned the River
Bend 1 and Grand Gulf 1 reactors to full power early today,
lifting U.S. nuclear generation to the  highest level  in more
than three months.  Production  nationwide  gained 0.6 percent from yesterday to
90,373 megawatts, or 89 percent of capacity, the most since
Sept. 14, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 3.8 percent less than during
the  year-earlier  period with 11 of 104 reactors offline.  River Bend 1, a 989-megawatt reactor 24 miles (39
kilometers) northwest of Baton Rouge, returned to 100 percent of
capacity after slowing  yesterday  to 50 percent because of a
failure to an optical isolator, according to Katie Damratoski, a
company spokeswoman based in St. Francisville,  Louisiana .  “The cause of the failure is under investigation,” she
said. She described the equipment as a “device that is
interposed between two systems to prevent one of them from
having an undesired effect on the other.”  The 1,297-megawatt Grand Gulf plant operated at full power,
up from 96 percent of capacity yesterday. Entergy returned the
unit to service after completing a maintenance outage that began 
Dec. 8 , said Suzanne Anderson, a company spokeswoman who is
based at the plant.  Grand Gulf  Work was conducted on the main turbine generator systems,
while testing and repairs were also done on several plant
components, she said. Grand Gulf is about 25 miles southwest of
Vicksburg,  Mississippi .  Production in the  West , the NRC region that stretches from
Washington state to Louisiana, rose 2.6 percent to 19,446
megawatts, the highest since Dec. 8, commission data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Northeastern region, covering the area from  Maryland  to
 Maine , gained 57 megawatts as Constellation Energy Group Inc.
boosted output to full capacity at Nine Mile Point 1 near
Oswego, New York.  The 621-megawatt unit, which powered up after completing
maintenance, operated at 70 percent of capacity yesterday, Jill Lyon, a plant-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Nine Mile
Point 1 shut last week after operators saw indications of an air
leak from the primary containment wall or drywell, she said.  FitzPatrick 1, a 852-megawatt Entergy unit also in New
York, slowed to 50 percent of capacity for maintenance on one of
the station’s four main condensor waterboxes, according to Tammy Holden, a company spokeswoman at the plant.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the Nuclear Energy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  