-- Merkel to Work With Fitschen as Deutsche Bank Draws Fire
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-12-21T14:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/merkel-to-work-with-fitschen-as-deutsche-bank-draws-fire.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
continue to work with Juergen Fitschen after the  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  co-chief executive officer sparked criticism from lawmakers
for complaints about raids on the firm to the leader of the
bank’s home state, her spokesman said.  “Fitschen is head of Deutsche Bank and thus has an
important position in the German financial sector,” Steffen Seibert said today at the government’s regular press conference
in Berlin. “The Chancellor, the German government, will work
with him wherever it is necessary.”  About 500 police and tax officials raided Deutsche Bank
offices in  Germany  last week and are investigating Fitschen as
part of a probe into tax-evasion in the carbon market. This
week, lawmakers from across Germany’s political spectrum
criticized his complaints, made in a phone call to the prime
minister of the state of Hesse Volker Bouffier, as an attempt by
the co-CEO to place himself above the law.  Fitschen subsequently apologized for giving that impression
in the telephone conversation. The co-CEO wanted to discuss how
the raids might affect the bank’s image outside Germany,
according to a Dec. 18 interview he gave to  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung .  Fitschen said in an interview with German newspaper
Handelsblatt on Dec. 13 that he felt “unfairly treated” and
that the prosecutor’s approach was “excessive.”  Repair Damage  Fitschen’s apology repaired the damage sparked by the
telephone call, and he’s still the right banker to become
president of the BdB Association of German Banks, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said, Deutsche-Presse Agentur
reported today, citing an interview. BdB is a lobby group for
the country’s commercial lenders.  Opposition  Social Democratic Party  lawmakers Carsten Kuehl
and Ralf Stegner urged Fitschen to give up plans to become the
group’s president, Handelsblatt reported Dec. 18.  Fitschen has said all he needs to about the complaints to
Bouffier and the BdB is “very glad” he will become the lobby
group’s chief in April,  Michael Kemmer , general manager of the
BdB, said in a Dec. 20 interview with Deutschlandradio.  “The question of who is president of the German banking
association is not one that has to be decided by the German
government,” Merkel spokesman Seibert said today. Fitschen and
Bouffier “have said everything right and important regarding
the incident after the raid at Deutsche Bank. It’s clear that in
Germany the government doesn’t intervene in the work of legal
authorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  