-- Ethics Panel Finds Shelley Berkley Violated House Rules
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/ethics-panel-finds-shelley-berkley-violated-house-rules.html
Democratic Representative Shelley Berkley of  Nevada  violated U.S. House rules “by improperly
using her official position” to aid help her husband’s  kidney
dialysis  business, the Ethics Committee said yesterday.  The committee considers the matter closed and didn’t punish
Berkley, saying “no further action is necessary,” according to
a statement from the House panel.  Berkley, 61, didn’t seek re-election to her House seat this
year, instead running for the Senate. She lost in the Nov. 6
election to Republican incumbent  Dean Heller , 46 percent to 45
percent, in a race in which the ethics issue figured
prominently.  The House committee’s investigation followed a September
2011 report by the New York Times that said Berkley led efforts
to reverse a decision by government regulators to shut a kidney
transplant program at a Nevada medical center where her
husband’s medical practice had a $738,000 contract.  Berkley also pressured regulators to reverse plans to cut
Medicare reimbursement rates for kidney dialysis. That service
is among those provided by clinics run by a medical practice
that includes her husband, Dr. Larry Lehrner, according to the
Times report.  In closing the case, the ethics committee said it found no
evidence that Berkley had “acted with the intent to enrich
herself.”  Berkley was first elected to her House seat in 1998.  Meeks Case  The ethics panel also yesterday dropped its investigation
of whether a loan to Representative Gregory Meeks, a  New York 
Democrat, was actually an “impermissible gift,” citing a lack
of documentation.  Meeks, 59, said in a sworn statement that while he had
signed paperwork for the 2007 loan from Edul Ahmad, to be repaid
at an interest rate of 12.5 percent, he couldn’t produce the
transaction’s documents because he had misplaced them. He also
said he repaid the loan in June 2010.  The committee was unable to interview Ahmad, who has
pleaded guilty to fraud charges in an unrelated federal criminal
case. Through his lawyer, Ahmad said he wouldn’t appear before
the committee voluntarily and that if he were subpoenaed, he
would invoke his Fifth Amendment rights against self-
incrimination unless granted immunity from prosecution.  The panel determined that while Meeks had failed to
disclose the loan as a liability on three years of financial
disclosures, it had “found no credible evidence that the errors
were knowing or willful.” Meeks has since corrected the errors
in subsequent disclosures.  The committee also said it would take no action on a public
intoxication charge filed in August in  Virginia  against
Representative  Tim Ryan , an Ohio Democrat. Ryan, 39, was found
not guilty of the charge earlier this month.  Further review of the matter is “not required,” the
committee said in a report to the House, because the panel
“believes that the handling of this matter by local authorities
is sufficient.”  Meeks and Ryan both won re-election last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  