-- Lufthansa, United Offer Slots for EU Antitrust Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-21T11:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/eu-seeks-views-on-lufthansa-continental-antitrust-approval-bid.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  may cede airport slots in Frankfurt
and  New York  in a bid to end a European Union antitrust probe of
their A++ trans-Atlantic venture also involving  Air Canada. (AC/B)   EU regulators said they are seeking views from competitors
and customers on the offer that would enable rivals to start as
many as seven weekly flights between Frankfurt and New York’s
 John F. Kennedy  or Newark Liberty airports, according to a
statement on the European Commission’s  website  today. A
settlement would permit the venture to go ahead without the risk
of EU fines.  “The A++ carriers prefer a pragmatic resolution and have
thus been discussing with the commission commitments for the
Frankfurt-New York route that are similar to commitments given
in other alliance cases,” the three airlines said in a joint
statement. The companies believe the case “may be settled
without admission or recognition of liability.”  Carriers are seeking partnerships on sales and scheduling
to cut costs as rising fuel prices and a sluggish economy hurt
profits. Cooperation between airlines has triggered three other
recent EU probes into ticket-sales agreements and a trans-
Atlantic pact between SkyTeam members  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Alitalia SpA. The EU fined carriers
including Air France-KLM, British Airways Plc and Japan Airlines
Corp. in 2010 for colluding on air-cargo fuel and security
surcharges.  Joint Venture  Lufthansa, United and  Air Canada (AC/A)  were told by the EU in
October that their proposed joint venture agreement may infringe
antitrust rules because it could end competition between
Lufthansa and United on the Frankfurt-New York route and harm
rivalry between the trio for first- and business-class
passengers, the EU said. The EU started probing the accord
between the members of the  Star Alliance  in 2009.  To allay EU concerns, the airlines have also offered fare
agreements with carriers operating on the Frankfurt-New York
route for premium passengers and to start agreements with
connecting flights from Europe or Israel to  North America , the
Caribbean and Central America that fly via Frankfurt-New York.
They also propose opening up their frequent-flyer programs to a
competitor.  New York  Competitors may choose which arrival and departure slots at
Frankfurt and New York they take on to allow as many as seven
additional weekly flights, according to the offer. This could
rise to 21 weekly flights if a rival pulls out of the route. The
airlines don’t have to release more than one slot at New York
JFK.  The airlines’ rivals and customers have a month from today
to tell regulators whether the offer would answer antitrust
concerns. After this so-called market test, the EU can then
decide on a formal settlement that ends the antitrust probe
without imposing fines or declaring that the companies breached
competition law.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental merged in
2010 to form Chicago-based United Continental Holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  