-- European Stocks Post Fifth Weekly Gain; SBM Shares Surge
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/european-stocks-post-fifth-weekly-gain-sbm-shares-surge.html
European stocks  rose for a fifth
week, posting the longest stretch of weekly gains in four
months, as investors awaited developments in U.S. budget
negotiations to avoid automatic tax hikes and spending cuts.  SBM Offshore NV soared 18 percent after seeking to settle a
dispute with Talisman Energy Inc.  Centamin Plc (CEY)  surged 18 percent
after the gold producer said operations have resumed at its
Sukari mine in Egypt. Royal KPN NV plunged 19 percent as the
Dutch phone company partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil
SAB cut its dividend.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.6 percent to
280.95 this week, paring gains after U.S. House Republicans
canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners, fueling concern
budget talks will fail. The equity benchmark has  rallied 20
percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as the  European Central
Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  introduced bond-buying programs,
and U.S. gross domestic product growth beat forecasts.  “The fiscal-cliff discussions are still on track and while
there will be moderate  risk aversion  as U.S. budget talks
gyrate, the broad expectation is that there won’t be a
disaster,” said  Manish Singh , who helps manage $2 billion as
head of investment at Crossbridge Capital in London. “What
supported sentiment this week was a better-than-expected third-
quarter GDP in the U.S. and investors getting excited about
Japan again.”  Budget Vote  U.S. lawmakers won’t vote on the end-of-year budget until
after Christmas, giving them less than a week to reach
agreement, after House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican,
yielded to anti-tax resistance within his own party and scrapped
a plan to allow higher tax rates on annual income above $1
million.  Boehner called upon President  Barack Obama  and Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to come up with legislation to avoid
the more than $600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled to start in January. The  Congressional Budget Office 
has said that a failure to avert those changes would probably
lead to a recession in the first half of 2013.  A Commerce Department report on Dec. 20 showed that the
world’s largest economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, exceeding the highest projection in a Bloomberg
survey and the government’s previous forecast of a 2.7 percent
gain. The median estimate of economists called for a 2.8 percent
advance.  Japanese Stimulus  The  Bank of Japan  this week expanded its asset-purchase
fund to 76 trillion yen ($903 billion) from 66 trillion yen and
kept its credit-lending program unchanged at 25 trillion yen.  Japan’s Liberal Democratic Party reclaimed power in a
landslide victory on Dec. 16. Shinzo Abe’s LDP now has a mandate
to implement fiscal and monetary stimulus plans.  SBM Offshore (SBMO)  climbed 18 percent, the biggest weekly jump
since November 2008. The company will write off the book value
of its Yme platform off the coast of Norway, which was evacuated
in July after cracks were found. Talisman, operator of the Yme
field, had threatened to replace the platform if SBM failed to
come up with a plan to repair it.  SBM will also sell a 9.95 percent stake to HAL Investments
BV for 8.50 euros a share to bolster finances and meet
creditors’ conditions on its loans.  Centamin Plc surged 18 percent after saying normal
operations would resume at its Sukari mine after a dispute over
diesel supplies that stopped operations. A halt by customs on
the mine’s gold exports ended on Dec. 16.  Alcatel-Lucent  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  rose 12 percent. The French government
wishes to protect Alcatel’s strategic submarine cable unit, Les
Echos reported Dec. 20. France Telecom SA is ready to purchase
the unit in deal that could give Alcatel 100 million euros
($131.8 million) to 150 million euros, according to the
newspaper.  The French phone-equipment maker has rallied 19 percent
since the Dec. 13 close after it reached a 1.6 billion-euro
financing deal.  KPN (KPN)  slumped 19 percent, its lowest price in 11 years. The
company cut its dividend as it spent 1.35 billion euros to buy
frequencies for faster mobile networks. KPN said Dec. 14 it
won’t pay a final dividend for 2012, after its 12-cent interim
dividend, and that next year’s payout will be 3 cents a share.
That compares with a previous plan to pay 35 cents a share for
this year and at least the same amount for 2013.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  sank 17 percent after saying earnings will be
lower next year. Chief Executive Officer Rupert Soames said the
world’s biggest provider of mobile-power supplies faces the same
conditions as in 2008 when it suffered a sharp drop-off in
orders for four quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  