-- Ex-Stripper Loses U.K. Lawsuit Over the Definition of ‘Employee’
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-12-21T12:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/ex-stripper-loses-u-k-lawsuit-over-the-definition-of-employee-.html
A former table dancer fired over
suspected drug use lost an appeal in a lawsuit that looked at
whether strippers are employees or contractors at U.K. clubs.  Judges in  London ’s Court of Appeal overturned an employment
appeal tribunal’s decision today that said Nadine Quashie was a
permanent employee at Stringfellow Restaurants Ltd. The appeals
court today said that Quashie was a contractor because she made
payments to the club for the opportunity to entertain clients.  “The fact that the dancer took the economic risk is also a
very powerful pointer against the contract being a contract of
employment,” Judge Patrick Elias said in his written ruling.  Strip clubs have fought cases on tax and free speech in
Britain and the U.S. Spearmint Rhino Ventures, one of the U.K.’s
largest lap-dancing chains, won a 2007 ruling that it doesn’t
have to pay value-added tax on services provided by its dancers.
This year, a  New York  court will hear arguments on the
regulations covering exotic dance venues.  Shah Qureshi, a lawyer for Quashie, said his client is
considering an appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court and the ruling
may affect other industries.  Quashie “maintains that her work for Stringfellows had all
the hallmarks of an employment relationship,” Qureshi said.
“She was required to provide services in exchange for payment,
there were mutual obligations between the parties and
Stringfellows exerted a high level of control over her work.”  Stringfellows lawyer, Marie van der Zyl, said the ruling
was based on the facts of the situation.  “I believed in the case from the start,” Van der Zyl, a
lawyer at Davenport Lyons LLP, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The case has been correctly decided on its own facts and
confirmed what was already a widely accepted industry
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  