-- Mexico Annual CPI Falls Within Target Range After Six Months
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-21T14:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/mexico-annual-cpi-falls-within-target-range-after-six-months-1-.html
Mexican inflation slowed in the
first half of December to within policy makers’ target range
for the first time since May, buoying expectations that  interest
rates  will remain on hold.  Prices climbed 0.27 percent, the national statistics agency
said today, slowing annual inflation to 3.76 percent as of Dec.
15 from 4.18 percent in November and to within the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. Analysts had
expected prices to rise 0.35 percent, according to the median of
13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Core inflation , which
excludes energy and food, rose 0.26 percent.  The inflation rate had remained above the target range
since June. Policy makers said in the minutes from their Nov. 30
meeting that they see a clear downward trend and warn that
 Mexico ’s growth outlook has been hurt by U.S. fiscal
uncertainty. The central bank board kept the key interest rate
unchanged at a record-low 4.5 percent last month, saying
inflation would drop within the target range by year-end.  “We see inflation below 4 percent,”  Rafael Camarena , an
economist at Banco Santander SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview before the report.  “We don’t think the
central bank will raise rates.”  Improving CPI  The minutes published Dec. 14 said that the inflation
outlook has improved “at the margins” and reiterated that the
central bank may consider raising rates if new inflation shocks
arise. Most board members said they saw a risk to CPI in the
possibility of higher-than-expected prices set by the
government. The government decides prices including gasoline and
other energy costs.  Mexico’s economic growth eased to 3.3 percent in the third
quarter from 4.4 percent in the previous three months as U.S.
business investment slowed on concern Congress will fail to
avoid $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases
in January.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy will grow 3.9
percent this year, about four times the pace of  Brazil  and
almost double the U.S., and 3.5 percent in 2013, Finance
Minister Luis Videgaray has said.  Foreign companies are stepping up to take advantage of that
growth.  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , the largest U.S. paint retailer,
last month agreed to acquire closely held Consorcio Comex SA de
CV, Mexico’s largest paint maker, for about $2.34 billion
including debt as housing demand improves.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  in June agreed to pay $20.1 billion
for the half of Grupo Modelo SAB, Mexico’s largest brewer, that
it didn’t already own to speed up its push into faster-growing
 developing countries .  ’Shift in Trend’  There’s been a “shift in trend” in inflation since the
rate climbed to a two-year high of 4.77 percent in September,
central bank Deputy Governor Manuel Ramos Francia wrote in a
report published on the bank’s website Dec. 10.  While softening its language in a statement accompanying
the Nov. 30 rate decision, the central bank still referred to
monetary policy tightening.  “If new shocks to inflation emerge, even if they are
presumed to be temporary” the board may find it “appropriate”
to tighten monetary policy, the bank said.  Yields on Mexican inflation-linked bonds due in 2014 rose 1
basis points to 1.01 percent at 8:09 a.m. in Mexico City. The
peso fell 0.9 percent to 12.8735 per  U.S. dollar . The currency
has strengthened 9.2 percent this year through yesterday, the
best performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  