-- Fincantieri to Buy STX OSV to Add Oil-Rig Support Vessels
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-12-21T10:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/fincantieri-to-buy-51-of-stx-osv-to-add-oil-rig-support-vessels.html
Fincantieri SpA agreed to buy a
controlling stake in  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , the world’s biggest
maker of oil-rig support vessels, for 455 million euros ($600
million) as rising energy demand stokes offshore drilling.  The Italian state-controlled shipbuilder will pay S$1.22 a
share in cash for STX Group’s 51 percent holding, according to a
statement today. It offered to buy out minority shareholders at
the same price. OSV fell 7.1 percent to S$1.30 in  Singapore 
trading, as the offer is at a discount to yesterday’s close.  Fincantieri, the world’s biggest builder of  cruise ships ,
will get yards for making offshore vessels in  Europe ,  Asia  and
 Brazil  as energy companies increase drilling in deeper waters to
replenish reserves. The deal also boosts STX Chairman Kang Duk Soo’s efforts to raise 2.5 trillion won in asset sales as his
South Korean group seeks funds to repay debt.  “This means cash, which STX desperately needs to
survive,” said Richard Park, an analyst at Korea Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Still, the sale price is
disappointing as the market was expecting something close to the
trading price.”  The deal should help improve STX’s finances, the group said
in a separate e-mailed statement. STX Corp., its holding
company, rose 2.4 percent to 8,560 won at the close in  Seoul .
Affiliate STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. climbed 2.3 percent.  Costa Concordia  Fincantieri, which built the stricken Costa Concordia
liner, offered to buy out minority investors in OSV because of
Singapore takeover rules. Acquiring all of the Alesund, Norway-
based company would cost about 900 million euros, according to
the statement. The general offer will probably be largely
rejected because of the discount, said Jason Saw, an analyst at
OSK Research in Singapore.  “We view the offer as unattractive to minority holders,”
he said in a note today. Och-Ziff Capital Management Group owns
12 percent of OSV, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fincantieri, based in Trieste, will pay for the purchase
using internal resources and a syndicated loan provided by
lenders including Banca IMI SpA, BNP Paribas SA, Banca Carige
SpA, Unicredit SpA and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.  The acquisition is expected to be completed within the
first four months of 2013, according to the statement. Credit
Suisse AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. are advising on the deal.  STX Debts  Kang, who founded STX in 2001, is also seeking to sell
stakes in a shipping unit and a Chinese shipyard to ease a cash
crunch. His three main companies -- STX Pan Ocean Co.,  STX Corp. (011810) 
and STX Offshore -- have $1.4 billion of bond and loan due next
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The group is struggling for funds after opening the Chinese
shipyard in 2008, just before a collapse in demand for new
vessels caused by a shipping glut and slower growth in  China .
Ship orders at the nation’s yards tumbled 47 percent from a year
earlier in the January-November period to the least since 2003,
according to shipbroker  Clarkson Plc .  Fincantieri won 1.86 billion euro of orders last year, 2.6
percent less than in 2010, according to its  annual report . Its
backlog stood at 5.37 billion euros at the end of December. It
had net income of 10 million euros in 2011, compared with a loss
of 124 million euros a year earlier.  OSV Backlog  OSV won 8.23 billion kroner ($1.5 billion) of new contracts
in the first nine months, 62 percent more than a year earlier.
Its order book stood at 16.4 billion kroner at the end of
September, with deliveries stretching into 2016, an increase
from 13.6 billion kroner a year ago. Third-quarter  net income 
fell 19 percent to 228 million kroner because of delays in
projects at its shipyard in Brazil.  The company is building a second facility in the South
American nation as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  drills new wells off
the country’s coastline. Globally, deep-water explorers will
spend a record $232 billion on new equipment over five years,
according to Canterbury, U.K.-based researcher Douglas-Westwood.  STX bought OSV through the 1.4 trillion won acquisition of
Aker Yards ASA, which was completed in February 2009. The group
sold a 32 percent stake in the unit, renamed STX OSV, in a
S$257.3 million Singapore initial public offering in 2010. STX
retains cruise-ship building yards acquired in the Aker deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  