-- Fitch Watches NHL Arenas as Lockout Forces Game Cancellations
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/fitch-warns-of-ratings-changes-if-lockout-cancels-nhl-season.html
Fitch Ratings may assign a negative
outlook to National Hockey League arenas if the season is
canceled because of the players’ lockout.  Bondholders are protected from the work-stoppage in the
short term because many arenas have significant contractually
obligated income and also host basketball teams, the credit
rating company said in a news release. Fitch has placed one
arena on Rating Watch Negative because of factors including “a
heightened exposure to a single franchise with a significant
share of arena generated revenues.”  “In the event that material progress has not been achieved
by mid-January and if Fitch believes the likelihood of season
cancellation is strong, Fitch will review the other arenas on a
case-by-case basis but will likely assign a Negative Outlook to
all arenas,” the news release said. It didn’t identify the
arenas.  A canceled season may affect premium seating and
sponsorship renewals, Fitch said, and labor uncertainty may
exacerbate the effects of some teams’ poor competitive
performance. Ratings can affect the price of bonds and the yield
at which issuers borrow.  Losing a full season may also cause long-term damage to the
NHL’s brand and fan support, especially coming after a lockout
that canceled the 2004-05 season, Fitch said.  “Professional sports work stoppages risk alienating sports
fans, corporate sponsorship and advertising partners in the
short-term and may lead to increased revenue volatility,” the
news release said. “The combination of weak and uncertain
national and regional economic conditions and the various sport
entertainment options could result in a dramatic reduction of
fan and corporate support.”  Fitch publicly rates the Los Angeles Staples Center’s $201
million revenue backed notes BBB+ with a stable outlook and the
Pepsi Center in Denver’s $46.7 million revenue backed notes BBB-
with a stable outlook. Fitch also maintains private ratings on
an unspecified number of arenas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  