-- Food Companies Cut TV Spending to Kids in Obesity Crisis
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-12-21T20:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/food-companies-cut-tv-spending-to-kids-in-obesity-crisis.html
Food companies cut spending on
television ads that market less-healthy food in the U.S. to
children and increased marketing on the Internet and through
mobile devices, according to a Federal Trade Commission report.  The companies designated $1.79 billion for marketing to
people ages 2 to 17 in 2009, compared with $2.1 billion in 2006,
according to the report released today. Adjusted for inflation,
the drop was almost 20 percent, the agency said. At the same
time, online and mobile marketing rose by 51 percent to $122.5
million, according to the report.  The U.S. child obesity rate has almost tripled since 1980
to 17 percent, or 12.5 million people, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The findings suggest
industry self-regulation isn’t doing enough to limit advertising
to children, said Margo Wootan, nutrition policy director at the
Center for Science in the Public Interest.  “It’s great that a number of food and media companies have
stepped up and agreed to self-regulate, but as currently
practiced, the self-regulatory system is weak and ineffective,”
Wootan, whose consumer advocacy group is based in  Washington ,
wrote in an e-mail.  The companies’ efforts were in response to consumer
pressure to help reduce obesity and improve the nutrition of
products on supermarket shelves. The online and mobile ads have
grown because they cost less, Wootan said.  SpongeBob SquarePants  TV characters such as Nickelodeon’s SpongeBob SquarePants
and movies such as 20th Century Fox Film Corp.’s “Ice Age: Dawn
of the Dinosaurs” were used extensively in advertising to
promote kids meals, frozen desserts, and candy, the report said.  The reduction in TV spending follows successful efforts by
Nestle SA,  Kellogg Co. (K)  and other industry leaders to push for
self-regulation instead of government guidelines seeking to
limit ad spending on children’s fare with high levels of sugar
and fat.  The report shows food companies are making progress in
efforts to curtail ads to children,  Nestle (NESN) , the world’s largest
food company, said in a statement. The company doesn’t advertise
to children younger than 6 and promotes only products that meet
nutritional criteria to those ages 6 to 11, Nestle said in a
statement.  Nestle participates in the Children’s Food and Beverage
Advertising Initiative, a voluntary self-regulation program.  Industry Program  “We are pleased that the Federal Trade Commission has
recognized the progress being made under self-regulation with
the CFBAI participants’ commitments to advertise to children
only foods meeting meaningful, science-based nutrition
criteria,” Nestle said.  Industry self-regulation resulted in modest nutritional
improvement in marketing cereals, drinks, and fast-food kids’
meals to children, the FTC said in the  report .  Media companies continued licensing children’s characters
and ads during children’s programming to less nutritious foods.  “The encouraging news is that we’re seeing promising signs
that food companies are reformulating their products and
marketing more nutritious foods to kids, especially among
companies participating in industry self-regulatory efforts,”
Jon Leibowitz, FTC chairman, said in a statement.  Obesity Costs  U.S. consumers spend about $147 billion a year on obesity-
related medical costs, with the government health programs
Medicare and Medicaid covering 42 percent.  In 2009, Congress created the Interagency Working Group on
Food Marketed to Children, which in 2011 drafted proposed
marketing principles to guide the industry. The proposal was
fought by industry and groups such as the Association of
National Advertisers, whose board members include  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and  Unilever NV. (UNA)   Nestle and Kellogg, the biggest U.S. breakfast-cereal
makers, were among the companies that have fought the government
guidelines. Kellogg had said it would cause severe financial
harm because they would have had to remove Tony the Tiger from
Frosted Flakes boxes to comply.  Industry has pursued its own voluntary efforts through an
initiative by food and beverage companies and The Council of
Better Business Bureaus, an Arlington, Virginia-based nonprofit
organization that administers self-regulation programs for
businesses.  “We recognize that there is room for improvement and our
record to date shows that CFBAI and its participants are
committed to dynamic, effective self-regulation,” Elaine Kolish, vice president of the Council of Better Business Bureaus
and director of the advertising initiative, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  