-- Free Power as Germany Faces Warmest Christmas in 19 Years
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2012-12-21T15:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/free-power-looms-as-germany-faces-warmest-christmas-in-19-years.html
German utilities may have to pay
power users during the warmest Christmas in almost two decades 
if wind generation threatens to overload the country’s grid.  Temperatures on Dec. 24 will be as high as 16 degrees
Celsius (61 Fahrenheit) in the southwest of the country, the
warmest for that date since 1983, according to a forecast by
Deutscher Wetterdienst. Power prices for next week have fallen
50 percent over the past five days to a record low.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has encouraged
construction of electricity generation from the sun and wind by
giving producers favorable rates and priority access to the 
grid as the country seeks to exit nuclear energy. That means
utilities including EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  sometimes prefer to pay
power users rather than halt fossil fuel-fed plants when the
country’s electricity output surpasses demand.  “Operators may just decide to accept that they are giving
away power and money during the Christmas week for a few hours
rather than putting up with even higher costs for switching
their units off,” said Juergen Rogalla, the head of power plant
operations at  Stadtwerke Bielefeld GmbH , a regional utility
supplying 280,000 households with power and gas.  Week-ahead baseload power , for around-the-clock delivery,
fell as much as 10 percent to 23.20 euros ($30.60) a megawatt-
hour today, the lowest since Bloomberg started compiling broker
data in September 2007. German wind generation on Dec. 24 may
rise as high as 13 gigawatts compared with to about 7 gigawatts
today, according to the website of Meteologica SA, a Madrid-
based weather forecaster.  “We have seen negative prices for some hours of next
Tuesday morning,” Ricardo Klimaschka, a power trader at
Energieunion GmbH in Schwerin, said today by telephone. “It
depends on the wind generation as well.”  ‘Taken Precautions’  Renewable power use rose 8 percent this year, boosting its
share to 12 percent of total consumption, according to
preliminary data from Arbeitsgemeinschaft Energiebilanzen AG, an
industry lobby.  Total available generation  capacity  will fall to 59,300
megawatts on Dec. 24 from 61,700 megawatts today with most of
the drop in coal output, according to data from the European
Energy Exchange AG.  “Operators may have taken precautions”, Rogalla added.
This would especially apply to more flexible gas plants that run
during peak demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  