-- Gardner Denver Falls on Reuters Reports Deal Talks Fail
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-12-21T21:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/gardner-denver-falls-on-reuters-reports-deal-talks-fail.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous name of spokesman and
replace by a company statement in next to last paragraph.)  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  tumbled the most
in four years after Reuters reported that the producer of
industrial air compressors had ended talks with  SPX Corp. (SPW)  for a
deal valued at more than $4 billion.  Gardner Denver slumped 9.2 percent to $68.57 at 2:42 p.m.
after dropping 15 percent for the biggest intraday decline since
Dec. 19, 2008. The Wayne, Pennsylvania-based company had gained
3.2 percent Dec. 19 after Reuters reported SPX, a producer of
industrial equipment for a variety of industries, was close to
announcing a deal.  Talks between  Charlotte , North Carolina-based SPX and
Gardner Denver ended as both companies expressed doubt about the
transaction’s success, Reuters said, citing a source it didn’t
identify. Gardner Denver management has asked to meet with
private-equity firms in early January, the news service said.  Gardner Denver has been under pressure from activist
investor ValueAct Capital Management LLC, which said in July
that a sale of the company would reap the most value for
investors following the departure of its former chief executive
officer, Barry Pennypacker. The San Francisco-based investment
firm  owned  a 5.1 percent stake in Gardner Denver as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gardner Denver’s board and management continue to work with
the company’s adviser, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to explore
strategic alternatives, including a possible sale or merger, the
company said in a statement.  Jennifer Epstein, a spokeswomen for SPX, didn’t immediately
return telephone and e-mail messages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  