-- Gasoline Falls as Budget Talk Delays Fuel Fiscal Cliff Concerns
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-12-21T18:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/gasoline-falls-as-budget-talk-delays-fuel-fiscal-cliff-concerns.html
Gasoline dropped as U.S. legislators
delayed a vote on budget issues until after Christmas, fueling
concerns that the world’s largest economy will face automatic
spending cuts and tax increases in January.  Futures fell as much as 1.3 percent as House Speaker  John Boehner  yielded to anti-tax resistance within his own party.
House members and senators won’t vote on budget issues until
after Christmas, giving them less than a week to reach an
agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. The standoff
overshadowed data showing bigger-than-estimated growth in
personal income and durable goods orders.  “It had looked earlier in the week that they were making
some substantive process,”  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice
president at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York , said in a phone
interview. “With the Boehner ‘Plan B’ not going anywhere, and
actually sending the representatives home, I think the market is
now worried we are going to go over the fiscal cliff.”  Gasoline for January delivery fell 2.78 cents, or 1
percent, to $2.7265 a gallon at 12:52 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Boehner said some members of the Republican caucus refused
to back his tax measure because they didn’t want to be accused
of raising taxes.  It was “not the outcome I wanted, but it was the will of
the House,” Boehner said. “They were dealing with the
perception that someone might accuse them of raising taxes.”  Consumer Confidence  U.S.  consumer confidence  fell in December to a five-month
low as Americans grew more concerned about the possibility of
higher taxes next year. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  consumer sentiment index  decreased to 72.9, the weakest
since July, from 82.7 in November.  Another report showed spending by U.S. consumers climbed in
November as Americans bought gifts for the holidays and made up
for shopping lost to superstorm Sandy. Purchases increased 0.4
percent last month after a 0.1 percent drop in October that was
smaller than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed. Incomes rebounded, increasing 0.6 percent, after being
depressed in October by lost wages because of  Hurricane Sandy .  January-delivery heating oil futures fell 3.56 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $3.0219 a gallon on the Nymex.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  rose 1.3
cents to $3.232 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the first increase after 28 straight days of falling prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  