-- GE Buys Avio’s Aviation Parts Business for $4.3 Billion
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-12-21T21:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/ge-buys-avio-from-cinven-for-4-3-billion-to-secure-supply-chain.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the biggest
maker of  jet engines , agreed to buy the aerospace-parts business
of Avio SpA for $4.3 billion, tightening control over its supply
chain as planemakers boost output.  The purchase from Cinven Ltd. and Finmeccanica SpA values
Turin-based Avio at 8.5 times estimated earnings for 2012 before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to GE,
which won’t be acquiring the Italian company’s space assets.  GE is adding Avio after forming a partnership with Mitsui &
Co. in October and another with Parker Hannifin Corp. last month
in moves focused on securing components for the company’s next-
generation commercial engines. The acquisition is the largest in
the  aerospace industry  for GE since it bought parts of Smiths
Group Plc for $4.8 billion in May 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “By acquiring part of their supply chain it will be easier
for them to manage the production ramp-up and help reassure the
aircraft makers,” said  Yan Derocles , an aerospace analyst at
Oddo Securities in Paris.  Avio’s aviation business had sales of 1.7 billion euros
($2.2 billion) last year, versus 297 million euros at the space
division, the prime contractor on the European Vega launcher,
for which Cinven and minority investor Finmeccanica said they
plan to seek industrial alliances.  ‘Great Fit’  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE beat offers for Avio from
 Safran SA (SAF) , CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Clessidra SGR SpA,
people with knowledge of the negotiations have said. The deal is
subject to regulatory and governmental approvals.  “This acquisition is a great strategic fit with our
existing portfolio,”  David Joyce , head of the GE Aviation
division, said in the statement.  GE will invest $1.1 billion in Avio over the next 10 years,
Joyce said at a press conference in Milan after the purchase was
announced.  GE  fell  0.8 percent to $20.88 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 17 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Avio gets more than 50 percent of sales from GE and GE
joint-venture engines. It makes parts for the U.S. company’s
newest model, the GEnx, which powers  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner
and 747-8 jumbo jet, and is a supplier to CFM International SA,
a venture of GE and Safran that’s the exclusive source of
engines for the  Boeing 737 , the world’s most widely flown
 passenger jet .  Production Increase  Boeing plans to ramp up production by 60 percent in the
four years through 2014 as it works through a $307 billion order
backlog. Airbus SAS said last month it will take seven years to
build the 4,400 planes its customers have on order.  GE said the acquisition will also create opportunities to
offer Avio products and services beyond the aviation industry,
with prospects for expansion in power generation, oil and marine
products.  Avio employs about 5,300 people, 4,500 of them in  Italy ,
including 800 at the space unit.  “The space business is going to have to go somewhere,”
said Thomas Picherit, a Paris-based analyst at Alphavalue SAS.
“They may have to sell at some kind of a discount.”  Founded as the aeronautics unit of Italian carmaker Fiat
SpA in 1908, Avio was purchased by Carlyle Group LP and
 Finmeccanica (FNC)  in 2003 before being sold to Cinven in 2006 in a
deal that valued it at about 2.6 billion euros.  Sale Preparations  The buyout firm began preparing Avio for a sale last year
when it hired banks to manage an initial public offering. The
IPO was postponed amid stock-market swings, after London-based
Cinven received approaches from suitors including Safran.  Today’s purchase follows Cinven’s rejection of an offer
from private-equity firms CVC and Clessidra, which bid about 3
billion euros, people familiar with the situation have said.  Finmeccanica, Italy’s biggest defense company, said today
it will retain its 14.3 percent stake in Avio.  Cinven was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Rothschild.
Avio worked with Deutsche Bank AG, Banca IMI SpA, Morgan Stanley
and Barclays Plc. GE was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  