-- Georgia Town Ordering Gun Ownership Undaunted by Massacre
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/georgia-town-ordering-gun-ownership-undaunted-by-massacre.html
Kennesaw,  Georgia , is a quiet
Atlanta suburb of newer subdivisions and strip malls around a
huddle of older homes and storefronts. It is asking churches to
ring their bells 26 times today for the victims of last week’s
elementary school massacre in  Connecticut .  And it has no plans to change a law requiring residents to
own guns.  No town in the U.S. has been as public about its support
for guns as Kennesaw, population about 30,000, where city
leaders for 30 years have required that every household have at
least one gun. The Dec. 14 killings of 20 children and six
adults, the second-deadliest school shooting in U.S. history,
has done little to change that, residents say in interviews.  Most called President  Barack Obama ’s push to tighten gun
restrictions worrisome at best and a conspiracy at worst,
exemplifying resistance to such controls in the South.  “They’re trying to confiscate our guns,” said Dent Myers,
81, who wore a pistol on his hip and a red beret at his
Wildman’s Civil War Surplus and Herb Shop. The store, draped in
Confederate flags, is the most prominent business in Kennesaw’s
two-block downtown.  On a sidewalk nearby, Andy Crowe, 46, said he welcomed a
national conversation on guns, as long as it’s nuanced and
respects those who own and use guns responsibly.  “What I would have a problem with is enacting a law just
for the sake of saying you’re doing something,” said Crowe, an
author, deer hunter and father of three. He said some bans being
talked about would forbid his own deer rifle.  Little Difference  “If I woke up and found out a gun I manufactured had been
used to slaughter children, I’d stop making it,” he said. “But
what makes that gun different than my deer rifle? I’ve thought
about that. The difference isn’t much.”  The state of Georgia allows citizens to carry guns openly
as long as they hold permits, in a region where guns have long
been prized and firearms are part of the culture, Crowe said.  “It’s ingrained in us,” he said. “It’s about
responsibility as much as anything and I am passing that on to
my kids.”  Kennesaw, about 30 miles northwest of Atlanta, had about
5,000 people when its City Council adopted an ordinance
requiring heads of households to own a gun and enough ammunition
to use it, said police Lieutenant Craig Graydon, 47, who’s
fielded questions about the law for 26 years.  Political Statement  The 1982 law was a symbolic rebuke to the village of Morton
Grove,  Illinois , the first community to ban the sale and
possession of handguns. Kennesaw’s ordinance had little effect
on a rural community where most people already owned firearms,
Graydon said. It was also unenforceable on its face. Anyone who
says they are morally opposed to guns is exempt. So is anyone
who can’t afford to buy one.  The law drew international ridicule. After every mass
shooting in the U.S., Graydon explains the law again to
reporters from  Germany , Britain,  Japan  and other countries, he
said. Kennesaw was repeatedly portrayed as a frontier town with
armed citizens prowling the streets, he said.  “There’s sort of a Wild West image of us,” he said.
“It’s just not true.”  Gun-rights advocates extolled the law as proof that more
arms increase safety, crediting it with Kennesaw’s relatively
low crime rate and a drop in burglaries after it took effect.  That image of Kennesaw is also exaggerated, said Graydon.
He credits police work and community cooperation with achieving
a crime rate that compares well with the city’s neighbors. He
also debunked an oft-repeated claim that the community has had
no homicides in 30 years. It’s had nine, fewer than half
involving guns, he said.  Half Owners  Graydon estimates about 50 percent of Kennesaw owns guns
today, and that many residents don’t know the law exists.  “We’re a typical suburban town,” he said.  Myers, who owns the surplus store, has been the law’s chief
proselytizer.  In an inventory that includes shirts honoring the Ku Klux
Klan and racist bumper stickers, he says his best seller is a T-
Shirt displaying two crossed pistols and the motto, “It’s the
law in Kennesaw.”  Pamphlets at the front counter trumpet “The Law Heard
’Round the World.” For years, Wildman’s sold honorary Kennesaw
citizenship certificates to outsiders. Myers said the proceeds
went to help Kennesaw’s poor buy ammunition.  Others in the city, though less passionate, said they had
no problem with the gun law.  Raises Eyebrows  “It always raises a lot of eyebrows, but it was a
statement more than anything,” Crowe said. “It not only did
not turn out to be the Wild West here, it’s a wonderful place to
live. The crime rate is low. The rate of crimes with guns is
very low.”  Around the corner from Wildman’s, the owner of Big Shanty
Barber Shop endorses the law and said she opposes federal
efforts to restrict guns.  “It’s been good for the city, other than people laughing
at us,” Shannan Smith, 42, said of the ordinance.  Smith said she carries a gun “because I own a business.”
She said she stood in line for an hour this week to renew her
permit to carry it in public. Smith said the line for permits
was long because people are afraid of what Congress will do
after the latest school shooting.  “They need to work on mental illness, which is the real
problem,” she said, drawing nods from John Norton, 82, who sat
in her chair, and three men waiting their turn.  Pistol-Packing  A few blocks away, businesswoman Holly Jones, 49, also
carries a gun. She’s been warming to  gun control  despite that,
she said. Jones urged her daughters, 18 and 25, to avoid movies
after the July theater killings in Aurora,  Colorado , and is now
afraid when her youngest goes to school.  After last week’s shooting, “I just cried all day,” she
said as she painted flowers on a recycled wine bottle at her
Painted Butterfly folk-art shop.  “I see both sides,” she said. “There’s the right to
protect oneself, sure. I also see what the world is coming to. I
really do think it’s come to the point where we need gun
control. I just think the pros and cons don’t balance out
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  