-- German Stocks Decline as Republicans Cancel Vote on Taxes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-21T16:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/german-stocks-decline-as-republicans-cancel-vote-on-taxes.html
German stocks  declined from their
highest level in nearly five years after U.S. House Republicans
canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners, fueling concern
that budget talks will fail.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s two biggest
lenders, retreated 3.4 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.
ThyssenKrupp AG lost 1.3 percent as a gauge of industrial
companies fell on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   The  DAX (DAX)  slipped 0.5 percent to 7,636.23 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, after rising to its highest since January
2008 yesterday. The gauge has still gained  0.5 percent  this week
amid speculation that U.S. lawmakers would agree a budget to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts totalling $607 billion due to come into effect
next year. The broader HDAX Index also fell 0.5 percent today.  “Markets received their first shot across the bow last
night with Boehner’s ‘plan B’ on the fiscal cliff being
canceled,” Ion Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager  at
Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in a message. “European indexes
are lower and volatility should be higher given that options and
futures expire today. We could see some wild swings as traders
and investors adjust their books ahead of the weekend and the
Christmas holiday.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 51
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. European  stock trading  may be more
volatile than usual as futures and options contracts expire in a
process known as quadruple witching.  Plan Scrapped  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, scrapped a
plan to allow higher tax rates on annual incomes above $1
million, yielding to resistance from party colleagues. Talks
between Boehner and President  Barack Obama  are already stalled
with 10 days to go before the year-end deadline for a budget
compromise.  German  consumer confidence  will fall for a second month in
January, GfK SE said. The Nuremberg, Germany-based market
research company forecast today that its  consumer-sentiment
index , based on a survey of about 2,000 people, will fall to 5.6
from a revised 5.8 in December. Economists predicted no change
from the previous month, according to the median of 28 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank retreated 3.4 percent to 1.44
euros and 1.6 percent to 33 euros, respectively.  ThyssenKrupp Declines  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, fell 1.3
percent to 18.01 euros.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of the
building material, lost 1.8 percent to 45.82 euros as Hamburger
Sparkasse AG downgraded the stock to hold from buy.  EON AG and RWE AG, Germany’s largest utility companies,
fell 2 percent to 14.01 euros and 1.7 percent to 31.24 euros,
respectively.  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) , Germany’s biggest solar company by
market value, rose 3.7 percent to 18.95 euros after saying it
agreed to buy a majority stake in Jiangsu Zeversolar New Energy
Co. to gain access to the Chinese market.  SMA Solar will get 72.5 percent of the inverter maker in a
deal that gives Zeversolar an enterprise value of 319 million
 yuan  ($51 million), Niestetal-based SMA said in a statement. The
agreement is subject to Chinese regulatory approval.  Continental AG, Europe’s second largest auto-parts
supplier, rose 2.1 percent to 87.58 euros after it said it’s
working to refinance a syndicated loan maturing in April 2014 to
cut debt.  The company is in talks with banks on reducing the loan
volume “slightly” to a total of 4.5 billion euros ($5.9
billion) and splitting it into two portions, the Hanover,
Germany-based company said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  