-- German GfK Consumer Confidence to Fall for Second Month
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-21T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/german-gfk-consumer-confidence-to-fall-for-second-month.html
German  consumer confidence  will fall
for a second month in January as uncertainty about the global
economy increases,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The Nuremberg, Germany-based market research company
forecast today that its  consumer-sentiment index , based on a
survey of about 2,000 people, will fall to 5.6 from a revised
5.8 in December. Economists predicted no change from the
previous month, according to the median of 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Germany ’s Bundesbank said this week it expects the economy,
 Europe ’s largest, to shrink “markedly” in the fourth quarter
before recovering in 2013. Still, business confidence improved
for a second month in December after factory orders and exports
rose, cementing optimism of growth next year.  “German consumers are expecting the economy to go through
a difficult phase in the coming months,” GfK said in an e-
mailed statement. “As well as a stable labor market, it’s
important that a lasting solution to the  European debt crisis  is
found to ease consumers’ uncertainty.”  A measure of economic expectations fell to minus 17.9 in
December from minus 14.6 in November, GfK said. A gauge of
income expectations rose to 21.2 from 17.8, and an index
measuring willingness to buy fell to 20.1 from 29.4.  Beiersdorf AG raised its full-year sales forecast for the
second time in just over a month on Dec. 6, as the maker of
Nivea skin cream said revenue at its consumer business would
grow more quickly than expected.  There’s “reasonable hope that the phase of economic
weakness won’t last too long and Germany will return to
growth,” the Bundesbank said on Dec. 7. It predicts expansions
of 0.4 percent next year and 1.9 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  