-- German Bunds Advance on U.S. Budget Concern; Italian Bonds Drop
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-12-21T16:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/german-bunds-advance-for-second-day-as-consumer-confidence-falls.html
Germany ’s 10-year bunds rose for a
second day as concern that U.S. policy makers will fail to avert
a series of tax increases and spending cuts that may trigger a
recession fueled demand for safer assets.  Finland’s bonds also gained as U.S. House Republican
leaders canceled a scheduled vote on Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan
to allow higher tax rates for annual incomes above $1 million,
throwing budget negotiations deeper into turmoil. Italian and
Spanish 10-year securities declined.  “People are concerned again about the fiscal cliff,” said
Ralf Umlauf, a research analyst at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen
in  Frankfurt . “We see no signs of a solution and that is
providing some support for bunds.”  German 10-year bund yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 4:16 p.m.  London  time. They
climbed to 1.46 percent on Dec. 19, the highest since Nov. 27,
and are headed for a three basis-point  increase  on the week. The
1.5 percent bond maturing in September 2022 rose 0.335, or 3.35
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,317) face amount, to 101.085.  U.S. House members and senators won’t vote on budget
matters until after Christmas, giving them less than a week to
avert the tax increases and spending cuts of more than $600
billion set to take effect in January.  Consumer Sentiment  Bunds also rose as a report showed German  consumer
confidence  will fall for a second month in January. Nuremberg,
Germany-based market research company  GfK SE (GFK)  said today its
consumer-sentiment index will drop to 5.6 from a revised 5.8
this month. That’s the lowest since December 2011.  German  government bonds  are poised to deliver returns for a
 seventh consecutive quarter  as the debt crisis and concern that
the euro-region will struggle to grow next year underpins demand
for top-rated fixed-income assets. The securities climbed 0.5
percent so far this quarter, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Volatility on Finnish debt was the highest among euro-area
nations tracked by Bloomberg, followed by that of the
Netherlands and Germany, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  Finnish Sales  Finland  will probably continue its policy of selling two
new euro-denominated benchmark bonds a year, as it seeks to meet
a net funding need of 7.5 billion euros in 2013, the Treasury in
Helsinki said today. It said on Nov. 28 it would sell five-year
and 10-year bonds in euros next year. The nation also plans as
many as four so-called tap auctions in 2013, with the first one
in the first quarter, the Treasury said today.  Finland’s  10-year yields  fell four basis points to 1.59
percent.  Italian 10-year yields climbed four basis points to 4.47
percent. The rate increased three basis points yesterday. The
yield on similar-maturity Spanish bonds rose two basis points to
5.25 percent.  French bonds maintained a two-day gain, with the  extra
yield  that investors demand to hold 10-year securities instead
of German bunds widening two basis points to 60 basis points,
still down from 153 basis points in January.  “French bonds have performed well,” Francis Yared, head
of European rates strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
 Maryam Nemazee . “Relative to fundamentals, they are on the
expensive side. We prefer to be long Italy and Germany versus
 France ,” he said. A long position refers to a bet that an
asset’s price will rise.  French 10-year yields were little changed at 1.99 percent.  Euro-region government bond markets will be closed from
Dec. 24 through Dec. 26, according to the  website  of Eurex, a
derivatives exchange unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG.  Cyprus Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s long-term debt rating to
CCC+ from B, the third downgrade in five months, citing a rising
risk of default as the government’s short-term financing is
“increasingly vulnerable.”  Cyprus, the fifth euro-area nation to seek a financial
rescue, faces a more serious fiscal situation than  Greece ,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said last week. The
Cypriot government is negotiating with the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  for aid.  “One could argue the downgrade was expected,” said
Athanasios Vamvakidis, head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “The most
likely scenario is a deal will be reached with Cyprus after they
get a new government in February.”  The nation’s 4.5 percent bond maturing in April 2017 rose
for a second day, pushing the yield down 23 basis points to
12.61 percent.  German bunds returned 3.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to the EFFAS bond indexes. Italian debt
earned 21 percent while Spanish bonds gained 6.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  