-- Gol Weighing IPO for Smiles Seeks Bounce Like Multiplus
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2012-12-21T13:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/gol-weighing-ipo-for-smiles-seeks-bounce-like-multiplus.html
     Dec. 21 (Bloomberg) ---  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , the frequent-flier
program spun off from airline Tam SA, is blazing a trail that
 Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  seeks to follow by selling
stock of its Smiles mileage unit to pay down debt.  Multiplus has paid more than 1 billion reais ($483 million)
in dividends since its 2010 initial public offering, a boon for
its former parent, which holds a 73 percent stake. Its dividend
yield exceeds that of all its consumer-services peers in  Latin
America  except  Argentina ’s Grupo Clarin SA.  The market value of Sao Paulo-based Multiplus surged past
Tam’s before the carrier agreed this year to combine with  Lan
Airlines SA (LAN)  to form Latam Airlines Group SA. A successful IPO
for Smiles in 2013 could provide a boost to Gol as the airline
tries to end losses.  “Smiles is taking these steps, and an IPO could unlock the
value for Gol,” said Felipe Silveira, a Sao Paulo-based analyst
at Coinvalores who rates the shares as hold and doesn’t own any.
“Once you separate the price it’s easier to see how much this
asset will add to the company as a whole. Then you can improve
the value of the mother company.”  Gol, the world’s most indebted airline, has cut flights and
jobs as it faces rising fuel costs and currency fluctuations
that have helped trigger adjusted losses in five of the past six
quarters. Sao Paulo-based Gol plans to operate Smiles as a
separate company in 2013 ahead of a share sale.  ‘Growing Market’  “We are optimistic,” Flavio Vargas, the director of
Smiles, said at Gol’s investors day on Dec. 6. “We see a
growing market.”  Gol’s shares slumped 9.6 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 30 percent gain for the  Bloomberg
Americas Airlines Index (BUSAIRLX)  of nine carriers. Gol didn’t respond to
a request for comment on this story.  Gol rose 0.3 percent to 11.22 reais at 11:05 a.m. Multiplus
fell 0.4 percent to 48.70 reais.  Airline rewards programs make money by selling miles to
banks or hotels to give to customers. Stand-alone operators can
sell points to carriers, banks and retailers, and then buy
airline seats and other rewards at a discount, pocketing the
difference.  Multiplus reaped 723.9 million reais, a third less than
analysts projected, in its 2010 IPO for Tam. Before the IPO, the
company struck a deal with  Ultrapar Participacoes SA (UGPA3) ’s Ipiranga-
brand gas stations to show that its product had value beyond its
roots as Tam’s mileage program.  Revenue Outlook  Revenue will be about 500 million reais this quarter,
Multiplus Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Gouveia said in a Dec.
19 interview. That would exceed the average estimate of 450.5
million reais from four analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
shares soared 52 percent this year through yesterday.  “Oftentimes, when you spin this thing off and you have
this independent entity that is entrepreneurial-minded and freed
from the parent, amazing things can happen,” said Jay Sorensen,
who helped run the frequent-flier program at the former Midwest
Airlines and is now president of consultant IdeaWorks Inc. in
Shorewood,  Wisconsin . “They can really go out and engage in
different brands and create something that is even more robust
for the consumer.”  Multiplus has 10.5 million clients, about the same number
as U.S. carrier  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , according to  Colorado
Springs , Colorado-based  industry researcher  Frequent Flyer
Services.  ‘Very Big’  “ Brazil  is still a market that offers growth in terms of
participation -- it could be very big,” Gouveia said at the
company’s Sao Paulo headquarters.  Its pool of potential customers should expand, buoyed by
projected growth of 3 percent in Brazil’s gross domestic product
in 2013, rising household wealth and greater access to financial
products for low-income Brazilians, Aloisio Lemos, an analyst at
Agora Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo.  In 2007, some investors in American Airlines parent  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ)  urged the company to sell its AAdvantage frequent-flier
plan, saying the program was worth as much as the carrier, at
the time the world’s largest. AMR kept its  loyalty program  and
filed for bankruptcy last year as losses mounted.  Air Canada’s former parent, ACE Aviation Holdings Inc.,
opted to go the  IPO route  for its rewards program in 2005. The
Montreal-based loyalty plan, now known as Aimia Inc., was the
inspiration for Multiplus, which was designed to be a sleeker
and more agile company than Tam, Gouveia said.  Capital spending  equaled 0.05 percent of sales last year,
compared with the median of 6.1 percent for Brazil’s largest 177
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are a company that has a very low capex because our
capex is in technology,” Gouveia said. “We have no stock, no
stores and high  cash flow  and good profitability.”  Multiplus is working to convince Brazilians that the points
are valuable and help them figure out how to navigate
Multiplus’s plan, which has partnerships with more than 230
companies.  “This looks like -- to this gringo -- like a very complex
offer that I’m just curious whether people grasp,” said
Sorensen, the consultant. “I look at this and think: ‘Boy, this
really seems like an amazing story.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  