-- Gold Gains as Impasse in U.S. Budget Talks Signals Haven Demand
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-12-21T21:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/gold-gains-in-new-york-as-central-banks-boost-bullion-reserves.html
Gold gained for the first time in
four days as an impasse in U.S. budget talks boosted demand for
the metal as an investment haven.  Lawmakers canceled a planned vote on higher taxes for top
earners, giving them less than a week to reach agreement to
avert tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect next
month. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said that a failure
to avert those changes would probably lead to a recession in the
first half of 2013.  “Budget talks are the main concern right now,”  Bart Melek , the Toronto-based head of commodity strategy at TD
Securities, said in a telephone interview. “There is really too
much ambiguity in the market.”  Gold futures for February delivery advanced 0.9 percent to
settle at $1,660.10 an ounce at 1:44 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. The price dropped 3.1 percent in the previous three days
on speculation that better U.S. economic data will ease pressure
on the  Federal Reserve  to expand monetary stimulus.  Prices also rose after Brazil boosted its  gold reserves  for
a third month, with holdings doubling since August. The bullion
increase of 14.7 metric tons in November was the nation’s
biggest in 12 years, data from the  International Monetary Fund 
showed.  “The central banks in emerging economies have been
continuing their policy of diversifying their currency
reserves,”  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, said in an e-mail. “This trend is likely to continue
next year, meaning that central banks will play a considerable
part in the price increase we envisage in 2013.”  Silver futures for March delivery rose 1.8 percent to
$30.203 an ounce on Comex, paring this week’s loss to 6.5
percent.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery dropped 0.6 percent to $1,536.90 an ounce, the
fifth straight decline. Palladium futures for March delivery
rose 0.3 percent to $682.30 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  