-- Google, Samsung, Haribo, Exxon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-21T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/google-samsung-haribo-exxon-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. agreed to sell its
Motorola Home business to  Arris Group Inc. (ARRS)  for $2.35 billion,
finding a buyer for a division that sells television set-top
boxes while it focuses on expanding in smartphones.  Arris, a cable-equipment maker, will pay about $2.05
billion in cash and about $300 million in newly issued shares
that will give Google a stake of about 15.7 percent, the
companies said in a Dec. 19 statement.  Google, which acquired the division through the $12.5
billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in May,
received multiple offers on Dec. 7, a person with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month. Google sought a buyer for
the home unit as it aims to devote more attention to mobile
devices amid an accelerating rivalry with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “Google never really wanted the set-top box business,”
 Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group in Portland,
Oregon, said in an interview. “What they wanted were the mobile
patents. It was very clear this wasn’t why they were buying the
business in the first place.”  Pace Plc (PIC) , a U.K. maker of set-top boxes and a suitor of the
assets, said in a statement that it was unable to reach an
agreement with Google.  Adding Motorola Home helps Arris more than triple sales, on
a pro-forma basis, to about $4.7 billion for the year that ended
Sept. 30, according to the statement. The company will have
about 2,000 patents after the acquisition, Arris said in a
 presentation .  The agreement also includes provisions to cap potential
liability for  intellectual-property  infringement. Digital-video
recording company  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  is suing Motorola Mobility and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  over use of recording technology in the set-top
boxes they make.  The agreement gives Arris patents in areas such as video
processing and digital-rights management, plus the right to
license additional intellectual property from Motorola Mobility,
Arris Chief Executive Officer Bob Stanzione said. Arris sees an
opportunity to sell new equipment to customers whose home cable-
TV sets don’t support Internet-video delivery, he said.  Samsung Faces EU Antitrust Complaint Over Apple Patent Clash  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  faces a European Union antitrust
complaint over its use of standard-essential patents in legal
disputes with Apple Inc., the EU’s competition commissioner
said.  “We will adopt the statement of objections very soon,”
 Joaquin Almunia , the bloc’s antitrust chief, said at a press
conference in Brussels yesterday.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have traded victories in their patent disputes fought
over four continents since Apple accused Asia’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices  While regulators were “happy” with Samsung’s announcement
this week that it will withdraw injunctions in Europe that seek
to block sales of Apple products, Almunia said the commission
will continue to investigate whether Samsung’s threats to use
legal action harmed competition.  “We are dissatisfied every time that we see the launching
of injunctions” involving standard-essential patents,’’ Almunia
told reporters at a press conference in Brussels. “The
injunctions in the Apple-Samsung case were launched; it was not
only a threat.”  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea “is fully cooperating
with the European Commission proceedings,” according to an e-
mailed statement.  The company earlier this week said it would withdraw
injunction requests against Apple in Germany, U.K., France,
Italy and Netherlands involving key patents it holds for
wireless communications, citing “the interest of protecting
consumer choice.”  The company will continue litigation that seeks damages in
intellectual property disputes.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. is also being
investigated by the EU for seeking and enforcing injunctions
against Apple’s iPhone and iPad and Microsoft’s Windows
operating system and Xbox gaming console, following complaints
by the two companies.  The patent disputes began when Samsung released its Galaxy
smartphones in 2010. Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  vowed before
his death last year to wage “thermonuclear war” to prove that
phones run on Google’s Android operating system copy the iPhone.  Symantec Wins Federal Jury Verdict Over Finjan Patent Claims  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the world’s biggest maker of security
software, won’t have to pay Finjan Inc. any royalties after a
federal jury decided Symantec didn’t infringe two patents.  The jury of three men and three women deliberated about
four hours following a three-week trial before also deciding
yesterday that the Finjan patents 6,092,194 and 6,480,962 aren’t
valid because the technology isn’t new.  Symantec “didn’t need Finjan’s technology,” said attorney
 David Nelson , representing the company. “We already had it.”  In 1998 and 1999, the two software makers discussed a
potential merger, Nelson said. Symantec chose not to pursue the
transaction because it had already developed its own innovative
software, according to the lawyer.  “Symantec respects and agrees with the jury’s findings,”
Cris Paden, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based
Symantec, said in an e-mailed statement. “Symantec takes its
ability to innovate technology solutions very seriously” and
will defend itself if Finjan appeals, he said.  Finjan, with offices in  San Jose , California, and Netanya,
Israel, sued Symantec as well as  Websense Inc. (WBSN)  and Sophos Inc.
in 2010 over patents for protecting computers and networks from
“hostile downloadables,” according to court papers. The jury
also ruled in favor of Websense and Sophos, saying they didn’t
infringe, either.  Paul Andre, a lawyer representing Finjan, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the verdict.  The case is  Finjan v. Symantec, 10-cv-593, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Haribo Wins Dispute With Lindt Over Foil-Wrapped Bear, AP Says  Haribo GmbH of Bonn, Germany, persuaded a regional court in
Germany that its “Goldbaer” (Gold Bear) trademark was
infringed by  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN) ,  Associated Press  reported.  The maker of Gummy Bear candies had objected to Lindt’s
sale of a gold foil-wrapped chocolate bear, even though it was
called “Lindt Teddy,” according to AP.  The court said that people would naturally refer to the
Lindt chocolate bear as “Gold Bear,” and infringe the Haribo
marks, AP reported.  Lindt, based in Kilchberg, Switzerland, has argued that no
one would mistake its product for the well-known gummy bears,
and that its packaging for the chocolate bear was akin to what
it used with its chocolate bunnies at Easter, according to the
wire service.  NZ Chain’s ‘MacGowans’ Registration Barred, Dominion Post Says  Mill LiquorSave , a New Zealand chain of discount liquor
stores, lost its bid to register “MacGowans” as a trademark
for whisky-flavored spirit, New Zealand’s Dominion Post
 reported .  The  Scotch Whisky Association  had opposed issuance of the
mark, claiming consumers could be fooled into thinking that the
product was real Scotch whisky, according to the newspaper.  Justice Stephen Kos of the  High Court  of Wellington said in
his ruling that “MacGowans” wasn’t even capable of being
labeled as “spirits” because it was only 13.9 percent alcohol,
well below the 37 percent requirement for a product to be
designated spirits in that country, the Post reported.  Brenda Kelly of the liquor chain told the court the product
wasn’t whisky, “a spirit or a wine,” even though the trademark
application had specified the mark would be used for a “whisky-
flavored spirit,” according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Psychic Carmen Harra Sued by Fred Fontana Over Biopic Screenplay  Carmen Harra , a self-described “intuitive psychic” who
has  appeared on NBC’s “Today Show ,” was sued for copyright
infringement by a California screenwriter/producer.  Fred Fontana , who wrote “Florida Road” and produced the
independent film “Girl’s Best Friend,” is involved in a
dispute with Harra over a screenplay based on the psychic’s
life.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in  Los
Angeles , Harra hired Fontana in December 2011 to rewrite
“Decoding Her Destiny: The Carmen Harra Story.” He said the
understanding was that he would receive a $13,000 advance, with
the balance of his fee to be paid out of the first money
investors put into the film. He was also to be employed as co-
producer, he said in his pleadings.  Despite the fact that investors have put money into the
film, Fontana said he hasn’t been paid any more money, even
though he has finished completely rewriting the screenplay and
has “performed a substantial amount of production work.”  He said in the complaint that although Harra doesn’t own
his script, she has been attending film festivals and shopping
the screenplay to potential investors, producers and other
members of the entertainment industry without his authorization.  Fontana is the registered owner of the copyright to the
screenplay, according to a copyright registration certificate
filed along with the complaint.  He asked the court for at least $2 million in damages,
together with all profits derived from the alleged infringement
of his copyright. Additionally, he seeks $2 million for alleged
trademark infringement, and another $2 million each for claims
of breach of contract, breach of oral contract and fraud.  Fontana asked the court to declare him the owner of the
copyright and to bar further unauthorized use of his screenplay.  Harra didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Fontana v. Harra, 2:12-cv-10708, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Full Public Release of EPA Report on Exxon Mobil Plant Unlikely  Full details of an Environmental Protection Agency
inspection of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s facilities in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, are unlikely to be released to a New Orleans-based
environmental watchdog group because of trade-secret concerns,
 New Orleans Times-Picayune  reported.  The  Louisiana Bucket Brigade  had requested the details of
the inspection following a leak in June of naptha at the plant,
a petroleum byproduct with more than 31,000 pounds of the
carcinogen benzene, according to the Times-Picayune.  Larry Gottesman of the EPA said a full version of the
report is protected as confidential business information,
according to the newspaper.  Exxon Mobil spokeswoman Stephanie Cargile told the Times-
Picayune that “internal safety incidents are evaluated, an
appropriate team is selected to conduct the investigation, and
recommendations are followed up on until resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 