-- Gun Pandemonium as No Background Needed for Web Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/gun-pandemonium-as-no-background-needed-for-web-sales.html
The ad features an AR-15 semi-
automatic rifle, similar to a gun used in the Newtown,
Connecticut, school shootings for $2,000. “No background check
required. Just cash face to face with valid PA Drivers License.
It’s Pandemonium!”  The classified ad was posted Dec. 20 on Armslist.com, a
website for gun enthusiasts. Closely held Armslist LLC’s site
and others like it offer an easy way for gun buyers to avoid
background checks, gun-control advocates say. While some sellers
on the site require one, most don’t because federal law doesn’t
require background checks for guns sold privately. In a
disclaimer, the site places the responsibility on users to
comply with laws and doesn’t certify or investigate any person
or transaction.  “People need to realize there is a permanent gun show
every day online that is accessible to anyone with a computer,”
Dan Gross, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun
Violence, said in an interview.  Armslist , which matches buyers and sellers and doesn’t sell
guns itself, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  In the wake of the Dec. 14 massacre that took the lives of
26 people, including 20 children, President  Barack Obama  has
made curbing gun violence a priority in his second term.  For new restrictions to be effective, Armslist and gun
shows where private sellers congregate would have to require
background checks, said Mark A.R. Kleiman, a professor of public
policy at the  University of California  at  Los Angeles  who
studies criminology. Currently only guns sold by an entity with
a federal firearm license must conduct a background check.  “Someone once said the scandal is not what’s illegal, it’s
what’s legal,” Kleiman said.  New Restrictions  Among the new restrictions Obama would support is making
private buyers pass background checks. He is also pushing for a
ban on military-style guns and high-capacity ammunition clips.  Dependable figures on gun sales are difficult to find
because purchases aren’t collected into a central database.
While the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation knows how many
background checks are requested per year, it doesn’t record how
many sales are then made.  Armslist, based in Noble,  Oklahoma , is attracting
increasing criticism. Representative Gwen Moore, a Wisconsin
Democrat, sent a letter to the company on Oct. 26 to crack down
on dubious gun sales. The letter claimed a man, who wouldn’t
have passed a background check, killed three people with a gun
purchased on the website.  Surging Sales  In the wake of the Newtown shootings and subsequent talk
about tightening gun restrictions, gun sales have surged across
the country. Armslist had more than 5,000 ads seeking to buy,
trade or sell a semi-automatic rifle yesterday. About 96 percent
of those were classified as private sales. There were more than
400 new listings posted on Dec. 19, compared to about 100 on
Dec. 13, the day before the shootings.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest seller of guns in the
country, is sold out of many semi-automatic rifles and it has
one of the more scrutinized gun-buying processes in the country.
Employees use a kiosk in the 1,800 stores that sell guns to
complete federal and state forms and request a background check
through the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check
System.  The retailer doesn’t sell guns online, and handguns can be
purchased only in  Alaska . In 2008, Wal-Mart entered an agreement
with the Mayors Against Illegal Guns to increase scrutiny of gun
sales that includes video recording of firearm purchases. Under
the accord, Wal-Mart agreed not to sell a gun until a background
check has been finished. Under current law, a licensed gun
dealer can sell a gun if the FBI doesn’t complete the check
within three days.  NRA Proposal  Amid rising pressure for tighter gun restrictions, the
 National Rifle Association , which has opposed legislation
limiting gun ownership, yesterday said stationing police
officers in schools was the proper response to the shootings,
and blamed films and video games for the violence.  A bill that would have required background checks for all
gun sales passed the Senate in 1999 with Vice President  Al Gore 
casting the deciding vote. The measure never became law. There
are current bills in the Senate and House that address private
gun sales.  Kleiman said there’s a good chance the loophole is removed
after Newtown.  “The NRA is in retreat, and Congress has to do
something,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  