-- TIAA-CREF Buys Stake in New York by Gehry Apartment Tower
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-12-21T17:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/tiaa-cref-buys-stake-in-new-york-by-gehry-apartment-tower.html
TIAA-CREF, the manager of retirement
accounts for employees of nonprofit institutions, acquired a 49
percent stake in New York by Gehry, making it the biggest owner
of the luxury apartment tower in lower  Manhattan .  The recapitalization deal values the 76-story property at
$1.05 billion, according to a statement today by  Forest City
Enterprises Inc. (FCE/A) , the Cleveland-based developer, which
previously held the majority stake. That’s the highest valuation
for a single apartment building in the U.S., according to Dan Fasulo, managing director of Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The transaction reduced Forest City’s share of the tower to
26 percent, from 51 percent. Washington-based National Real
Estate Advisors, which previously held a 49 percent stake, has
reduced its ownership to 25 percent. Forest City expects
proceeds of about $120 million from the recapitalization,
according to the statement.  “We believe that high-quality, multifamily assets in
cities with the strongest demographics such as New York can be
powerful additions to our well-diversified real estate
portfolios,” Phil McAndrews, head of real estate transactions
and joint ventures at TIAA-CREF, said in the statement.  The tower, at 8 Spruce St. in the financial district, has
898 rental apartments. It was designed by  Frank Gehry , 83, the
1989 winner of the Pritzker Prize and architect of buildings
including the Walt Disney Concert Hall in  Los Angeles  and
Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao,  Spain .  Rents Climb  Manhattan apartment rents climbed 1.4 percent in November
from a year earlier to a median $3,195 a month, according to
appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real
Estate. The number of leases signed jumped 41 percent from
November 2011 to 3,634 deals.  The median  capitalization rate , or investment yield, for
Manhattan apartment deals in the past 12 months is 5 percent,
compared with a nationwide median of 6 percent, according to
Real Capital, a New York-based research firm. Cap rates fall as
property prices increase.  “The institutional-investor community is very bullish on
multifamily and believes, even with super-low yields, it’s going
to be a very good place to park money,” Fasulo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  