-- Icahn Sells Most Greenbrier Stock After Second Bid Fails
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/icahn-target-greenbrier-falls-as-investors-doubt-deal.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who
controls  American Railcar Industries Inc. (ARII) , sold most of his
holdings in competitor  Greenbrier Cos. (GBX) , signaling an end to his
takeover ambitions after a second offer was rejected.  Unloading 1.79 million shares at $15.41 each left Icahn a
stake equal to 3.41 percent, down from 9.99 percent, according
to a U.S. regulatory filing yesterday. American Railcar had said
it would drop its bid yesterday unless Greenbrier took a
sweetened $22-a-share offer, 10 percent more than the company’s
initial bid this week.  Greenbrier said on Dec. 20 that while the revised offer
still undervalued the  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based company, it was
willing to continue negotiations on a tie-up. Combining
Greenbrier and St. Charles, Missouri-based American Railcar
would have created the largest U.S. railcar producer.  The sale may mark the end of Icahn’s quest to buy a company
he also pursued four years ago. He began talks in November after
disclosing his new stake only to see his bids rebuffed this week
as too low, dragging Greenbrier’s shares since Dec. 20 to their
biggest two-day decline since August last year.  Greenbrier fell 11 percent to $16.14 yesterday in  New York 
after dropping 12 percent the previous day and now is at the
lowest value since Nov. 12, the day before Icahn disclosed his
9.99 percent stake in the company. American Railcar fell 2.6
percent to $32.24 yesterday after dropping 8 percent the
previous day.  ‘Extremely Perplexed’  In a Dec. 19 letter to Greenbrier after the first bid was
spurned,  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  Chief Executive Officer Daniel A. Ninivaggi complained that Greenbrier’s investment banker had
encouraged an offer of $20 to $22 and said he was “extremely
perplexed” at the rejection.  Greenbrier rebutted the claim that it invited a bid in that
range and said it had made clear to Icahn during negotiations
that such an offer would be too low.  It’s unlikely there will be another bidder for Greenbrier,
Michael Baudendistel, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in a Dec. 20 note in which he cut his rating on Greenbrier
to hold from buy.  The “offer price represents a full and fair value for the
company’s shares,” Baudendistel said. “Icahn walking away from
this deal would certainly not be unprecedented.”  Greenbrier declined to comment on Icahn’s sale of shares or
whether negotiations between the two companies had been
terminated, Jack Isselmann, a spokesman, said by e-mail
yesterday. Chief Financial Officer Mark Rittenbaum didn’t
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  