-- Michigan Consumer Sentiment Fell to Five-Month Low in December
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-21T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/michigan-consumer-sentiment-fell-to-five-month-low-in-december.html
U.S.  consumer confidence  fell in
December to a five-month low as Americans grew more concerned
about the possibility of higher taxes next year.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index decreased to 72.9, the weakest since July, from
82.7 in November. Economists projected a final reading of 75 for
December, according to the median of 66 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Today’s figure was lower than a preliminary report
earlier this month.  American households are growing uneasy as the federal
government moves toward more than $600 billion of higher taxes
and spending cuts starting early in 2013. At the same time, as
the world’s largest economy enters the new year, job growth,
rising home values, lower gas prices and stock market gains
might help boost consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “Sentiment was doing well but reversed because of the
fiscal cliff news saturating the headlines,” Jay Feldman, an
economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA in New York, said before
the report. “It’s probably temporary. If you resolve the fiscal
cliff I’d be surprised if sentiment didn’t bounce back.”  Confidence Measure  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 72 to 78
according to the Bloomberg survey. The preliminary reading,
released on Dec. 7, was 74.5.  The index averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in
the five years leading up to the 18-month economic slump that
ended in June 2009.  In a separate report today, the Commerce Department said
spending by U.S. consumers climbed in November. Purchases
increased 0.4 percent last month after a 0.1 percent drop in
October that was smaller than previously estimated, the
department said.  The Michigan index of expectations six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
decreased to 63.8 in December from 77.6 the prior month.  A gauge of current conditions, which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether it’s a good
time to buy big-ticket items such as cars, was at 87.0, down
from 90.7 in November.  The figures contrast with Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort
Index, which climbed to an eight-month high last week. The
comfort index rose to minus 31.9 in the period ended Dec. 16
from minus 34.5 the week before.  Economic Anxiety  Economic anxiety has caused some Americans to trim
spending. Miami-based  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s biggest cruise
line operator, this week provided a full-year earnings forecast
that fell short of what analysts anticipated. U.S. bookings have
been down as North American customers were distracted by the
presidential election this fall and the threatened fiscal cliff
of tax increases and spending cuts, Chief Operating Officer
Howard Frank said.  “We are hopeful that once the fiscal cliff issue is
resolved and we get into January” that “consumers will start
to turn their attention, getting on with their lives, and
booking their cruise vacations,” Frank said on a Dec. 20
earnings call.  Cars are one bright spot in the economy, with vehicle sales
on  pace  to reach 15.46 million a year as of November.
Confidence, however, still has room to improve, said Thomas Folliard, president and chief executive officer at auto retailer
 CarMax Inc. (KMX)  based in Richmond, Virginia.  “Consumer sentiment has come back some, and the customers
that are coming to the store now seem a little bit more engaged
maybe than they had been before,” Folliard said on a Dec. 20
earnings call. “But it’s really hard to tell if behavior is
shifting back to what we saw pre-recession. I’d say not yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  