-- Microsoft Wins U.K. Court Ruling Over Motorola Pager Patent
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-21T16:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/microsoft-wins-u-k-court-ruling-over-motorola-pager-patent-1-.html
Microsoft Corp., the world’s biggest
software maker, won a U.K. ruling invalidating Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s patent protection for technology synchronizing
message statuses across multiple devices.  The 2002 patent owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
unit shouldn’t have been issued because the technology was
obvious to experts in the field at the time, Judge Richard Arnold said in a decision in London today. A week-long trial
ended earlier this month.  “The patent is invalid and should be revoked,” Arnold
said during a 30-second hearing. Both companies had received the
written judgment in advance.  The companies are locked in legal battles over patents for
smartphone technology and Microsoft’s Xbox gaming software in
the U.S. and  Germany . Microsoft claims all devices that run on
Google’s Android operating system use its technology and is
seeking royalties from Motorola Mobility, which Mountain View,
California-based Google acquired in May.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , filed the lawsuit
against Motorola Mobility in London a year ago in a pre-emptive
bid to invalidate the patent before it could be sued for
infringement.  German Cases  The case is running parallel to Motorola’s lawsuit against
Microsoft over the same patent in Germany, where the companies
are awaiting a decision. Google has said it bought Motorola
Mobility in part because of its patents and history of
innovation in mobile phones.  “We’re pleased the court granted our request to invalidate
Motorola’s patent and welcome yet another step toward clarifying
the cases between our companies,” David Howard, Microsoft’s
deputy general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Motorola’s lawyer, Zoe Butler of Powell Gilbert in  London ,
didn’t respond to a call for comment. Motorola’s press office
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  While the patent in the U.K. trial related to pager
technology from the 1990s, the arguments centered on its
application to newer mobile devices and computers that also rely
on synchronizing messages statuses, such as whether an e-mail
has been read by the user, or is unread.  If the patent were valid, Microsoft’s Live Messenger
instant-messaging system and Exchange ActiveSync protocol, used
by the company’s customers to synchronize e-mail statuses across
devices, would have violated the intellectual property,
according to the judgment.  The patent in the case had a so-called priority date of
Aug. 31, 1995, when Motorola was creating technology for the
first two-way pager system that would allow message recipients
to respond to communications on the devices for the first time.  Some claims in the patent “add nothing inventive in my
view,” Arnold said.  The case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
case no. HC11C04536, High Court of London, Chancery Division
(London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  