-- Time Warner Cable Said to Bid for Bresnan Business
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/time-warner-cable-said-to-bid-for-bresnan-business.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable provider, has made a first-round bid to buy
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) ’s Optimum West business, according to
people familiar with the situation.  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-largest U.S. cable
company, and Suddenlink Communications, the seventh-largest,
have also made offers, according to three people, who declined
to be identified because the negotiations are private. Bids were
due at the end of last week, two people said.  The companies are vying for a business that serves about
300,000 customers in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah.
Cablevision acquired Optimum West, formerly known as Bresnan
Broadband Holdings LLC, two years ago for $1.37 billion. Selling
the business would let Cablevision concentrate on the  New York 
area, where most of its customers reside.  A deal won’t be announced until January or February, one of
the people said.  Shares of Time Warner Cable, based in New York, fell 1.8
percent to $95.53 yesterday. Charter rose 0.3 percent to $73.43,
while Cablevision dropped 0.8 percent to $14.74.  Time Warner Cable completed an acquisition of Insight
Communications Co. in February for about $3 billion. The deal
let the company add 760,000 cable customers in Indiana, Kentucky
and Ohio. Time Warner Cable ranks second to Philadelphia-based
Comcast Corp. in total cable customers.  Cablevision serves about 3 million subscribers in New York,
 New Jersey , Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania. The Bethpage,
New York-based company began exploring a sale of the Bresnan
business after several acquisitions of cable systems were
announced this year at favorable prices.  Charter, based in St. Louis, has its own connection to the
Bresnan business. Charter Chief Executive Officer  Tom Rutledge 
served as chief operations officer at Cablevision during the
Bresnan purchase in 2010. He told CNBC earlier this month that
he still liked the assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  