-- IMF Urges France to Boost Competitiveness
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-21T23:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/imf-urges-france-to-boost-competitiveness.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
called for wage moderation in  France , an overhaul of the
country’s labor market and more competition in its services
sector as  Europe ’s second-largest economy loses export market
share and faces a “fragile”  growth outlook .  “Economic growth remains sluggish and the near-term
outlook is subject to downside risks,” IMF executive directors
said in a statement released yesterday, a day after meeting to
discuss France’s economy. “The main challenge going forward
would be to further strengthen the recovery, while addressing
the  competitiveness  gap vis-à-vis trading partners and
safeguarding financial stability.”  The annual assessment of France’s policies was accompanied
by an in-depth  study  of its financial sector, also released
yesterday, that voices concerns about banks’ reliance on
wholesale funding. That could put them in a vulnerable position
in case of a crisis of liquidity or of confidence in the euro
region, according to the report.  French President Francois Hollande is grappling with an
economy that is on the verge of recession and has said that 2013
would be a very tough year, with unemployment, already at a 14-
year high, still set to rise. He’s also cut payroll taxes and is
trying to make the labor market more flexible in an attempt to
stem the country’s competitiveness loss.  Invest, Adapt  “The key to improved outcomes in terms of growth and
employment lies in reforming the labor market so as to increase
the capacity of enterprise to invest, adapt and create jobs,”
the IMF staff wrote in its  report . “Discussions under way
between social partners create a unique opportunity to achieve
meaningful reforms in this area.”  With a growth forecast of 0.4 percent next year, half that
of the government’s, the Washington-based IMF sees France unable
to meet a deficit target of 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year, from 4.5 percent this year. The IMF expects a
shortfall of 3.5 percent of GDP instead.  “A more measured pace of fiscal consolidation would have
been preferable on cyclical grounds, but market and euro area
imperatives have reduced fiscal space,” the IMF staff wrote in
the report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  