-- IMF Says Turkey’s Central Bank Should Focus on Inflation Control
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-21T23:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/imf-says-turkey-s-central-bank-should-focus-on-inflation-control.html
The Turkish central bank should be
more focused on meeting its inflation target because its
multiple  monetary policy  tools are “blurring signals,” the
International Monetary Fund staff said.  While the monetary policy framework put into place by
Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci aims to achieve both price and
financial stability, inflation has remained “well above
target,” IMF economists said in an  annual assessment  of the
country’s economic policy dated Oct. 31 and released yesterday.
It recommended a return to “a more conventional framework.”  “The new framework, relying on a battery of novel
instruments to gain degrees of freedom in segmenting domestic
and international interest rates, has not yet proved its
superiority,” the IMF wrote.  Monetary policy in  Turkey  has been led in a way the IMF
said in the report is “unconventional,” relying on a variety
of instruments instead of one  interest rate  in an attempt to
stem capital inflows. The bank forecast Oct. 24 that inflation
will reach 7.4 percent by the end of the year. Its target is 5
percent.  “It is the ability to achieve the inflation target and
anchor expectations that ultimately determines the success of
monetary policy, and so far inflation has remained well above
the target,” the report said. “While the new instruments may
each seem appealing, as a whole, they are blurring policy
signals and may be weakening the monetary transmission
mechanism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  