-- Indian Stocks Drop Most in Two Months; SBI, Sterlite Lead Fall
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-21T10:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/indian-stocks-decline-erase-weekly-advance-hdfc-bank-itc-fall.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks declined the most in
two months, erasing a weekly advance, as some investors judged
recent gains excessive. Banks and industrials led the retreat.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 1.1 percent
to 19,237.33, according to preliminary closing prices in  Mumbai .
The gauge climbed to its highest level since April 2011 on Dec.
19.  State Bank of India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest lender, lost
2 percent.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , the largest copper
producer, plunged 3.5 percent.  The Sensex has risen 25 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual jump since 2009, as government steps to open the
economy to offshore investment lured foreigners. The measure
trades at 15.4 times estimated earnings, near the highest level
since April, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Emerging-market
stocks fell the most in six week amid weakening optimism U.S.
budget talks on how to avoid more than $600 billion in spending
cuts and tax increases, known as the fiscal cliff, will succeed
after House Republican leaders canceled a planned vote.  “In the absence of a domestic trigger for the market all
eyes are on the global news flow, especially the fiscal cliff
issue in the U.S.,” said   Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt. in Mumbai. “Foreign funds
are sitting on good profits on their Indian investments, and it
won’t be surprising if they take a little money off the table
before the holiday week.”  U.S. Republicans are demanding to cut the nation’s deficit
with spending cuts, while President  Barack Obama  wants to raise
taxes for top earners. The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-
nations gauge send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S.
on average, data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  Overseas funds were net  buyers  of Indian stocks for a 25th
straight day on Dec. 19. Foreign funds have bought a net $23.1
billion of local shares this year, the highest among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  