-- India Said to Use Import Coal Price to Value Mines for Auction
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-12-21T07:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/india-said-to-use-import-coal-price-to-value-mines-for-auction.html
India  will use the price of imported
coal to value mines in next year’s inaugural auctions, after
criticism it lost $34 billion in revenue giving away the assets,
said three people with knowledge of the plan.  The floor price for nine mines that will probably be sold
before March 31 will be calculated using a discounted cash-flow
valuation based on a 15 percent discount to the freight-on-board
price indexes from Argus-McCloskey and Platts, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the matter is confidential.  Putting a price on the mines may increase the cost of the
projects, while providing some defense to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  whose government has been under attack for either
giving away or under-pricing resources. A  Comptroller and
Auditor General of India ’s report in August blamed the
government for delaying auctions, which led to revenue losses.  The coal ministry is now seeking agreement from the states
where coal mines are located, before  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ’s unit
 Central Mine Planning & Design Institute  starts work on
finalizing the valuations, the people said.  India began allocating coal mines to companies for their
own use in 1993 and gave away 194 blocks with reserves of 44.4
billion tons. Of these, only 30 have started production,
according to the auditor’s report.  The nation implemented an auction policy to allocate coal
mines in 2010. The coal ministry subsequently prepared a list of
54 coal blocks with reserves of 19 billion tons for captive
allocation, which will be allotted in phases.  Discounted cash flow valuations use the expected cash
income over the life of the mine adjusted against expenses, such
as capital expenditure, energy and wage costs and interest
payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  