-- ING Passes Over Samurai Market in Further Tokyo Pro-Bond Plans
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-12-21T03:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/ing-passes-over-samurai-market-in-further-tokyo-pro-bond-plans.html
ING Bank NV, a unit of the largest
Dutch financial services company, plans to sell more yen debt on
the Tokyo Pro-Bond Market where it is the sole issuer, as it
avoids the older and bigger Samurai bond market.  “We want to try all the maturities,” including five-year
and 10-year tenors, Martin Nijboer, head of long term funding at
ING Bank, said in a telephone interview Dec. 14. “This is a new
market, so it takes some time to get to the end of the curve.”  The Dutch lender is the only borrower to have sold
securities listed on the Tokyo Pro-Bond Market, which started in
May last year, according to the  website  of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc., which operates the market. Tokyo Pro-Bond
permits issues in any currency, allows documentation in English
and has attracted registrations from units of Nomura Holdings
Inc. and  South Korea ’s SK Telecom Co., according to the website.  ING Bank raised 50.7 billion yen through two-year debt in
its inaugural offering in April, for which it filed an  English-
language document . While Samurai bonds, which are also issued in
yen by overseas borrowers, give issuers access to a bigger
market, they require filing financial statements in Japanese
with the nation’s  Finance Ministry .  “The documentation process is easier compared with the
Samurai market,” said Dennis Haring, senior associate for long
term funding at the Dutch bank. “It’s a good way of further
diversifying our investor base.’  ING Bank offered 175.9 billion yen of three-year notes on
Dec. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale is
the biggest yen bond by an overseas borrower this year,
according to the TSE  website . Issuance of Samurai bonds declined
6.7 percent to 1.995 trillion yen this year, the least since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other issuers considering sales on Tokyo Pro-Bond can model
their filings on ING’s, according to Haring. ‘‘There might have
been some parties like us that didn’t want to or weren’t
equipped to meet Samurai’s disclosure requirements,” Haring
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  