-- Iran Talks in Early 2013 to Boost Oil Risk Premium, SocGen Says
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2012-12-21T11:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/iran-talks-in-early-2013-to-boost-oil-risk-premium-socgen-says.html
International talks early next year
over Iran’s nuclear program will probably renew focus on the
issue and bolster a risk premium in oil prices, according to
Societe Generale SA.  The U.S. is trying to bring Iran back to the negotiating
table in the first quarter, before  Israel ’s alleged deadline for
a resolution or military confrontation with Iran in the late
spring or summer,  Michael Wittner , the New York-based head of
commodities research for the bank, said in an e-mailed note.  “We would expect the nuclear issue to be taken up by the
UN Security Council once again, with the U.S. and Europeans
pushing for some sort of ultimatum,” Wittner said. “That would
trigger a sustained increase in the geopolitical risk premium.”  The price of benchmark Brent crude rallied as high as
$128.40 a barrel on March 1, the most since 2008, driven partly
by concern that forthcoming sanctions on Iran might prompt the
nation to blockade the Hormuz Strait, a key oil-export route.
Brent traded at $109.50 a barrel at 11:08 a.m. London time
today. Societe Generale reiterated its forecast for Brent to
average $110 a barrel in the first quarter of 2013.  Iran ’s Islamic Revolution Guards Corps plans to stage a
military drill in the strait by March 20 next year, state-run
Press TV said on its website earlier this week, citing Navy
Commander Rear Admiral Ali Fadavi.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors expect to
complete an agreement on Jan. 16 in Tehran that would give them
wider access to suspected Iranian nuclear facilities, Herman Nackaerts, deputy director of the United Nations nuclear
watchdog, said in Vienna on Dec. 14. The relationship between
Iran and the agency has grown increasingly acrimonious this year
after Iranian officials accused the IAEA of spying for Western
powers. Iran denies it is trying to make atomic weapons, saying
its nuclear research is for civilian use only.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  