-- IRS Will Address 2013 Paycheck Withholding By Dec. 31
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-21T20:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/irs-will-address-2013-paycheck-withholding-by-dec-31.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
will issue guidance by Dec. 31 on paycheck withholding for 2013,
as Congress continues to haggle over tax rates for next year.  “We are aware that employers have questions with respect
to 2013 withholding,” the agency said in a statement today.
“Since Congress is still considering changes to the tax law, we
continue to closely monitor the situation.”  The IRS hasn’t said whether employers should plan to
withhold taxes at the higher rates scheduled to take effect in
2013. Those higher rates would mean less take-home pay for
workers starting as early as the first paycheck in January.  The American Payroll Association wrote to the IRS and the
Treasury Dec. 17, asking the government to allow the use of
current withholding rules into 2013.  Lawmakers in both parties agree that most taxpayers
shouldn’t face higher income tax rates in 2013. They have
deadlocked over what to do about top earners. That and other
tax-and-spending issues have prevented a budget deal, and
lawmakers won’t return to Washington until Dec. 27 to address
the dispute.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has the authority to
set the withholding tables.  In a Nov. 16 interview on Bloomberg Television, Geithner
declined to say exactly what he would or wouldn’t do, and urged
Congress to act.  “Don’t over-interpret what that authority gives me,” he
said. “It does not give me the authority to give them, to let
them avoid making some decisions on rates and policy.”  Freezing withholding tables could keep $10 billion per pay
period in taxpayers’ pockets and prevent a loss of 1.5 percent
of monthly gross domestic product,  Mark Zandi , chief economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  