-- Monti to Resign Today After Italy Budget Law Is Passed
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-21T15:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/italy-s-monti-to-resign-later-today-after-budget-law-is-passed.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
will resign today after the budget bill gets final approval by
parliament, a person familiar with the situation said.  Monti will tender his resignation to Italian President
Giorgio Napolitano after Parliament approves the budget
legislation, said the person, who asked not to be named before
an announcement is made. The Cabinet will meet at 7 p.m. in
Rome, Monti’s office said today in an e-mailed statement.  Monti, who’s under increasing pressure to run in next
year’s elections, is expected to announce his political plans at
a press conference on Dec. 23 at 11 a.m. in Rome. He took over
last year just as  Italy  risked becoming the next victim of
 Europe ’s debt turmoil under former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi .
While he’s overseen a recovery in Italy’s bonds and repaired its
tattered standing abroad, his agenda left Italians with higher
taxes, rising unemployment and a shrinking economy.  “Markets remain remarkably complacent about Italian
political risk, notwithstanding the stabilizing effects of the
ECB’s bond-buying programme,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said by e-mail.  Lower Yield  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds, which surged to 7.26
percent on Nov. 25 last year, past the level that prompted
Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, was 4.49 percent
as of 3:30 p.m. in Rome. The gap with similar-maturity German
bunds was 310 basis points, down from a 2011 high of 553 basis
points, as the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program
buoyed Italian debt.  The yield on Italian 10-year debt is little changed from
before Monti’s Dec. 8 announcement that he planned to resign
because Berlusconi’s party withdrew its support for the
government.  Monti, who has never sought elected office, may use the
press conference on Dec. 23 to announce whether he’ll sit out
the election, or heed the call of a group of centrist political
parties who want him to run on a platform of continued reforms
for the euro zone’s third-largest economy.  “Although Mr Monti has not yet thrown his hat into the
ring, he has given plenty of indications that he is preparing to
run for office as the head of a centrist alliance,” said Spiro.
“Many will be hanging on his every word at his end-of-year
press conference.”  Election Polls  Most polls indicate the  Democratic Party  led by Pier Luigi Bersani, a former communist, will win the election with about 30
percent of the vote. A protest group led by comedian Beppe Grillo, who has suggested Italy may consider leaving the euro,
trails with 20 percent. Berlusconi’s PDL is forecast between 15
percent and 20 percent.  Monti is being courted by a group of small parties led by
Catholic politician  Pier Ferdinando Casini  and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the Ferrari SpA chairman. Berlusconi has said he’d
step aside and endorse Monti if he led a coalition with his PDL
and former Northern League ally, but not the Democratic Party. A
Monti coalition would win about 15 percent of the vote, said
Maurizio Pessato, vice-president of polling company SWG SpA.  A former adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Monti imposed
20 billion euros ($26.5 billion) in austerity measures as prime
minister. He raised taxes, cut spending, increased the
 retirement age  and overhauled labor rules to make firing easier.
The policies have left Italy on track to cut its deficit within
the European Union target of 3 percent of output this year.  Merkel’s Praises  Monti’s rule has been praised in recent days by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders such as
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers. His policies find less favor at home.  Italy’s economy is in its fourth  recession  since 2001, and
will contract 2.1 percent this year and 0.6 percent in 2013,
employer lobby Confindustria forecast on Dec. 11. The  jobless
rate  is at a 13-year high of 11.1 percent.  A Nov. 17 poll by Datamonitor showed that 62.5 percent of
Italians had a negative view of the Monti government, 82.4
percent had little or no confidence in the economy improving,
and 81 percent said they had not been able to save in the past
three months. The poll questioned 1,000 people. No margin of
error was given.  Monti has been mentioned as a possible successor to
President Napolitano, whose term in the largely ceremonial post
ends in May. Bersani said Dec. 13 that he’d like Monti to remain
“engaged” in public service after the elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  