-- Japan Stocks Drop as U.S. House Republicans Cancel Vote
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-21T06:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/japan-s-topix-extends-eight-month-high-on-yen-u-s-data.html
Japanese  shares  declined, with the
 Topix (TPX)  Index trimming a weekly gain, after U.S.  House Republicans 
scrapped plans for a vote on taxes, fueling concern lawmakers
will fail to reach a deal as time runs out on budget talks.  Toyota Motor Corp. fell 2.5 percent. Sharp Corp., an
electronics maker that gets more than half its sales outside the
country, slumped 2.3 percent after the yen strengthened against
the dollar.  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , the country’s biggest
developer by market value, gained 2.9 percent after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the Bank of  Japan  may reconsider its
objectives for inflation.  The Topix slid 0.7 percent to close at 832.72 in Tokyo.
Less than two weeks remain to avert more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases, known as the fiscal
cliff, set to start in January. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
slid 1 percent to 9,940.06.  “It’s cutting it quite close,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $130 billion under management. “If they go off the
fiscal cliff, the  U.S. economy  could go into a recession. At
stake is the U.S. economy and by implications the global
economy.”  Futures on Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.6 percent
after slumping as much as 3.4 percent today. House Republican
leaders canceled a vote today on Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to
raise tax rates for annual income above $1 million, throwing
already-stalled budget talks deeper into turmoil.  Exporters Drop  Japanese exporters declined as the yen gained against all
of its major peers, with gauges tracking transport and
electronic makers exerting the  biggest drags  among the Topix’s
33 industry groups. A stronger currency hurts overseas earnings
when repatriated.  Toyota, which counts  North America  as its biggest market
outside Japan, slid 2.5 percent to 3,785 yen. Sharp slumped 2.3
percent to 295 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera
maker, fell 1.5 percent to 3,305 yen.  For the week, the Topix climbed 4.1 percent, advanced for a
sixth week. Shares have risen on confidence a new government
will spend more to spur economic growth and press the central
bank to add stimulus. The gauge is headed for a 14 percent gain
this year, its best yearly performance since 2005.  The Topix traded at 0.99 times book value, compared with
2.1 for the S&P 500 and 1.5 for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A
number less than one means that companies can be bought for less
than the value of their assets.  Trading volume on the  Nikkei 225  was about 72 percent above
the 30-day average. The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index
rose 16 percent to 21.75, indicating traders expect a swing of
about 6.2 percent on the benchmark gauge over the next 30 days,
the most since July.  U.S. Housing  Japanese shares gained earlier after purchases of existing
U.S homes increased, according to the National Association of
Realtors. The data reinforces forecasts that the housing
industry is set to contribute to annual economic growth for the
first time since 2005.  A separate report from the Commerce Department showed the
U.S. economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, compared with a previously estimated 2.7 percent
expansion.  “The U.S. data has been very good and it all points toward
reasonable growth going forward,” said Oliver at AMP Capital.
“We have a tug of war in the share markets, with the flow of
positive economic data against the concerns about the fiscal
cliff.”  Inflation Target  Property developers gained the most among the Topix’s
industry groups amid speculation the adoption of an inflation
target by the central bank will help lower borrowing costs.
Mitsubishi Estate rose 2.9 percent to 1,897 yen. Sumitomo Realty
& Development Co., Japan’s third-biggest developer, gained 3
percent to 2,643 yen.  The  Bank of Japan  may adopt an official inflation target,
the Nikkei newspaper reported today. Incoming Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe has called for unlimited easing until 2 percent
inflation is achieved. The central bank has a goal of 1 percent
gains in prices.  “The market continues to expect that the inflation target
will be raised to 2 percent,” said Masayuki Doshida, Tokyo-
based senior market analyst at Rakuten Securities Inc.  Among other stocks that gained, Tokai Carbon Co. leapt 10
percent to 352 yen after Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  raised  its
investment rating on the company to “buy” on climbing
electrode prices and a weaker yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  