-- JPMorgan Said to Face Enforcement Action on Whale Loss
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-12-21T17:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/jpmorgan-said-to-face-enforcement-action-on-whale-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will be the
target of a regulatory enforcement order stemming from mistakes
that led to at least $6.2 billion in trading losses, according
to a person briefed on the situation.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is preparing
to issue a cease-and-desist order requiring the largest U.S.
bank to fix internal risk controls that contributed to its
wrong-way bet on credit derivatives, according to the person,
who asked not to be named because the discussions aren’t public.
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, said in May that the
firm’s strategy was beset by “errors, sloppiness and bad
judgment.”  The timing of the enforcement is uncertain, the person
said.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, and  Bryan Hubbard ,
an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on any potential
enforcement actions, reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal.  The faulty trades within the bank’s chief investment office
-- associated with London-based trader Bruno Iksil, widely known
as the London Whale -- may eventually cost more than $6.2
billion, Dimon has said.  That investment office within JPMorgan’s national bank
suffered from “inadequate risk management, Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  said during U.S. Senate testimony in June.  ‘‘We have been focusing on potential gaps or deviations
from accepted standards of risk management within that
particular office and looking to see whether similar gaps exist
in any other area,’’ Curry said.  The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is
also probing the loss, and the panel’s chairman, Michigan
Democrat  Carl Levin , called it a ‘‘textbook’’ example of why
regulators need to tighten the so-called Volcker rule to
restrict banks from trading with their own funds.  In a banking industry risk report released yesterday by the
OCC, the agency said this year’s ‘‘poor second quarter trading
performance’’ for banks was due to the ‘‘well-publicized
events’’ at JPMorgan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  