-- K-V Complaint Over Compound Medicine Rejected by U.S. ITC
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/k-v-complaint-over-compound-medicine-rejected-by-u-s-itc.html
K-V Pharmaceutical Co. (KVPHQ) , a bankrupt
maker of women’s health-care products, lost its bid to use a
U.S. trade agency to keep competitors from importing versions of
a medicine that prevents premature births, after federal drug
regulators had refused to stop them.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington,
which has the power to block imports, said yesterday it wouldn’t
investigate a complaint K-V filed in October. K-V, which blamed
lax federal enforcement for its bankruptcy, claims the companies
are violating exclusivity rules for the active ingredient in its
Makena treatment.  The commission, whose job is to protect U.S. markets from
unfair competition, questioned whether it had the authority to
investigate the case and to enforce exclusive marketing
privileges granted to a drugmaker. Most of the unfair import
cases it handles involve allegations of patent infringement.  “K-V’s complaint does not allege an unfair method of
competition or an unfair act” under the commission’s authority,
the ITC said in a notice posted on its docket. “The commission
also notes that the  Food and Drug Administration  is charged with
the administration of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act,” the law
that K-V claims was violated.  K-V, based in  St. Louis , claims that compounding pharmacies
are violating a marketing privilege awarded to drugs that treat
rare conditions, and which allow the company to sell its product
without competition for seven years. Makena was approved in
February 2011.  Unapproved Versions  “It most certainly was not Congress’s policy choice to
provide this market-based exclusivity incentive, which bars FDA
approval of competing safe and effective versions of an approved
orphan drug such as Makena, while at the same time condoning the
importation and sale of unproven and unapproved versions of the
approved orphan drug,” K-V said in a Dec. 3 letter to the
agency.  The active ingredient in the drug is made in China and
shipped to compounding pharmacies in the U.S.  K-V has made previous attempts to protect its market share
from compounders, which are lightly regulated pharmacies that
can make versions of brand-name drugs as long as they stick to
individual prescriptions unavailable through regular avenues. A
federal judge dismissed a lawsuit from K-V in September against
the FDA after the agency refused to block compounding pharmacies
that made versions of Makena.  Women’s International Pharmacy of Madison,  Wisconsin , one
of the compounding pharmacies named in the complaint, argued K-V
didn’t have the legal authority to bring a case to enforce
federal drug law. Wedgewood Pharmacy of Swedesboro,  New Jersey ,
said K-V initially charged $1,500 per dose for a treatment that
had been available at less than $20 a dose.  FDA Enforcement  Congress “has expressly committed enforcement of the laws
to the FDA,” Women’s International said in a Dec. 10 letter.  K-V filed for bankruptcy court protection in August after
saying weak federal enforcement, as well as state Medicaid
restrictions, prevented it from attaining the “full value” of
Makena, which has the active ingredient hydroxyprogesterone
caproate.  K-V attempted to get the FDA to stop compounding pharmacies
from selling versions of Makena by producing  testing data  that
called into question the purity and potency of compounded
products. The FDA conducted its own testing. It said in June
that three of 26 samples failed the standard for potency and no
major safety issues were identified.  The FDA said it has discretion to enforce laws against
pharmacies to keep them from making versions of approved drugs.  Unfair Trade  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency in  Washington  that
investigates allegations of unfair trade practices. While the
agency can’t award monetary damages like a court, it has the
power to block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents or
other intellectual property rights.  Other pharmacies, as well as a group of doctors and the
March of Dimes, warned an import ban could harm women who rely
on the medicine to prevent premature births, which have been
linked to problems including cerebral palsy, learning
disabilities and breathing difficulties.  In the complaint, K-V named 36 compounding pharmacies,
three U.S. distributors and seven China-based manufacturers. The
company sought an order to block imports of the active
ingredient, also known as 17P, except for shipments by the one
company that supplies K-V.  K-V said Dec. 12 it has received $85 million in new
financing that it will use to pay a settlement with  Hologic Inc. (HOLX) 
to confirm full ownership of Makena. The financing, settlement
and a reorganization plan are subject to approval by a
bankruptcy judge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  