-- Kenyan Ethnic Clashes Leave at Least 30 People Dead, Dozens Hurt
-- B y   A b j a t a   K h a l i f   a n d   B e n a r d   O n y a r i
-- 2012-12-21T08:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/kenyan-ethnic-clashes-leave-at-least-30-people-dead-dozens-hurt.html
At least 30 people were killed in
renewed ethnic fighting in  Kenya ’s southeastern Tana River
delta, where Orma livestock herders and Pokomo crop farmers have
clashed repeatedly this year over pasture and water.  Thirty people were injured in the latest violence that
occurred at 6 a.m. this morning in Kipao, about 400 kilometers
(249 miles) southeast of the capital, Nairobi, the Kenya Red
Cross Society said in a statement on its website. Suspected
members of the Pokomo community armed with bows and poison-
tipped arrows, guns and other hand-made weapons carried out the
attack on Orma residents of Kipao, County Commissioner Joseph
Rotich said in a phone interview.  “The death toll might rise as we have received many
reports that injured people are fleeing the scene of the attack
with serious injuries,” Rotich said.  Kenya is scheduled to hold presidential elections in March,
the first since a disputed vote in 2007 triggered ethnic clashes
in which more than 1,100 people died and 350,000 were forced to
flee their homes. More than 250 people have been killed in
violence in Kenya so far this year as ethnic groups and clans
try to undermine each other’s political power, Abbas Gullet,
secretary-general of the Kenya Red Cross, said in August.  The spate of violence between the Pokomo and the Orma
erupted in August in a dispute over grazing land and water. The
 United Nations  said there is evidence the clashes were
politically motivated. Kenya President Mwai Kibaki on Sept. 13
fired a minister who was arrested on suspicion of instigating
the violence.  Business Confidence  Kenya’s $33.6 billion economy is  East Africa ’s largest. The
country is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and
supplies a third of the cut flowers that are sold in  Europe .  Concern among Kenyan business owners that ethnic tensions
may flare as the election approaches has dented confidence in
the economy, according to Ipsos Synovate, a Nairobi-based
market-research company. The Kenyan shilling weakened 0.2
percent to 85.95 a dollar by 11:08 a.m. in Nairobi.  Police in the Tana River delta are trying to restore calm
to the area where today’s attacks took place, Richard Mukwate,
the region’s police chief, said in a phone interview.  “It is very volatile,” he said.  The government has carried out “forceful disarmament”
over the past three months in all villages in the Tana River
delta hit by conflict, Rotich said. Eleven people have been
charged with incitement, planning and assisting in the attacks,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abjata Khalif in Garissa at 
 akhalif@bloomberg.net ;
Benard Onyari in Mombasa at 
 bonyari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  