-- Kenya Premier Mudavadi Leaves Election Alliance of ICC Suspects
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-21T12:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/kenya-premier-mudavadi-leaves-election-alliance-of-icc-suspects.html
Kenyan Deputy Premier Musalia Mudavadi withdrew from a political coalition formed to take part
in elections next year, leaving behind two other leaders who are
charged with  war crimes  to seek the country’s top offices.  The so-called Jubilee alliance’s remaining members include
the  National Alliance  led by co-Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, a member of the most populous Kikuyu tribe, and
lawmaker and ethnic Kalenjin  William Ruto ’s United Republican
Party. Both men face crimes against humanity charges at The
Hague-based ICC for directing clashes following  Kenya ’s last
election in 2007 that left more than 1,100 people dead.  Mudavadi informed the coalition members yesterday that he
would no longer back the alliance due to “a lack of trust,
integrity and its failure to honor agreements,” spokesman
Kibisu Kabatesi said by phone today from the capital, Nairobi.  Mudavadi told reporters this week that Kenyatta had signed
an accord in which he agreed to step aside and allow Mudavadi to
seek the presidency in elections scheduled for March 4. Kenyatta
disowned the agreement, saying he was blackmailed by “dark
forces,” according to the Daily Nation newspaper.  Mudavadi draws support from the Luhya community, Kenya’s
second-largest tribe at 5.3 million people after the Kikuyu
group, which has a population of 6.6 million out of a total of
39 million Kenyans, according to government statistics.  Jubilee’s main rival is the Coalition for Reform and
Democracy, which includes Prime Minister  Raila Odinga ’s Orange
Democratic Movement.  Voter Registration  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission
reported yesterday it had registered 14.3 million voters over
the past month. That’s below the 18 million people targeted by
the government and compares with a potential 19.4 million
eligible voters, according to 2009 census data.  “It’s gone up slightly from about 12.6 million who
registered in 2010 for the referendum on a new constitution, but
they could have done far better,” Victor Rateng, head of
opinion polls at Nairobi-based Ipsos-Synovate, said by phone.
“I think more mobile registration centers, especially where the
roads are bad and to remote places, would have helped.”  Kenyatta, Ruto and two other Kenyan suspects are due to
start trials at the ICC on April 10. All four men deny the
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  