-- Kidnapped Conductor Still Missing in Mexico: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/kidnapped-conductor-still-missing-in-mexico-interview.html
This is the second Christmas that
Ludivine Barbier will endure without her husband, the conductor
Rodolfo Cazares, who was kidnapped in Mexico in July 2011.  Cazares, 36, was on the rise in  Europe  and a popular
presence on the podium at Bremerhaven’s municipal theater in
northern Germany.  Accompanied by his French wife, the Mexican-born conductor
was visiting his family when thugs took them hostage in
Matamoros, a city close to the Texas border.  In all, 18 relatives were kidnapped from three houses, tied
up and pushed into a van.  Three days later, the kidnappers released Ludivine and a
few others. But despite having paid a $100,000 ransom, Cazares
remains among the missing.  How can a young artist with dual passports (Mexican and
French) and a respected position in Germany just disappear?  The question plagues Barbier, 33, as she continues to battle
for her husband’s release in the face of appalling bureaucratic
indifference.  I spoke with her on the telephone from Paris shortly after
Barbier and Frederique Santal, the sister of Olivier Tschumi,
another hostage missing even longer, presented a petition at the
Mexican Embassy intended for the country’s new president,
Enrique Pena Nieto.  Mexican Inertia  Hoelterhoff: Any news?  Barbier: It’s too early, really, but we are hopeful of an
answer. Santal and I were accompanied by the well-known Mexican
poet and activist Javier Sicilia, and we were all warmly
received.  Hoelterhoff: It’s unbelievable that three countries have
not been able to find out what happened to him.  Barbier: I really don’t know why we’ve received so little
help. The German authorities in Mexico City and in  Germany  have
tried to help behind the scenes, even though my husband is not
German. Ultimately, it’s up to the Mexican authorities.  Hoelterhoff: How do you explain the inertia?  Barbier: It may be a matter of being overextended. There
are so many people who are murdered or disappear.  Hoelterhoff: Did you think you were at risk in Matamoros?  Barbier: We went every year. In the last years, it did seem
more dangerous. But we never ever expected anything like this.  Hoelterhoff: When was the last time you heard from the
kidnappers?  Like a Movie  Barbier: In July 2011, we received the ransom demand, which
we paid in installments for a total of $100,000. It was like in
a movie, always a different place, like a fast-food restaurant,
with one of Rodolfo’s uncles hiring the go-between. We kept
ringing the same number. Nothing.  Hoelterhoff: Who else remains missing?  Barbier: In addition to Rodolfo, his father, two uncles and
a brother-in-law.  Hoelterhoff: Who do you think kidnapped you and why so many
people?  Barbier: There were about six or eight with guns, all quite
young, probably not older than 25. My thinking is that they
hadn’t expected to take so many hostages. It was just an
accident that a lot of us were staying with my in-laws.  Hoelterhoff: What happened then?  Barbier: We contacted the local police commander in
Matamoros on September 13, 2011. But by the end of last year, it
was clear nothing had been done.  Then I wrote a letter to the state attorney general, which
was forwarded to the assistant attorney general’s Office for
Special Investigations Into Organized Crime  Hoelterhoff: That was another dead end?  Barbier: Yes, we learned that the Special Investigations
unit hadn’t been advised of our kidnapping and the disappearance
of part of our family.  Hoelterhoff: It must be unbearable to live with such
terrible uncertainty.  In Vienna  Barbier: Every day is hard. Every day I fight to find out
what happened to my husband,  Hoelterhoff: Where did you meet?  Barbier: In Vienna, in 2002 when we were both students -- I
am a translator. We married in 2006.  Hoelterhoff: What did he conduct in Bremerhaven?  Barbier: Opera and musicals. His colleagues have been
wonderfully supportive in their constant demand for action. And
during his  Mexico  tour in October 2012 with the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra, Riccardo Muti spoke to the Mexican authorities to ask
about his colleague.  I trust the new Mexican government. They can help me to
find him now. I know.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. Any opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation
in German.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and the  Best of 2012 .  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  