-- N.J. May Cut Budget as Revenue Falls Short, Christie Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-12-21T22:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/n-j-may-face-budget-cuts-in-current-fiscal-year-christie-says.html
Governor Chris Christie said he’s
evaluating whether to cut  New Jersey ’s budget for the current
fiscal year, while the state reported revenue trailed targets by
11 percent last month, citing the effect of Superstorm Sandy.  Receipts fell short of projections by $183.7 million in
November, as Sandy’s floods and coastal destruction deterred
shoppers and gamblers. Income-tax collections missed targets by
11 percent, the Treasury Department said in a statement. By Nov.
30, fiscal 2013 revenue was $451.2 million, or 5.6 percent,
lower than estimated in the $31.7 billion budget.  Before the November revenue report, Christie, a 50-year-old
Republican in his first term, said tax collections may rebound
in a few months as Sandy rebuilding continues. Such an increase
may offset the need for spending cuts, he told reporters in
 Newark , the state’s biggest city.  “After Sandy, we very well may need to; we’re evaluating”
possible budget cuts, Christie said. “If we need to, we will.
Our state was essentially closed for the month of November.”  Christie’s budget for the year that began July 1 predicted
revenue growth of more than 7 percent. Through Nov. 30, revenue
was 0.2 percent higher than for the same period of fiscal 2012.  12% Needed  In a memo to lawmakers this week, the nonpartisan  Office of
Legislative Services  said that revenue would need to climb 12
percent for the rest of the year to meet Christie’s budget.  State Senator  Paul Sarlo , from Wood-Ridge, and Assemblyman
Vincent Prieto, from Secaucus, both Democrats and budget
committee chiefs, said lawmakers will have to review spending
planned for the rest of the fiscal year.  “After the first of the year we’ll sit down and figure
out” how to get the budget into shape, Sarlo said. “You take
the shortfall from fiscal-year 2012 and the shortfall so far for
2013 and that’s almost $1 billion. The governor is going to have
to make his cuts.”  Sandy’s effects back up the Democratic-controlled
Legislature’s withholding of $183 million that Christie planned
in tax credits, saying the state might not be able to afford it.  “You never know what’s in store for us,” said Prieto,
referring to the biggest Atlantic storm on record, which by the
administration’s estimate cost New Jersey $36.9 billion.  The state doesn’t have the money to rebuild on its own,
Christie said. He has joined governors from other states,
including  New York  and  Connecticut , in pressing Congress to pass
$60.4 billion in aid to help the recovery.  Casino revenue was 51 percent less than budgeted for
November, while income-tax receipts trailed estimates by 11
percent, the Treasurer’s office said. Also damping collections
was the state’s decision to let some taxpayers delay some
payments, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said in a statement.  Congress needs to “get its act together for 15 minutes”
to pass Sandy relief proposed by President  Barack Obama ,
Christie said. He called for approval by Jan. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  