-- New York Times Circulation Gains Make Up for Print Losses
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-21T16:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/new-york-times-circulation-gains-make-up-for-print-losses.html
The  New York Times  newspaper, hit by
ad declines that have dragged down the entire industry, will
make more money this year from subscriptions than advertising
for the first time, offering the promise of a return to growth.  Circulation sales at the Times and the International Herald
Tribune, which are counted as  one unit , will exceed advertising
when the full year is measured, according to the average
estimate of three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The move by a bellwether for the newspaper industry has
turned the traditional business model on its head. Publications
used to seek to get 80 percent of their revenue from ads and the
rest from subscription sales, according to  Ken Doctor , a media
analyst with Outsell Inc. The milestone also shows the power of
so-called paywalls, which spur Web readers to buy subscriptions.  “Online subs have had a huge impact,” said Douglas Arthur, an analyst for Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.  Subscription sales are growing faster than ad revenue is
falling. Should  New York Times Co. (NYT)  sell off the Boston Globe,
its remaining asset outside the Times newspaper, the company
would be recording sales growth instead of a decline.  New York Times Co., led by new Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson , has struggled with a slump in newsprint advertising,
leading to six straight years of shrinking sales. The newspaper
started charging readers to access its articles online at the
end of March 2011 and has invested more heavily in its digital
research and development department to attract newer readers,
especially those coming out of college who have become
accustomed to computers, tablets and smartphones.  Paywall’s Power  The paywall will more than make up the difference between
circulation and ad sales this year, bringing in about $91
million in revenue, Arthur said. That will help boost total
circulation sales for the Times newspaper group to $768.3
million, $52.9 million more than advertising, he estimates.  “The paywall has been significant,” Arthur said. While
Times Co.’s advertising sales normally get a seasonal boost in
the fourth quarter because of the holidays, the increase won’t
be as pronounced this year, he said.  The advertising slump is still taking its toll. The company
said this month it would cut 30 newsroom jobs out of a total of
1,100 because of declines in ads. The business side of
operations has already been reduced by more than 60 percent in
the past few years.  “These are financially challenging times,” Chairman
Arthur Sulzberger said in a memo to employees. “The advertising
climate remains volatile and we don’t see this changing in the
near future.”  Sales Increases  Still, the subscription gains show a way forward. The
company’s New York Times Media Group unit has  recorded  annual
increases in sales in all but one quarter since it introduced
the paywall. Revenue at the New England Media Group division,
mostly made up of the Boston Globe, has continued to decline
year over year.  Kannan Venkateshwar of Barclays Plc and William Bird of
Lazard Capital Markets LLC also estimate the company’s balance
between circulation and ads will tip toward circulation.  In the four quarters since the paywall was implemented, the
Times and the Herald Tribune increased circulation dollars 7.1
percent from the previous 12-month period, while advertising
fell 3.7 percent. Circulation sales growth more than compensated
for the ad losses, surpassing them by $19.2 million in the first
12 months since the newspaper started charging readers online.  Lower Rates  Online ads sell at much lower rates than print advertising,
making the paywall more important to the newspaper’s business.  Times newspaper ’s total weekday distribution, including
print and digital, rose 40 percent this year to 1.61 million,
according to the  Alliance for Audited Media . The company
reported 566,000 paying digital subscribers as of the end of
September, an 11 percent increase since June.  The digital subscription business isn’t the only reason for
the increase in distribution sales. The Times raised print
delivery prices by 4 percent this year and plans to increase
prices again next year by 5 percent. Print distribution has
slipped, with Sunday circulation falling 1.6 percent to 1.25
million in September from a year earlier, while weekday
circulation dropped 6.9 percent to 717,513, according to the
Alliance for Audited Media.  The publisher has yet to prove if the digital subscription
model will be able to keep growing quickly enough to sustain the
initial surge in circulation revenue, said Edward Atorino, an
analyst with Benchmark Co.  “You have to wait and see if they can keep that up,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  