-- News Corp. Publishing Business Lost $2.1 Billion
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-21T21:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/news-corp-publishing-business-lost-2-1-billion.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s publishing business,
poised to spin off into a separate company next year, reported a
net loss of $2.1 billion in fiscal 2012 because of
restructuring, falling sales and the costs of a U.K. scandal.  The business swung to a loss in the period after a profit
of $678 million in 2011, News Corp. said today in a filing. The
company, controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is breaking off the
division from its entertainment operations, which will be called
the Fox Group. Publishing revenue fell to $8.65 billion in the
year ended June 30, from $9.1 billion in 2011.  News Corp., bowing to pressure from shareholders, agreed in
June to split its slower-growing publishing assets from the more
valuable Fox television and film businesses. The latest numbers
spotlight the challenges facing Robert Thomson, who will become
chief executive officer of the new company after serving as
managing editor of the Wall Street Journal.  “This financial result illustrates part of the reason why
it’s a good idea to split up the company,” said  David Bank , a
media analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York.  Shares of News Corp. fell 1.9 percent to $24.95 at the
close in New York. The stock has climbed 40 percent this year.  In his new role, Thomson faces a lingering hacking scandal,
which has weighed on earnings. News Corp. closed its News of the
World newspaper in July 2011 in response to public anger over
revelations that journalists accessed messages on a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone. The investigation spawned parallel
probes of computer hacking and bribery and led to the arrests of
more than 80 people, including the unit’s former head of
security and its top lawyer.  Earnings Effect  The publishing division recorded $782 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the
year ending in June, a decline of 36 percent from a year
earlier. News Corp. spent $224 million in legal fees due to the
scandal and recorded $151 million in restructuring, mostly
stemming from the closure of News of the World.  Assuming the New York-based company doesn’t face
significant further costs from the hacking incident, the
publishing spinoff could maintain flat to slightly rising Ebitda
in the coming year, said Brett Harriss, a media analyst at
Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York .  “They’ll still be cash-flow positive,” he said in an
interview. “And it’s not a surprise how much they lost from
hacking.”  Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the hacking costs.  Losses Continue  The publishing business posted an additional loss of $92
million in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with net
income of $38 million a year earlier. The company had impairment
and restructuring expenses of $2.76 billion last year and $115
million in the most recent quarter.  News Corp. plans to complete the breakup by the middle of
next year, though Thomson will begin working as incoming CEO on
Jan. 1. The 51-year-old stands to make as much as $4 million in
the new job, with $2 million in salary and the remainder coming
from incentives.  The publishing spinoff will include the Wall Street
Journal, the  Times newspaper  in  London , the  HarperCollins  book
division, education and marketing assets, and the Australian TV
business. Murdoch will remain CEO of the Fox side, and chairman
of both businesses.  Separately, the Wall Street Journal announced the
appointments of Alex Martin as page one editor and  Mike Allen  as
global enterprise editor in an internal memo. The moves come as
Gerard Baker takes over as the paper’s managing editor from
Thomson.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  