-- NFL’s Bills Reach Stadium Deal to Stay in Buffalo for 10 Years
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-12-21T17:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/nfl-s-bills-said-to-reach-deal-to-stay-in-buffalo-for-10-years.html
The Buffalo Bills agreed with New
York state and Erie County to stay at Ralph Wilson Stadium in
Orchard Park, New York, for 10 years, Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said.  The 39-year-old stadium will undergo a $130 million
renovation, with the National Football League team picking up
$35 million, Cuomo said at a press briefing today. The two
government levels will share the rest, with the state paying $54
million and the county $41 million, according to an e-mailed
statement.  The Bills, without a winning season since 2004, would have
to pay $400 million if they break the lease, with an exception
in the seventh year, when it drops to a $29 million penalty,
Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz said. The deal also has
state and local government and the Bills exploring the
possibility of a new stadium, Cuomo said.  “This commits the Bills to staying at Ralph Wilson
Stadium,” Cuomo said. “Go Bills, go Buffalo, go western  New
York .”  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, appeared on a video feed to
the briefing at the stadium, saying he couldn’t fly to Buffalo
because of bad weather.  NFL stadiums represent the highest cost to taxpayers and
about one-third of spending on all big-league facilities,
according to research by Judith Grant Long, a Harvard University
professor of urban planning. The average football stadium costs
$488 million, with the public paying an average of $374 million,
or 87 percent.  Low Price  The Bills’ stadium has one of the lowest public price tags
of any NFL venue, according to Long. Despite the size of the
market -- 51st in the nation, according to  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  -
- public officials in the state and local governments “still
managed to negotiate a deal outcome that, on public dollar
value, a larger market would find very hard to beat,” Long
wrote in her 2012 book, “Public/Private Partnerships for Major
League Sports Facilities.”  The team’s guarantee is a boost for western New York and
Buffalo, Poloncarz said. In the 2010  U.S. Census , Buffalo had
the state’s lowest median household income, at $30,230.  “The Bills are not just the heart and soul of western New
York, but a key economic driver,” Poloncarz said. “The
agreement assures the  Buffalo Bills  will continue to be the
Buffalo Bills.”  New video display boards on the stadium’s east end, a new
plaza that will include a revamped team store, and renovated and
expanded concessions are among the improvements to be made at
the under the deal, according to the statement.  Funds dispersed by the state and county for stadium fixes
in the last three years of the deal can be redirected to help
develop a plan for a new stadium, Poloncarz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  