-- NHL Players Move Lockout Toward Courts in Vote, ESPN Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-21T21:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/nhl-players-move-lockout-toward-courts-in-vote-espn-says-1-.html
National Hockey League players moved
a three-month-old lockout toward the courtroom by clearing the
way for their union to dissolve, ESPN reported.  The  NHL Players’ Association  voted to give its executive
board the power to decertify, or “disclaim interest” in
representing the rank and file in collective bargaining, the
Walt Disney Co. unit said on its website citing multiple people
it didn’t identify.  NHLPA spokesman Jonathan Weatherdon didn’t immediately
respond to a voice message and e-mail seeking comment on the
report. John Dellapina, an NHL spokesman, declined in an e-mail
to comment, saying it was a union matter.  The board must decide whether to disband the union, a move
that would allow players to file antitrust lawsuits seeking to
have the lockout ruled illegal and recoup financial losses.  A similar decertification move was used by the National
Football League players union during their five-month lockout
last year. It is a negotiating tactic that applies almost
exclusively to sports labor disagreements, according to Paul Haagen, a professor of sports and contract law at the Duke
University School of Law in Durham,  North Carolina .  “This is the only industry in which management absolutely
needs to have labor collectively represented to avoid
antitrust,” Haagen said in a telephone interview. “And when
you can’t effectively bargain in labor, your only card is
antitrust.”  The NHL announced yesterday that it had canceled all games
through Jan. 15, with 51 percent of the season wiped out,
including All-Star Game in Columbus,  Ohio , on Jan. 27 and the
New Year’s Day outdoor Winter Classic game at Michigan Stadium.  NHL Allegations  The league, in anticipation of today’s union vote, is
seeking a federal court order declaring the lockout legal. It
also filed an unfair labor complaint with the  National Labor
Relations Board  last week.  The lawsuit alleges that that the disclaimer of interest is
an “unlawful subversion of the collective bargaining process
and conduct that constitutes bad-faith bargaining,” the league
said last week in a statement.  Haagen described the league’s moves as a “delay tactic.”  “Where we are is a coming-together of two separate
lines,” he said. “One is whether this is an unfair bargaining
practice in a situation in which the union fully intends to be
the collective bargaining agent, and the second is the right of
labor to decide whether or not to be represented.”  Revenue Split  There are no bargaining sessions scheduled between the two
sides, which are arguing over how to split revenue that grew to
a record $3.3 billion last season, up 50 percent from the $2.2
bill in 2003-04, the final year before the last lockout.  Other issues at the negotiating table include salary
arbitration and the length of unrestricted free agency.  Under the previous agreement, settled after the league
canceled the 2004-05 season, players received 57 percent, or
$1.9 billion, of sales. The remaining $1.4 billion, or 43
percent, was shared among the league’s 30 team owners. The
league offered a 50-50 split in its latest contract proposal.  NHL players have been locked out since Sept. 16, the day
after the old contract expired. The league has said a 48-game
schedule, similar to the one that ended the 1994-95 lockout in
mid-January, would now be required to avoid losing the entire
season.  It is unclear the effect that today’s move has on the
outlook of the overall negotiations, Haagen said, because
decertification is such a rare bargaining tactic that the laws
aren’t thorough.  Should the union elect to disclaim interest, antitrust
liability would eventually apply to the league, he said, but it
was unclear exactly when that would occur.  “Short term, and I think we’re talking maybe a month, it
probably doesn’t have much of an effect other than making the
negotiations more difficult,” Haagen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  