-- Nokia to Get Payments From RIM as Companies End Disputes
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-21T12:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/nokia-to-get-payments-from-rim-as-companies-end-disputes.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker struggling to reverse a slide in sales, agreed to a
patent-licensing deal with BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , ending all legal disputes between the companies.  RIM will make a one-time and “on-going” payments to
Nokia, the Espoo, Finland-based company said today. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed.  Nokia is trying to add revenue from its patent portfolio as
sales at its unprofitable smartphone unit drop. It may get a
one-time payment of $150 million to $200 million, and about $50
million annually over the next 10 to 15 years, depending on when
the patents expire, according to estimates by Hannu Rauhala, an
analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  Nokia has sold units and assets including its headquarters
to boost its cash position. Its cash reserves have shrunk by
about half in the past five years and will drop below 3 billion
euros by year-end,  Standard & Poor’s  estimated in August. Its
debt is at junk status at the three main rating companies.  “The impact of this deal is twofold: on the one hand, it
shows the upside potential for Nokia to cash in from similar
legal cases,” Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Helsinki, said by phone today. “Secondly, the financial impact
will help Nokia beef up its cash position and bring in new
revenues that give Nokia time to turn its loss-making smartphone
unit around.”  Shares of Nokia  declined  2.2 percent to 3.10 euros at 2:34
p.m. Helsinki time. RIM advanced 3.6 percent at the close in  New
York  yesterday.  Similar Disputes  Sarkamies estimated that Nokia may receive no more than 100
million euros ($132 million) annually from RIM for probably a
five-year period, and that the one-time payment could be several
hundred million euros.  In May, Nokia said it filed patent-infringement lawsuits
against Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and ViewSonic
Corp. over inventions in mobile devices including phones and
tablets. The RIM deal signals that the disputes with HTC and
ViewSonic could be settled within six months, Sarkamies said.  Today’s agreement is less lucrative than the one Nokia
signed with Apple Inc. last year because RIM’s device volumes
are “so small and the BlackBerry maker is going through such
difficult times,” he said.  RIM said yesterday that BlackBerry shipments slumped to 6.9
million last quarter. Its PlayBook tablet shipments were
255,000.  Both Nokia and RIM are struggling to compete with Apple’s
iPhone and smartphones using Google Inc.’s Android software,
including those from market leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
Android and Apple accounted for 90 percent of global smartphone
shipments last quarter, compared with 4.3 percent for the
BlackBerry and less than that for Nokia, according to research
firm IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  