-- NPS Gattex Wins Approval for Short-Bowel Syndrome
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-21T21:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/nps-gattex-wins-approval-for-short-bowel-syndrome.html
NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NPSP) ’s Gattex, a
maker of rare-disease drugs, won U.S. approval as a treatment
for patients with short-bowel syndrome to help absorb nutrients.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug known
chemically as teduglutide while requiring a study of at least 10
years of potential side effects, the agency said today in a
statement. Gattex helps wean patients off a time-consuming
intravenous nutrition program.  NPS, which reported about $101 million in 2011  revenue  last
year, may see peak annual sales from Gattex reach $350 million,
Francois Nader, the company’s chief executive officer, said in
an October interview. The drug, expected to go on sale by March,
is the first major product that the company will market on its
own, said David Nierengarten, a Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst
in  Los Angeles .  “The launch expectations are modest enough that I think
the drug could exceed them,” Nierengarten said in a phone
interview. “It’s an execution story now. They need to launch
this drug and show they can be a commercial company.”  NPS gained less than 1 percent to $9.10 at the close in New
York. The shares of the Bedminster, New Jersey-based drugmaker
have climbed 38 percent this year.  Gattex may increase the risk of developing cancer, polyps
and intestinal blockages, the FDA said in its statement. The
agency will require NPS to develop a “risk evaluation and
mitigation strategy” for the drug that includes a communication
plan and training for those prescribing it.  Shares Rebound  The warning and the 10-year study initially worried some
investors, helping drive NPS shares down as much as 8.1 percent
today before they  rebounded , Nierengarten said. The drop was an
overreaction, and the extra requirements and warnings were
expected, he said.  Gattex may generate sales of $21.6 million in 2013, with
the potential to reach $250 million, Nierengarten said.  NPS shares the rights to sell the drug in  Europe  with
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , based in  Osaka ,  Japan . NPS plans to
sell Gattex on its own in the U.S., Nader said. The company will
have a sales team of about 30 people who will target 6,000
physicians who have experience with the disease, Eric Pauwels,
chief commercial officer, said in an earnings call last month.  “The approval of Gattex is a crowning achievement for our
company and the catalyst for our transformation into a premier
orphan drug business,” Nader said today in a company statement.  The drug is meant to increase the ability of short-bowel
syndrome patients to absorb nutrients and replace intravenous
nutritional support given 10 to 12 hours each day.  Short-bowel syndrome is the result of conditions such as
Crohn’s disease or trauma that requires much of the small
intestine to be removed, causing a reduced ability to absorb
water and nutrients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  