-- NRA: Let's Airportize Our Schools
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-12-21T18:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/nra-let-s-airportize-our-schools.html
The unhingedness of this morning's  National Rifle Association  news
conference, in which Chief Executive Officer Wayne LaPierre blamed the Sandy
Hook massacre on essentially everything except guns, has been  adequately   covered 
 all over the web . I don't need to rehash it. (Here's  the transcript  in all its
glory.) Instead, I want to focus on one bad idea from LaPierre's rambling speech,
because it's a fairly popular one: more police in schools. Or, well, maybe they would be police. LaPierre called for "a police officer
in every school," but at other points in his speech he just referred to "armed
security." His colleague Asa Hutchinson, a former U.S. representative and Drug
Enforcement Agency head, suggested the armed guards could be volunteers, to save
money. At least if the guards are police, the public seems to be  on board  with this
idea. And the NRA is hardly the only entity pushing for schools to add more
armed security since Sandy Hook. This is misguided. Schools are already safe, and increases in physical
security should not be a policy priority. In the 2008-09 school year, there were  15 homicides  of students at K-12
schools in the U.S., compared with a student population of 55.6 million. That
is, the odds of being murdered at school were less than 1 in 3 million. Students
age 12 to 18 were twice as likely to be victims of serious violent crimes away
from school as at school. That is not to say that every measure to increase security at schools is
misguided. A minority of schools have non-homicide crime problems that need
addressing. Some low-cost, low-impact measures might be good ideas even in safe
schools. But a broad increase in armed personnel isn't targeted or low-cost and
would have negative unintended consequences. Some armed "security" measures would have an indeterminate effect on safety.
More police officers would likely make students safer, but as Matt Yglesias
 notes , extra police officers could do more for public safety if you posted them
elsewhere. "Volunteer" armed guards, as Hutchinson proposed, are a dicier proposition.
Ostensibly well-meaning volunteers with guns may cause trouble, either through
incompetence or malfeasance; George Zimmerman, who killed Trayvon Martin, was a
volunteer armed security guard. There are similar problems with  arming
educational personnel , an idea that Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell has
floated. But the biggest problem with putting more people with guns in schools is how
it would affect the educational environment, regardless of whether the guns are
ever fired. Adding more armed guards or armed principals sends the message that
school is an unsafe environment in need of armed defense. This is especially a problem with the idea that teachers or principals should
be armed. Handing somebody a gun changes the power dynamic in his or her
professional relationships. I don't think it's desirable for students to start
interacting with teachers more like they are police officers, there not just to
teach but to use deadly force as necessary. Even if the armed personnel aren't educators, a more visible security
presence will make schools feel more like airports. It's bad enough that
airports are like airports. We should find approaches to combating violence that
don't send the message that school is a scary place where you need a cadre of
men with guns to protect you -- because that's just not true. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .