-- Oaktree Said to Pay Some Bonuses Early as Tax Hike Looms
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-12-21T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/oaktree-said-to-pay-some-bonuses-early-as-tax-hike-looms.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is allowing some
employees to receive their bonuses before the end of the year to
avoid paying higher taxes, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Oaktree is giving those employees who normally receive
their bonuses in February the option to get the payment by Dec.
31, said the person, who requested anonymity because
compensation discussions are private. The firm traditionally
distributes bonuses to a majority of its employees before the
end of the year, the person said.  U.S. income tax rates for top earners and investors will
rise next year for the first time since 1993 as a 3.8 percent
investment income surtax and a 0.9 percent additional tax on
wages take effect as part of President Barack Obama’s 2010
health-care law. In addition, rates on income, capital gains and
dividends are scheduled to go up as tax cuts enacted under
President  George W. Bush  are set to expire on Dec. 31 unless
Congress acts to avoid the increase.  While Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  have traded
budget proposals, negotiations remain deadlocked as the end of
the year approaches.  Oaktree is telling clients it’s targeting the lowest
returns it has ever sought, Chairman  Howard Marks  said earlier
this month. The Los Angeles-based firm, which Marks co-founded
in 1995, has more than 700 employees and oversees $81 billion of
assets, including distressed and corporate debt, buyout funds,
real estate and convertible bonds.  Alyssa Linn, a spokeswoman for Oaktree at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net 
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  