-- Obama Turns to Global Traveler Kerry This Time Around
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-21T19:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/obama-turns-to-global-traveler-kerry-this-time-around.html
Months after passing over Senator
 John Kerry  for a Cabinet post in 2009, President  Barack Obama 
turned to the Massachusetts senator to warn Afghanistan’s
President  Hamid Karzai  that U.S. support was at risk.  The Democratic chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee coaxed Karzai into agreeing to a runoff after a
contested presidential election. Kerry “made the kind of
difference diplomacy can make,” Michael Mandelbaum, a professor
at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies in Washington, said in an interview.  From Afghanistan and Pakistan to Sudan and China, Kerry,
69, has made at least 30 trips abroad over the past four years,
often serving as an unofficial special envoy for the Obama
administration. Today, the president made it official, saying he
will nominate Kerry to replace the departing  Hillary Clinton  as
secretary of state.  “Over these many years, John’s earned the respect and
confidence of leaders around the world,” Obama said, with Kerry
at his side at the White House. “He is not going to need a lot
of on-the-job training.”  Republican colleagues predicted in advance of Kerry’s
nomination that he would easily win Senate confirmation.  “I don’t foresee a big obstacle,” Senator  John Cornyn  of
Texas, who will become the No. 2 Republican leader in January,
said in an interview. “He’s been a good and effective
senator.”  Patrician Manner  Kerry, a decorated Vietnam War veteran who first became
known nationally as a critic of that war, has been steeped in
foreign policy issues throughout his career. Traits Republicans
ridiculed in his failed presidential campaign in 2004 -- his
patrician manner, his fine-grained parsing of language, even his
occasional tendency to lapse into French to choose the mot juste
-- may wear well on the international diplomatic circuit.  Kerry will be able to follow in the footsteps of Clinton,
who is effective partly because she’s a well-known figure
globally, according to Joseph Nye, a professor at the Kennedy
School of Government at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Kerry is “a distinguished senator and he’s seen as having
a political presence of his own, which is very helpful,” Nye, a
former Defense and State Department official who has known Kerry
for 20 years, said in an interview.  On foreign policy, Kerry shares Obama’s preference for
working through multinational alliances and for avoiding open-
ended engagement, such as the  Iraq war  they both opposed.  “Ideologically, he and the president are in a very similar
place,” James Carafano, vice president of foreign and defense
policy studies at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington, said in
an interview.  Syria Caution  Kerry’s approach to U.S. intervention abroad has been
reflected in his comments on the war in Syria, where he has
shared Obama’s reluctance about direct military involvement.  “It would be important not to repeat the mistakes of the
past by thinking we can just willy-nilly commit some forces to a
conflict without a definition or achievable objective,” Kerry
said at a committee hearing on Aug. 1.  Kerry and Obama have political bonds dating to 2004, when
the senator gave Obama his breakthrough opportunity as the
keynote speaker at the Democratic convention that nominated
Kerry for president. The speech turned Obama, a state senator
from Illinois running for the  U.S. Senate , into a national
political star.  Clinton Chosen  In 2008, Kerry backed Obama over front-runner Clinton in
the Democratic presidential primaries, only to see Obama reach
out and choose Clinton as his first-term secretary of state. In
this year’s presidential campaign, Obama prepared for debates
with Kerry playing the role of Republican opponent  Mitt Romney .  “Nothing brings two people closer together than weeks of
debate prep,” Obama said today.  After graduating from  Yale University , Kerry volunteered
for the Navy. In two tours of duty in Vietnam, he rose to the
rank of lieutenant and served on a Swift Boat that traveled
treacherous river deltas. He was decorated with a Silver Star, a
Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts.  “Having served with valor in Vietnam, he understands that
we have a responsibility to use American power wisely,
especially our military power,” Obama said today.  Kerry came to see the war he fought as futile, and on his
return to the U.S. he became a leader of Vietnam Veterans
Against the War.  ‘Last to Die’  “How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a
mistake?” Kerry said in April 1971, testifying before the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee he would one day lead. On
that visit to Washington, he joined other veterans who threw
their medals and ribbons over a fence at the Capitol to protest
the war.  Kerry made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat from
Massachusetts the following year, then worked as a prosecutor
before being elected lieutenant governor in 1982 and senator in
1984. For years, he was overshadowed in Washington by the
state’s senior senator, Edward M. Kennedy, who died in 2009.  In the 2004 presidential campaign, Republicans portrayed
Kerry as flip-flopping on funding for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. They seized on his comment in March 2004 that “I
actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against
it.”  Kerry said his “inarticulate” phrasing referred to his
support for an unsuccessful Democratic alternative that would
have offset war costs by reducing Bush’s tax cuts.  Among Wealthiest  Largely because of the wealth of his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, Kerry is one of the richest members of Congress. His net
worth was at least $181.5 million in 2011, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  Kerry and Senator  John McCain , a fellow Vietnam veteran,
traveled to Hanoi in 1993. They visited the prison where McCain
was held as a prisoner of war for six years. Kerry and McCain,
an  Arizona  Republican, worked together for the normalization of
Vietnam-U.S. relations that occurred two years later.  Kerry became chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in 2009, when  Joe Biden  left the post to become
Obama’s vice president.  In February 2009, Kerry was the highest-level U.S. official
to visit the  Gaza Strip  since Hamas seized control of the
territory in June 2007. He didn’t meet with Hamas, which has
been designated a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and
the European Union.  Afghanistan Dinners  On his visit to Afghanistan in 2009, Kerry met with Karzai
five times over five days, including twice over dinner, to
broker the terms of a runoff election. Obama later said Kerry
was “extraordinarily constructive and very helpful.”  In May 2011, Kerry was the first high-level U.S. official
to visit Pakistan amid bilateral strains following the May 2
killing there of  Osama bin Laden  by U.S. Navy SEALs.  At the Capitol, Kerry worked with the Foreign Relations
panel’s top Republican, Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, on
issues such as a strategic arms control treaty with Russia that
they ushered through the chamber in December 2010.  Kerry tried unsuccessfully to push through the Senate
legislation intended to curb global  climate change . As secretary
of state, Kerry may be able to revive interest in the subject as
“the recession recedes and you’ve more reminders like  Hurricane
Sandy ,” Nye said.  Kerry also may help negotiate a “status of forces
agreement” for U.S. forces to maintain a role in Afghanistan
after most troops are withdrawn in 2014, Nye said.  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, who is in line to replace
Lugar as top Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee next
month, said Kerry is clearly qualified for the Cabinet post.  “He’s lived a life of involvement in diplomacy and issues
related to foreign relations,” Corker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  