-- Obama Prods Congress to Prevent Tax Increase on 98%
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-12-22T22:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/obama-urges-two-step-plan-to-prevent-middle-income-tax-increases.html
President  Barack Obama , facing a
budget stalemate with Republicans, urged leaders of both parties
to assemble an interim bill to keep taxes from rising on middle-
income Americans as they work on a more comprehensive plan.  Obama said “all of us agree” that rates shouldn’t go up
for 98 percent of taxpayers when the new year starts. He also
seeks to have  unemployment insurance  extended for about 2
million Americans who will lose benefits in January, and a
commitment to deal with spending cuts next year.  “I am still ready and willing to get a comprehensive
package done,” Democrat Obama said at the White House
yesterday, a day after House Speaker  John Boehner  couldn’t
deliver enough Republican votes for his own alternative plan,
throwing negotiations into turmoil.  A plan can be achieved “whether it happens all at once or
whether it happens in several different steps,” the president
said. “Call me a hopeless optimist, but I actually still think
we can get it done.”  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, used his party’s weekly radio
address today to blame Obama and the Democrats for failing to
come up with a solution.  Spending Problem  “What the president has offered so far simply won’t do
anything to solve our spending problem and begin to address our
nation’s crippling debt,” Boehner said. “Instead, he wants
more spending and more tax hikes that will hurt our economy. And
he refuses to challenge the members of his party to deal
honestly with entitlement reform and the big issues facing our
nation.”  Boehner said the Republican-controlled House already has
passed legislation to address the issue. “But we only run the
House,” Boehner said. “Democrats run  Washington .”  House Republicans  have voted to extend all of the tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  and to avoid reductions
in defense spending by cutting funding for  food stamps  and other
domestic programs.  The House and Democratic-controlled Senate won’t return
until Dec. 27 to address the end-of-year deadline to avert more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and across-the-
board budget cuts known as the fiscal cliff. That will give them
less than a week to reach a deal.  Obama said he talked with Boehner and also met with Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. The president
later left with his family for  Hawaii , where Obama went golfing
today outside Honolulu. The Obama’s will spend the Christmas
holiday there. Obama said he would return next week to continue
negotiations.  Boehner Plan  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , two days ago scrapped his plan
to allow higher tax rates on annual income above $1 million,
saying it didn’t have enough support among his members.  Democratic leaders in Congress called on Boehner to resume
talks on averting the tax-and-spending changes, saying a
solution must be bipartisan.  “A comprehensive solution to the looming fiscal cliff will
need to be a bipartisan solution,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
said on the Senate floor. “No comprehensive agreement can pass
either chamber without both Democrats and Republican votes.”  Backup Plan  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  said Senate
Democrats don’t want to move a backup plan unless they’re
certain Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican,
won’t block it in the Senate and that Boehner can get it passed
by the House.  Regarding McConnell, Schumer said, “I don’t know why he
would want to have his members put their necks on the line for a
deal that may not pass the House.”  “So the key to this is the House,” Schumer, the third-
ranking Senate Democrat, said in an interview.  Boehner said some members of the Republican caucus refused
to back his tax measure because they didn’t want to be accused
of raising taxes.  It was “not the outcome I wanted, but it was the will of
the House,” said Boehner, 63. “They were dealing with the
perception that someone might accuse them of raising taxes.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 in New York yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
slid 120.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to 13,190.84. The benchmark
10-year Treasury note yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Obama Proposal  Until Dec. 17, Obama and Boehner had been edging closer to
a deal that would have included about $1 trillion each in tax
increases and spending cuts.  In his most recent tax proposal, Obama said he would be
willing to extend tax cuts for households earning as much as
$400,000 a year. Until Boehner made his $1 million threshold
offer last week, Republicans had opposed tax rate increases for
any income level.  Chad Stone, chief economist at the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities  in Washington, said this month that instead of
“fiscal cliff,” he prefers the term “fiscal slope” to
describe how the effects would accumulate gradually over a
matter of months during 2013. The components also can be
reversed if a deal is reached early in 2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  