-- Oil Drops First Time in Six Days on Fiscal Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-21T21:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/oil-drops-first-time-in-six-days-on-fiscal-concern.html
Oil fell for the first time in six
days on concern that U.S. lawmakers will fail to avert a fiscal
crisis after House Republican leaders canceled a vote on higher
taxes for top earners.  Prices dropped the most in more than two weeks after House
Speaker  John Boehner  scrapped a plan yesterday to allow higher
tax rates on annual income above $1 million, yielding to anti-
tax resistance within his own party. Spending cuts and tax
increases totaling more than $600 billion a year are set to
start in the U.S. in January unless an agreement is reached.  “Oil has been bulled up all week on hopes that the U.S. is
going to resolve this problem and now it appears that there is
no quick solution,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “We are
running out of time and that’s got the market spooked.”  West Texas Intermediate oil for February delivery fell
$1.47, or 1.6 percent, to settle at $88.66 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The futures rose 2.2 percent this
week, the sixth gain in seven weeks.  Brent for February settlement slid $1.23, or 1.1 percent,
to end at $108.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a $20.31
premium to WTI, up from $20.07 yesterday.  Brent Premium  WTI has declined 10 percent in 2012 as a U.S. shale boom
deepened the  glut  at Cushing, Oklahoma, America’s biggest
storage hub. That has left it at an average $17.44 below Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has risen 1.5 percent this year.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  yesterday increased its three-
month forecast for Brent oil’s premium to WTI by $10 a barrel
after a Bloomberg report that the upgrade of the largest crude
unit at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting refinery was delayed.  House members and senators won’t vote on the end-of-year
budget issues until after Christmas, giving them less than a
week to reach agreement to avert a  budget crisis . To get a tax-
and-spending deal, Boehner must gain enough support from
Republicans to keep control of his party while relying on
Democrats for the votes needed to send any measure to President
 Barack Obama .  “Boehner clearly is weakened,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “He couldn’t even deliver
any tax increase. It’s clear that you will go past Jan. 1
without an agreement.”  ‘$50 Oil’  The failure of what Boehner called Plan B demonstrated the
clout of anti-tax Republicans. The  Congressional Budget Office 
has said that failing to resolve the issue would probably lead
the  U.S. economy , the world’s biggest oil consumer, to a
recession in the first half of 2013.  “Recession means $50 oil,” said O’Grady. “Up to this
point, the market had been kind of thinking that there would be
a deal.”  U.S.  consumer confidence  fell in December to a five-month
low as Americans grew more concerned about the possibility of
higher taxes next year. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan consumer sentiment index decreased to 72.9, the weakest
since July, from 82.7 in November.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped as much as 1.5
percent. The dollar strengthened against the euro as investors
sought perceived safety. A stronger dollar and weaker euro
reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  ‘Selling Pressure’  “The petroleum markets are coming under selling pressure
on equity market weakness and U.S. dollar strength” after the
failure of Plan B, said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York, in an e-mail.  Oil also dropped as Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi 
said demand for crude matches supply and the global market is
stable.  The oil market is “functioning well” and “supply is
adequate,” Naimi said in Cairo before tomorrow’s meeting of the
 Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries .  “The Saudi Arabian oil minister’s comments were a little
bit negative,” said Tom Pawlicki, director of market research
at Chicago-based commodities trading firm EOXLive. “Oil was
getting ahead of itself too long on the upside.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 304,258
contracts as of 3:21 p.m., 35 percent below the 100-day average
at that time. Volume totaled 366,474 yesterday. Open interest
was 1.48 million, the least since Nov. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  