-- Older and Wiser Holiday Workers Find Temping Ain’t Easy:
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-12-21T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/older-and-wiser-holiday-workers-find-temping-ain-t-easy-.html
Wielding a hand-held scanner in the
cramped stockroom of a John Lewis department store in East
 London , artist Neil Maclennan sorts through boxes and explains
why he’d like to keep working with the company after his
temporary holiday contract expires at the end of December.  “I can’t see art as my main source of income for a
while,” said Maclennan, a goateed 32-year-old from London’s
gritty Hackney neighborhood, who’s temping as he tries to get
his fledgling art business off the ground. “I’d like to stay
on, maybe in the head office.”  Maclennan is among the 100 seasonal workers -- closely held
John Lewis Partnership Plc. calls them ‘partners’ -- in the
company’s Stratford store, one of its 29 branches. Across 
Europe and the U.S., thousands of temps will stock shelves 
and man the cash registers this year. With youth unemployment 
in  Europe  above 20 percent and at 15.6 percent in the U.S., 
today’s temps aren’t just bored teenagers looking for extra
 cash or an employee discount. They’re now older, and more 
often angling for full-time work, like Maclennan.  That means retailers can get more qualified workers for
less money, according to Craig Rowley, head of the global retail
practice at workplace consultancy Hay Group. The trend also
allows companies to audition employees before signing them to
long-term contracts.  ‘Perhaps Fun’  “Before the downturn, unemployment was 5 percent and
companies couldn’t even fill permanent jobs, much less temp
jobs,” Rowley said. “Now, companies can hire more than just
stock keepers - they can hire people who like dealing with
customers and who have some level of independence.”  These more seasoned workers are often not temping by
choice. Over the past two years, the share of the British  labor
force  that held temporary jobs because they could not find a
permanent position has  increased  from 37.1 percent to 40.1
percent, according to the  Office of National Statistics .  That number includes Beverly Hayes, a mother of two in
Welwyn Garden City, England. She took a holiday position at
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  this year while she sought permanent
employment after losing the human-resources job she’d held for
13 years.  “I didn’t want to be sitting at home demoralized by my
inability to find work,” she said. “I had never worked in
retail before, so I thought it would be an interesting
experience and perhaps fun.” She’s since found a full-time 
job.  Full Workout  It wasn’t always fun, and Hayes would often end the day
exhausted. “It was very, very hard work.” she said. “I would
come home and feel as though I had done a full workout in the
gym. I enjoyed interacting with customers, but you have to do
all this other stuff, like moving stock around.”  During periods of economic uncertainty, companies prefer
the added flexibility associated with part-time staff. Over the
past five years, the U.K. economy has added 724,000 part-time
jobs while the number of people in full-time employment fell by
355,000, government data  show .  As full-time jobs dwindle, more than one-third of U.S.
retailers  surveyed  by Hay Group said they are hiring more
seasonal workers this year, up from just 10 percent who said so
last year. In the U.K., more than two-thirds of retailers will
boost staffing for the holiday season, up from 54 percent last
year, according to the  British Retail Consortium .  Confident, Energetic  John Lewis , which was founded in 1864 and now employs
28,000 people, will hire about 500 temps this year, unchanged
from last year, and it gets as many as 30 applications for each
spot, personnel director  Laura Whyte  says. Work starts in late
October and the company, based in London, would not disclose its
wages for temps. According to  The Appointment Magazine , which
tracks recruitment trends, such work in London typically pays
about 10 pounds ($16) per hour.  All temps are partnered with a full-timer during their
shifts, and some of those who excel during the holidays join the
permanent ranks, becoming eligible for a slice of the company’s
profits, which this year amounted to 14 percent of their salary.  Last year Jess Moon, 18, temped at a John Lewis outlet in
Reading,  England , while in school and now has a permanent job.
The last few shopping days before Christmas can be “nerve-
wracking,” she said. Her advice for this year’s temps: “Be
confident, energetic, and enthusiastic, and you’ll do fine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  