-- Oman Buys 12 Typhoon, 8 Hawk Aircraft From BAE, Cameron Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-21T07:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/oman-to-buy-12-typhoon-8-hawk-aircraft-from-bae-cameron-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said Oman agreed to buy 12 Eurofighter Typhoon fighters and
eight Hawk 128 advanced trainers, both made by  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/)   The contract is part of a drive to secure sales of more
than 100 jets to the Gulf region that could total 6 billion
pounds ($9.8 billion) to British firms over coming years as
Cameron puts trade at the heart of foreign policy. The deal,
signed in Oman today, is valued at 2.5 billion pounds, BAE said
in a statement.  “Boosting exports is vital to economic growth and that’s
why I’m doing all I can to promote British business in the
fastest-growing markets, so they can thrive in the global
race,” Cameron told reporters yesterday before traveling to
Oman from Afghanistan, where he was visiting troops. Britain’s
defense industry supports 300,000 jobs locally, he said.  The deal comes as BAE considers which one of its three U.K.
shipyards to close in the face of declining orders. Cameron is
trying to limit the political fallout of job losses by helping
seal export deals for other parts of the London-based company.
He visited the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia last month
to promote Typhoon jets.  The Typhoon is built by Eurofighter GmbH, made up of BAE,
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
The deal announced today also supports  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ,
the U.K. partner in the Eurojet consortium building the
fighter’s engines and for the trainer aircraft. Deliveries of
jets to Oman will start in 2017, BAE said.  Saudi Delay  Middle East sales are critical to BAE as defense spending
slumps in its two largest markets, the U.S. and Britain. BAE,
which is working to win a follow-on Typhoon contract in Saudi
Arabia, says earnings could be hurt because of delays in
concluding price negotiations with the kingdom over a contract
for the combat jet first signed in 2007.  “The Typhoon fighter jet performed outstandingly in Libya,
and so it’s no surprise that Oman want to add this aircraft to
their fleet,” Cameron said. “It’s testament to Britain’s
leading aerospace industry and the deal will safeguard thousands
of British jobs across the U.K., not just at the BAE Systems
factories in Lancashire and East Riding in Yorkshire, but at
many more small businesses up and down the country that play a
vital role in delivering these aircraft.”  In the aftermath of the failed EADS merger, BAE pledged to
conclude the Omani contract before 2013. Talks slowed earlier
this year because Oman was dissatisfied with progress on a
delayed naval-vessel contract and recently centered on resolving
differences over support conditions for the fighter.  Eurofighter Setbacks  “This agreement builds on a long history of close
cooperation between BAE Systems and the Omani armed forces,”
the company said.  The Middle East order comes after setbacks for the
Eurofighter consortium in  India ,  Japan  and Switzerland where it
lost competitions to rivals from  France , the U.S. and  Sweden .
Production of Typhoons could end this decade without further
commitments.  Exports are becoming increasingly important for U.S. and
European defense companies as efforts to tackle budget deficits
erode military spending. Fighter competitions to be decided next
year include the battle between Typhoon, the  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  F-35 and  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-15 in South Korea and a pending
contest in  Malaysia .  Equipment Pledge  BAE said it expects to resume deliveries of Typhoons to
Saudi Arabia next year even as discussions over pricing of the
combat aircraft continue. The company, which had hoped to
conclude those talks this year, said Dec. 19 that discussions
over “acceptable pricing” may not be completed in 2012,
reducing full-year earnings per share by 3 pence.  Separately, Cameron said the U.K. will spend an extra 230
million pounds on new equipment for armed forces in Afghanistan.
The money, which will come from Treasury reserves rather than
the defense ministry’s budget, will be spent on tackling
roadside bombs, force protection and intelligence and
surveillance alongside target acquisition and reconnaissance.  Cameron said this week that the U.K. will bring home 3,800
troops from  Afghanistan  next year. The partial withdrawal will
leave the U.K. force at 5,200 by the end of 2013, paving the way
for the removal of combat personnel as planned by the end of
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Oman at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  