-- London Heathrow Link Stays Shut by Fire Amid Holiday Exodus
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-12-21T19:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/london-heathrow-rail-link-closed-by-fire-during-holiday-getaway.html
London Heathrow  airport’s main rail
link to the U.K. capital faces continued disruption tomorrow
after being shut because of equipment damage today, the hub’s
busiest day of the holiday season.  The service will remain closed for at least part of
Saturday as repairs continue, said Russell Spink, a spokesman
for Network Rail, which runs the tracks. The company had hoped
to restore service today for the Heathrow Express trains, which
depart for  Europe ’s busiest airport every 15 minutes, and the
slower Heathrow Connect services, the company said.  The branch route to Heathrow was shut after water
penetrated a line-side transformer at its junction with the
Great Western main line yesterday, causing a fire. A second
blaze damaged gear at Acton, closer to  London ’s Paddington
station. Two of four lines to Paddington remain closed, limiting
services to southwest  England  and  Wales , and people are advised
to check websites before traveling.  “It’s not just a case of flicking a switch,” Network Rail
spokesman Chris Denham said. “The systems need to be brought
back gradually. Much of the line-side equipment is quite old,
dating from the 1960s, and is scheduled to be replaced.”  London Heathrow (FER)  is expected to attract 105,000 departing
passengers today, the most during the Christmas holiday, as some
Britons opt to spend the holidays abroad and overseas visitors
fly out to be with friends and family.  British Airways, the biggest operator at the airport, said
111,000 travelers will be flying today across its network.  Trains to the west of England and south Wales operated by
 FirstGroup Plc (FGP) ’s First Great Western unit are also affected.  Network Rail is advising travelers wanting to use public
transport to take the London subway’s Piccadilly line, which
connects with Heathrow. The service was running without
disruptions at 5 p.m., according to the website for Tube and bus
service operator  Transport for London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  