-- Hong Kong Stocks Seen Breaching 25,000 for First Time Since 2008
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a ,   S o p h i a   Y a n   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-21T01:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/hong-kong-stocks-seen-breaching-25-000-for-first-time-since-2008.html
Hong Kong   stocks  will rise next year
as  China ’s growth stabilizes and the global economic outlook
improves, according to RBC Global Asset Management and HSBC
Global Asset Management.  The Hang Seng Index may advance to 25,000 in 2013, the
first time since May 22, 2008, according to the median estimate
of 11 strategists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That’s a 10
percent increase from yesterday’s close of 22659.78. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies may rise to
12,500, also a 10 percent gain from yesterday, according to the
estimates.  Investors are turning bullish on the outlook for  China’s
economy  after reports on industrial production and retail sales
exceeded estimates and the government pledged to promote the
growth of cities. Trade in companies from mainland China made up
70 percent of the value of share transactions on Hong Kong’s
equity market during  November , according to bourse operator Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  “I’m optimistic about Hong Kong stocks next year,” said
 Yoji Takeda , who helps oversee about $1.2 billion as Hong Kong-
based head of Asian equities at RBC. “The Chinese and U.S.
economies are gradually recovering. Loose monetary policies are
creating high liquidity, which would support the market.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark index has gained 23 percent this
year, led by  developers and banks,  and is poised to erase last
year’s losses. The gauge soared 52 percent in 2009 to complete
its best year in a decade on massive stimulus in China and the
U.S. The index declined 20 percent last year as China’s efforts
to rein in asset prices combined with  Europe ’s spreading debt
crisis and U.S. budget squabbling to cut earnings prospects at
home and abroad.  Bullish Survey  More investors than ever say they are bullish about China’s
economic outlook, a Bank of America Corp. monthly survey showed
on Dec. 18, predicting that China’s economy will grow at a
faster rate next year. A net 40 percent said the global economy
will improve and a net 11 percent said profits will increase,
the most bullish results in at least 20 months, the survey also
showed.  China, under the new leadership headed by  Xi Jinping , will
promote economic reforms through measures such as tax cuts, and
will seek higher-quality growth next year with urbanization a
driver, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 16. China
has set its initial target for  economic growth  at 7.5 percent
for a second year, two bank executives and a regulatory official
briefed on the matter said Dec. 18.  A Bloomberg Poll published Nov. 30 showed confidence in
China’s economy was the highest in more than a year.  Equity Prospects  “In 2013, with the macro picture settling down a bit more,
it’s a far better outlook than the one we went into in 2012 with
and maybe equities have gotten a chance to do really rather
well,” said Bill Maldonado, chief investment officer for Asia
Pacific at HSBC Global Asset Management, which manages about
$417 billion. “Increasingly you’re almost forced into equities
as the only asset that has really any hope of producing a real
return.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s gains this year pushed the  value  of
the gauge to 11.9 times estimated earnings. That compares with
about 13.9 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.8
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Easing Rally  Hong Kong shares have rallied 16 percent through yesterday
since the end of August, as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-
purchase program while the U.S. Federal Reserve began a third
round of so-called quantitative easing. Hong Kong’s de facto
central bank intervened in October for the first time since 2009
to defend the local currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar  as money
rushed in.  “Hot money flows into Hong Kong will continue for the
foreseeable future,” said  Mark Konyn , chief executive officer
of Cathay Conning Asset Management Ltd., a joint venture between
Conning & Co. and Cathay Financial Holding Co. Conning managed
almost $91 billion at the end of September, according to its
website. “A collapse is not likely given valuations however
momentum will depend on fundamentals and improving conditions on
the mainland.”  Strategists Forecasts for Hong Kong Stocks in 2013:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Yan in Hong Kong at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  