-- Monti Resigns as Italian Prime Minister After 13 Months
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-12-21T18:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/monti-resigns-as-italian-prime-minister-after-13-months.html
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti
resigned, ending a 13-month tenure and clearing the way for
elections that will focus on his crisis-fighting austerity
policies.  The appointed premier submitted his resignation today to
President Giorgio Napolitano, according to a statement from the
president’s office. Napolitano asked Monti’s Cabinet to remain
in power to handle routine government administration. Monti
stepped down after lawmakers passed a 2013 budget law. The
president has suggested Feb. 24 as the date for elections.  Monti took over last year just as Italy risked becoming the
next victim of  Europe ’s debt turmoil under former Premier Silvio Berlusconi. While he’s overseen a recovery in Italy’s bonds and
repaired its tattered standing abroad, his agenda left Italians
with higher taxes, rising unemployment and a shrinking economy.  Monti, who has never sought elected office, may use a Dec.
23 press conference to announce whether he’ll sit out the
election, or heed the call of a group of centrist political
parties who want him to run on a platform of continued reforms
for the euro zone’s third-largest economy.  The yield on 10-year bonds, which surged to 7.26 percent on
Nov. 25 last year, past the level that had prompted Ireland,
 Greece  and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, was 4.47 percent today.
The gap with similar-maturity German bunds was 310 basis points,
down from a 2011 high of 553 basis points, as the European
Central Bank’s bond-buying program buoyed Italian debt.  Protest Group  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds is little changed from
before Monti’s Dec. 8 announcement that he’d resign. Elections
must be held by May. Monti decided to quit after Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party withdrew its support for the government.  Most polls indicate the Democratic Party led by Pier Luigi Bersani, a former communist, will win the election with about 30
percent of votes. A protest group led by comedian Beppe Grillo,
who has suggested  Italy  leave the euro, trails with 20 percent
before Berlusconi’s PDL with between 15 and 20 percent.  Monti’s being courted by a group of small parties led by
Catholic politician Pier Ferdinando Casini and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the Ferrari SpA chairman. Berlusconi has said he’d
step aside and endorse Monti if he led a coalition with his PDL
and former Northern League ally, but not the Democratic Party. A
Monti coalition would win about 15 percent of the vote, said
Maurizio Pessato, vice-president of polling company SWG SpA.  Austerity Program  A former adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Monti imposed
20 billion euros ($26.5 billion) in austerity measures. He
raised taxes, cut spending, increased the retirement age and
overhauled labor rules to make firing easier. The policies have
left Italy on track to cut its deficit within the European Union
target of 3 percent of output this year.  Monti’s rule has been praised in recent days by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders such as
Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers. His policies find less favor at home.  Italy’s economy is in its fourth  recession  since 2001, and
will contract 2.1 percent this year and 0.6 percent in 2013,
employer lobby Confindustria forecast on Dec. 11. The  jobless
rate  is at a 13-year high of 11.1 percent.  A Nov. 17 poll by Datamonitor showed that 62.5 percent of
Italians had a negative view of the Monti government, 82.4
percent had little or no confidence in the economy improving,
and 81 percent said they had not been able to save in the past
three months. The poll questioned 1,000 people. No margin of
error was given.  Monti’s been mentioned as a possible successor to President
Napolitano, whose term in the largely ceremonial post ends in
May. Bersani said Dec. 13 that he’d like Monti to remain
“engaged” in public service after the elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 