-- More Than Half of U.S. Men Have Dozed Off at the Wheel
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-21T14:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/more-than-half-of-u-s-men-have-dozed-off-at-the-wheel.html
More than half of U.S. men say
they’ve dozed off while driving, and twice as many men as women
have struggled to stay awake at the wheel in the past year, an
American Automobile Association study found.  The AAA’s traffic-safety foundation is studying driving-
while-tired, which may be linked to about one-in-six fatal
crashes, to figure out how to stem the practice. About 13
percent of men and 6.5 percent of women reported falling asleep
while driving in the past year, even as 96 percent of drivers
surveyed said they frown on drowsy driving, the foundation said.  “Despite the almost universal disapproval among the
motoring public of those who drive when they have trouble
keeping their eyes open, the practice is alarmingly common,”
AAA said in the report. “Interventions are necessary to
decrease drowsy driving crashes.”  A bus crash that killed 15 people returning to  New York
City  from a casino last year was probably caused by driver
fatigue, the  National Transportation Safety Board  said in June.
NTSB investigators said that the bus driver had almost no
opportunity to sleep the day before the accident. The driver was
acquitted of manslaughter and negligent homicide and found
guilty of one count of aggravated unlicensed driving, the
 Associated Press  reported earlier this month.  “A safe and well-rested driver is a key safety factor and
can be, as we have seen too many times, the crucial difference
between an uneventful trip and a tragic one,” NTSB Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  said earlier this year.  Nodding Off  Drivers should get adequate sleep before taking the wheel
and regulators and employers should set standards to help avoid
fatigue, NTSB said in a 2011  statement .  Reports of tired driving generally decline with age, AAA
found. About 15 percent of U.S. motorists ages 16 to 24 reported
falling asleep or nodding off at the wheel in the past year,
while 5.7 percent of 60- to 74-year-olds and 4.1 percent of
those over 75 said they had done so. The rate was 9.7 percent
among all drivers.  The data come from 3,303 respondents who reported having a
valid licenses and driving in the past 30 days, the foundation
said. The survey was conducted in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  