-- Tottenham May Make $37 Mln Offer for Moutinho: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-21T10:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/tottenham-may-make-37-mln-offer-for-moutinho-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Remy Newcastle-Bound  Newcastle has struck a 10 million pound deal to sign 25-
year-old Marseille and France striker Loic Remy, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Remy’s signing paves the way for Newcastle forward Demba Ba
to leave the club January. Arsenal is one of the clubs
interested in the 27-year-old, the paper said.  Scholes, Giggs, Ferdinand Farewell?  Manchester United veterans  Paul Scholes ,  Ryan Giggs  and  Rio
Ferdinand  may be leaving the club at the end of the season, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  Scholes will retire for good, the paper said. The 38-year-
old came out of retirement in January to re-join his club.  Giggs, 39, may leave the only club he’s ever played for
next summer to focus on coaching, while Ferdinand, 34, has yet
to state publicly if he wants to extend his agreement with
United.  Guerrero’s Price Tag  Chelsea may have to pay as much as 30 million pounds for
Corinthians striker Paolo Guerrero, the  Daily Star  reported.  The 28-year-old Peru international, who scored against
Chelsea in the Club  World Cup  final is also wanted by  Atletico
Madrid , Juventus and Fiorentina.  Guerrero joined Brazilian side Corinthians from Hamburg for
only three million pounds in July.  United Chasing Benfica Star  Manchester United may offer as much as 15 million pounds
for Benfica player Ezequiel Garay at the end of the season, the
 Sun  reported.  Garay, a 26-year-old center-back from Argentina, has also
sparked the interest of Italian side Juventus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  