-- Paramount, Puzo Agree to End ‘Godfather’ Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-21T21:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/paramount-puzo-agree-to-end-godfather-lawsuit.html
Paramount Pictures  Corp. and Mario Puzo’s heirs agreed to drop legal action that began when the
movie studio sued “The Godfather” author’s estate to prevent
the publication of a sequel to the novel about a Mafia family.  The parties voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit, according to
a stipulation filed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . No
details of any settlement were given.  “The case is settled and we’re very happy about it,”
Bertram Fields, a lawyer for the Puzo estate with Greenberg
Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “Because of the confidentiality provisions, I can’t
disclose the terms of the settlement.”  Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , sued  Anthony Puzo ,
Mario’s son and the executor of his estate, in February to stop
the publication of a new sequel to “The Godfather,” claiming
it wasn’t authorized. The heirs countersued in April to cancel
the contract between the studio and  Mario Puzo .  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in September denied the
Puzos’ bid to terminate the agreement.  Paramount said in its complaint that after Puzo died in
1999, the company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s  Random House 
to publish one Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,”
which came out in 2004. The estate published another novel,
“The Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006, without Paramount’s
approval, the studio said. Paramount sued after the estate
announced a plan to publish a third sequel, “The Family
Corleone.”  May Publication  Robert Lawson, a spokesman for Paramount, said the company
had no comment on the dismissal.  The sequel, written by Ed Falco, was published in May by
Grand Central Publishing, a unit of Paris-based Hachette Livre
SA. The terms of an interim settlement reached earlier this year
between Paramount and Puzo stated that proceeds from the book
would be put in escrow pending the outcome of the litigation,
according to court papers.  Paramount claimed the Puzo estate infringed its copyright
with the publication of the novel and infringed its trademark
with the design of the book. Puzo’s heirs said in their
countersuit that the contract between the late author and the
studio gave him certain rights, including book publishing.  A notice was mailed to the U.S. Register of Copyrights to
report the termination of the lawsuit, according to a court
filing today.  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won the
Academy Awards for best picture and adapted screenplay, for
which Puzo shared the credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed the
three “Godfather” movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  