-- Petrobras Said to Open Bids for Argentine Assets Jan. 14
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-12-21T21:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/petrobras-said-to-open-bids-for-argentine-assets-jan-14.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will open
bids for assets in Argentina on Jan. 14 as  Brazil ’s state-
controlled oil company raises funds for deep-water discoveries,
said a company official with knowledge of the sale.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based producer is known,
restructured its Argentine holdings, including  Petrobras
Argentina SA (PESA) , to separate oil-related assets from other assets
before a possible sale, said the official, who can’t be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster is seeking
to raise $14.8 billion through a divestment process as part of a
plan to develop oil reserves that may hold as much as 50 billion
barrels under the bed of the Atlantic ocean.  Petrobras’s press office declined to comment on the
Argentine assets in an e-mailed response to questions. The
company official didn’t identify bidders.  Bank of  Nova Scotia  and Madrid-based  law firm  Garrigues
advised Petrobras on the valuation and restructuring of
Petrobras Participaciones SL, the Spanish holding company for
Petrobras Argentina SA and Petrobras’s stakes in ethane producer
Cia. Mega SA and Colombian assets, said the official. After the
restructuring, Petrobras Argentina will be PPSL’s sole asset as
the rest are moved to separate holdings, he said.  Scotiabank doesn’t “comment on rumors in the market,” Joe
Konecny, a bank press officer, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Carlos Agrasar, head of Garrigues’s press office,
also declined to comment in an e-mail.  Petrobras Argentina  slid  1.8 percent to 3.25 pesos in
Buenos Aires trading today, reducing a year-to-date gain to 5
percent.  Argentina ’s benchmark index rose 13 percent this year.  YPF SA, Argentina’s largest energy company, will bid for
any assets Petrobras wants to sell in Argentina, a YPF official,
who can’t be named because of company policy, said Dec. 12. At
the time, Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, declined to
comment in an e-mail response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  