-- Philippine Bonds Gain After S&P Revises Outlook; Peso Declines
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-21T02:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/philippine-bonds-gain-after-s-p-revises-outlook-peso-declines.html
Philippine  government bonds  maturing
in 2037 rose for a second day on speculation the nation will win
an investment-grade rating next year after  Standard & Poor’s 
raised the credit outlook to positive. The peso dropped.  S&P, which ranks the Philippines BB+, the highest junk
level, cited improved governance and public finances for the
revision as official data showed Dec. 19 that tax revenue
climbed to a record. President  Benigno Aquino  signed a law
yesterday that will raise excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol,
which Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said will generate an
additional 34 billion pesos ($826 million) in 2013.  “We had pretty good news yesterday with S&P’s upgrade from
neutral to positive,” said Jill Singian, a bond portfolio
manager at  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  in Manila. “It’s
giving a lot of support to buying interest but players will not
make a bold move today. We are going into a long weekend.”  The yield on the 6.125 percent notes due October 2037
declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.64
percent as of 10:09 a.m. in  Manila , according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. The rate advanced two basis points
this week and has dropped 28 basis points since the securities
were issued in October.  Local financial markets will be closed on Monday and
Tuesday for the Christmas holidays.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 41.145 per dollar in
Manila and declined 0.1 percent for the week, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It appreciated 6.6 percent this year, the
second-best performance among Asian currencies after the South
Korean won.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will announce measures next
week to manage capital inflows, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla
told reporters in Manila late yesterday.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 4.4
percent today and this week. It fell 335 basis points this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  