-- Pinnacle Agrees to Buy Ameristar Casinos for $900 Million
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-12-21T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/pinnacle-agrees-to-buy-ameristar-casinos-for-900-million.html
Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  agreed
to buy  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  for about $900 million, more than
doubling to 17 casino resorts with its biggest acquisition.  The $26.50-a-share offer is 20 percent higher than Las
Vegas-based Ameristar’s closing price yesterday. The deal was
approved by both boards of directors, the companies said in a
statement. Pinnacle  shares  jumped the most since November 2008.
Pinnacle also will assume Ameristar’s $1.9 billion of debt.  Ameristar, with eight properties including one in Kansas
City, Missouri, and a resort under construction in Lake Charles,
Louisiana, will bolster Pinnacle’s presence in the Midwest and
the Southeast. Industry gambling revenue in the two markets has
risen 2.5 percent and declined 10 percent since 2008,
respectively, according to Brian C. Miller, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst.  “When you’re in a slow-growth market, one way to grow is
through the acquisition of another company,” Miller said.  Pinnacle, also based in Las Vegas, jumped 21 percent to
close at $16.20, the highest since May 2008, after advancing 31
percent this year through yesterday. Ameristar gained 20 percent
to $26.50, adding to a 28 percent year-to-date gain as of
yesterday.  “This is a perfect fit -- these are two companies that are
like two peas in a pod,” Anthony Sanfilippo, Pinnacle’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call today. “It
presents many opportunities that will help accelerate Pinnacle’s
top-line growth, long-term profitability and free cash flow.”  St. Louis Market  Ameristar also has resorts in Council Bluffs,  Iowa ; Black
Hawk,  Colorado ; Jackpot,  Nevada ; and in St. Charles, Missouri,
near St. Louis, where Pinnacle has two properties.  Pinnacle is paying about 8 times Ameristar’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, less than
a median of 11 for similar deals compiled by Bloomberg.  The 30 percent premium over Ameristar’s 20-day trading
average price is similar to the average of more than 100
acquisitions of hotel casino companies over the past 10 years,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Pinnacle explored conversion to a real estate investment
trust before the deal, Pinnacle Chief Financial Officer Carlos Ruisanchez said on the call.  Pinnacle expects the Ameristar acquisition to be completed
by the end of the third quarter of 2013. It said it has
committed financing for the transaction from JPMorgan & Chase
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Combined Revenue  The companies don’t anticipate any regulatory obstacles
even in markets such as  Missouri  and Lake Charles where they
will have multiple properties, officials said on an conference
call.  Ameristar will be Pinnacle’s largest acquisition by far,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The second-biggest was
the 1998 purchase of Casino Magic for about $320 million,
including about $240 million in assumed debt.  The offer represents an Ebitda multiple of 7.6 times for
the trailing 12 months ended Sept. 30, excluding expected cost
savings, the companies said. Together, they would have generated
$2.4 billion in revenue and $649 million in Ebitda over that
period, excluding the costs savings.  Goldman Sachs advised Pinnacle on the deal and Morrison &
Foerster LLP provided legal counsel. Lazard Ltd. and Centerview
Partners LLC advised Ameristar, and Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP
provided legal counsel.  Vietnam Resort  Pinnacle owns and operates seven casinos, in  Louisiana ,
Missouri and  Indiana , and a racetrack in  Ohio . The company is
redeveloping River Downs in Cincinnati into a gambling facility
and holds a 26 percent stake in Asian Coast Development ( Canada )
Ltd., which is developing  Vietnam ’s first large-scale integrated
resort on the Ho Tram Strip.  Ameristar abandoned efforts to sell itself in late 2010 and
chose the following year to buy back about 45 percent of its
stock -- most of the stake held by the estate of its late
founder Craig H. Neilsen. The $2.1 billion transaction also
included the refinancing of its debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  