-- Pound Drops Most in 7 Weeks Versus Dollar as GDP Revised Lower
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-21T16:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/pound-weakens-versus-dollar-as-u-k-consumer-confidence-declines.html
The pound fell the most in seven
weeks against the dollar after reports showed Britain’s economy
grew less than previously estimated in the third quarter and the
 budget deficit  unexpectedly widened last month.  U.K. 10-year bonds advanced for a second day after an
industry group said its measure of  consumer confidence  dropped
in December from an 18-month high, spurring demand for safer
assets. Today’s data, which confirmed the economy emerged from
recession last quarter, followed the decision by the Office for
Budget Responsibility this month to reduce its growth forecasts.  “The U.K. economy is still in a period of stagnation and
the improvement in the third quarter is likely to be
temporary,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo Mitsubishi-UFJ Ltd. in  London . “Recent long positions for
the pound have been stretched and the currency may come under
some pressure as investors adjust those into the year-end.” A
long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The pound dropped 0.7 percent to $1.6171 at 4:29 p.m.
London time, the biggest decline since Nov. 2. The U.K. currency
dropped 0.2 percent to 81.48 pence per euro after depreciating
to 81.68 pence on Dec. 19, the weakest level since June 11.  U.K. gross domestic product rose 0.9 percent from the
second quarter, down from a previous estimate of 1 percent, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in London. The deficit
excluding government support for banks was 17.5 billion pounds
compared with 16.3 billion pounds a year earlier.  Sentiment Worsens  London-based research group GfK NOP Ltd. said its  sentiment
index  declined to minus 29 from minus 22 in November, which was
the strongest reading since May 2011.  The  10-year gilt yield  dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.89 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 rose 0.51, or 5.10 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 98.765.  “Gilts rose on expectation that  Bank of England  may well
look at printing more money early next year due to potentially
weaker growth in the fourth quarter,” said  Michael Hewson , a
market analyst at CMC Markets Plc in London.  Gilts returned 1.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
3.8 percent and Treasuries rose 1.8 percent.  The pound has still gained 1.4 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 1.2 percent and
the dollar fell 3 percent.  Fourth Year  Sterling is poised for a fourth year of gains versus the
euro, and strategists see even more strength in 2013 in a blow
to central bankers seeking to bolster flagging U.K. growth.  While outgoing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on
Nov. 4 the pound’s appreciation was “not a welcome
development,” 32 of 48 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg see the
currency stronger against the euro by next December. This year’s
advance would extend the pound’s winning streak to the longest
since the 17-nation euro’s creation in 1999.  “The U.K. economic outlook may not be brilliant, but it’s
better relative to that of the  euro zone ,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York . “The situation in the euro region may have improved,
but the crisis is not over. Sterling’s status as a safe haven in
the context of Europe is not going to disappear next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  