-- Putin Says Russia’s Financial Aid to Cyprus Not Ruled Out
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-21T15:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/putin-says-russia-s-financial-aid-to-cyprus-not-ruled-out.html
President  Vladimir Putin  said  Russia 
would consider extending financial assistance to Cyprus as part
of an international rescue package and after the European Union
takes a unified stance on aiding the island.  Once the bloc makes the necessary “arrangements, we don’t
rule out the possibility of joining any solution aimed at
stabilizing the situation in Cyprus,” Putin told reporters in
Brussels today after a Russia-EU summit. “It’s not actually
convenient for us to intervene in the process.”  Cyprus has been bogged down in talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and European authorities since June, when it
became the fifth euro-area nation to request assistance. Russia
is weighing a request for 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) from
Cyprus after having agreed a year ago to lend 2.5 billion euros
to the bloc’s third-smallest economy.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut Cyprus’s long-term debt
rating for the third time in five months, lowering it to CCC+
from B with a negative outlook and citing a rising risk of
default as the government’s short-term financing is
“increasingly vulnerable.” Cyprus’s public debt will be 97
percent of gross domestic product next year and 103 percent in
2014, the European Commission forecasts.  Speaking today at a joint briefing with European Commission
head  Jose Barroso  and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , Putin said
bailing out Cyprus “isn’t a question of money” for Russia,
holder of the world’s fourth-biggest international reserves.  “It’s a question of conditions, systemic measures,” he
said. “I believe that our European partners should define
certain rules of interaction within their own community.”  The EU didn’t raise the issue of Cyprus during today’s
talks with Russia, Barroso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  