-- QE Multiplied by Five Fuels Bond-Eroding Rout
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-12-21T20:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/qe-multiplied-by-five-fuels-bond-eroding-rout-argentina-credit.html
Argentina is printing money five
times faster than  Ben S. Bernanke ’s  Federal Reserve , fueling a
surge in inflation that’s saddled debt investors with the worst
dollar-based returns in  emerging markets  this year.  Money supply , as measured by the M2 gauge that includes
pesos in the hands of the public and pesos in checking and
savings accounts, soared 39 percent in the past year as
Argentina tried to revive its economy, versus a 7.3 percent gain
in the U.S. The flood of pesos has cheapened the currency by the
most in  Latin America  this year, leading to an average 13
percent loss for local  bonds  in dollars. Notes from the region
as a whole returned 16 percent, according to Barclays Plc.  The South American nation has increased the amount of
currency in its economy by 30 percent or more in three of the
last four years, causing consumer prices to jump an estimated 25
percent annually. While printing money fueled annual growth of
7.8 percent from 2003 to 2011, it’s failing this year as the
government chokes off investment and extends its influence over
an economy forecast to grow just 2.2 percent. Yields on peso
debt are now too low to compensate for the declining purchasing
power of the currency, Moody’s Analytics Inc. said.  “The economic model is based off of negative  interest
rates  and excess liquidity,” Juan Pablo Fuentes, an analyst at
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview from  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “Over a longer term, peso bonds aren’t attractive
because inflation is eroding your capital.”  Tapping Reserves  Eduardo De Simone, a spokesman at the central bank, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the jump in money supply.  Unable to tap international markets since its record $95
billion default in 2001, the government has turned to the
central bank to finance spending and meet foreign debt payments.
The bank will probably transfer a record 120 billion pesos by
the end of this year, versus 67 billion in 2011, according to
former central bank President Aldo Pignanelli.  Since Mercedes Marco del Pont replaced  Martin Redrado  as
head of the bank in February 2010, money supply has more than
doubled to 436 billion pesos ($89 billion). That compares with
an 83 percent increase during the six years the bank was run by
Redrado, who was fired by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  for opposing her plan to pay creditors with  reserves .  Monetary Targeting  Unlike Brazil, Chile and Colombia, Argentina doesn’t use
 monetary policy  to target inflation.  Instead, Marco del Pont sets goals for annual expansion
based on  M2 . Her target for this year was for a 24.6 percent
increase. In the 12 months to Dec. 7, M2 increased 39 percent,
according to central bank data. The Fed has pumped more than $2
trillion into the financial system since its first round of
quantitative easing in 2008 in a bid to prop up the  U.S.
economy , without igniting inflation.  “They need all the help they can get from monetary
policy,”  Neil Shearing , the chief emerging-markets economist at
 Capital Economics  Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
London. “In Argentina it’s different because the money printed
is actually being spent by the government so that has a direct
impact on the economy and tends to be far more inflationary.”  While the central bank has quickened the pace of the peso’s
depreciation to 1.5 percent in November from 1 percent a year
earlier, the Argentine currency will have to fall 30 percent to
7 per dollar to offset inflation and make exporters competitive,
Shearing said.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 4.9036 per dollar today.  Inflation Questioned  While independent economists estimate annual inflation at
25 percent, the government puts it at less than half that rate.
Consumer prices rose  10.6 percent  in November from a year
before, according to the national statistics institute.  The accuracy of Argentina’s inflation reporting has been
questioned by economists since 2007, when Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , replaced senior staff
at the institute. The  International Monetary Fund  has threatened
to censure the South American nation over alleged data
manipulation.  The government is unlikely to quicken the pace of the
peso’s depreciation ahead of congressional elections next year,
said Sebastian Vargas, an analyst at Barclays.  “I don’t expect the government to devalue the peso in the
official market,” Vargas said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “The rate of depreciation is going to be lower relative
to expectations. It’s going to be gradual, at least until mid-
term elections in October.”  Currency Controls  Since her re-election in October 2011, Fernandez has banned
most purchases of dollars, preventing Argentines from their
traditional hedge against a drop in their own currency. In an
 unregulated market , in which investors buy local assets in pesos
and sell them abroad for dollars, the peso has weakened 29
percent this year to 6.8635 per dollar.  Since former president  Eduardo Duhalde  abandoned a fixed
 exchange rate  in January 2002, the peso has weakened 80 percent
against the dollar, compared with gains of 12 percent by the
Brazilian real and 38 percent by Chile’s peso.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar debt instead of Treasuries widened nine basis
point, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1,006 basis points at 2:27
p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting $10 million of Argentine government
debt against default for five years rose 30 basis points to
1,431 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Warrants
tied to economic growth fell 0.03 cent to 7.21 cents today.  Unofficial Inflation  The yield on peso bonds due 2018, which are linked to the
official rate of inflation, has fallen 0.25 percentage point
this year to 11.34 percent yesterday. That’s not high enough to
make up for unofficial inflation and the risk of a sudden drop
in the currency, said Capital Economics’s Shearing.  “Yields are low given the risk,” he said. “Monetary
policy in Argentina has gotten to a point now where I don’t know
how they’ll come out of it without having a hard fall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  