-- Rabobank Raised $3.6 Billion in German Savings, Chairman Says
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-12-21T11:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/rabobank-raised-3-6-billion-in-german-savings-chairman-says.html
Rabobank Groep raised 2.7 billion
euros ($3.6 billion) in savings in  Germany  since starting an
online bank there in June, according to Chairman Piet Moerland.  “Unbelievable,” Moerland, 63, said in an interview at the
Dutch lender’s headquarters in Utrecht, the Netherlands on Dec.
19.“That is going a lot faster than we had expected.”  Dutch banks, including ABN Amro Group NV and Rabobank, look
outside the Netherlands to attract deposits as most of the
nation’s savings are tied up in pension funds. That left banks
with a “funding gap,” or loans they can’t fund with deposits,
of more than 450 billion euros at the end of the second quarter,
according to a Dutch central bank report dated Oct. 9.  Getting deposits from the euro area helps as that money can
be repatriated, Moerland says. Outside the region, Rabobank
seeks to attract enough savings to match lending in the local
currency. The bank has no plans to expand to new countries with
online banking in the near future, he said.  Rabobank seeks to draw German savers through an advertising
campaign that states the Netherlands has more to offer than good
cheese. It currently has about 80,000 customers in Germany who
have deposited 30,000 euros to 35,000 euros on average. The bank
said it seeks to raise about 10 billion euros in five years in
the country.  Rabobank, the biggest Dutch savings bank, had 149 billion
euros of retail savings at the end of June, with 83 percent from
domestic clients, according to its first-half earnings report.
Its online banks in  Belgium , Germany,  Poland , Ireland,  Australia 
and  New Zealand  had 19.1 billion euros in deposits.  Rabobank is one of two European commercial banks rated AA-
with a stable outlook by  Standard & Poor’s  and was able to steer
through the global financial crisis without state aid. The bank
had a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 12.7 percent at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  