-- Wind-Blown Rain Snarls Air Traffic as Storm Moves East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-21T14:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/rain-and-wind-expected-to-end-later-today-in-new-york-city.html
A storm that blanketed the Midwest
with snow moved east today, bringing wind and rain that tied up
airline traffic from Philadelphia to New York.  Gusts as high as 60 miles (97 kilometers) are possible
until midday in New York City, when a high-wind warning expires,
said  Tim Morrin , a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in
Upton, New York. The city may receive about 1.1 inches (2.8
centimeters) of rain.  “It will probably take until noon or one o’clock for the
rain to move out of the area,” Morrin said by telephone.
“There may even be some peeks of sun by this afternoon.”  The weather delayed flights arriving at Newark Liberty
airport in New Jersey by as much as 3 hours and 18 minutes.
Halts of more than two hours were reported at Philadelphia and
New York’s LaGuardia, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration’s  website.  Airlines scrubbed more than 300 flights today, with New
York-area airports reporting the most cancellations, according
to FlightAware, a Houston-based industry data provider.  “So far the impact from this storm has been short-term
wind delays/cancellations,” Daniel Baker, chief executive
officer of  FlightAware , said in an e-mailed statement. “This
storm is not as large as some winter storms we’ve seen in the
past that can result in thousands of cancellations in a day, but
the impact is significant due to the number of holiday
travelers.”  Holiday Travel  Today through Dec. 23 are the busiest days for pre-
Christmas travel, according to Airlines for America, the U.S.
industry’s Washington-based trade group. More than 42 million
passengers will fly during the holiday period, which the group
defines as running from Dec. 17 through Jan. 6.  Winter weather advisories and storm warnings stretch from
 Iowa  to the Adirondacks in upstate New York.  The heavy snow across the Midwest skirted  Chicago , which
received about one-tenth of an inch, according to the  National
Weather Service  in Romeoville,  Illinois . It is the latest date
at which the city had its first measurable snowfall, the weather
service said.  The last time at least  an inch of snow  fell in one day
Chicago was 301 days ago on Feb. 24. The record is 319 days
ended Jan. 6, 1940, according to the weather service.  In southern Wisconsin, the storm dropped as much as 20
inches of snow.  Cleveland  may receive as much as 8 inches and
Buffalo 6 inches.  Power Out  About 130,000 homes and businesses from  Missouri  to  Vermont 
were blacked out about 8:30 a.m. New York time today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from utility websites. The most
extensive power failures were in  New Jersey , where the three
largest electric utilities reported 46,343 customers without
electricity.  After the storm pulls out of New York, temperatures will
fall to the low 30s Fahrenheit (about minus 1 Celsius) and it
will still be breezy, although the wind won’t be as severe,
Morrin said.  Morrin said there is a low chance the city will see a white
Christmas next week, defined as having at least 1 inch of snow
on the ground. The last was 2009, he said.  A “minor disturbance” will move through the region early
next week and there’s a chance it may produce some snow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  