-- Transport Bill Lifts Engineering Stocks as Cuts Loom
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/transport-bill-lifts-engineering-stocks-as-cuts-loom.html
Shares of companies such as  Granite
Construction Inc. (GVA)  and  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM)  have outperformed
the broader market since June as a $105 billion transportation
bill is boosting the industry.  While Congress and President  Barack Obama  have yet to agree
on how to avert more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts set to take place next month, a 27-month deal they
reached this summer to keep road, bridge and transit spending at
current levels through September 2014 will serve as a catalyst
for businesses involved in rebuilding U.S. infrastructure, said
Andrew Wittmann, a former engineer who is now an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee .  “Big projects are coming,” making transportation one of
the “pockets of strength” in U.S. engineering and
construction, Wittmann said. “These stocks can be very
attractive for long-term investors” willing to bet that a
backlog of work funded by this legislation will increase,
translating into faster revenue growth, he said.  The bill underscores Obama’s pledge to reinvigorate the
economy and boost employment through investment in
transportation programs. It has provided some certainty for
companies, reflected by sentiment that “continues to improve”
among executives at Fluor Corp. and  Jacobs Engineering Group
Inc. (JEC) , even as possible austerity measures could be a drag on
other industries, Wittmann said.  ‘Big Discount’  These types of stocks are trading at a “pretty big
discount” to historical valuations on a price-to-earnings
basis: about 13.5 times, compared with a multiple of about 15,
he said.  The legislation “clearly is a major positive for this
group,” said Marty Leclerc, principal, chief investment officer
and portfolio manager at Barrack Yard Advisors in Bryn Mawr,
 Pennsylvania , which oversees $350 million in assets. While his
fund doesn’t currently hold any of these companies, he’d
consider buying Irving, Texas-based Fluor -- which closed at
 $59.53 (FLR)  yesterday -- if the price were to drop, he said. “It’s a
good, long-term name you can sink your teeth into.”  Even so, Leclerc needs a “margin of safety” to invest in
this industry, he said. Companies with operations in developing
countries and those involved in the U.S. “energy renaissance”
are especially attractive for investment because improved demand
in these end-markets isn’t fully “reflected in the price of
these stocks yet.”  ‘Moderate Pick-Up’  Meanwhile, a “moderate pick-up” in U.S.-based
transportation projects already has boosted shares of Fluor,
Jacobs Engineering, Granite Construction, Aecom Technology and
 URS Corp. (URS)  since the summer, said Andy Kaplowitz, an analyst in
New York at Barclays Plc. These stocks have averaged a 26
percent gain since June 29, when the bill was approved by
Congress, compared with a 6 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “I wouldn’t go so far as to say the market is healthy
again, but it is improving off a low base,” Kaplowitz said. A
team led by Fluor was selected Dec. 17 by the New York State
Thruway Authority and the New York State Department of
Transportation to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge over the Hudson
River with a proposed bid of $3.1 billion.  “We haven’t really seen projects like this in a while,”
Kaplowitz said, adding that the number of bids has improved
“pretty significantly” this year. That’s in part because such
programs are “late cycle” activity that doesn’t show signs of
a rebound until a recovery is well under way, given the time
required for planning, approval and construction, he said.  Expanding Economy  The economy expanded at a 3.1 percent annual pace -- more
than previously reported -- in the third quarter, the 13th
consecutive rise since the 18-month recession ended June 2009.  As a provider of technical and management-support services
in this industry, Los Angeles-based Aecom Technology is
“cautiously optimistic about the entire transportation market”
because of the bill, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Dionisio said on a Nov. 13 conference call.  Similarly, demand at Fluor, the largest U.S. publicly
traded engineering and construction company, “remained solid
and a number of bids have been submitted that could have a
meaningful impact over the next several quarters,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer David Thomas Seaton said on a Nov. 1
conference call.  Construction Gains  Construction spending on transportation, highways and
streets is growing, based on figures from the Department of
Commerce. Estimates of expenditures including the cost of labor
and materials, architectural and engineering work, interest and
taxes rose 3 percent to $118.3 billion in October on a
seasonally adjusted basis, the seventh straight month of gains.
November data is scheduled to be released Jan. 2.  While the budget negotiations in  Washington  have been a
drag on investment in the broader U.S. engineering and
construction industry, projects that are “making the nation
better” -- such as transportation -- are less prone to
partisanship, Wittmann said, adding that the bill passed in June
also provided funding through public and private partnerships.  If Congress and Obama can agree on a deal to avert the so-
called fiscal cliff, this will clear up some uncertainty that
has affected financing from these partnerships, Kaplowitz said.  The availability of state and local funding for new highway
and transit programs is benefiting San Francisco-based URS,
according to Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Martin Koffel. The company, which was awarded a $46.6 million
street-car design-build contract this year in Atlanta, sees
“more buoyancy next year” as a recovery appears to be taking
shape, he said on a Nov. 6 conference call  Other new projects, including “several large highway-
related programs” are helping to “replenish” the company’s
work plans for the coming year, Robert Zaist, president of URS’s
energy and construction unit said on the same call. “We’re
happy with the pipeline that we have out in front of us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  