-- Rate, Credit-Default Swaps Reduced by $230 Trillion, ISDA Says
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-12-21T03:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/rate-credit-default-swaps-reduced-by-230-trillion-isda-says.html
Almost $230 trillion in notional
value of interest-rate and credit-default swaps have been
eliminated from the over-the-counter derivatives market by
canceling offsetting trades, according to the  International
Swaps & Derivatives Association .  So-called tear-up agreements are used to get rid of
redundant trades in the privately negotiated market,  helping
reduce credit risk by paring the number of transactions that
must be accounted for on a daily basis. During the first half of
2012, rate swaps were reduced by $25.7 trillion while $2.5
trillion net of credit-default swaps were compressed, ISDA said
in a statement yesterday.  “Outstanding OTC derivatives volumes continue to be
impacted by two key industry initiatives, compression, which
reduces notional amounts outstanding, and clearing, which
increases outstanding volumes,” Robert Pickel, ISDA’s chief
executive officer, said.  Regulators are seeking to migrate over-the-counter trading
of derivatives to recognized exchanges or central clearinghouses
in order to increase transparency, reduce risk and help improve
financial stability. Derivatives are financial instruments
derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities,
or linked to specific events like changes in the weather or
interest rates.  Adjusted volumes of OTC derivatives fell by 5.3 percent
from the end of 2011 to $416.9 trillion as of June 30, ISDA
said. Adjusted volumes for interest rate derivatives products,
which includes interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and
interest rate options, fell 5.8 percent to $341.2 trillion,
according to the statement.  Clearinghouses have begun to clear significant volumes of
forward rate agreements, according to ISDA. As of June 30, there
were $64.3 trillion of forward rate agreements outstanding and
43.2 percent of the market was cleared, up from 2.8 percent at
the end of 2011.  ISDA is the trade and lobbying group for users of OTC
derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  