-- Regulator Tells Banks to Share Cyber Attack Information
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-21T20:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/regulator-tells-banks-to-share-cyber-attack-information.html
A U.S. banking regulator told
financial institutions to report cyber attacks to  law
enforcement  and alert customers to their impact as new assaults
targeted  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and other banks.  So-called denial-of-service attacks on websites may be used
to distract bank personnel while intruders gain access to
customers’ accounts, the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency warned in an alert distributed to bankers today. The
attackers may also block customers from reporting frauds or
prevent banks from telling them about it, the agency said. It
didn’t identify the banks targeted.  Attacks starting last week have hit PNC,  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , U.S. Bancorp,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , according to two executives at companies
providing security to some of the targeted banks. They asked not
to be named because they weren’t authorized to discuss clients
and didn’t want their companies to become targets of computer
assaults.  A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters
announced plans to attack banks in a Dec. 10  statement  posted on
the website pastebin.com. The same group claimed responsibility
for a series of attacks against financial institutions in
September and October, saying they were in response to a video
uploaded to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube ridiculing the  Prophet
Muhammad  and offending some Muslims.  Exam Process  Today’s  alert  from the comptroller’s office warned about a
wave of so-called distributed denial-of-service attacks. Such
actions harness networks of infected computers to pump large
volumes of  Internet traffic  at websites, often causing slowdowns
or disruptions.  “These types of alerts are not issued frivolously,” Wayne Rushton, a former deputy comptroller and national bank examiner
at the OCC, said in an interview. “You can take it for granted
that the cautions they mention in the alert will be part of the
regular examination process going forward.”  “If this is something the OCC is concerned may increase in
the coming months, and they want banks to be well prepared, they
will probably not only issue an alert but follow it up with
specific examination and enforcement activities,” said Rushton,
now a managing director at Promontory Financial Group, a
Washington-based consulting firm.  Fraud Potential  The OCC alert is a “wake-up call” for the industry,
particularly for technology providers serving community banks,
Bert Ely, an Alexandria, Virginia-based bank consultant, said in
an interview.  “They as much as anyone else have to have the protections
in place because the banks have outsourced key aspects of their
online-banking services to these outfits,” Ely said. “They are
very important behind-the-scenes players.”  While the website disruptions from denial-of-service
attacks are an “irritant,” the real concern should be the
potential for fraud and theft of funds, Ely said.  “I suspect you are seeing a lot of re-reviewing of fraud
controls and controls over interbank transfers,” he said. “The
fraud in many ways is what can really hit the banks’ bottom
line.”  The current attacks use similar methods as in the earlier
assault, including using commercial servers to generate traffic
and targeting firewalls or intrusion-detection systems, said
Carl Herberger, a vice president at  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , a Tel Aviv-
based network security provider working with some of the banks.  Because the attackers can shift tactics and targets, banks
should share information with each other and give “timely and
accurate” advisories to customers on website problems and
precautions they can take, the comptroller’s office said.  Shielding Accounts  PNC, based in Pittsburgh, said in a statement posted on its
website that it’s aware of a “potential” cyber threat that
could make it difficult for customers to log into their
accounts.  “Please be assured that PNC’s website is protected by
sophisticated encryption strategies that shield customer
information and accounts,” the statement reads. “We have no
information regarding timing, duration or intensity of this
potential threat.”  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , said in a statement
Dec. 19 that its website was experiencing an “unusually high
volume of traffic” and said the vast majority of its customers
weren’t affected. The bank encouraged customers that experience
problems to access accounts through its stores and automated
teller machines, or by phone.  “There’s a real risk when you get an attack like this that
they’re just trying to distract you from something else,” Jeff
Thomas, national head of information protection and business
resilience at  KPMG  in  Canada , said in an interview.  The OCC is drawing attention to “an example of a very
focused attack that is being repeated across a range of
organizations,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  