-- Reliance Plans to Start Up Jamnagar Unit Tomorrow After Fire
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-12-21T02:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/reliance-plans-to-start-up-jamnagar-unit-tomorrow-after-fire.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  said it
plans to start up a crude unit at the older of its two
refineries in Jamnagar by tomorrow after a fire yesterday.  Reliance was performing maintenance on the crude
distillation unit when the blaze started, Tushar Pania, a
spokesman for the company in Mumbai, said by phone yesterday.
The blaze was “immediately contained,” Pania said. The
refinery is the older of two facilities that Reliance operates
at Jamnagar on  India ’s west coast. The plant has a processing
capacity of 660,000 barrels a day. The other site can handle
580,000 barrels a day.  “We expect there won’t be any delay in restarting, it will
restart definitely by the day after tomorrow,” Pania said.  The company’s two adjacent plants at the Jamnagar comprise
the world’s biggest refining complex, accounting for about 1.6
percent of global refining capacity, according to Reliance’s
website.  The refiner may shut a crude unit at the newer of the two
sites for planned maintenance in January, two people with
knowledge of the plans said on Nov. 27. The system may be closed
for two to three weeks.  The company may also shutter a naphtha hydrotreater and
vacuum-gasoil hydrotreater in the same period, the people said.
Reliance’s plans aren’t final, and the work may be delayed or
advanced, they said. Maintenance at the vacuum gasoil unit was
initially planned for April 2013.  The refiner also has plans to shut a delayed-coker unit at
the same facility for maintenance in February or March, after
completing work at the other units, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  