-- Renault’s Russia Partner Rides Gains From Bogus Buyback Ad Boost
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-21T14:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/renault-s-russia-partner-rides-gains-from-bogus-buyback-ad-boost.html
OAO AvtoVAZ extended gains from
yesterday when a false newspaper advertisement about a buyback
added as much as 6.89 billion rubles ($224 million) to the value
of  Russia ’s biggest carmaker, part-owned by  Renault SA. (RNO)   AvtoVAZ gained 1.2 percent to 15.54 rubles by 6:35 p.m. in 
Moscow, reversing losses of 4.2 percent in early trading. The 
amount of shares traded was about 889,000, equivalent to 1.2 times 
the three-month average. Yesterday, the stock jumped as  much as 
24 percent before closing up 2.6 percent at 15.358 rubles.  Russia’s market regulator opened a probe after AvtoVAZ said
the announcement touting a stock buyback wasn’t genuine and
called it a “provocation.”  “The possibility of share manipulation shouldn’t be
excluded, but only an investigation can answer that question,”
Igor Burenkov, AvtoVAZ’s press representative, said by e-mail
today. “It can’t be said that the incident cost nothing. An
attempt was made to tarnish the company’s reputation.”  Russia’s Financial Markets Service opened a probe into
“share manipulation” related to the fake ad in the Vedomosti
newspaper yesterday, the watchdog’s head,  Dmitry Pankin , said in
a blog post after the market closed. The watchdog has sent
inquiries to Vedomosti and other news outlets that published the
ad, according to the post.  The false ad gave a purchase price of 24.17 rubles apiece,
or a 61 percent premium over the close on Dec. 19.  ‘All’s Well’  “People took it as actual news,” Pavel Dorodnikov, head
of equity trading at Rye, MAN & Gor Securities, said by phone
from Moscow. “Our clients saw the ad and rushed to buy shares
but then sold them at a profit, so all’s well that ends well.”  An advertising agency placed the order for 290,000-ruble
($9,437) space, Gleb Prozorov, Vedomosti newspaper’s managing
director, said by phone.  Ad agencies are responsible for the legitimacy and accuracy
of information, Prozorov said. Following the incident, Vedomosti
will require agencies placing ads about buybacks or share
issuances to provide verification from the companies mentioned,
he said.  Renault and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  this month signed an agreement
with Russian Technologies Corp., the state-run AvtoVAZ
shareholder known as RusTech, to form a joint venture that would
own 74.5 percent of the carmaker.  “What does any investor or broker do when he sees such
information?” Alexei Bachurin, an equity trader at Renaissance
Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail. “Immediately calls the
company’s investor relations and verifies whether this is
true.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  