-- RIM’s Service Fee Changes Spurs Stock Decline
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-12-21T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/rim-service-fee-changes-cast-cloud-of-doubt-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s decision
to scrap service fees for some users is threatening its most
profitable source of revenue, ending the BlackBerry maker’s
three-month stock rally.  Subscribers who want enhanced services, including advanced
security, will continue to pay a fee, while others who don’t use
such services “are expected to generate less or no service
revenue,” Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said yesterday
on a conference call. Service fees accounted for about $982
million in sales last quarter, out of a total of $2.73 billion.  The move jeopardizes the company’s services business and
casts a pall over its turnaround plan, which centers on the
introduction of the BlackBerry 10 early next year. A shortage of
detail on the change is contributing to investor concerns, said
 Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  Chicago .
RIM shares tumbled 23 percent to $10.91 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Sept. 26, 2008.  “By doing this and lacking details, RIM has created a very
large cloud of doubt about that high-margin revenue,” she said
in an interview on “Bloomberg West.” “By our estimates, it’s
really the only real source of profitability.”  Separately,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  said today that RIM agreed to make
one-time and “ongoing” payments as part of a patent-licensing
deal that ended all legal disputes between the companies.  Staying ‘Relevant’  RIM is changing its services-fee approach as mobile-phone
customers put pressure on wireless carriers to cut their monthly
bills. Carriers have traditionally passed on the fees to
consumers, something that’s now harder to do.  The BlackBerry operating system has to adapt to trends,
Heins said on the conference call.  “We will see pressure on pricing for BB OS-related
services in order to make sure we stay relevant in our
markets,” he said. “However, I want to be very clear on this:
Service revenues are not going away.”  Heins reiterated that view in an interview airing on
Bloomberg Television today, saying that existing subscribers
would help maintain service revenue. He also said the company
would return to profitability in the “near future,” aided by a
cost-cutting plan.  Under the assumption that RIM has about 15 million
enterprise customers and about 60 million consumer users,
service-fee revenue could decline by as much as a third, said
Kevin Stadtler, president of  Fort Worth , Texas-based Stadtler
Capital Management, which owns about 40,000 RIM shares.  “It’s going to be a big hit,” he said.  ‘Ill-Prepared’  Paul Carpino, RIM’s head of  investor relations , said the
company will disclose details about the pricing and structure of
the new fees when BlackBerry 10 services are introduced.  Kris Thompson , an analyst with National Bank in Toronto,
cut his rating on the stock to the equivalent of a sell.  “Management was ill-prepared to provide satisfactory
answers,” he said in a note. “Investors will punish the stock
until service revenue can be better quantified.”  Avi Silver of Credit Agricole Securities also lowered his
recommendation, from an underperform rating to a sell. The
company’s business model “is being challenged by operators that
are unwilling to both subsidize devices aggressively and hand
over a slice of their data revenue,” he said in a note.  Paradigm Capital Inc. dropped its rating to a hold from a
buy, as did Cormark Securities.  Beating Estimates  Before Heins made the comments, RIM had pleased investors
with yesterday’s third-quarter results, which included an
increase in its cash by about $600 million to $2.9 billion. The
stock had gained almost 10 percent in after-hours trading
following the earnings, only to plunge during the services
discussion on the conference call.  Excluding some items, the company posted a third-quarter
loss of 22 cents a share, beating the 35-cent loss  predicted  by
analysts. At $2.73 billion, revenue exceeded the $2.66 billion
estimate in the period, which ended Dec. 1.  BlackBerry demand in countries like  India  had been shoring
up sales for the company, even while consumers in the U.S. flock
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS devices and phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android. Sales by region published in a company filing today,
however, show demand falling in  emerging markets  too.  Sales in the U.S. dropped by 49 percent last quarter from a
year earlier to $520 million and by about the same percentage in
the U.K. to $302 million. Revenue from  Canada , RIM’s home
market, plunged 67 percent to $127 million. Sales from the rest
of the world fell 44 percent to $1.78 billion.  Stock Rally  Early buzz around the BlackBerry 10 had increased optimism
that the company could make a comeback. The stock more than
 doubled  in value over the past three months.  More than 150 carriers are preparing to offer the
BlackBerry 10 and over 120 companies are testing the new
platform, a prelude to the phones going on sale on multiple
continents in February.  The company is embracing touch screens with BlackBerry 10,
putting less emphasis on the physical keyboards that once
defined RIM’s products. New phones will still offer the
keyboards, though. Heins said on Bloomberg Television that the
ratio of touch devices to keyboard phones may be about 3-to-1.  For now, RIM is still struggling to compete with Apple and
Google. The once-dominant smartphone maker is poised to finish
2012 with a 4.7 percent share of the global market, compared
with almost 90 percent for Apple and Android combined, according
to research firm IDC.  Subscriber Numbers  Even as RIM’s market share shrank, the company had been
maintaining its installed base -- until last quarter. The total
number of BlackBerry subscribers dropped to 79 million from 80
million during the period. That’s a cause for concern, said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis .  To adjust to its smaller stature, RIM is cutting about
5,000 jobs, or a third of its workforce. The company had 13,400
employees at the end of last quarter.  It’s also eliminating manufacturing sites and disposing of
one of its  business jets . The cost-cutting helped RIM reach a
target of $1 billion in annual savings at the end of last
quarter, ahead of schedule, Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka said on the call yesterday.  The road ahead still won’t be easy, Fritzsche said. The
company expects another operating loss this quarter as it
readies the new phones.  “It’s going to be very difficult to turn this around,
without question,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Erlichman in  San Francisco  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  