-- Romanian Lawmakers Approve Ponta Cabinet in Parliament
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-21T17:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/romanian-lawmakers-approve-ponta-cabinet-in-parliament.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s government won parliamentary approval, allowing the new
Cabinet to push through a 2013 budget and start talks for a new
international precautionary credit.  Ponta, 40, got 402 votes from the country’s newly elected
lawmakers, with 120 lawmakers voting against it, according to
final results. The Cabinet is backed by the Social Democrats and
the Liberals with the help of the minorities and independents as
he pledged to create jobs, support foreign and domestic
investors and respect the judiciary and the rule of law.  “We are engaging in a four-year mandate, which will be
decisive for  Romania ’s future,” Ponta told lawmakers before the
vote. “That’s why we need stability and predictability.”  The government is counting on a two-thirds majority in
Parliament to pass projects, including revising the constitution
and cutting some social contribution and taxes after months of
political bickering that raised the objections of the European
Union and investors.  Ponta also said he would continue a 5 billion-euro ($6.6
billion) precautionary accord with the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union and work to sign a new deal next
year, once the current agreement expires at the end of March.
The Balkan country hasn’t drawn any funds so far from the
lenders.  The premier also plans to cut the  budget deficit  to 2.2
percent of gross domestic product this year and to 1.7 percent
in 2013 after a gap of 4.3 percent in 2011. He said the
government will maintain a fiscal buffer at an adequate level
and secure prudent management of the public debt.  Progressive Tax  The government plans to introduce a progressive tax system
with an 8 percent tax for low-income earners, a 12 percent tax
for average incomes and a 16 percent tax for high incomes,
according to their governing program, without mentioning the
timing.  Ponta’s cabinet will also seek to cut by 5 percent some
social contributions paid by employers and bring a value added
tax back to 19 percent from the current 24 percent.  The previous government of Emil Boc increased the VAT in
2010 and cut state-workers’ wages to lower the budget gap and
meet pledges to international lenders.  Ponta was re-designated as premier by his rival, President
Traian Basescu, after his first seven-month mandate, during
which his coalition tried and failed to impeach the President.  As their power struggle prompted European leaders,
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to voice concerns
about the rule of law, the two leaders signed an agreement last
week, pledging to abstain from political wrangling over
Romania’s commitments to international institutions and respect
the state’s institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  