-- Rupee Leads Weekly Asian Currencies Drop on U.S. Budget
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-21T21:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/rupee-leads-weekly-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-u-s-budget-woes.html
Asian currencies fell this week, led
by India’s rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah, as concern stalled U.S.
budget talks will hamper efforts to revive global growth hurt
demand for riskier assets.  House Republican leaders canceled a planned vote Dec. 20 on
Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to allow higher tax rates for annual
income above $1 million, as lawmakers seek to avert more than
$600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases.
Indonesia’s current-account  gap  may widen to 2.3 percent of
gross domestic product this quarter, the central bank said on
Dec. 11. That would be the largest shortfall since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1997.  “If there’s a postponement for a longer period of time the
uncertainties will hit investment sentiment in the U.S. and this
will be bad for risk-taking,” said Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-
based economist at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)   The rupee slid 1.1 percent this week to 55.07 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupiah
declined 0.2 percent to 9,658 and touched a three-year low of
9,785 earlier. Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.2 percent to 3.0637,
while the  Taiwan dollar  dropped 0.1 percent to NT$29.122.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell from
a week ago to 117.92. East Asia’s emerging-market economies face
risks from  Europe  and the U.S., the  World Bank  said in a Dec. 19
report.  ‘Uncertain Deal’  The rupee headed for the worst week in more than a month
after the central bank refrained from easing monetary policy to
support economic growth at a Dec. 18 review.  The Indian currency is affected by “an uncertain U.S.
budgetary deal, which is less than two weeks away from its
deadline,” Pramit Brahmbhatt, Mumbai-based chief executive
officer at Alpari Financial Services India Ltd., wrote in an e-
mail yesterday. “The month-end and quarter-end importer demand
for dollars continues to weigh” on the currency, he said.  The rupiah dropped as data from Indonesia’s  Finance
Ministry  showed global funds sold 2.15 trillion rupiah ($223
million) more local-currency government debt that they bought in
the three days through Dec. 19, poised for the biggest weekly
outflow since August.  “We expect rupiah to remain an underperformer in the
region,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a regional economist at Barclays
Plc in  Singapore . “The overall balance-of-payments position
remains weak which continues to weigh on the rupiah.”  China Recovery  The peso was little changed at 41.075 per dollar. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will announce measures next week to manage
capital inflows, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla told reporters
in Manila on Dec. 20.  The  yuan  had the best week in more than two months on
optimism  China’s economy  is recovering from a seven-quarter
slowdown. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent this week, the
most since the five days ended Oct. 12, to 6.2286 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That took
this year’s advance to 1.1 percent.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the  reference rate  by
0.01 percent to 6.2881 per dollar yesterday. The spot rate is
allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the
fixing.  The Chinese currency is close to equilibrium level and has
room for small, “sustained” appreciation in the long run,
Shanghai Securities News reported yesterday, citing a report
from the government-run State Information Center.  The World Bank said in a report this week the world’s
second-largest economy will grow 8.4 percent in 2013, faster
than an October projection of 8.1 percent. China will increase
the movement of the  exchange rate  “appropriately” to handle
the latest round of measures by global central banks to pump
money into markets to support growth, the official Xinhua News
Agency said in an editorial yesterday.  South Korea’s won and Thailand’s baht were little changed
at 1,074.35 per dollar and 30.62, respectively. Vietnam’s dong
dropped 0.1 percent to 20,848.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  