-- S&C, Wachtell, Shearman, Cleary, Wilson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-21T20:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/s-c-wachtell-shearman-cleary-wilson-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP advised
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , the 12-year-old energy and
commodity futures bourse, on its agreement to acquire  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  for cash and stock valued at $8.2 billion.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal adviser
to NYSE Euronext, the world’s biggest equities market. Shearman
& Sterling LLP is advising ICE on European Union regulatory and
antitrust aspects of the NYSE bid.  The S&C team includes partners John Evangelakos, Audra D.
Cohen, Tim Emmerson and Olivier de Vilmorin, mergers and
acquisitions; H. Rodgin Cohen, financial institutions; David J. Gilberg, CFTC matters; Frederick Wertheim, SEC matters; David C. Spitzer, Michael T. McGowan and Nicolas de Boynes, tax; Matthew M. Friestedt, executive compensation/benefits; Steven L. Holley,
competition; and Catherine M. Clarkin, securities.  The Shearman & Sterling team includes partners Barney
Reynolds, financial institutions and regulatory; Matthew Readings, antitrust; and Iain Scoon, tax.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partner David C.
Karp and includes partners Karessa L. Cain, corporate; David A.
Schwartz, antitrust; Jeremy L. Goldstein, executive compensation
and benefits; and T. Eiko Stange, tax.  IntercontinentalExchange, based in Atlanta, will pay $33.12
a share for the owner of the  New York  Stock Exchange, 38 percent
more than the Dec. 19 closing price, according to a statement
yesterday. Both boards approved the proposal and the companies
expect to complete the transaction in the second half of 2013.
Last year, the U.S. blocked a joint hostile bid by
IntercontinentalExchange and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  for the New
York-based company on concern the combination would dominate
U.S. stock listings.  Merging NYSE Euronext, which owns the biggest exchanges by
value of listings in the U.S.,  France  and the Netherlands, with
the second-largest futures market underscores both the growing
importance of derivatives and the diminishing influence of the
220-year-old NYSE. The Big Board, once the benchmark for global
free markets, has seen its share of trading in stocks listed on
the exchange decline to 21 percent from 82 percent.  For more, click here.  Google to Sell Motorola Home to Arris for $2.35 Billion  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  on its agreement to sell its Motorola Home business to
 Arris Group Inc. (ARRS)  for $2.35 billion. Troutman Sanders LLP is
acting as lead legal counsel to Arris.  The Cleary Gottlieb mergers and acquisitions team includes
partners Ethan Klingsberg and Glenn McGrory. Partners David Gelfand and Leah Brannon are advising on antitrust aspects. Tax
matters are being handled by partner Sheldon Alster and employee
benefits are being handled by partner Michael Albano. The
leveraged finance team includes partners Richard Lincer and
Laurent Alpert.  For Troutman Sanders, partners include Brinkley Dickerson
and Patrick Macken, corporate; Robert Friedman, tax; Hazen Dempster, finance; Jeff Banish, employee benefits; Ashley Hager,
labor; Jim Bollinger, intellectual property; and Glenn Manishin,
Dan Anziska and Mitch Portnoy, competition.  Arris, a cable-equipment maker, will pay about $2.05
billion in cash and about $300 million in newly issued shares
that will give Google a stake of about 15.7 percent, the
companies said in a statement.  Google, acquired the division, which sells television set-
top boxes, through the $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. in May. It received multiple offers on
Dec. 7, a person with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
month. Google sought a buyer for the division as it aims to
devote more attention to mobile devices amid an accelerating
rivalry with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   For more, click here.  Simpson, S&C Among Firms Advising on China’s Biggest LBO  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is advising  Focus Media
Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a Chinese advertising company, which agreed to be
bought by a group of investors led by  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in a $3.7
billion deal that will be the country’s largest leveraged
buyout.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP are serving as U.S. legal advisers to the sponsors.  The board has approved the offer from the group, which also
includes Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang, to acquire
the Shanghai-based company for $27.50 per American depositary
share,  Focus Media  said in a statement. The price was 50 cents
more than the group offered in a non-binding proposal in August.
The shares jumped 6.7 percent to $25.52, the highest close since
April 12.  The Simpson Thacher team for the transaction includes
Kathryn King Sudol and Richard C. Lin, mergers and acquisitions,
and Chris K.H. Lin and Daniel Fertig, corporate.  Sullivan & Cromwell, which was lead counsel on the
financing, is advising on English law matters. Conyers Dill &
Pearman is serving as the sponsors’  Cayman Islands  legal adviser
and Zhong Lun Law Firm is advising on  China .  The S&C team was led by partners Michael DeSombre and
William Chua in  Hong Kong  and Presley Warner in  London .  Fried Frank corporate partners Douglas Freeman and Victor Chen advised the private-equity group in connection with the
transaction.  The buyout group also includes FountainVest Partners, Citic
Capital Partners and  China Everbright Ltd. (165)  CDH Investments Fund
Management Co., an  investment company  based in Beijing, dropped
out of the group, Dow Jones Newswires reported Dec. 7.  Ropes & Gray LLP, led by Hong-Kong based private equity
partner Gary Li, is representing China Everbright.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Nanchun Jiang. The Skadden team includes corporate partners
Peter Huang in Beijing and Michael Gisser in Beijing and  Los
Angeles .  Kirkland & Ellis LLP, led by Hong Kong corporate partners
David Zhang, Jesse Sheley and Stephanie Tang, is serving as U.S.
legal adviser to the independent committee, and Maples and
Calder and Fangda Partners are serving as its Cayman Islands and
China legal advisers, respectively.  Shearman & Sterling LLP is serving as U.S. legal adviser to
J.P. Morgan Securities ( Asia  Pacific) Ltd.  Clifford Chance  is serving as U.S. and English law legal
adviser to the underwriters, bookrunners and mandated lead
arrangers of the debt financing. Walkers and Fangda Partners are
serving as their Cayman Islands and China advisers,
respectively. good opportunity here.’’  The transaction needs approval from at least two-thirds of
shareholders and is scheduled to be completed in the second
quarter of 2013, according to the statement. Jiang, company
managers and  Fosun International Ltd. (656) , which together hold 36
percent of the stock, agreed to vote in favor of the deal, Focus
said. [bn:WBTKR=1124L:US]   Morrison & Foerster LLP  [] is representing Fosun in the deal.
Los Angeles corporate partner Hillel T. Cohn leads Morrison &
Foerster’s deal team, which also includes Hong Kong partner
Gregory Wang, Los Angeles partner Kathryn I. Johnstone, New York
partner Peter C. Dopsch and Washington partner Jonathan S. Gowdy.  For more, click here.  Covington, Locke Lord Advise SandRidge Energy on Permian Deal  Covington & Burling LLP and Locke Lord LLP are advising
 SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , the energy producer that has been
fighting shareholder calls to break up the company, on an
agreement to sell assets in the Permian Basin to Sheridan
Production Partners II for $2.6 billion.  Andrews Kurth LLP is representing Sheridan in the deal.  The Covington team included Stephen Infante and  Scott
Smith , mergers and acquisitions, and David Engvall, securities.  Locke Lorde lawyers were led by Terry Radney with
assistance from Pat Beaton, oil and gas; Dale Smith, finance;
Mitch Tiras, tax; Van Jolas, antitrust; and Greg Heath,
corporate.  Andrews Kurth partners included John Clutterbuck, Cheryl
Phillips Scott Olson, Kay Lynn Brumbaugh and Gail Merel.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP, with a team led by Thomas W. Christopher, represents Morgan Stanley in its role as financial
adviser to SandRidge.  Sheridan, a closely held producer based in Houston, will
pay cash, SandRidge said Dec. 18 in a statement. SandRidge,
based in  Oklahoma City , produces about 24,500 barrels of oil
equivalent a day from 225,000 acres in the Permian’s Central
Basin Platform.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the first
quarter. SandRidge will use the proceeds to pay debt and fund
drilling at its Mississippian Lime fields in Oklahoma and
 Kansas , according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati Opens Office in Beijing  Wilson Sonsini  Goodrich & Rosati opened an office in
Beijing, the firm’s third in  Greater China , joining sites in
 Shanghai  and Hong Kong.  Partner Kefei Li, who has  capital markets  experience,
including representing clients in U.S. and Hong Kong initial
public offerings by Chinese companies, will head the new office.
Attorneys with corporate expertise in mergers and acquisitions,
private equity and capital markets, as well as intellectual
property, licensing and technology and life sciences practices,
will staff the new office.  “Besides being the regulatory center in China, Beijing is
a hub for technology companies and growth enterprises as well as
capital markets, private equity,  venture capital  and cross-
border M&A activities,” said Jack Sheridan, co-managing partner
of the firm. “That confluence makes it a natural fit for the
firm and critical to serving the diverse needs of our clients in
the region.”  The firm opened its Shanghai office in 2007 and an office
in Hong Kong in 2010, which recently became associated with Chen
& Associates, a local firm of solicitors practicing Hong Kong
law.  Wilson Sonsini has lawyers in 11 offices in the U.S., Asia
and Brussels.  Gibson Dunn Advises UBS on $1.5 Billion Fine by Regulators  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP advised  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank, on the 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.5 billion)
settlement it will pay to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for
trying to rig global  interest rates , triple the penalties levied
against Barclays Plc.  Fines from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the U.S.  Justice Department  total $1.2 billion, UBS said in
a statement Dec. 19. It will pay 160 million pounds ($260
million) to the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the largest-
ever fine imposed by the regulator, and disgorge 59 million
francs in estimated profits to the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority.  Gibson Dunn London partner Philip Rocher and Gary Spratling, who is co-chair of the firm’s antitrust and trade
regulation practice group, worked on the settlement along with
antitrust partner Jarrett Arp and white-collar partner David
Burns. Litigation partners Steven Sletten and Lawrence Zweifach
were also involved.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
the London interbank offered rate to profit from bets on
interest-rate derivatives or make the lenders’ finances appear
healthier. Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, agreed to
pay 290 million pounds in June to resolve the U.S. and U.K.
Libor probes.  The U.K. finance regulator found more than 2,000 documented
requests by UBS traders to manipulate rates in chat messages and
group e-mails, and that at least 45 people at the bank knew of
the practice between during a six-year period until the end of
2010. Bank employees colluded with interdealer brokers and paid
them bribes to help manipulate yen Libor submissions by other
banks, the FSA said in a statement.  For more, click here.  News  Wal-Mart Names Roberts General Counsel Amid Mexico Bribery Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  named Karen Roberts general counsel to
replace  Jeff Gearhart , who will take on new duties related to
the company’s global compliance efforts following allegations of
bribery in  Mexico .  Roberts, 42, a 17-year veteran of the company who now
handles Wal-Mart’s real estate operations, will start the new
role on Feb. 1, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer said
yesterday in a statement.  The U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are investigating allegations that Wal-Mart
systematically bribed Mexican officials so it could more quickly
open stores in the country. Wal-Mart said in November it also
started inquiries into potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in  Brazil ,  India  and China.  Former general counsel Gearhart, 48, will continue to
oversee the legal department in his role as executive vice
president and corporate secretary. In addition, he will be
involved with Wal-Mart’s compliance, ethics and investigations
teams, the company said.  Moves  Litigator Brothers Join Carlton Fields in New York  Carlton Fields said Oleg Rivkin and V. David Rivkin joined
the firm as shareholders in New York in its business litigation
and trade regulation group. The brothers were formerly partners
with Fox Horan & Camerini LLP, where they handled international
litigation and arbitration matters.  David Rivkin focuses his commercial litigation and
arbitration practice on cross-border disputes often involving
licensing of technology, copyright and trademark infringement,
theft of  trade secrets , and other intellectual property matters.
In addition, he acts as outside general counsel and adviser on
transactions involving technology licensing, trademarks, trade
secrets, copyrights, software and domain-name protection, the
firm said.  Oleg Rivkin’s practice is concentrated on international
litigation and arbitration involving corporate, commercial and
other business disputes. During the past 20 years, his work has
included cross-border transactions, unfair competition,
 securities fraud , surety bonds, banking, lender liability,
antitrust, civil RICO and asset forfeiture.  Oleg Rivkin joined Fox Horan as a full-time associate in
1992, making partner in 2000. David Rivkin joined the firm as a
full-time associate in 1999 and made partner in 2007.  Carlton Fields has more than 300 attorneys and government
consultants at eight U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  