-- Samsung Sent EU Antitrust Complaint Over Apple Injunctions
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-21T19:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/samsung-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-over-apple-patent-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, was sent an antitrust complaint
from the European Union for allegedly abusing its dominant
market position in legal disputes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Samsung’s use of court injunctions seeking to block Apple’s
products in relation to so-called standard-essential patents
violates antitrust rules in the 27-nation bloc, the European
Commission said today in an e-mailed  statement . Samsung said
earlier this week it would drop such actions in Europe.  Intellectual property rights “should not be misused when
they are essential to implement industry standards, which bring
huge benefits to businesses and consumers alike,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Samsung and Apple have traded victories in their patent
disputes fought over four continents since Apple, based in
Cupertino,  California , accused  Asia ’s biggest electronics maker
of “slavishly copying” its devices. The companies, competing
for dominance of the global smartphone market estimated by
Bloomberg Industries at $219 billion last year, are fighting
patent battles even as Apple remains Samsung’s biggest customer.  While such injunctions can generally be challenged fairly
in court, Samsung may be violating EU rules by seeking them in
relation to essential patents when Apple has “shown itself to
be willing to negotiate,” the Brussels-based commission said in
the statement. Almunia signaled yesterday that he would send the
complaint by the end of this year.  ‘Misconceived Allegations’  Samsung said it has been willing to license its patents on
fair terms and sought a ban on sales “due to Apple’s
unwillingness to enter into good-faith negotiations and to
defend ourselves against Apple, which sued us first.”  “We are studying the statement and will firmly defend
ourselves against any misconceived allegations,” Samsung, based
in Suwon,  South Korea , said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to fully cooperate with the commission.  The company is ‘‘confident that in due course the
commission will conclude that we have acted in compliance with
European Union competition laws.’’  In cases like this, companies are given a chance to respond
and the regulator may negotiate steps the company can take to
allay concerns. If an agreement isn’t reached, there may be a
hearing before the EU makes a final decision or issues fines.  Samsung failed to deflect the EU complaint when it
announced on Dec. 18 it plans to withdraw injunctions in Europe
that seek to block sales of Apple products.  Almunia said yesterday that such a move wasn’t enough to
prevent regulators from sending a so-called statement of
objections to the company, a formal charge sheet that may
precede antitrust fines of as much as 10 percent of yearly
sales.  Key Patents  The EU is probing whether Samsung violated agreements to
license key patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair
terms.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  When the disputed mobile-phone technology was adopted in
 Europe  as a standard, Samsung ‘‘gave a commitment that it would
license the patents which it had declared essential to the
standard on FRAND terms,” the commission said today.  Samsung began seeking injunctions against Apple in courts
in EU member countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement of
patents for 3G technology, according to the Commission’s
statement.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in  London , declined to
comment on the EU complaint against Samsung.  ‘Thermonuclear War’  Samsung is withdrawing injunction requests against Apple in
 Germany , U.K.,  France ,  Italy  and  Netherlands  involving key
patents it holds for wireless communications, citing “the
interest of protecting consumer choice.” The company will
continue litigation that seeks damages in intellectual property
disputes.  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. is also being
investigated by the EU for seeking and enforcing injunctions
against Apple’s iPhone and iPad and Microsoft’s Windows
operating system and Xbox gaming console, following complaints
by the two companies.  The patent disputes began when Samsung released its Galaxy
smartphones in 2010. Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  vowed before
his death last year to wage “thermonuclear war” to prove that
phones run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system copy the
iPhone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  