-- Samsung Falls on EU Complaint, Apple Appeal: Seoul Mover
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2012-12-21T07:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/samsung-falls-on-eu-complaint-apple-appeal-seoul-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones and TVs, fell the most in almost
four months in Seoul trading after the European Union said it’s
preparing an antitrust complaint against the company.  Samsung declined 4.1 percent, the biggest drop since Aug.
27, to 1,442,000 won while South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index
fell 1 percent. The EU is probing whether the Suwon, South
Korea-based company violated agreements to license key patents
to other mobile-phone makers on fair terms and will issue a
notice listing antitrust concerns as soon as the end of this
year, the bloc’s competition commissioner said yesterday.  The complaint adds to Samsung’s legal challenges as it
fights iPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in lawsuits on four continents
over patents for mobile devices. Apple said yesterday it’s
appealing a U.S. judge’s decision to turn down its request for a
sales ban on 26 Samsung devices after the Cupertino, California-
based company won a patent-infringement lawsuit.  “The biggest concern in the market has been that Samsung
may face a lot of legal hurdles globally,” Lee Seung Woo, an
analyst at IBK Securities, said by phone today. “The EU case is
escalating those concerns.”  The EU’s competition commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
yesterday Samsung faces a complaint over its use of standard-
essential patents in legal disputes with Apple. While regulators
were “happy” with Samsung’s announcement this week that it
will withdraw injunctions in  Europe  that seek to block sales of
Apple products, Almunia said the EU will continue to investigate
whether Samsung’s threats of legal action harmed competition.  ‘Fully Cooperating’  Samsung “is fully cooperating with the European Commission
proceedings,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Samsung has gained 36 percent in Seoul trading this year
while Apple has gained 29 percent in  New York .  The EU antitrust complaint is “propelling worries and
uncertainties surrounding a possible penalty and its size,”
 David Choi , an analyst at SK Securities Co., said by phone
today.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have traded victories in their patent disputes since
Apple accused Asia’s biggest electronics maker of “slavishly
copying” its devices. The companies, competing for dominance of
the global smartphone market estimated by Bloomberg Industries
at $219 billion last year, are suing each other even as Apple
remains Samsung’s biggest  customer .  Samsung said earlier this week it would withdraw injunction
requests against Apple in Germany, U.K.,  France ,  Italy  and the
Netherlands involving key patents it holds for wireless
communications, citing “the interest of protecting consumer
choice.”  Fair Terms  The company will continue litigation that seeks damages in
intellectual property disputes.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  In the U.S. case, Apple is seeking a review of the ruling
from a federal appeals court in  Washington , according to a
filing yesterday in U.S. District Court in  San Jose ,  California .  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh said Dec. 17 that while a
jury found Samsung infringed six Apple patents, the infringing
elements were such a limited part of Samsung’s device that a
sales ban wasn’t warranted. Apple hadn’t shown that consumer
demand for Samsung products was driven by technology it stole,
Koh said in her ruling.  Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Samsung in Seoul, declined to
comment on the U.S. case when contacted by phone today.  OLED Delay  Separately, Samsung said today it won’t introduce TVs in
2012 using organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, displays, as
it had planned. The company said in May it planned to start
selling TVs using the displays, which are thinner and produce
sharper images than current liquid-crystal-display panels, in
the second half of this year.  The decision was based on prices and market conditions,
Samsung said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are sorry that we couldn’t keep our promise to launch
the product this year,” Samsung said in the statement.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s second-largest TV maker,
is on schedule to release OLED televisions “in the early part
of the new year,” Ken Hong, a spokesman, said by phone today.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest TV maker, hasn’t set a date for
introducing the technology, Mami Imada, a spokeswoman for the
Tokyo-based company, said today by phone. Sony said in June it
entered a partnership to jointly develop OLED TVs with Osaka-
based  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , with a goal of establishing mass-
production technology next year.  Chieko Gyobu, a spokeswoman for Panasonic, said today the
company’s timing for releasing OLED sets hasn’t been decided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  