-- San Bernardino Hearing May Decide Calpers Creditor Rank
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/san-bernardino-hearing-may-decide-calpers-creditor-rank.html
San Bernardino,  California , may
become the first bankrupt city to force the biggest U.S. public
pension fund to wait in line with other creditors while it
struggles to regain solvency.  San Bernardino and the California Public Employees’
Retirement System will ask a judge today to decide the legality
of the city’s decision to defer about $13 million in pension
payments for policemen, firefighters and street cleaners.  Calpers argues that San Bernardino can’t defer its payments
to the fund, which uses the money to help cover the monthly
pensions of retired city employees. Allowing the deferral would
be unfair because Calpers may still be required to pay those
retirees $3.75 million a month, the fund said in court papers
filed Dec. 17.  “The issue presented is simple: Will this court allow the
city to continue to receive ongoing benefits provided to the
city by Calpers without paying for them,” Calpers said in its
most recent filing.  How Judge Meredith M. Jury answers Calpers’ question will
set a legal precedent at a time when pensions for public
employees are straining local governments from California to
Rhode Island, according to bankruptcy attorneys that specialize
in municipal insolvencies.  Calpers is asking Jury for permission to sue the city to
force it to make about $7 million in missed payments. In a
related request, Calpers is asking Jury to kick the city out of
bankruptcy, where it is protected from such lawsuits.  Bondholder Risk  A ruling in favor of Calpers would mean municipal
bondholders would face more risk, especially in California, said
Richard A. Ciccarone, chief research officer at Oak Brook,
Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management LLC, in an
interview.  Should San Bernardino, and the bondholders that support its
position, win, Calpers may be forced to compete with other, low-
ranking creditors for pension payments. Bondholders in San
Bernardino and the bankruptcy city of Stockton, California,
argue that Calpers should be treated like any other unsecured
creditor in Chapter 9 and face the possibility that it may not
be paid in full.  Other struggling cities are watching the San Bernardino
bankruptcy, attorney James E. Spiotto said in an interview.
Calpers sued the City of Compton in September, accusing the
suburb of Los Angeles of missing $2 million in pension payments.  So Strapped  San Bernardino, a city of about 213,000 people 60 miles
east of Los Angeles, says it is so strapped for cash it must put
off $13 million in payments to Calpers or risk public safety.
About 400 miles (644 kilometers) north, creditors of Stockton
are fighting Calpers in court as well, arguing that the pension
fund shouldn’t be given preferential treatment and urging the
city to take an aggressive stance in negotiations.  The city has an unfunded pension liability of about $143
million and is in default on $50.4 million in bonds issued in
2005 to help cover pension obligations, according to court
documents and the city budget. If the city paid all of its
obligations, including the money owed Calpers, it would have a
deficit of $11.9 million overall, according to a memo from
acting City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller and finance director
Jason Simpson.  Central Falls, Rhode Island, exited bankruptcy earlier this
year after cutting pensions and health-care benefits for
retirees. The state sided with bondholders in that case, passing
a law that allowed them to put a lien on city tax revenue. The
city’s bondholders were paid in full, according to court
documents.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  