-- Schools Look to Armed Police After Connecticut Massacre
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-12-21T17:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/schools-look-to-armed-police-after-connecticut-massacre.html
Michael Strutt, superintendent of
Butler,  Pennsylvania , schools, took an extraordinary step last
weekend to protect the district’s 7,500 children: securing a
court order letting him place armed retired state troopers in
every school.  The measure will cost Butler, a community including
steelworkers and farmers, about $200,000 a year, even as the
school system has cut teachers and administrators.  After the Dec. 14 Newtown, Connecticut school massacre,
districts across the U.S. are revisiting the need for armed
police. Few are taking steps as dramatic as Butler, though many
are asking police to step up patrols or shifting existing
officers to guard younger children.  “I could never forgive myself if something happened in our
schools and I didn’t take every measure I could to prevent it,”
Strutt said in a telephone interview.  Since the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting that killed
26 first-graders and adults, at least two dozen school districts
or law enforcement agencies have asked the  National Association
of School Resource Officers , which represents school-based
police, about heightening security.  Each officer on average will cost about $80,000 annually,
including benefits and equipment, said Mo Canady, executive
director of the group, based in Hoover,  Alabama .  ‘What’s Important’  “Communities will have to figure out what’s important to
them,” Canady said in a telephone interview.  Wayne LaPierre, chief executive officer of the  National
Rifle Association , called today for Congress to fund armed
guards in every school. The U.S. has about 99,000 public
elementary, middle and high schools.  Chris Christie , the Republican governor of  New Jersey , said
he isn’t sold on that idea.  “I don’t necessarily think having armed guards outside of
every classroom is the most conducive thing to a good
educational environment,” he said today in  Newark . “We don’t
want to make this an armed camp.”  In an e-mail yesterday, Daren Briscoe, a U.S. Education
Department spokesman, called preventing such violence “a
complex problem with no simple solution.”  Education Secretary Arne Duncan and Vice President Joseph Biden, part of a group President  Barack Obama  convened to
respond to the shooting, will evaluate “a wide array of
ideas,” said Briscoe, who declined to comment on whether the
federal government would provide money for school security.  Locked Doors  In 2009, the latest year available, 68 percent of schools
had  security guards  or assigned police officers, up from 54
percent in 1999, according to an Education Department survey of
students, 12- to 18-years old.  More than 90 percent of schools had locked or monitored
doors during school hours, the government said. About 1 percent
required students to pass through metal detectors.  Elementary schools are less likely than high schools or
middle schools to have police on their grounds, principals,
trade groups and safety experts said.  Schools in Atlanta;  Los Angeles ; Denver; Tampa,  Florida ;
Birmingham, Alabama;  Kansas City ,  Missouri ;  Memphis ,  Tennessee ;
and  Sacramento , California, have armed security such as police
officers for at least some schools, according to a survey by the
 Council of the Great City Schools , a Washington-based group that
represents the 67 largest systems. Not all districts responded.  L.A. Schools  The  Los Angeles Unified School District , the country’s
second-biggest system, has armed police officers at high
schools, as well as some middle schools, said spokeswoman Ellen
Morgan. Many middle schools have unarmed school safety officers,
as well. Elementary schools don’t have officers, and police are
now stepping up patrols, Morgan said.  The  New York  City system, the nation’s largest, has unarmed
school-safety officers from the police department in every
school, said Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman.  The  Butler Area School District , 30 miles north of
Pittsburgh, spends about $500,000 a year on security, including
metal detectors at each school.  For about 10 years, Butler has had two or three unarmed
retired state troopers in each of its three high school and
junior high schools. Its 11 elementary schools had security
guards.  On Dec. 10, four days before the shooting, the school board
voted to arm all the officers. Without the court order the
transition could have taken months. The district now plans to
redistribute the retired officers, so each elementary school has
one.  Safe Schools  Butler hasn’t had a school shooting, Strutt said, and
killings at U.S. schools are rare. In the 2009-2010 year, 17
children ages 5 to 18 died in homicides at school, traveling to
or from campuses or at school events, according to the Education
Department. That’s about half the annual figure during much of
the 1990s. In a population of more than 50 million students, the
school-related death toll has been about 1 percent of all
homicides for that age group.  “Children are safer in schools than in almost any other
place, including for some, their own homes,” according to a
 statement  this week signed by nine violence-prevention
researchers from U.S. universities and the American Institutes
for Research, the Washington-based social-science research
organization.  Rather than intensify school security, the U.S. should
improve access to mental-health care, reduce exposure to violent
media and control guns, the researchers said.  “We cannot and should not turn our schools into
fortresses,” they said.  External Threats  Two previous killings, in particular, led to the current
round of safety measures in public schools. At Columbine High
School in Littleton,  Colorado , two students in 1999 killed 12
classmates and a teacher. A decade earlier, at Cleveland
Elementary School in Stockton,  California , a gunman murdered
five students.  At Sandy Hook school in Newtown, the heavily armed, 20-
year-old gunman, Adam Lanza, forced his way in, authorities
said. He shot through glass to enter, said Maryann Jacob, an
assistant librarian. He also killed his mother at their home.  After Columbine, schools used police officers and
counselors to identify internal threats from other students,
said Francisco Negron, general counsel of the  National School
Boards Association  in Alexandria, Virginia. Now, school boards
across the country will focus on identifying ways to protect
kids from external danger, he said.  Glock Pistol  Boone County,  Kentucky , shows the challenge districts face
as they reassess security.  The district spends about $600,000 a year for nine school-
based sheriff’s deputies who protect 23 schools. An officer
guards every high school and middle school -- though not each
elementary school. Officers carry a Glock .40-caliber pistol, as
well as a Taser.  The fast-growing suburban district of 20,000 students, near
Cincinnati, added officers after averting a school shooting in
1994.  Then, a 17-year-old student shot to death his father,
mother and two sisters at home and drove to school, holding a
class hostage. An assistant principal talked the child out of
the gun.  The district doesn’t have the money to add officers to all
its buildings, said Randy Poe, superintendent of Boone County
Schools. For now, Boone is considering shifting more officers’
time to elementary schools.  “It’s a new day,” Poe said. “You have to think
differently here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  