-- Shootings Costing U.S. $174 Billion Show Burden of Gun Violence
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/shootings-costing-u-s-174-billion-show-burden-of-gun-violence.html
Televised images of Connecticut
families grieving the loss of 26 first-graders and educators
this week made Alfredo Valentin relive the pain he’s endured
since his teenage son was shot dead in  New York  18 years ago.  Shock, grief and an obsession with bringing the killers to
justice consumed him for years. It brought financial ruin on his
family, which had prospered from the real estate brokerage he
ran in the Bronx. He lost the business and borrowed money to
support his wife and daughters. It took years before he could
work again. The damage, Valentin said, is permanent.  “You learn how to control the pain, do some work, but your
heart isn’t in it, your edge is gone,” said Valentin, 69. “We
got used to living with less.”  The impact of gun deaths and injuries go well beyond
heartbreak to include billions of dollars of losses to the
economy. The cost of U.S. gun violence in work lost, medical
care, insurance, criminal-justice expenses and pain and
suffering amounted to as much as $174 billion in 2010, according
to data compiled by the  Pacific Institute for Research and
Evaluation  in Calverton,  Maryland .  The nonprofit organization provides cost estimates of
illnesses and injuries for the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention , the U.S. Transportation Department and industry
associations, said economist Ted Miller, the group’s principal
research scientist.  Columbine Massacre  The institute placed the cost of gun violence as higher
than the total for U.S. alcohol-related automobile crashes,
which was calculated at $129.7 billion in a 2006  study  conducted
for the road-construction industry, he said.  The societal cost of just one gun homicide averages $5
million, according to the institute. That includes $1.6 million
in lost work; $29,000 in medical care; $11,000 on surviving
families’ mental-health treatment; $397,000 in criminal-justice,
incarceration and police expenses; $9,000 in employer losses;
and $3 million in pain, suffering and lost quality of life.  Miller’s gun-injury cost estimate may be the highest of
several conducted in the years since the April 20, 1999,
Columbine High School massacre, when two seniors killed 12
fellow students and a teacher, and injured 21.  Economic Toll  In 2002, two public-policy professors -- Philip Cook of
 Duke University  and Jens Ludwig from  Georgetown University  --
published “Gun Violence: The Real Costs,” based on research
begun in the late 1990s. It calculated the costs to be at least
$100 billion.  “It’s an economic cost in that it’s a reduction in the
standard of living and quality of life in the same way that
having dirty air or traffic congestion can be translated into an
economic cost,” Cook said in a telephone interview.  Miller’s institute prepared its cost estimates based on 2010
CDC data, the most recent available. The agency reported 105,177
shootings resulting in injury in 2010. Of those, 31,672 died by
homicide, suicide, law-enforcement action or accident; 38,566
survived after hospital stays; and 34,939 were treated and
released from emergency rooms.  It derived its numbers by using formulas established by
economic models often used by courts, and reports of government
agencies and hospitals, Miller said in a phone interview.  ‘Large Problem’  The U.S. Health and Human Services Department supplied
total and average costs of shooting-related hospital stays,
Miller said. The group estimates the cost of lost work -- even
uncompensated household chores -- and future earnings with data
from the Labor Department and Census Bureau, Miller said.  Dividing the $174 billion total by the number of guns in
the U.S. -- 270 million as reported by the  United Nations ’
 International Small Arms Survey  -- the institute calculated the
cost to society of each civilian-owned firearm in the U.S. at
more than $644.  “The data shows this has been a very large problem for a
very long time and the costs it imposes are far greater than
what we collect in sales and excise taxes on guns every year,”
Miller said. “Gun ownership is like smoking, an expensive and
dangerous habit.” Its costs dwarf the $28.2 billion budget of
the  Justice Department , he said.  For Valentin, the costs include his inability to earn
income from his real-estate business for years after the death
of his 17-year-old son, Derek.  Bronx Bloodshed  A history buff planning to go to college, Derek was killed
Aug. 8, 1994, shot three times in the back. A friend died from
two bullets to his chest.  They were unarmed, walking on a Bronx sidewalk intending to
confront a group of youths from a nearby prep school who had
harassed Derek about girl he was dating, Valentin said. Police
later learned one of the assailants had bought the handgun for
$50, he said.  Valentin told his story in an interview with Bloomberg
Markets magazine about a year after the Columbine incident. At
the time, six years after his son’s death, he described how his
obsession with his son’s killers prevented him from working even
after their trial ended with two years later with two
convictions. A judge sentenced the shooter to 33 years to life
for second-degree murder; a second defendant spent four years in
jail and got two years’ probation for solicitation of the crime,
he said.  He and his wife required six months of psychotherapy; he
lost his office, spent all of his retirement savings and ran up
tens of thousands of dollars of credit-card debt, he said.  Lingering Pain  In an interview this week, he described how the feelings
from the slaying flooded back as he watched the nonstop
television news coverage from Newtown,  Connecticut , where Adam
Lanza killed 27 on Dec. 14 before fatally shooting himself.  “I couldn’t take my eyes off it as I saw that father
talking about losing his little daughter,” Valentin said. “My
chest got tight, it was too much. My wife told me to turn it off
because we couldn’t watch it anymore.”  After his son’s death, he eventually returned to work. Over
the past decade, he recouped enough of lost income to allow him
to partly retire and allow his daughter to run the business. He
spoke from  Florida , where he and his wife were visiting his
other daughter for the holidays.  He said he can’t stop thinking about the families who lost
loved ones in Newtown and what they will experience this holiday
season and for the rest of their lives.  “Instead of gifts, they’re buying flowers to take to the
cemetery,” he said. “You’d be surprised how the hurt never
goes away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  