-- Singapore Proposes Consumer-Credit Rules to Limit Bad Debt
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-12-21T09:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/singapore-proposes-consumer-credit-rules-to-limit-bad-debt-ratio.html
Singapore ’s financial regulator is
proposing new rules for unsecured consumer loans to stem credit
card delinquencies and protect clients from borrowing more than
they can afford.  Under the  Monetary Authority of Singapore ’s proposals,
credit card and other unsecured debt holders with loans 60 days
past due or carrying a balance exceeding two months of income
for half a year would be barred from borrowing without
collateral, the banking and capital markets regulator said in a
consultation paper today.  Singapore, home to  Southeast Asia ’s three largest banks
including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , saw lenders’  charge-off rates 
jump in the third quarter as the economy slows. Banks are
seeking to boost fee income from services such as credit cards
to help offset the region’s lowest loan profitability and a
slowdown in borrowing.  “Lenders and borrowers both have a role to play in
ensuring that credit cards and unsecured credit are used
responsibly and within the borrower’s means to repay,” the
central bank said in a statement.  Singapore’s charge-off rates, or the ratio of bad-debt
write-offs to average outstanding  credit card  debt, jumped to
5.1 percent in the third quarter from 4 percent in the fourth
quarter last year, according to MAS data.  Lending Slows  To keep debt loads from spiraling out of control, the MAS
proposed that credit limit increases must be initiated by
borrowers to eliminate unsolicited offers from credit card
companies.  MAS proposals also include lender reviews of customers’
total outstanding debt and credit limits before issuing new
cards or increasing credit limits. Billing statements should
also clearly disclose the cost of delaying payments, the
 authority  said.  Year-on-year loan growth for Singapore banks in October
slowed to 17.9 percent, according to MAS data. Singapore banks
earn the least on loans in the region, based on their average
net interest margin of 1.99 percent, according to the most
recent data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore’s economy is forecast by the government to grow
at the slowest pace in three years in 2012 as faltering demand
for its goods weighs on the Southeast Asian nation.  The economy will grow by 1 percent to 3 percent in 2013
after expanding about 1.5 percent this year, the Trade Ministry
said in November. It had previously forecast growth of as much
as 2.5 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  