-- SMA Solar Buys Majority Stake in Chinese Inverter Maker
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2012-12-21T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/sma-solar-buys-majority-stake-in-chinese-inverter-maker.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) , Germany’s
biggest solar company by market value, agreed to buy a majority
stake in Jiangsu Zeversolar New Energy Co. to gain access to the
Chinese market.  SMA Solar will get 72.5 percent of the inverter maker in a
deal that gives Zeversolar an enterprise value of 319 million
 yuan  ($51 million), Niestetal-based SMA said in a statement. The
agreement is subject to Chinese regulatory approval.  ``The acquisition is absolutely necessary as all mature
markets are declining,'' Pierre-Pascal Urbon, chief executive
officer of SMA Solar, said today in a telephone interview.  Inverters convert the variable direct-current output of
solar panels into an alternating current for feeding into the
grid.  China  is forecast to be the world’s biggest market for the
technology next year, while business in  Europe  is declining 
after governments from Germany to Spain curbed subsidies for 
renewable power.  China allocated 13 billion yuan in solar subsidies this
year, according to Xinhua News Agency.  China has a target to operate 21 gigawatts of solar
photovoltaic power by 2015 as it pursues a goal to cut carbon
emissions by 17 percent per unit of gross domestic product. That
compares with 3 gigawatts of capacity at the end of last year,
European Photovoltaic Industry Association data show.  “It is possible that we will see 40 gigawatts by 2015 as
China has in the past beat its targets,” Urbon said.  China is forecast to leapfrog  Germany  to become the world’s
biggest solar photovoltaic market next year, with as much as 7.3
gigawatts of new installations, according to London-based
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  