-- South Africa Gold Miners With Silicosis File Class-Action Motion
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-12-21T18:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/south-africa-gold-miners-with-silicosis-file-class-action-motion.html
Thousands of mine workers who
contracted silicosis, a  lung disease , are seeking damages from
30 gold companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Harmony Gold
Mining Co. and Anglo American  South Africa  Ltd.  Richard Spoor, a human rights lawyer in South Africa, filed
an application for class certification of an action for damages
in Johannesburg’s South Gauteng High Court “on behalf of tens
of thousands of current and former gold mine workers, as well as
dependents of deceased workers, who contracted silicosis” as a
result of their work in  gold mines , according to an e-mail today
from Spoor’s office.  The applicants are Bongani Nkala and 30 other former mine
workers, who contracted silicosis while employed at the mines,
according to Spoor’s statement.  South Africa’s highest court in March 2011 cleared the way
for damages to be sought from gold companies by ruling that
former miner Thembekile Mankayi can pursue a claim against
AngloGold. The court rejected the company’s argument that
Mankayi, who died a week before the ruling, wasn’t entitled to
seek damages because he had already received a state payout.  An estimated 350,000 to 500,000 former mine workers may
suffer from occupational lung diseases in southern Africa, in
countries such as Lesotho, Mozambique, Botswana, Malawi and
Swaziland, Cape Town-based lawfirm Abrahams Kiewitz Attorneys
said in August, without giving a source of the estimates.  In a separate case,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  was sued in 2004 by
18 former miners at its President Steyn mine in the Free State
province. The case is set for arbitration in September next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  