-- Soybeans Climb as Slump to One-Month Low Lures Buyers, Investors
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-21T12:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/soybeans-climb-as-slump-to-one-month-low-lures-buyers-investors.html
Soybeans rebounded from the lowest
in a month amid speculation this week’s price slump will attract
importers, while crop conditions in  Brazil  may decline on the
return of dry weather in northern growing areas.  “It’s a sea of green” with the overnight grains higher on
bargain-hunting,  Dave Norris , an independent grain broker in
Harrogate,  England , wrote in a market comment today.  Brazil’s northern soybean and corn growing areas may have
dry weather through to the end of next week, increasing crop
stress, Telvent DTN Inc. wrote in a report yesterday. Corn and
soybean acreage in Argentina will probably be reduced after
excessive rains delayed planting, it said.  Soybeans for March delivery rose as much as 1.4 percent to
$14.245 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, and were at
$14.175 by 12:10 p.m. London time. The most-active contract fell
to $13.9775 yesterday, the cheapest since Nov. 20, after  China 
canceled U.S. purchases for the second time in three days.  “We’re looking at a technical recovery, buying after such
a savage decline,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said from  Melbourne  today. “The
bean market has obviously suffered over the previous few days.”  Soybeans, which traded at a record $17.89 in September, are
headed this week for the biggest loss since the five days to
Sept. 21. Prices for the oilseed have gained 17 percent this
year after the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s parched crops.  Wheat for March delivery rose 0.5 percent to $7.945 a
bushel in Chicago, poised for a 2.4 percent weekly loss.
Futures, which advanced to the highest in almost four years in
July, are up 22 percent this year.  Paris-Traded Wheat  Milling wheat for delivery the same month traded on NYSE
Liffe in Paris gained 1.3 percent to 251.50 euros ($332.17) a
ton, after sliding 2 percent yesterday. The contract has dropped
3 percent this week.  “There are signs now that U.S. wheat is competitively
priced and that sales will improve in the second half of the
season,” Norris wrote. Argentina “is only round halfway
through harvesting a small and low-quality wheat crop, which
will minimize its ability to drive world prices down,” he said.  Argentina’s Bahia Blanca exchange said the country’s wheat
crop, the biggest in  South America , may be 8 million tons,
compared with a government forecast for 10.5 million tons.  Corn for March delivery advanced 0.7 percent to $7.0125 a
bushel, set for a 4 percent loss this week, the biggest drop for
the most-active contract since the period to Sept. 21. Corn,
which surged to a record in August, has advanced 8.5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  