-- Soybeans Rise as Dry Weather Threatens Brazil Crop; Corn Gains
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-21T16:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/soybeans-rise-as-dry-weather-threatens-brazil-crop-corn-gains.html
Soybeans rose from a one-month low
on speculation that dry, warm weather in parts of  Brazil  will
reduce yield potential and increase demand prospects for U.S.
supplies. Corn climbed.  Dry weather and temperatures as much as 5 degrees
Fahrenheit above normal in the next week will increase stress on
crops in central and southeast Brazil, Mike Tannura, the
president of T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. About 45 percent of the crop has received half the
normal rain this month. Brazil is forecast to top the U.S. as
the world’s biggest soybean producer for the first time this
year.  “Perceptions that weather conditions are ideal in Brazil
are starting to be questioned,” Jim Gerlach, the president of
A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler,  Indiana , said in a telephone
interview. “People are starting to realize there are some
problems developing.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 1.3 percent to
$14.235 a bushel at 10:29 a.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
heading for the first gain this week. The most-active contract
yesterday touched $13.9775, the lowest since Nov. 20. The price
jumped 16 percent this year through yesterday after dry weather
reduced output in the U.S. to a four-year low.  Corn futures for March delivery advanced 0.7 percent to
$7.015 a bushel in Chicago, heading for the first increase this
week.  The grain rose on speculation a drop yesterday to a five-
month low of $6.875 will spur overseas demand for U.S. supplies,
Gerlach said. Imports in  China , the biggest consumer and
producer after the U.S., surged 57 percent in November from a
year earlier and were the highest ever for the month, the
Customs General Administration said today.  Prices gained 7.7 percent in 2012 through yesterday as
drought reduced U.S. output for a third year.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans, hay and wheat, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  