-- Spain Says Catalan Bank-Deposit Tax Is Unconstitutional
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-21T14:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/spain-approves-law-to-stop-regions-taxing-bank-deposits.html
Spain ’s central government will
contest Catalonia’s decree creating a tax on  bank deposits  as
unconstitutional, increasing tension with the region that plans
a referendum on secession.  The Cabinet approved the challenge today, Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told reporters in  Madrid 
after the weekly meeting. She reiterated that the central
government may impose a nationwide tax on deposits, without
giving details.  Catalonia passed the decree a day before the national
parliament moved to prevent regions from imposing their own
deposit taxes, and as the ruling party in Barcelona was in
coalition talks to form a new administration. The new Catalan
government, set to be voted in today with the support of a
smaller separatist party, plans to hold a referendum on
independence as soon as 2014, which the central government also
considers illegal.  The government’s challenge is based on the principle that
new taxes can’t be created by decree and interim governments
shouldn’t undertake such legislative measures, Saenz said.
Convergencia i Unio, the party that was re-elected on Nov. 25
without winning a majority, secured parliamentary support from
Catalan Republican Left after pledging new taxes and setting a
date for the independence referendum.  Spain’s Parliament passed a law yesterday creating a
national tax on bank deposits with a rate of zero, according to
the text published on the Parliament’s website. National taxes
take precedent over regional levies, and Saenz said the
government is trying to ensure a “single market” across Spain
for bank deposits.  The  Canary Islands , Andalusia and Extremadura, which
started taxing banks for deposits before the central government
prepared the new law, will be compensated for lost revenue in
line with rules on regional financing, said a spokesman for the
Budget Ministry who asked not to be identified in line with
ministry policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  