-- Gardner Denver Continues to Explore Sale as Talks With SPX End
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-12-21T22:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/spx-said-to-terminate-takeover-discussions-with-gardner-denver.html
Gardner Denver Inc. said it will
continue to explore a possible sale or a merger after talks with
 SPX Corp. (SPW)  were said to have terminated.  SPX, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based maker of pumps and
valves, has ended takeover negotiations with industrial
equipment maker Gardner Denver because its shareholders didn’t
support the deal, said two people familiar with the matter.  The discussions collapsed in part because SPX couldn’t get
the terms it wanted on a loan, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named as the process is private. Gardner Denver is now
getting back in touch with private-equity firms that expressed
interest, according to that person.  Gardner Denver said in an e-mailed statement that it will
continue to work with its adviser, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to
seek strategic alternatives and improve  shareholder value .  “These alternatives could include, among others, enhancing
the company’s existing strategic plan or a possible sale or
merger,” the company said today.  Board members of Gardner Denver were also reluctant about
the amount of SPX stock being offered, said a person familiar
with the matter. Before today, SPX shares had  tumbled  8.6
percent since Nov. 6, when  Bloomberg News  reported the company’s
interest. The shares rose 1.1 percent to $65.79 at the close.  Too Big  SPX investors are relieved that the deal fell through, said
 Nicholas Heymann , an analyst with William Blair & Co., in a
telephone interview. Gardner Denver was too big for SPX to buy.
Investors would prefer SPX to use proceeds of about $1 billion
from the sale of its vehicle-servicing unit, which was completed
this month, to repurchase shares, he said.  “It’s the idea of fishing for too big a fish in a
dinghy,” Heymann said.  Jennifer Epstein, a spokeswoman for SPX, didn’t return
telephone and e-mail messages.  Gardner Denver sank 11 percent to $67.40 after Reuters
reported the collapse of the SPX talks. It’s the biggest drop
since Aug. 8, 2011, and gives the company a market value of
about $3.31 billion.  An eventual sale would mark a victory for activist investor
ValueAct Capital Management LLC, owner of about 5.1 percent of
Gardner Denver’s stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
as of Sept. 30. The firm began lobbying for a sale in July after
Gardner Denver Chief Executive Officer Barry Pennypacker
resigned.  Gardner Denver, (GDI)  based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania , had hired
Goldman Sachs to advise on how to deal with ValueAct, people
familiar with the matter said earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  