-- Statoil to Invest More Than $7 Billion in U.K. Mariner Field
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-12-21T11:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/statoil-to-invest-more-than-7-billion-in-u-k-mariner-field.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest oil
and gas producer, will invest more than $7 billion in its
Mariner project, the largest offshore development in the U.K.
 North Sea  in more than a decade.  The Stavanger-based company plans to start production from
Mariner in 2017, it said in a statement today. The field is
expected to produce for 30 years with a plateau output of 55,000
barrels of oil a day in the first three years.  “We are satisfied that we now are able to make an
investment decision for a profitable development of the Mariner
field,” Lars Christian Bacher, Statoil executive vice president
for international development and production, said in the
statement.  Statoil’s investment decision comes five years after it
entered the license as operator and 31 years after the Mariner
heavy oil field was discovered. Offshore oil production in the
U.K. has fallen by more than 60 percent since 1999 to about 48
million tons in 2011, according to figures from the Department
of Energy and Climate Change.  Japan ’s JX Nippon Oil and Gas Exploration Corp. said
yesterday it had acquired  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s 28.89 percent stake in the
Mariner field, which is located 150 kilometers east of the
Shetland Isles. Statoil owns 65.11 percent of the license, with
Alba Resources Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of  Cairn Energy
Plc. (CNE) , holding the remaining 6 percent.  Steel Jacket  Mariner will be developed with a production, drilling and
quarters platform on a steel jacket, and a floating storage unit
with a capacity of 850,000 barrels The contract for engineering,
procurement and construction of the jacket has been awarded to
Dragados Offshore SA, while Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. has won the topside contract, Statoil said in
the statement. The contracts are valued at a total 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion).  “We have seen a lot of interest from the supplier industry
for the Mariner project,” said Anders Opedal, Statoil’s senior
vice president for projects.  Statoil will award the contract for the FSU and a tailor-
made jack-up rig  in the second quarter of 2013. Statoil will
also invite contractors to tender for risers, pipelines,
umbilicals, flowlines, power cables and marine operations before
the end of the year, with awards in the second quarter.  Statoil will make its final  investment decision  for the
Bressay North Sea field in 2013, it said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  