-- Stone Resigns From Accounting Oversight Board After SEC Claims
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-12-21T19:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/stone-resigns-from-accounting-oversight-board-after-sec-claims.html
Mary Stone resigned from the
Financial Accounting Foundation’s board of trustees less than
two weeks after she was accused by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of violating her responsibilities in overseeing
Morgan Keegan & Co. mutual funds during the credit crisis.  The FAF, which oversees the board that sets U.S. accounting
standards, expects to fill Stone’s spot next year, according to
a  press release  from the Norwalk, Connecticut-based
organization. Stone, an accounting professor at the  University
of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa, took a leave of absence on Dec. 10,
the day the SEC announced its claims against her and seven other
former directors of the funds.  The SEC accused the mutual funds’ directors of allowing
assets backed by subprime mortgages to be overvalued as the
housing market collapsed in 2007. The action followed a related
$200 million settlement with Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of
 Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , last year and sanctions against
two employees in 2010.  Stone and five other directors acted “diligently and in
good faith” and intend to contest the SEC’s allegations, which
they “emphatically deny,” their attorney, Stephen Crimmins of
K&L Gates in Washington, said in a Dec. 10 statement. Stone
didn’t return a call for comment today.  Her presence on the board was the subject of a Dec. 13
column by Bloomberg View’s  Jonathan Weil , who described her
appointment as “a serious lapse.”  The FAF also announced today that it appointed  John Dugan ,
former Comptroller of the Currency, to its board of trustees.
Charles Cox, the director of finance for the city of Farmers
Branch, Texas, and Teri List-Stoll, treasurer of Cincinnati-
based  Procter & Gamble Co ., also joined the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  