-- Sweden Cuts Economic Growth Forecast as Debt Crisis Hits Exports
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-21T09:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/sweden-cuts-economic-growth-forecast-as-debt-crisis-hits-exports.html
Sweden ’s government cut its economic
outlook for this year and next as the crisis in the euro zone
erodes demand for exports from the largest Nordic economy.  Gross domestic product will grow 0.9 percent this year,
less than a previous forecast for 1.6 percent, according to a
release handed out by the government in Stockholm today. The
economy will expand 1.1 percent in 2013, versus an earlier
estimate for 2.7 percent expansion, it said.  “The international uncertainty has caused households to
increase their savings and this in turn makes companies postpone
investments,” Finance Minister Anders Borg said at a press
conference in Stockholm today.  Sweden’s central bank this week cut its  repurchasing rate 
for a fourth time in a year, bringing it to 1 percent, as policy
makers seek to boost growth and limit unemployment. Some of
Sweden’s biggest companies, including  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Volvo
AB have cut thousands of jobs in an effort to adjust to
shrinking export markets. Sweden sells about half of its output
abroad, of which about 70 percent goes to  Europe .  The government will post a 0.4 percent deficit of  gross
domestic product  this year, bigger than a previous estimate for
a 0.3 percent shortfall, it said. The deficit will reach 1.3
percent next year, it said, more than double its previous
estimate.  Government Spending  The government in September said it will spend about 0.7
percent of gross domestic product on new initiatives next year
including infrastructure, research and a corporate tax cut to 22
percent from 26.3 percent.  Sweden’s central bank should consider cutting its key rate
to 0.25 percent next year to support growth, Mats Dillen,
director-general at the Swedish National Institute of Economic
Research, said earlier this week.  “It’s natural for the Riksbank to take the biggest
responsibility at this stage to stabilize the economy since
they’re quite some way from the inflation target and growth is
weak,” he said.  Inflation will average 0.9 percent this year and 0.6
percent in 2013, well below the Riksbank’s 2 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  