-- U.K. Recovery Weaker Than Estimated as Deficit Widens
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-21T11:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-k-recovery-weaker-than-estimated-as-gdp-revised-to-0-9-1-.html
Britain’s economy  expanded less than
previously estimated in the third quarter and the  budget deficit 
unexpectedly widened in November, complicating Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s attempts to bolster the recovery.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.9 percent from the second
quarter, down from a previous estimate of 1 percent, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in  London . The deficit
excluding government support for banks was 17.5 billion pounds
($28 billion), which compared with 16.3 billion pounds a year
earlier and the median forecast of 16 billion pounds in a
Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts this month and said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will miss his target of cutting the burden of government
debt by 2015, prompting warnings that Britain could lose its top
 credit rating . The third-quarter growth surge may prove short
lived, with the Bank of  England  warning the economy may shrink
this quarter and forecasting stagnant output in the near term.  “We’re expecting a fairly sluggish fourth quarter and the
public deficit doesn’t seem to be coming down as rapidly,” said
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The
future will be one of modest fiscal retrenchment.”  The growth in the three months through September was the
first for the U.K. since the third quarter of 2011. From a year
earlier, GDP was unchanged, the statistics office said.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were published. It was trading at $1.6245 as of 11:12 a.m. in
London, down 0.2 percent from yesterday.  GDP Revisions  Today’s report showed that manufacturing and production
output both rose 0.7 percent, less than the 0.9 percent
previously estimated. Services growth was revised to 1.2 percent
from 1.3 percent, while construction fell by 2.5 percent, less
than the 2.6 percent earlier reported.  The household savings ratio rose to 7.7 percent in the
three months through September from 7.4 percent in the previous
quarter, the highest since the third quarter of 2009. Real
household disposable income increased 0.4 percent after a 2.3
percent gain in the second quarter.  Consumer spending  was revised to show growth of 0.2 percent
in the second quarter and 0.5 percent in the first. Previously,
it was estimated to have fallen in the second quarter and risen
0.3 percent in the three months through March.  This “suggests a much stronger recovery in consumer
spending in 2012,” said  Andrew Goodwin , an economist at the
Ernst & Young ITEM Club in London. “This is the result of
strong employment growth and lower inflation. With inflation
expected to slow further, this must offer some hope that the
recovery can be sustained.”  Deficit Measures  The weak economy is hampering Osborne’s efforts to narrow
the budget deficit. Today’s public-finance data showed that
revenue was held back last month by a 12 percent drop in income-
tax receipts to 9.2 billion pounds. That was partly offset by
taxes on corporate profits, which rose 18 percent to 1.6 billion
pounds.  Welfare costs rose 5 percent on the year and central-
 government spending  jumped 9 percent, partly reflecting payments
to local academies. There was also an increase in  capital
investment .  “Today’s various data underline what the chancellor said
to parliament at the autumn statement: that it’s taking time,
but the British economy is healing,” the Treasury said in a
statement. “The deficit is down by a quarter since 2010, and
more than a million private-sector jobs have been created.”  BOE Policy  The statistics office also published a report showing
 business investment  rose 3.8 percent in the third quarter from
the previous three months and was up 5.1 percent on the year. In
a separate release, it said an  index of services  rose 0.1
percent in October from September and increased 2 percent from
the year-earlier month.  The  Bank of England  has halted its  bond-buying stimulus
program , though with the outlook still uncertain, it has left
the door open to more loosening if needed.  In the minutes of their Dec. 5-6 meeting, policy makers
said the “immediate risks emanating from the euro area seemed
less pressing than they had in the summer, and financial-market
sentiment had improved.” They added that the “drag from fiscal
consolidation and rebalancing in the periphery was likely to
continue into the medium term.” Recent data pointed to a
“continuing contraction in the euro area, but a stabilization
in global growth.”  U.S. Outlook  Data yesterday showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1
percent annual rate in the third quarter, more than previously
reported. Still, the world’s largest economy will be hard-
pressed to maintain that pace as global demand cools and
companies limit spending and hiring ahead of looming tax
increases and spending cuts. The index of U.S. leading
indicators fell 0.2 percent in November, according to a separate
report, pointing to a slowdown in the economy early next year.  Later today, a report from the Commerce Department will
probably show that U.S.  consumer spending  rose in November as
Americans set aside the threat of higher taxes next year while
shopping for the holidays.  Household purchases increased 0.4 percent after falling 0.2
percent in October, according to the median estimate from 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Other reports may show home
sales and demand for long-lasting goods climbed.  The Chicago Fed releases its National Activity Index for
November and the  University of Michigan  unveils a  consumer
confidence  index for December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  