-- U.K. Stocks Decline as U.S. Republicans Scrap Tax Vote
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-21T15:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-k-stocks-decline-as-u-s-republicans-scrap-tax-vote.html
U.K. stocks  slid after Republican
leaders in the U.S. canceled a vote on higher taxes for top
earners, fueling concern that party members will prevent
politicians from agreeing on a compromise budget.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  lost 1 percent after the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value agreed to sell its U.S. life unit for
$1.8 billion to a division of  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. fell as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 19.4 points, or 0.3 percent, to
5,938.94 at 3:18 p.m. in London, paring a decline of as much as
0.8 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also fell 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.2 percent.  “The markets are tracking the fiscal-cliff developments,
and waxing and waning accordingly,”  Richard Hunter , head of
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in London, wrote in an e-
mail. “The latest news from the U.S. is implying something of
an impasse. As such, levels are likely to remain under pressure
until there is some meaningful progress reported.”  The volumes of shares changing hands on the FTSE was 35
percent greater than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  abandoned his plan to
raise tax rates on annual incomes above $1 million, yielding to
resistance from party colleagues. Talks between Boehner and
President  Barack Obama  have already stalled with only days to go
before the deadline for a budget compromise.  Consumer Confidence  U.K.  consumer confidence  fell in December from an 18-month
high as optimism about the outlook for the economy plunged, GfK
NOP Ltd. said. The London-based research group’s  sentiment index 
declined to minus 29 from minus 22 in November. Economists had
forecast a drop to minus 25, according to the  median of 21
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Aviva Plc lost 1 percent to 380.2 pence. The insurer will
receive $1.55 billion of cash from the sale after it pays off
external debt, according to a statement.  ENRC (ENRC)  dropped 0.8 percent to 278.5 pence as Goldman Sachs
downgraded the producer of metals in Kazakhstan to neutral from
buy. The brokerage cited recent strategic announcements by the
company, which produces ferroalloys and iron ore as well as
copper, for the downgrade.  On Dec. 7, the commodity producer offered $550 million to
buy out Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler from a company holding
interests in copper and cobalt licenses in the Democratic
Republic of Congo. The stock will fail to climb because of
concern that it has too much debt, according to Goldman.  Evraz Plc (EVR) , the Russian steelmaker partly owned by
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , fell 4.2 percent to 255.8 pence. A
gauge of commodity companies declined 0.6 percent.  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/) , the U.K.’s largest publicly
traded water company, gained 1 percent to 680.5 pence.  Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , the  U.K.’s second-largest water company ,
added 1.9 percent to 1,599 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  