-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Index Falls as Economic View Plunges
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-k-consumer-confidence-index-falls-as-economic-view-plunges.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  fell in
December from an 18-month high as optimism about the outlook for
the economy plunged, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  A sentiment index fell to minus 29 from minus 22 in
November, which was the strongest reading since May 2011, the
London-based research group said in an e-mailed report today.
Economists had forecast a drop to minus 25, according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumers are under pressure from  inflation  that’s
outpacing wage growth and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s fiscal squeeze. Measures of  retail sales  published
this week shows shoppers are holding back on holiday shopping
while the recovery struggles to gain traction.  “Consumer sentiment is still fragile despite the fact that
Christmas is less than a week away,” said Nick Moon, managing
director of social research at GfK.  A measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next
12 months fell 16 points to minus 31, the lowest in six months,
while the outlook for their personal finances was unchanged at
minus 7. The climate for making major purchases dropped 1 point
to minus 27.  A gauge of consumers’ view of the economy over the past 12
months fell 11 points to minus 55. GfK interviewed 2,002 people
from Nov. 30 to Dec. 9.  Retail sales were unchanged in November after dropping 0.7
percent the previous month, the  Office for National Statistics 
said yesterday. A day earlier, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said its gauge of  annual sales growth  fell to 19 in
December from 33 in November.  Data later today will probably confirm the U.K. exited
recession in the third quarter with growth of 1 percent.  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  has said Britons should be braced
for a “zig-zag” pattern of recovery amid headwinds from the
crisis in Europe and strains in credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  