-- U.S. Left Syrian Children to the Devil
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2012-12-21T00:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-left-syrian-children-to-the-devil.html
The barbarisms inflicted on the
young in Syria continue unabated while Americans grieve for the
children of Newtown,  Connecticut .  In the U.S., we try to fathom the cruelty, and the faces of
the first-graders torment us. Similar stories are told by
Syrians suffering at the hands of Bashar al-Assad’s brutal
regime. One such account was given in “Untold Atrocities,” a
report released several months ago by the Save the Children
charity. It opens with the tale of one Syrian child, Alaa, as
told by Wael, a narrator who is 16 years old.  “I knew a boy named Alaa. He was only 6 years old. He
didn’t understand what was happening. I’d say that 6-year-old
boy was tortured more than anyone else in the room. He wasn’t
given food or water for three days, and he was so weak that he
used to faint all the time. He was beaten regularly. I watched
him die. He only survived for three days and then he simply
died. He was terrified the whole time.”  In the matter of  Syria , the ordeal has lost its shock
value. Early in this rebellion, the world stirred to the
suffering of Hamza al-Khatib, a child who died under horrific
torture, and whose disfigured body was returned to his family --
a warning of what the regime had in store for those who dared to
rise against the tyranny.  There were the boys in the forlorn town of Deraa, south of
Damascus. They had been picked up and tortured for scribbling
graffiti on the walls of their city calling for the fall of the
dictatorship. In the nature of such things, the regime hunkered
down and bet that the outrage over the horrors would blow over,
that no foreign cavalry would come to the rescue.  Empty Warnings  In this drawn-out war, the end was always near. A long year
ago, Frederic Hof, then the State Department’s man on Syria,
described Assad as “a dead man walking.” Now there is new talk
of the Syrian regime coming apart, of Assad giving up what is
left of Damascus, and making a run to the coastal town of
Latakia and the Alawite mountains to its east, carving out a
mini-state for himself and his sect.  Behind him, he would leave scorched earth: He has all but
reduced the fabled northern city of Aleppo to rubble, and all
signs indicate that he would do the same to Damascus. Ancient
cities, among the oldest human habitations on Earth and bearers
of the civilizations that left their mark there, have been
punished by a despot who was strangely offended that the people
had risen against the regime that imposed their servitude.  We should grant American diplomacy under the stewardship of
Secretary  Hillary Clinton  its due: It ran out the clock on the
Syrians. There was always another “Friends of Syria”
diplomatic gathering, another meeting with Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov , and always another test of pluralism and
inclusiveness that the Syrian opposition had to meet before we
deemed it worthy of our support. When  Kofi Annan  failed and
called it quits, another United Nations envoy was dispatched,
the Algerian diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi.  Mission accomplished: The war in Syria never intruded on
the U.S. presidential contest. Many months earlier, in August
2011, President  Barack Obama  had given up on the legend of Assad
the reformer, and called on the Syrian ruler to abdicate. That
declaration was the sum of U.S. policy. America had put itself
on the side of good things in Syria, and no more needed to be
done. “Complexity” was always the cover, and the pretext, for
abdication.  American power couldn’t break the cruel stalemate, and the
U.S. couldn’t support a no-fly zone on Syria’s frontier with
 Turkey  because Syria was a country with a complicated history
and sensitive borders.  Jihadists’ Opening  The passivity would become self-fulfilling. In due course,
Syria’s war spilled over into neighboring countries. That war
came to Lebanon, the most vulnerable of those neighbors; even
Turkey, a powerful and big country, came under great stress.
Refugees overwhelmed Jordan -- in the best of times a country of
limited means and precarious stability. Syria had always been a
pivot of the region around it, and it had been folly to think it
could burn while the peace in the region held intact.  A Syrian future is being shaped, and the U.S. will have no
say about the kind of order to emerge out of this war. We have
made much of the jihadists who came into Syria to do battle
against the dreadful regime. This month, the State Department
designated one such jihadist group, the Nusra Front, as a global
terrorist organization. “We are all Nusra Front,” Syrian
protesters proclaimed as an answer to that decision. A
population fighting for its life was willing to take the devil’s
help.  Obama had drawn his own red line: The use of chemical
weapons would change his “calculus,” he said. No Syrians paid
heed to that declaration. The regime’s fighter jets and its
artillery, and the massacres by its vigilantes, were ruin
enough.  Recent surveys confirm that there is no support for a more
robust American role in Syria. A poll of some 1,500 adults,
conducted Dec. 5-9, found 64 percent of respondents disagreed
with the assertion that the U.S. has a “responsibility to do
something about fighting in Syria,” while 25 percent were in
favor. Furthermore, 65 percent opposed supplying arms to the
Syrian rebels, and only 24 percent favored it.  The political calculus had its own power: There was no
constituency for a Syrian rescue. One would have thought that it
is the burden of leaders to lead, to spell out to a skeptical,
reluctant public what the stakes are in distant quarrels. But
that is too much to ask for in this moment of American doubt and
retrenchment abroad.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and the author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 