-- U.S. Stocks Drop as House Republicans Cancel Vote
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-12-21T21:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-house-republicans-cancel-vote.html
U.S. stocks sank, paring the weekly
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after House Republican
leaders canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners and sent
budget talks deeper into turmoil.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost 2 percent for the biggest
decline in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU)  slumped 6.9 percent after posting a wider first-quarter
loss. Research In Motion Ltd. tumbled 23 percent after the
BlackBerry maker said it will overhaul service fees.  Nike Inc. (NKE) 
advanced 6.2 percent as the world’s largest sporting-goods
company’s profit exceeded analysts’ projections.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.9 percent to 1,430.15 today,
marking its biggest drop since Nov. 14. It has still advanced 14
percent this year, heading toward the biggest annual gain since
2009. The Dow slid 120.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to 13,190.84
today.  “With such a staunch group in the House, it looks as if
the odds of going into 2013 without a deal have increased,”
Kevin Caron, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based market strategist
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130 billion in
assets, said by telephone. “I don’t know whether we’re going to
reach a deal, when we’re going to reach a deal, if there’s going
to be a deal. It’s just a complete wild card at this point.”  Recession Risk  Trading in  S&P 500  companies was about 52 percent higher
than the 30-day average as all 10 industry groups fell. The
index, which rallied earlier this week on signs budget talks
were progressing, pared its weekly gain to 1.2 percent today.
The  Congressional Budget Office  has said that the U.S. may slip
into a recession if lawmakers fail to pass a budget that averts
more than $600 billion of automatic tax-and-spending changes
scheduled to start in January.  Stocks rose yesterday as House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
expects to keep working on a budget plan with President  Barack Obama . Futures dropped later as Boehner scrapped a vote on a
plan to allow higher tax rates on annual income above $1
million, yielding to anti-tax resistance within his own party.  House members and senators won’t vote on the end-of-year
budget issues until after Christmas, giving them less than a
week to reach agreement to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.
Boehner called upon Obama and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
to come up with legislation to avoid the fiscal cliff.  ‘Fiscal Drag’  “We still have to think of a 2 percent fiscal drag on the
economy in the first half of 2013,” Otto Waser, chief
investment officer at Research & Asset Management AG in Zurich,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “That will
inevitably mean a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  and probably some
pressure on the markets. There is nothing certain at the
moment.”  Reports today showed spending by U.S. consumers climbed in
November as Americans pushed aside the threat of higher taxes
next year, buying gifts for the holidays and making up for
shopping lost to superstorm Sandy. Purchases rose 0.4 percent
last month after a 0.1 percent drop in October, Commerce
Department figures showed. The gain matched the median forecast
of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Incomes rebounded after
being depressed in October by lost wages due to Sandy.  A separate report showed demand for goods such as machinery
and electronics climbed more than forecast in November. Orders
for durable goods increased 0.7 percent last month after a 1.1
percent gain in October. The advance exceeded the median
forecast of economists for a 0.3 percent rise.  Phone, financial and energy stocks posted the biggest
losses among S&P 500 groups, falling at least 1.1 percent.  Banks Slump  Bank of America , the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
declined 2 percent to $11.29.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  dropped 1.7 percent
to $39.49, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost 1.2 percent to $44.  Micron Technology slumped 6.9 percent to $6.32 for the
biggest retreat in the S&P 500. The largest U.S. maker of memory
chips reported a wider fiscal first-quarter loss as a slump in
demand for personal computers led to a supply glut, weighing
down prices.  Research In Motion slid 23 percent to $10.91. Subscribers
who want enhanced services, including advanced security, will
continue to pay a fee, while others who don’t use such services
“are expected to generate less or no service revenue,” Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said on a conference call
yesterday. Service fees account for more than a third of revenue
in the last quarter.  Nike Beats  Nike rallied 6.2 percent to $105.10 after second-quarter
profit of $1.14 per share topped the average analyst estimate of
$1 per share. That excludes the $137 million in losses
associated with the Umbro and Cole Haan businesses Nike is
selling or has sold.  Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  rose 4.5 percent to $54.99. The company
reported third-quarter sales of $343.6 million in the period
that ended Nov. 30, compared with the average analyst forecast
of $338.1 million.  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  surged 20 percent to $26.50.
 Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  agreed to buy the Las Vegas-based
company for $900 million, more than doubling in size to 17
casino resorts. Pinnacle jumped 21 percent to $16.20.  Risk perceptions for U.S. equities have  risen  to the
highest level in four years compared with European stocks as the
American economy faces a recession should lawmakers fail to
reach a budget agreement.  VIX, VStoxx  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
gauge of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index option prices, rose to
17.67 this month through yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since December 2008
versus  Europe ’s VStoxx Index, which closed at 15.76 yesterday.
U.S. equities are lagging behind Europe, with the S&P 500 up 13
percent from its June 1 low, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
has gained 20 percent since then.  The VIX  jumped  1 percent to 17.84 today, as the VStoxx
climbed 14 percent to 17.89.  “The relative prices of risk prices have been suggesting
that risk has become more US centric,” Dean Curnutt, chief
executive officer of New York-based Macro Risk Advisors LLC
which specializes in derivatives strategy, wrote in a note
today. It “points to the fear in the market that U.S.
politicians will be unable to pass a fiscal cliff resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  