-- U.S. Stock Futures Slump as House Republicans Scrap Vote
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-12-21T09:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-slump-as-house-republicans-delay-vote.html
U.S. stock-index futures tumbled
after House Republican leaders canceled a planned vote on
Speaker John Boehner’s plan to raise rates for taxpayers making
more than $1 million, as time runs down in budget talks.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  futures sank 1.3 percent to
1,421.80 as of 8:55 a.m. in  London , after slumping as much as
3.4 percent today. The benchmark for U.S. equities rose 0.6
percent yesterday to 1,443.69 before Boehner’s “plan B” was
shelved. The gauge has risen 15 percent this year, poised for
its biggest annual  gain  since 2009.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said the House did not vote on
the tax because it didn’t have enough support from his party’s
members. A House leadership announcement said the chamber will
hold no more votes until after the Christmas holiday and will
return “when needed.” Fewer than two weeks remain to avert
more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases, known as the fiscal cliff, set to start in January.  “Dangerous political theatrics continued out of the U.S.
this morning,”  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-
based Parry International Trading Ltd., said by phone today.
“Delays have a greater impact to the downside for markets.”  Republicans had barely got enough votes earlier to pass a
spending-cut measure they brought up in a bid to gain support
for Boehner’s bill among lawmakers wary of increasing tax rates
without also reducing federal program costs. The Congressional
Budget Office says the U.S. will probably tumble back into a
recession should lawmakers fail to reach an accord on the
budget.  “Now it is up to the president to work with Senator Reid
on legislation to avert the fiscal cliff,” Boehner said in a
statement. Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, is Senate majority
leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  