-- U.S. Stocks Advance for Week as Investors Watch Budget Talks
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-stocks-advance-for-week-as-investors-watch-budget-talks.html
U.S. stocks climbed  this week ,
sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest advance
in a month, as reports signaled stronger economic growth and
investors weighed prospects for a budget deal in Washington.  The  S&P 500  pared its rally on the final day of the week as
budget talks stalled.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  jumped 6.7 percent,
pacing gains in financial stocks. NYSE Euronext surged 38
percent after  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  agreed to buy the
owner of the New York Stock Exchange for $8.2 billion. Herbalife
Ltd. tumbled 38 percent after hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman 
said he is shorting the stock.  The S&P 500 climbed 1.2 percent this week to 1,430.15, the
biggest rally since Nov. 23. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 55.83 points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,190.84.  “All the drama obviously continues to be centered around
what is happening or not happening in Washington,” Eric
Wiegand, a New York-based senior fund manager at U.S. Bank
Wealth Management, which oversees $111 billion, said by
telephone. “We’re hopeful, but not completely optimistic,
because we do think there’s a fairly meaningful gulf between the
parties.”  The S&P 500 rose earlier in the week as House Speaker  John
Boehner  said he expects to keep working on a budget plan with
President  Barack Obama  and reports on industrial production and
economic growth topped forecasts. The index sank 0.9 percent on
Dec. 21 as Boehner canceled a vote on a plan to allow higher tax
rates on annual income above $1 million, yielding to resistance
within his own party and spurring concern that Congress will
fail to reach a budget compromise.  Budget Talks  House members and senators won’t vote on the end-of-year
budget issues until after Christmas, giving them less than a
week to reach agreement to avert more than $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect in January. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said that a failure to avert
those changes, known as the fiscal cliff, will probably lead to
a recession in the first half of 2013.  The S&P 500 has lost 0.7 percent so far this quarter as
Obama and House Republicans differed over how to avoid the
automatic deficit-reduction measures. The benchmark equity gauge
is still up 14 percent for the year, heading toward its biggest
annual gain since 2009.  Improving Economy  Stocks also advanced after third-quarter economic growth
was revised higher. The 3.1 percent growth in gross domestic
product exceeded the highest projection in a Bloomberg survey.
The median estimate of economists called for a 2.8 percent
advance. Industrial production rose 1.1 percent in November,
more than three times as fast as economists estimated.  Other reports also signaled expansion in the world’s
largest economy. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general  economic index  increased to 8.1 in December from minus
10.7 a month earlier. A reading of zero is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Sales of previously owned homes rose more than forecast in
November to reach a three-year high as lower borrowing costs
sustained the U.S. housing rebound, the National Association of
Realtors reported. The  S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index (S15HOME) 
gained 4.2 percent this week.  “We’re actually seeing some improvement in the economic
data,” Wiegand said. “Talking to clients who are business
owners, they may not have confidence in creating their business
plans for the next six months. But for the next 12 or 24,
there’s a degree of optimism.”  Banks Advance  Bank of America climbed 6.7 percent, the biggest rally in
the Dow, to $11.29. Financial stocks posted the largest gain out
of  10 groups , climbing 3.1 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
jumped 7.6 percent to $128.44 for its biggest gain since
September.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rose 2.8 percent to $44.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  surged 38 percent this week to $32.25.
IntercontinentalExchange, the 12-year-old energy and commodity
futures bourse, agreed to acquire the company for cash and stock
worth $8.2 billion. Both boards approved the proposal and the
companies expect to complete the transaction in the second half
of 2013. IntercontinentalExchange slipped 1.3 percent to
$126.25.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  rallied 11 percent to $19.39. The
electronics manufacturer reported  first-quarter earnings  were 61
cents a share, exceeding the average analyst estimate by 5
cents. Revenue in the same period was $4.6 billion, higher than
the $4.4 billion projected by analysts.  Knight Takeover  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  increased 9 percent to $3.53. The
 market-maker  pushed to the brink of bankruptcy in August agreed
to a takeover by Getco LLC. Chicago-based high-frequency trader
Getco offered $3.75 a share for Knight, one-third of it in
stock, for a total value of $1.4 billion.  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  plunged 38 percent to $27.27, the lowest
level in more than two years. The maker of weight-loss and
nutritional supplements tumbled after Ackman said he’s more
certain about his short position on the company than he’s ever
been in an investment, saying the company is a pyramid scheme.
Herbalife Chief Executive Officer Michael O. Johnson said
Ackman’s allegation is “bogus.”  In a short sale, investors sell borrowed stock in the hopes
that it will fall and they’ll profit by repaying the loan with
cheaper shares.  Merck & Co. lost 4.6 percent to $41.52 for the biggest
retreat in the Dow. The company won’t seek U.S. marketing
approval for its good-cholesterol drug Tredaptive after a key
study showed it ineffective and potentially harmful.  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , publisher of “Medal of Honor,” fell
9.2 percent to $13.89. Makers and retailers of video games
retreated amid growing pressure from Washington and advocacy
groups concerned about possible links between violent games and
tragedies like the Newtown, Connecticut, school massacre. A bill
introduced this week directs the National Academy of Sciences to
examine whether violent games and programs lead children to act
aggressively.  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , the maker of “Grand
Theft Auto,” lost 13 percent to $11.35.  GameStop Corp. (GME) , the
video-game chain, slid 7.1 percent to $25.57.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  