-- U.S. Urges Russia Not to Ban Adoption of Russians in America
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-12-21T16:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-urges-russia-not-to-ban-adoption-of-russians-in-america.html
The U.S. appealed to  Russia  not to
ban adoptions of Russian orphans in America after President
Vladimir Putin backed the measure as retaliation against human-
rights sanctions imposed by Congress.  Russia’s lower house of parliament today approved the ban
by 420 to 7, with one abstention, in the third and final
reading. At his annual news conference yesterday, Putin said the
step, proposed by lawmakers, was “emotional but appropriate.”
The law will now go to the upper house and to Putin for
signature.  U.S. Ambassador to Russia, Michael McFaul, said his country
was “very concerned” about the initiative, according to a
statement posted today on the embassy’s website. It will “link
the fate of orphaned children to unrelated political issues and
needlessly remove the path to families for hundreds of Russian
children each year,” he said.  Ties with the U.S. have deteriorated after Congress passed
a bill this month that imposes a visa ban and asset freeze on
Russian officials allegedly linked to the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses. Tensions are growing
after Putin, who faced unprecedented protests over the past
year, criticized U.S. efforts to promote democracy in his
country and oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Putin said yesterday that the ban on adoptions couldn’t
take effect immediately because a treaty between Russia and the
U.S. regulating the process requires a year’s notice to
withdraw.  Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said yesterday in an
interview posted on the ministry’s website that he didn’t
support an end to U.S. adoptions of Russian children because
this would remove Russia’s right to monitor the treatment of its
citizens who have been placed in American families.  The Foreign Ministry sought in 2010 to freeze adoptions by
U.S. citizens after an American woman returned her adopted
Russian son unaccompanied to Moscow and reports of 17 deaths and
cases of abuse triggered calls for a ban.  The two countries then signed a treaty tightening oversight
of adoptions that came into effect last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  