-- Treasuries Gain for 3rd Day After House Scraps Tax Vote
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-21T22:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-yield-premiums-are-near-highest-in-3-months-versus-japan.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing 10-year
yields down the most in six weeks, after House Republican
leaders scrapped a plan to allow higher taxes as budget
negotiations stalled.  Bonds remained higher, rising for a third day, even after
data showed U.S. consumer spending climbed. House Speaker  John
Boehner ’s decision to scrap the tax plan means lawmakers won’t
vote until after Christmas on ending a budget-deficit showdown
that may push the economy into recession. If they fail to reach
an accord by year-end, more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts will start taking effect.  “Nobody is looking at the data, as the Treasuries move is
all about the fiscal-cliff breakdown that called into question
the ability to deliver an agreement before year-end,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies in New York at GMP
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview. “There may be a
last-minute deal, but there has been a notable increase in risk
in the markets.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 gained 10/32, or
$3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 3/4.  The  yield  on the benchmark note slid as much as six basis
points, the most since Nov. 7, to 1.7337 percent. It reached
below its 200-day moving average of 1.7491 percent after
climbing above it on Dec. 17. Moving averages are levels that
are seen by some traders as turning points in the direction of a
security’s price.  Weekly Loss  Today’s gain pared the 10-year note’s third  weekly loss .
The yield increased six basis points since Dec. 14, and it
touched 1.85 percent on Dec. 18, the highest since Oct. 25.  Thirty-year bond  yields decreased five basis points to 2.92
percent and touched 2.92 percent, the lowest since Dec. 17.  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped 21 percent
from yesterday to $198 billion, the least in more than a week.
It touched $357 billion on Dec. 18, the highest since Nov. 7.
Daily volume has averaged $241 billion in 2012.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends that, to observe the Christmas holiday,  trading stop 
at 2 p.m. New York time on Dec. 24 and remain closed Dec. 25.  Net Longs  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ended Dec. 18, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative  long positions , or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 67,142 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the least since August. Net-long positions fell
by 69,837 contracts, or 51 percent, from a week earlier, the
Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of Traders
report. It was the biggest weekly drop since March.  Large speculators increased their net-long bets on  two-year
note  futures in the same week, CFTC data showed. Long positions
outnumbered short positions by 168,622 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the most since August. Net-long positions rose
by 108,231 contracts, or 179 percent, from a week earlier, the
commission said.  Treasuries have returned 1.8 percent this year, set for the
worst annual performance since a 3.7 percent decline in 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
U.S. government securities have lost investors 0.4 percent this
quarter and 0.8 percent in December.  Tax Accusations  A vote on Boehner’s plan to allow higher tax rates was
canceled because of resistance from within his own Republican
party, the House speaker said yesterday in a statement. Boehner
told reporters today members of his Republican caucus refused to
back it because they didn’t want to be accused of raising taxes.  Until Dec. 17, President  Barack Obama  and Boehner had been
edging closer to a deal that would have included $1 trillion
each in tax increases and spending cuts.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the spending
reductions and tax increases set to begin next month would
probably lead to a recession in the first half of 2013 if
they’re not averted.  “They have essentially put the ‘if’ back into fiscal
cliff, but the Treasury market reaction has been relatively
moderate, which is symptomatic of the fact it’s not over yet,”
said  Richard McGuire , a senior rates strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . If a deal is reached “we should get a
risk-on move which would push Treasury yields higher.”  Consumer Spending  Treasuries stayed higher even after reports suggested the
 U.S. economy  is gathering momentum, which usually fuels appetite
for riskier assets.  Purchases by U.S. consumer increased 0.4 percent last month
after a 0.1 percent drop in October that was smaller than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The gain matched the median forecast of 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Incomes rebounded after being
depressed in October by lost wages due to Sandy. Durable-goods
orders rose 0.7 percent in November, more than forecast, the
Commerce Department said in another report.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries today
due from February 2036 to November 2042. The purchase was part
of a program known as Operation Twist, under which the central
bank is replacing its holdings of shorter-dated securities with
longer-maturity debt to hold down borrowing costs.  The Fed will begin buying $45 billion of Treasuries a month
next year in an expanded round of quantitative easing. The new
purchases won’t involve selling shorter-term securities.  The Treasury sold $14 billion of inflation-linked notes
yesterday at a record-low  yield  of negative 1.496 percent in the
final of four offerings this week totaling $114 billion in
nominal and inflation-indexed notes.  This week’s offerings closed the books on $2.153 trillion
of government debt sales in 2012, setting a record for demand at
the Treasury’s auctions for a third consecutive year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  