-- U.S. to Study Staffing at Air-Traffic Control Facilities
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-12-21T19:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/u-s-to-study-staffing-at-air-traffic-control-facilities.html
The U.S. Department of
Transportation’s inspector general will study how the  Federal
Aviation Administration  is staffing air-traffic facilities, some
of which deploy more controllers than required by agency
guidelines.  The number of U.S. controllers has increased slightly as
flight operations have declined 23 percent since 2000, “raising
questions about the efficiency of the FAA’s current workforce,”
 Jeffrey Guzzetti , an assistant inspector general, said in a
memorandum distributed by e-mail.  The inspector general’s office, which oversees the FAA,
said it was responding to a request from Republican
Representatives  John Mica  of  Florida  and Thomas Petri of
 Wisconsin  to assess the estimated cost savings from improved
controller productivity.  The audit will begin next month, Guzzetti said.  Mica and Petri are the outgoing chairmen of the House
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and its
subcommittee on aviation, respectively.  “As many as two-thirds of the FAA’s air traffic control
facilities are currently over-staffed,” Mica and Petri said in
a letter to the inspector general’s office.  More than 100 U.S. airport towers and radar rooms have so
few flights that they should be shut down late at night under
the FAA’s guidelines, a move that would save taxpayers $10
million a year, according to a Bloomberg News report Nov. 14.  Air traffic has fallen by 50 percent or more since 2000 at
47 airports with FAA-staffed towers, including former airline
hubs in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and  St. Louis . Facilities at all
three of those airports have more controllers than required,
according to an FAA report cited by Bloomberg.  The FAA documents were obtained through Freedom of
Information Act filings.  The inspector general’s office said the lawmakers sent
their request for an audit on Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  