-- Humane Society CEO Drops Icahn-Backed Bid for Tyson Board
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-12-21T15:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/humane-society-ceo-drops-icahn-backed-bid-for-tyson-board.html
Humane Society of the U.S. Chief
Executive Officer Wayne Pacelle, who is trying to pressure  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN)  to phase out gestation crates for sows, dropped a
plan to seek a seat on the company’s board.  Tyson, the second-largest U.S. pork processor, has a dual-
class share structure that would allow the Springdale, Arkansas-
based company to reject his bid, Pacelle said.  Pacelle filed to join the Tyson board in October to urge
the company to phase out crates that constrain the movement of
female pigs. Billionaire activist investor  Carl Icahn  said that
month he agreed to serve as an adviser in Pacelle’s effort.  “What we’re picking up from Tyson is they are not
receptive to this path,” Pacelle said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The end goal is not for me to be on the board. The
end goal is for the company to adopt common-sense animal welfare
policies.”  Tyson, which also processes chicken and beef and is the
largest  meat processor  in the U.S., announced in October the
start of a program to audit the treatment of animals at the
farms that supply the company, Worth Sparkman, a spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  “While we support the right of farmers to choose the best
method for raising their hogs, we also support our customers’
right to choose the best product specifications for their
consumers and businesses,” Sparkman said.  Availability ‘Limited’  “The availability of pork from hogs born to group-penned
sows is currently very limited,” he said. “However, we will
monitor this supply and, if there’s a sufficient increase over
time, we’ll explore the possibility of using it to meet the
needs of those customers who want pork from hogs raised this
way.”  Tyson is “out of step” with U.S. consumers, Pacelle said.
The animal-protection charity will use public-awareness efforts,
litigation, investigations and corporate campaigns to pressure
Tyson, he said.  This year, about 50 major food retailers have agreed to
phase out purchases of pork from suppliers that rely on
gestation crates, Pacelle said.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, and  Kroger Co. (KR) , the biggest U.S.
grocery store chain, have urged suppliers to shift away from
them as well.  ‘Very Important’  A decision five years ago by  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the
world’s largest hog producer and pork processor, to move toward
group housing “is becoming very important to our customers and
is an important factor in the recent growth in our food-service
business,” Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope said on a Dec.
6 conference call.  Pork accounted for 16 percent of  Tyson’s sales  in the
fiscal year through September 2012 and a third of operating
income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tyson buys hogs from thousands of independent farms, some
of which use gestation stalls for mother pigs, Sparkman said.
Tyson’s Pork Group Inc. unit raises hogs and feeder and weaned
pigs for sale to processors and represents less than 3 percent
of the company’s total pork production, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  