-- Hungary Eurobond Yield Hits 7-Week Low on Fitch; Forint Slides
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-21T16:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/hungary-eurobond-yield-hits-7-week-low-as-fitch-lifts-outlook.html
Hungary ’s foreign-currency bond
yields slid to the lowest in seven weeks after  Fitch Ratings 
raised the country’s outlook to stable from negative on the
government’s plans to narrow the deficit. The forint dropped.  The yield on Hungary’s 2021 dollar notes fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.752, the lowest since
Oct. 31, by 4 p.m. in Budapest. The forint weakened 1.2 percent
to 288.41 per euro after gaining 1 percent in the previous two
days. The currency slid 1.6 percent this week, the biggest
depreciation since the five days through Aug. 31.  Fitch kept Hungary’s long-term rating at BB+, its highest
junk grade, according to a statement late yesterday. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  has introduced new taxes, including
special levies on the banking and telecommunication industries,
to keep the budget shortfall below 3 percent of economic output
and avoid losing European Union development funds.  Fitch’s move was a “shock” given market expectations the
ratings company may downgrade Hungary, Peter Attard Montalto, a
London-based strategist at Nomura International Plc, wrote by e-
mail today. “While we certainly do not underestimate the
government’s commitment” to budget discipline, Orban’s fiscal
policies are “unsustainable” in many areas, Montalto said.  U.S. Standoff  The forint slid today as standoff between U.S. parties on
budget talks hit demand for emerging-market assets, with the
benchmark MSCI stock index falling the most in six weeks.  “Global markets are moving today on concern about the U.S.
talks on the fiscal cliff,”  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based analyst
at broker Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in a research report
today.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Hungary’s rating to two steps
below investment grade on Nov. 23, saying Orban’s policies are
eroding economic-growth prospects.  The forint fell to a record low against the euro in January
and the yield on the country’s 2021 dollar bond yield peaked at
9.37 percent as Orban’s seizure of pension assets and the
imposition of foreign-currency losses on banks cost Hungary its
investment-grade  credit rating . The currency has gained 9.1
percent against the euro this year, the biggest gain among 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Polish zloty.  Hungary’s local-currency bonds returned 37 percent this
year in dollar terms, the most worldwide after Greek and
Portuguese debt, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Non-
residents increased their holdings to a record 5 trillion forint
on Dec 14, according to state data.  Hungary’s public debt will fall to 73 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from a projected 77 percent this year,
according to government forecasts.  The forint jumped 9 percent in 2012 as the country reduced
its budget deficit and bond purchases by central banks in the
euro region and the U.S stoked demand for riskier assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  