-- Hunter Numbers Fall to Record Low Even As Guns Increase
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-12-21T02:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/hunter-numbers-fall-to-record-low-even-as-guns-increase.html
The ranks of hunters in the U.S.
fell last year to a record low, the government reported
yesterday, even as the estimated number of guns soared past one
for every man, woman and child in the country.  About 13.7 million people hunted in 2011, a drop of 400,000
from 1991, when the nation had 60 million fewer people, the  U.S.
Census Bureau said . The survey highlights the power of the
firearms lobby, which has successfully blocked major legislation
even though the number of hunters and percentage of gun owners
have fallen during the past two decades.  Congress and the White House are considering action after
last week’s massacre of 20 children and seven adults in Newtown,
Connecticut. Hunters, whose firearm use has been cited to block
gun-control legislation, may not be united in opposition to
stricter control of military-style assault weapons, said Richard Feldman, a former lobbyist for the  National Rifle Association .  “If you’re a hunter, and legislation doesn’t affect you,
then it’s very easy to support banning a certain kind of gun,”
said Feldman, president of the Independent Firearm Owners
Association, a Rindge, New Hampshire-based gun-rights group.
“If you’re just a shotgun person, you probably don’t have a
problem if they ban those guns.”  The percentage of households with firearms has fallen from
54 percent in 1977 to 32 percent in 2010, according to the
General Social Survey by the National Opinion Research Center at
the  University of Chicago .  Tapping Biden  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 19 endorsed restricting
assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition clips such as those
used by the Newtown shooter, while putting Vice President  Joe Biden  in charge of a review that will include firearms
regulation as well as mental-health issues.  Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat and NRA
member, said earlier this week he’s willing to vote for tougher
weapons laws that probably would affect so-called recreational
shooters who fire assault-type weapons at gun ranges. It
wouldn’t have any impact on hunters, he said.  “I don’t know anyone in the sporting or hunting arena that
goes out with an assault rifle,” Manchin said on MSNBC
television earlier this week. “I don’t know anyone that needs
30 rounds in a clip to go hunting.”  Weapons Ban  The NRA has successfully opposed the return of an assault-
weapons ban that expired in 2004. In 2005, the association’s
lobbyists helped pass a law limiting liability claims against
gun makers.  Sturm, Ruger & Co. (RGR) ’s chief executive officer, Mike Fifer, later said the law “is probably the only reason we have
a U.S. firearms industry anymore.”  Almost 75 percent of gun owners have two or more firearms,
according to the National Institute of Justice. The 2007 Small
Arms Survey, a Geneva-based international independent research
project, estimated there are between 250 million and 290 million
privately owned firearms in the U.S. There may be an additional
54 million purchased since then, based on background check  data 
from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  The increase comes as hunting has declined with the loss of
open land and higher costs for licenses and equipment, said
William Vizzard, a professor of criminal justice at  California
State University  in  Sacramento .  “The nation is becoming more urbanized, and the places
where you can hunt for free have declined greatly,” Vizzard
said. “What we have is some people buying more guns.”  ‘Middle Ground’  Many hunters love the sport for the outdoors, not the gun,
said Lily Raff McCaulou of Bend,  Oregon , the author of “Call of
the Mild: Learning to Hunt My Own Dinner,” published in June.
Hunters get stigmatized by gun-control advocates and
marginalized by the NRA, she said.  “For a lot of people who aren’t familiar with hunters,
they tend to think of us all as gun nuts,” McCaulou said in a
telephone interview. “And we’re not. I think there’s a really
big middle ground there -- people who are gun owners but support
a lot of gun-control measures.”  The NRA, which claims 4 million members, has wanted to
recruit more hunters, said Chris Knox, a columnist for Shotgun
News. The NRA during the last year pushed for a wide range of
legislation affecting them. It supported successful hunting-
rights constitutional amendments in Idaho, Nebraska and Kentucky
in November, as well as the creation of rules allowing silencers
for  Texas  hunters earlier this year.  “Hunters are notoriously not joiners,” Knox said. “The
traditional NRA shooter is the guy that takes an M1 rifle and
crawls out onto the gravel range and shoots at a target.”  ‘Meaningful Contributions’  The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA released a brief statement
four days after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
 Connecticut , saying it’s “prepared to offer meaningful
contributions to help make sure this never happens again.” The
group said it plans to hold a news conference today.  A Pew Research Center  survey  released yesterday found that
37 percent of adults think the NRA has too much sway over gun-
control laws; about 45 percent believe it has too little or an
appropriate amount of influence. Opposition to the NRA was
higher 12 years ago, when 42 percent of respondents said the
group had too much power.  Officials at the  National Shooting Sports Foundation , a
trade association for the firearms industry headquartered about
three miles from the school in Newtown, declined to comment. A
notice on the organization’s website said “it would be
inappropriate for our organization to comment or participate in
media requests at this time.”  Five States  Five states account for about one-quarter of all hunters,
according to U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service data compiled by
Bloomberg: Texas,  Wisconsin ,  New York , Pennsylvania and  Ohio .
Texas alone has almost 1.1 million hunters, more than any other
state in the nation and a 6.1 percent increase over the last two
decades.  Twenty-one states have registered an increase in hunters
since 1991, led by  Alaska , where the number of hunters has risen
92.7 percent to 106,000. The ranks of hunters in Connecticut
rose at the third-highest rate, up 64 percent to 82,000 during
that period.  South Dakota  reported the highest percentage of hunters, at
20.9 percent of people older than 16, followed by Alaska at 20.2
percent and  Mississippi  with 19.7 percent. The states with the
smallest percentage included  Massachusetts , where 1.2 percent of
the state’s residents said they hunt, and  California , with 1.6
percent.  Both Massachusetts and California have strict gun-control
laws, both for purchase and possession. Both states have
outlawed assault rifles, and California lawmakers have proposed
regulations on buying ammunition after the Connecticut massacre.  Ultimately, Vizzard said, hunters may be more challenged by
a changing environment than gun-control legislation.  “When I was a kid, if you had a rifle or a shotgun, you
got in your beat-up pickup truck and went into the woods,” he
said. “Now it’s a safari, and you’ve got to go three states
away to hunt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 Robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan in Washington at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  