-- Huntsman Gay Sells Power Holdings for $380 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-21T16:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/huntsman-gay-sells-power-holdings-for-380-million.html
Huntsman Gay Global Capital LLC, the
private-equity firm whose ranks include the retired professional
football star  Steve Young  and former Citigroup Inc. executive
 Gary Crittenden , has sold the operating units of Power Holdings
to rival Kelso & Co. for $380 million in cash, Crittenden said.  Power Holdings, whose two subsidiaries perform maintenance
and construction work for electric utilities in the southeast,
is the third company sold by the $1.1 billion investment pool
Huntsman Gay raised in 2009, Crittenden, one of six managing
partners at the  Palo Alto , California-based firm, said in an
interview.  The sale exemplifies the growing penchant of buyout firms
to exit holdings by selling them to other private-equity houses
as a lackluster economy has hurt demand for initial public
offerings and many corporations have hoarded cash rather than
spring for acquisitions. In the first nine months of 2012, so-
called secondary buyouts accounted for one-third of all private
equity exits, the most since 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Huntsman Gay was created in 2008 by Utah industrialist  Jon Huntsman  Sr. and Robert Gay, formerly of Bain Capital LLC.
Crittenden declined to specify Huntsman Gay’s return on the
Power Holdings investment.  “I can say that it’s a very attractive return for our
fund,” Crittenden said. “This transaction certainly met our
expectations.”  Power’s Units  Power Holdings’s units are  T&D Solutions LLC , an
Alexandria, Louisiana-based utility servicer that Huntsman Gay
bought from its founding family in February 2010, and  Associated
Diversified Services Inc. , of Hartselle,  Alabama , which it
acquired later that year. Four subsequent add-on acquisitions
expanded their territorial reach, Crittenden said. In the
aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy , crews from T&D and Associated
Diversified pitched in to restore power in  New York .  Revenue and earnings before interest, depreciation,
amortization and taxes grew more than 10 percent since 2010,
spurred by upgrades to power systems and utilities outsourcing
repair work they used to perform themselves, said Crittenden.  The sale follows Huntsman Gay’s $1.4 billion sale in August
of Sunquest Information Systems, a medical software company, to
 Roper Industries Inc. (ROP)   Last year the firm sold oilfield services
company Grand Isle Shipyard Inc., which it had acquired in 2009,
to Nana Development Corp. for an undisclosed amount.  Huntsman Gay still owns nine companies in its 2009 fund,
which is about 80 percent invested, Crittenden said.  Kelso & Co., a 41-year-old New York-based firm, will
purchase the units through the $5.1 billion fund it raised in
2008. George E. Matelich, a Kelso partner, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  