-- Turkish Lira Weakens Most in Month as Yields Rise on U.S. Budget
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-21T10:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/turkish-lira-weakens-most-in-month-as-yields-rise-on-u-s-budget.html
The Turkish lira weakened the most
in a month and bond yields climbed as stalling U.S. budget talks
reduced appetite for riskier assets.  The lira lost 0.5 percent against the dollar at 1.7958 at
11:54 a.m. in Istanbul, the biggest depreciation since Nov. 21,
paring this year’s gains to 5.3 percent. Yields on benchmark
debt rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.02
percent, the fourth day of increases.  “Investors -- predominately equity investors -- bought a
lot of emerging market equities in the past two weeks and I
think they are slowing down naturally,” Koon Chow, the head of
emerging market strategy at Barclays Capital, said in e-mailed
comments from  London .  Yields on  Turkey ’s two-year benchmark debt fell 499 basis
points this year, the biggest slump globally, as the central
bank cut the  average cost of funding  for lenders to a record low
of 5.56 percent, down from 11.93 percent on Jan. 6. Foreign
investors added $17.2 billion to their holdings of Turkish bonds
and $6.3 billion to their ownership of stocks this year,
bringing their total holdings to a record high of $132 billion.  U.S. House Republican leaders scrapped a plan to allow
higher taxes, adding to concern that there will be no agreement
to prevent tax increases and spending cuts -- the so-called
fiscal cliff -- from taking effect in January.  “This is happening at the same time that other investors
are taking profits,” Chow said.  Turkish bond yields jumped 28 basis points this week in the
biggest weekly increase since September after the central bank,
led by Governor Erdem Basci, kept the bottom end of its so-
called rates corridor unchanged at 5 percent three days ago.  The median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 25 basis-point cut. Basci maintained the
overnight lending rate at 9 percent and lowered the one-week
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 5.5 percent, in line with
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  