-- Hutchison Austrian Mobile Takeover Clears Last Regulatory Hurdle
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-21T12:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/hutchison-austrian-mobile-takeover-clears-last-regulatory-hurdle.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s planned 1.3
billion-euro ($1.7 billion) purchase of wireless carrier Orange
Austria is set to clear the last hurdle after the country’s
competition watchdog gave up its opposition today.  The Bundeswettbewerbsbehoerde won’t appeal the approval by
Austria’s cartel court of a linked transaction in which  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA)  is buying Orange’s discount brand Yesss!, the agency
also known as BWB said in an e-mailed statement today. While the
BWB still has objections to the deal, an appeal wouldn’t be
successful because it can’t challenge the evidence cited by the
court, it said.  “The decision of the first instance is faulty, but it
can’t be challenged with the prospect of success at the higher
cartel court,” the BWB said in the statement. “An appeal would
only cause unnecessary delays but eventually wouldn’t yield
anything.”  Hutchison, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
agreed in February to combine its Three Austria unit with Orange
to create the Alpine country’s third-biggest mobile-phone
operator. Hutchison won European Union approval last week after
agreeing to divest radio spectrum and offer network access to
new rivals. Orange is owned jointly by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Mid
Europa Partners.  Telekom Austria rose as much as 1.5 percent to 5.74 euros
and traded at 5.71 euros as of 1:09 p.m. in Vienna. Hutchison
lost 0.4 percent to close at HK$80.65 in Hong Kong.  The sale of Yesss! to Telekom Austria for 390 million euros
is “an integral part” of the Hutchison bid for Orange Austria,
Hutchison’s Austrian head Jan Trionow has said.  Austria ’s cartel
court approved the Yesss! deal without conditions last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  