-- Vale to Book $4.2 Billion Charge for Nickel, Aluminum Assets
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-21T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/vale-to-book-4-2-billion-charge-for-nickel-and-aluminum-assets.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it will book a $4.2 billion fourth-quarter
pretax charge after lowering the valuation of a nickel mine and
its stake in aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)   Vale will take a $2.85 billion pretax writedown on its
Brazilian nickel project Onca Puma after operations stopped and
prices for the metal declined, the company said in a  statement 
late yesterday. The Rio de Janeiro-based miner said it will also
recognize a $1.3 billion pretax impairment on its 22 percent
stake in Oslo-based Norsk Hydro.  “The downward volatility of aluminum prices and the
macroeconomic uncertainties about the European economy have
contributed to reduce the market value of our 22 percent
stake,” Vale said. “Despite these charges, we remain confident
on the long-term market fundamentals of the global nickel
market.”  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling assets,
looking for partners and writing off unprofitable projects after
shares slumped to the lowest in almost three years in September
amid weaker demand from  China  and  Europe . The company said Dec.
19 that it agreed to pay the equivalent of $553.1 million to
settle Swiss and Brazilian tax disputes, of which about $451
million will be booked in the fourth quarter according to
Bloomberg’s calculations.  Charges Anticipated  “While the charges should mean a loss for Vale in the
fourth quarter, this was anticipated and is part of the
company’s ongoing balance sheet clean-up, which we view as
positive,” Banco BTG Pactual SA’s analysts led by Edmo Chagas
said in a note to clients today.  Vale said the impairments, which won’t affect its cash
position, will be treated as one-time charges on its 2012
financial statements, which are tentatively scheduled to be
released Feb. 27. The company expects to complete its annual
asset review by that date, it said.  Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said Dec. 6 that Vale
will announce impairments in “two stages,” including a second
writedown “of around $50 million to $100 million in several
different assets” with the release of its 2012 results.  “Our intention is to clean up the balance sheet quite
soon,” he said during a  presentation  to investors in  London .  Vale also said yesterday that operations at Onca Puma,
which were halted in June, will restart in the fourth quarter of
2013 after the company spends $188 million rebuilding one of the
project’s furnaces.  Vale  fell  0.8 percent to close at 40.50 reais in Sao Paulo.
The stock has gained 7.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  