-- Vietnam Cuts Interest Rates for Sixth Time to Spur Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-21T17:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/vietnam-cuts-interest-rates-for-sixth-time-to-spur-growth.html
Vietnam ’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for a sixth time this year and lowered the cap on deposit
interest rates to spur economic growth even as the World Bank
warned against easing monetary policy too soon.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam’s  refinancing rate  was cut to 9
percent from 10 percent, the central bank said on its website
yesterday. The  discount rate  was cut to 7 percent from 8
percent. The cap on dong deposit interest rates was lowered to 8
percent from 9 percent. The new rates take effect Dec. 24.
Borrowing costs were last reduced in July.  The central bank’s rate adjustments aim “to help companies
cope with difficulties in production and business,” according
to the press release. The central bank cited a “stable money
market and improving liquidity at banks” for the reductions.  Vietnam’s government expects  growth  this year to be about
5.2 percent, which would be the slowest pace since 1999. The
economy has been hampered by a lack of lending as banks face
rising bad loans, while the nation faces the risk of premature
easing that can trigger price pressure, the  World Bank  has said.  “The main reason for slow credit growth this year is that
interest rates are too high,” said Chris Freund, the Ho Chi
Minh City-based managing director of fund manager Mekong
Capital, citing commercial lending rates of 15 percent to 17
percent. “Many companies have proactively reduced their
inventory levels since the cost of financing inventory is so
high.”  Lending Rates Cap  Central banks in  Southeast Asia  may be forced to abandon
this year’s easing and raise interest rates in 2013, as rising
inflation risks overshadow the economic gloom, HSBC Holdings
Plc, UBS AG and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
predicted. Vietnam’s  consumer prices  accelerated in November to
7.08 percent, the fastest pace in six months, with the World
Bank saying on Dec. 5 that  core inflation  is “still very
high.”  The central bank also capped the short-term lending rate
for some sectors at 12 percent, effective Dec. 24. Those sectors
include agriculture, exports, high technology and small- to
medium-sized companies.  The rate cap on dong deposits of terms of one month to less
than 12 months was lowered to 8 percent from 9 percent. The cap
was cut to 9 percent in June, and was 14 percent at the start of
the year.  The refinancing rate was 15 percent at the beginning of the
year, while the discount rate was 13 percent. Credit grew 4.15
percent through Nov. 20 according to government data,  compared 
with 14 percent last year and 32 percent in 2010. Central bank
Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last month that the ratio of non-
performing loans is 8.8 percent, a level that  Fitch Ratings  has
said is probably understated.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s credit rating in
September, citing “more pronounced weaknesses in the banking
system” and costs related to recapitalizing banks.  Banks’ reluctance to lend makes it more difficult to
stimulate growth “via traditional monetary policy tools,’
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said last month.  ‘‘Rate cuts have proven ineffective in boosting credit,’’
wrote Johanna Chua, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian economic
research at Citigroup Inc., in a Nov. 29 note.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  