-- Walgreen Profit Drops Amid Loss of Express Scripts Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-12-21T15:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/walgreen-profit-drops-hurt-by-express-scripts-customers-loss.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, said fiscal first-quarter profit dropped 25
percent, hurt by the loss of Express Scripts Holding Co.
customers.  Net income in the quarter ended Nov. 30 fell to $413
million, or 43 cents a share, from $554 million, or 63 cents, a
year earlier, the Deerfield, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement. Excluding certain charges, profit totaled 58
cents a share.  Walgreen renewed a contract in July to provide Express
Scripts customers with prescriptions, ending a standoff that
caused it to lose shoppers to  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  Walgreen Chief
Executive Officer Greg Wasson has been working to win back sales
with a customer loyalty program that started in September to
coincide with the new contract.  “It will take time and aggressive discounts to win
customers back,”  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in  New York , wrote in a note today. She recommends selling the
shares and said lower-than-expected recapture of Express Scripts
prescriptions will hurt Walgreen’s same-store sales.  Walgreen  fell  2.3 percent to $36.68 at 10 a.m. in New York.
The shares advanced 14 percent this year through yesterday.  Sales in the quarter dropped 4.6 percent to $17.3 billion.
The loss of Express Scripts customers contributed to a decline
of 2 percent in “front-end” sales of general merchandise on a
same-store basis, Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon told
analysts today.  Prescription Sales  Prescription sales fell 4.8 percent on a comparable-store
basis in the first quarter, less than the 8 percent drop in the
previous quarter, after more than 45 million customers enrolled
in Walgreen’s loyalty program.  “We have continued to see meaningful progress so far” in
the second quarter on winning back Express Scripts
prescriptions, Wasson said on the conference call. Walgreen
expects to regain “a significant portion of these customers
over time,” he said, without disclosing how many customers it
has won back so far.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  