-- Wishing Upon Abe 120 Weak-Yen Policy Seen as LDP Returns
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e v i n   H a m l i n
-- 2012-12-21T05:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/wishing-upon-abe-120-weak-yen-policy-seen-as-ldp-returns-in-rout.html
Japan ’s economy shrank almost 10
percent in the half decade since Shinzo Abe was last prime
minister, as a soaring yen hollowed out manufacturing. Abe’s
return may be exporters’ best chance yet to halt the damage.  Abe’s calls for unlimited central bank liquidity have taken
the yen down about 5 percent against the dollar since mid-
November, as his Liberal Democratic Party led pre-election
polls, then romped to victory Dec. 16. Futures traders boosted
bets on yen declines to the most since July 2007, when the
currency traded around 120, compared with about 84 today.  The wagers reflect a groundswell of concern among policy
makers including Abe and outgoing Economy Minister Seiji Maehara
that the Bank of Japan hasn’t enacted sufficient monetary
stimulus to end deflation and revive the economy. Critical to
the yen’s outlook will be whether Abe can secure BOJ action to
set and achieve an inflation target, according to Jim O’Neill.  “If the BOJ starts to treat inflation targeting as a
genuine target and not a goal, then it is very important and
could result in notable yen weakness,” said O’Neill, chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London . “The yen has been
unjustifiably overvalued since the Lehman collapse,” he said,
referring to the September 2008 demise of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. that tipped the world into a recession.  ‘Equilibrium’ Value  An “equilibrium” level for the yen against the dollar
would be closer to 105, said O’Neill, who previously served as
chief economist and as chief currency economist at Goldman
Sachs. A level between 100 to 120 is possible in the next one to
two years, he said.  Japan’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a business lobby,
on Dec. 19 urged Abe to aim for a yen at about 85 to 90 per
dollar by the summer. The LDP chief is poised to become prime
minister in a special session of the lower house of parliament
on Dec. 26, after his party’s coalition secured a majority in
this month’s elections, sweeping the Democratic Party of Japan
from power.  The yen’s tumble has ignited the nation’s stocks, with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  climbing 24 percent since mid-November and
seeing the most  buy recommendations  in nearly five years,
according to analysts’ ratings tracked by Bloomberg. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average this week rose above 10,000 for the first time
since April. The benchmark was down 0.8 percent as of 2.27 p.m.
in  Tokyo  today amid concern over a lack of progress on U.S.
budget talks. The yen was at 83.96.  Earnings Bump  Robert Feldman, the head of Japan economic research at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo, says the boost to
earnings and stocks from a weaker currency should flow through
to consumer spending and capital investment.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,
which has businesses from nuclear reactors to home electronics,
says that every 1-yen gain against the dollar and euro cuts its
 annual operating profit  by 5 billion yen ($60 million).  Abe, 58, wants the central bank to adopt a 2 percent
inflation target, a contrast with its current policy of having a
goal of 1 percent. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
colleagues yesterday said they will reconsider their approach to
consumer prices next month.  The incoming leader’s views have evolved since 2006, when
he backed the BOJ in raising interest rates -- a move he now
says was a mistake. Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York, said this month that the world’s third-
largest economy may be on the verge of an historic shift, akin
to the late 1970s in the U.S., when American policy makers’
ended their toleration of trenchant inflation.  In Japan’s case, the economy has been  gripped by deflation 
since the late 1990s caused by burst stock and land-price
bubbles, and the ensuing hobbling of the financial system by
non-performing loans.  ‘Fight’ Coming  “I don’t think we’ve really seen an aggressive and
committed effort to get Japan out of deflation,” Kasman said.
“Political pressures are shifting in a way that may produce
that fight.”  The next administration will have the power to nominate a
replacement for Shirakawa, who’s term is due in April, along
with the two deputy governors who exit in March. Two entrants to
the policy board this year have already pressed for bolder
monetary action, giving Abe the chance to forge a majority on
the board that supports expansive stimulus.  Abe’s ascendance coincides with other dynamics undermining
the yen’s appeal. The currency has soared 35 percent in the past
five years as the U.S. mortgage meltdown, global credit freeze
and  Europe ’s debt crisis burnished the appeal of Japan’s status
as the world’s largest net creditor.  Less Attractive  Now, a recovering American economy, diminished risk of a
euro-zone break-up and a widening Japanese trade deficit make
the yen less of an attraction. In November, the trade shortfall
was the third-largest on record, a reflection of the increased
cost of energy imports in the aftermath of Japan’s nuclear-
industry shutdown and in part the decisions by exporters to
shift production overseas.  “The weakening of the yen isn’t just a reflection of the
government’s policies in recent months,” said  Osamu Takashima ,
Tokyo-based chief currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. “It
reflects a slow-motion decline of the economy overall.”  Morgan Stanley and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  see a revival of the so-
called yen carry trade, which helped to fuel a 17-percent
decline in the currency between January 2005 and June 2007.
Under the trade, investors take advantage of Japan’s low
borrowing costs to buy assets where returns are higher.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 94,401 on Dec.
11, compared with 90,326 a week earlier,  figures from the 
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  2013 Outlook  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
analysts after the Dec. 16 election was for the currency to
slide to 86.5 per dollar by the end of next year.  Any fillip to exports from exchange-rate depreciation would
come at a welcome time for the economy, which was 9 percent
smaller in the third quarter than it was in the final quarter of
Abe’s last term in office, unadjusted for changes in prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product contracted at an annualized 3.5
percent pace in July through September, unadjusted for prices.
The BOJ on Dec. 20 said that weakness in the economy had
deepened “somewhat.”  Profits reported by companies on the Nikkei 225 show the
cost of yen gains and economic decline, with a slide of about
half over the past five fiscal years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Manufacturers from  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to Nissan Motor
Co. have moved production overseas.  Not Assured  Yen weakness in 2013 isn’t assured. Low U.S. interest rates
discourage investors from buying dollars, and any aggressive
move by Japan to undermine its currency may incur criticism from
global policy makers.  “My concern is that in 2013 we’ll see the growth of
actively managed exchange rates as an alternative to the use of
domestic monetary policy,” Bank of England Governor Mervyn King
said in a Dec. 10 speech in New York.  King’s remarks were a warning to Japan, said Mansoor Mohi- uddin, global head of currency strategy at UBS AG in  Singapore .
If Japan does act then investors would probably sell the yen for
the dollar, euro, Singapore dollar and Korean won, he said.  Monex Europe Ltd., the top dollar-yen forecaster in
Bloomberg Rankings for the six quarters through Sept. 30, sees
the currency at 80 at the end of 2013 as Japan’s monetary
expansion has only a limited effect and flare-ups in Europe’s
crisis drive haven demand. “Despite Abe’s apparent aggressive
attitude towards the  Bank of Japan (8301) ,” his previous stint as
premier ended with a strengthening of the currency, said Michael
Quinn, a senior trader for the company.  Falling Exports  Exporters may be hoping for a different outcome after
shipments slid for a sixth straight month in November on
weakness in demand in  China  and the European Union.  “Sell the yen,” said Masafumi Yamamoto, chief currency
strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official, who predicts the currency will be at 90 per dollar in
a year. “The period of the strong yen is over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  