-- WMC Mortgage Sued by Trust Administrator in N.Y. Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-21T21:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/wmc-mortgage-sued-by-trust-administrator-in-n-y-court.html
WMC Mortgage LLC was sued by the
securities administrator for a mortgage trust, which accused the
subprime loan originator of breach of contract that caused more
than $550 million in damages.  The trust was formed as part of a $1.9 billion residential
mortgage securitization sponsored by JP Morgan Mortgage
Acquisition Corp. and serviced by JPMorgan Chase Bank NA,
according to the suit, filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan .  The suit was filed by  Bank of New York Mellon  in its
capacity as securities administrator of the trust, according to
court filings. WMC Mortgage was bought by a unit of General
Electric Capital Corp. in 2004 and operated as its mortgage
lending arm until it was sold in 2007.  A review of the trust revealed more than 3,000 mortgages
with “material and adverse” breaches of information regarding
characteristics of the loans, including misrepresentations as to
the occupancy of the owner, according to the suit.  Defects included “repeated failure to adhere to sound
underwriting practices, a blatant disregard for a borrower’s
ability to repay the loan, and intentional ignorance of warning
signs of fraud,” according to the suit.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for General Electric Capital
Corp., and  Justin Perras , a spokesman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
declined to comment on the case.  August Lawsuit  Bank of New York Mellon sued WMC Mortgage in the same court
in August, acting as a trustee of a separate trust that was
formed as part of a $680 million mortgage securitization
sponsored by the former GE unit and affiliates. That suit seeks
more than $260.2 million in damages.  The case is J.P. Morgan Mortgage Acquisition Trust, Series
2006-WMC4, by the Bank of New York Mellon, solely in its
capacity as the securities administrator, v. WMC Mortgage LLC,
654464/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 