-- Woodman Labs Founder Becomes Billionaire on Foxconn Deal
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-12-21T23:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/woodman-labs-founder-becomes-billionaire-on-foxconn-deal.html
Nicholas Woodman, creator of the
popular GoPro video camera, joined the ranks of the world’s
billionaires earlier this week after selling an 8.9 percent
stake in his company to Foxconn Technology Group.  The purchase for $200 million values Woodman Labs Inc. at
$2.25 billion. Woodman, the founder and chief executive officer,
owns 77 percent of the company, according to Sam Hamadeh, CEO of
New York-based research firm PrivCo Media LLC. His stake is
valued at $1.73 billion, about $600 million more than  previously
reported , according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “This is a phenomenal success story and it’s based on
creating gadgets, which is quite rare now,” Hamadeh said in a
telephone interview. “To go from zero to $600 million in sales
since 2003 and a valuation of $2 billion in such a short time is
quite remarkable.”  Foxconn, the Taiwanese manufacturer of Apple Inc. iPads and
Sony Corp. PlayStations, expects to have the opportunity to
become a supplier for GoPro equipment, Simon Hsing, a spokesman
for Foxconn’s flagship  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , said in
an interview after the announcement. Hon Hai, based in Taipei,
bought 11.7 million shares in closely-held Woodman Labs for
$17.08 yesterday.  Rick Loughery, a spokesman for Woodman Labs, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Waterproof Cameras  GoPro makes rugged waterproof cameras used by surfers,
skiers and skydivers. Venture capital firms own the remaining 14
percent of the  San Mateo , California-based company, according to
Hamadeh. In May 2011, Woodman raised money from Riverwood
Capital, U.S. Venture Partners, Sageview Capital, Walden
International and Steamboat Ventures, an investment firm backed
by Walt Disney Co.  Woodman built a following for his wearable cameras when
family and friends helped him persuade surf, bike and ski shops
to carry the devices in the mid-2000s. Woodman Labs’ 2012 sales
will approach $600 million,  Bloomberg News  reported in October,
citing three people with knowledge of its finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  