-- World’s Wealthiest Add $15 Billion as Global Stocks Drop
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-12-21T22:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/world-s-wealthiest-add-15-billion-as-global-stocks-drop.html
The 100 richest people on the planet
limited their gains to $15.1 billion this week, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , after a decline in global markets
yesterday erased wealth created on better-than-forecast income
and consumer spending data in the U.S.  Stocks and commodities sank around the world Friday after
House Republican leaders scrapped a plan to allow higher taxes
as U.S. budget talks stalled. House Speaker  John Boehner  yielded
to anti-tax resistance within his own party, fueling concern
that Republicans and Democrats will fail to agree on a budget.  “There’s still the possibility of a deal happening in the
next five days,” said  Walter Todd , who oversees about $940
million as chief investment officer of Greenwood Capital
Associates LLC in Greenwood,  South Carolina , in a telephone
interview. “With the economic reports in the past two days in
U.S., you couldn’t have drawn up a better set of numbers. The
politicians are trying their best to ruin that.”  Spending by U.S. consumers climbed in November as Americans
pushed aside the threat of higher taxes next year, buying gifts
for the holidays and making up for shopping lost to superstorm
Sandy. Demand for goods such as machinery and electronics also
increased more than forecast. Payrolls rose in 30 states, and
the  unemployment rate  dropped in 45, showing the job market
improved across much of the U.S.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.17 percent during
the week to close at 1,430.15 in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index was up 0.55 percent, closing at 280.95.  Usmanov, Zuckerberg  The week’s biggest gainer was Oracle founder  Larry Ellison ,
according to the Bloomberg ranking. The  Redwood City ,
California-based company reported Wednesday fiscal second-
quarter sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates on
growing demand for Internet-based software, which is now on
track to bring in more than $1 billion in revenue this year.
Ellison, who added $1.9 billion to his fortune, ranks 8th on the
index with a net worth of $39.6 billion.  Alisher Usmanov , Russia’s richest man, said he plans to
boost his stake next year in VKontakte, the country’s largest
social network, adding to his investments in competitors to
 Facebook  Inc. Usmanov, who is worth $18.7 billion, controls a
$1.8 billion stake in Facebook.  The billionaire is in talks with VKontakte shareholders, he
told state television Rossiya 24 yesterday, and is prepared to
buy the company’s stock at a reasonable price. Usmanov’s Mail.ru
Group Ltd., which controls Russian social networks Odnoklassniki
and My World, owns a stake of almost 40 percent in VKontakte.  Arnault Immigration  Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg  said Tuesday that he is
donating almost $500 million in shares of the world’s largest
social network to the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. The
gift to the nonprofit group, which had $2 billion in assets in
2011, is to “lay a foundation for new projects,” Zuckerberg
said yesterday in a statement posted on his Facebook page.  The executive and his wife, Priscilla, signed a pledge two
years ago committing the majority of their earnings to charity.
He is worth $12.1 billion.  Bernard Arnault ’s effort to become a Belgian citizen may
have hit a snag after the country’s immigration office deemed he
hasn’t lived in the country long enough. The  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  chief executive officer hasn’t had his primary
residence in Belgium for the requisite three years, the
immigration affairs service wrote three weeks ago to the
parliamentary committee handling such requests, Belgian
newspaper De Morgen said on Thursday.  The 63-year-old said in September that he applied to become
a Belgian national this year for “personal” reasons. Arnault,
the world’s 9th richest person, has a net worth of $29 billion,
up 39.7 percent this year.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  