-- Yacktman Unimpressed by News Corp. Spinoff’s Results
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/yacktman-unimpressed-by-news-corp-spinoff-s-results.html
News Corp.’s fifth-largest
shareholder  Donald Yacktman  said he was underwhelmed by the
financial results of the company’s publishing spinoff, which is
poised to become a publicly traded business next year.  “The publishing unit is less than stellar,” Yacktman,
founder of Austin, Texas-based Yacktman Asset Management Co.,
said in an interview. The attractiveness of the company will
depend on “how they price the shares when it comes out.”  News Corp., the sprawling media business run by Rupert Murdoch, reported detailed financial figures for its publishing
division yesterday -- a prelude to the spinoff in mid-2013. The
business had a net loss of $2.1 billion in the most recent
fiscal year, largely because of restructuring costs and the
fallout from a U.K. hacking scandal. Sales fell almost 5 percent
to $8.65 billion in the period, which ended June 30.  Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New
York, estimates that the publishing company is worth about $6
per share, assuming  News Corp. (NWSA)  issues a 1-for-1 split.  “If it trades at $5, I’d call it a hold, and anything
above $6, I would sell,” he said in an interview.  Murdoch agreed to the spinoff in June after coming under
pressure from shareholders. The move lets the remaining portion
of the company focus on its entertainment assets, including the
Fox television and film businesses. Robert Thomson, the managing
editor of Wall Street Journal, was named chief executive officer
of the publishing spinoff earlier this month.  Yacktman, whose firm owns 5.2 percent of News Corp.’s Class
A shares, sees value in the publishing company’s media brands
such as the Wall Street Journal. He wouldn’t comment on specific
stock-price levels he was seeking. Yacktman is less excited
about News Corp.’s New York Post, which loses as much as $110
million a year, Harriss estimates.  “The Wall Street Journal is the plum, and the New York
Post is pretty bad news,” Yacktman said. “There are things
they could do to make it better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  