-- Zimbabwe’s $4 Billion Sovereign Fund Questioned by Analysts
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-12-21T14:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-21/zimbabwe-s-4-billion-sovereign-fund-questioned-by-economists.html
Zimbabwean Indigenization Minister
 Saviour Kasukuwere ’s assertion that a sovereign wealth fund
created from stakes ceded by foreign-owned companies is worth $4
billion was questioned by economists who said the announcement
may be aimed at securing votes ahead of elections.  The fund was created after the government compelled
foreign-owned companies to sell 51 percent stakes to Zimbabweans
under its indigenization program, Kasukuwere said in an
interview on Dec. 18. The size of the fund may increase to $5
billion by mid-2013, after the state forces foreign-owned banks
to hand over their controlling shareholdings, he said.  John Robertson, an independent economist, said Kasukuwere’s
announcement was “a collection of claims that may never
materialize” and was aimed at “impressing” voters ahead of
elections scheduled to take place in March.  Zimbabwe , which has the world’s second-biggest platinum and
chrome reserves, began implementing a law in 2010 compelling
foreign and white-owned companies to cede or sell 51 percent of
their shares to black nationals or state-approved agencies. The
country, which was under white rule until 1980, this year
ordered banks to transfer their stakes to black Zimbabweans by
July 2013.  “We are happy with the progress we have made to empower
our people,” Kasukuwere said.  Ceded Stakes  Kasukuwere said the sovereign wealth fund comprises shares
allocated to communities and workers under share-ownership
programs, as well stakes ceded to the National Indigenisation
and Economic Empowerment Fund. The $4 billion was calculated by
valuing the stakes that have been ceded by foreign-owned
companies, he said.  “A lot of what he says is aimed at persuading people they
consider to be not very articulate that they will be massively
enriched by getting shares of the great wealth being generated
by the indigenization process,” Robertson said in a phone
interview yesterday. “It is incredibly dishonest, but I don’t
think many people have been actually fooled into believing it.”  Kasukuwere is a member of the Zimbabwe African Nation
Union-Patriotic Front party headed by President Robert Mugabe,
who has ruled the southern African nation since independence.
Three years ago, Zanu-PF signed a power-sharing accord with the
then-opposition Movement for Democratic Change to end violence
that erupted following disputed 2008 elections.  Juice Plan  The MDC has opposed the indigenization program that has
been led by Kasukuwere and last month unveiled an economic plan
that it said would reverse the effects of the law. The Jobs,
Upliftment, Investment, Capital, and Environment plan, known as
JUICE, targets economic growth of 8 percent a year and the
creation of 1 million new jobs by 2018.  The MDC also rejects constitutional changes proposed by
Zanu-PF that include giving the president executive powers to
dissolve parliament, appoint judges without them being
interviewed and confer presidential immunity.  The announcement of the fund may be an attempt by Zanu-PF
to “sabotage” Finance Minister Tendai Biti by showing it’s
raising an amount that is about half the size of the country’s
$9.9 billion economy, said Chris Mugaga, a senior economist at
EcoMeter Global Capital in Harare. Biti is also an MDC member.  “This just buttresses the fact that there are two
governments in Zimbabwe,” he said. “Biti is now being
relegated to being an MDC minister.”  Compliance  Kasukuwere said most “major foreign-owned mines” have
complied with the indigenization law. Last week,  Aquarius
Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  said it will sell 51% of its Zimbabwe mining
venture for $550 million. Other mining companies in Zimbabwe
include  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , Sinosteel Corp., Metallon Corp Ltd. and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Zimplats Ltd. unit.  An agreement with Zimplats will be completed after
officials have addressed “a few numbers which we are
finalizing,” Kasukuwere said, without giving further details.  Other companies that have complied with the directive
include British American Tobacco  Zimbabwe Holdings Ltd. (ZHL)  and
South  Africa ’s  Pretoria Portland Cement Ltd. (PPC) , according to the
Indigenization Ministry.  Foreign-owned banks are currently in talks with the
government over when they would comply with the ownership laws,
Kasukuwere said, without naming them.  Barclays, Standard  Foreign banks that operate units in the southern African
nation include the U.K.’s  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Togo’s  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  as
well as South Africa’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)   Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd.  is the largest lender
on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, with a market capitalization of
$56 million.  The laws on foreign-bank ownership may stifle economic
growth by harming investor confidence, central bank Governor
Gideon Gono said in July. The country’s banking industry is the
riskiest in sub-Saharan Africa, according to an Economic
Intelligence Unit survey published in September.  Kasukuwere has yet to deliver a report to the Cabinet about
the fund, said Economic Planning Minister Tapiwa Mashakada, who
is an MDC member.  “We as Cabinet don’t know about that money, it has yet to
be presented to us,” Mashakada said in an interview on Dec. 19.
“Maybe it’s just a Zanu-PF thing. They know better about that
money than the rest of Cabinet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 