-- Abbott Government Warns Money Tight to Save Australian Carmakers
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-09-18T23:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/abbott-government-warns-money-tight-to-save-australian-carmakers.html
Australia’s new industry minister
said the government has limited funds to subsidise the car
industry and wants to hold talks with  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s local
unit before deciding on future support for the automaker.  “This is a very, very important industry on the brink of
closing,” Ian Macfarlane, who was sworn in as a member of Prime
Minister  Tony Abbott ’s Cabinet yesterday, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio. “My pockets are a bit empty at the
moment, I want to see where all the money has gone first.”  Macfarlane said he plans to visit the South Australian
plant of GM’s manufacturing unit, Holden, and hold talks with
the state government, company and union officials. His comments
came as the Australian Financial Review reported today that GM
needs a commitment from Abbott’s government on financial
subsidies within two months or may announce it will follow  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and cease making cars in Australia.  GM, Ford and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  have been hit by a strong
Australian dollar that’s made exports uncompetitive and brought
in more imports. The currency has risen 6.7 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this month. Facing a deteriorating budget position,
Abbott’s coalition government, which won the Sept. 7 election,
plans to cut A$500 million ($475 million) from subsidies to the
car industry by 2015.  “We look forward to sitting down with the new federal
government and discussing the policy settings to secure the
future of manufacturing in this country,” Holden spokesman Sean
Poppitt said by telephone today when asked to comment on the AFR
report. The company said earlier this month it was waiting on
the result of the election before deciding on investments in the
country beyond 2016.  Government Subsidies  The previous Labor government had set aside  A$5.4 billion 
for the domestic car industry until 2020 and pledged another
A$700 million during the five-week election campaign. Abbott
said Aug. 21 his government wouldn’t “run down the road after
Holden waving a blank check at them.”  GM said in March 2012 that its Holden unit will continue
making cars in  Australia  until at least 2022 after the
government announced a A$275 million assistance package.
Costs at Holden are up about 60 percent from 10 years ago,
making it one of GM’s most expensive operations, the division’s
managing director, Mike Devereux, said in April.  Macfarlane told the ABC today the future of the car
industry was the “most important issue in my portfolio” and
that he didn’t want the issue to be politicized.  Cars made in Australia slumped to 13 percent of domestic
sales in 2012 from  80 percent  in 1984, according to data from
Ford and the  Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries .  Ford announced in May it will close its Australian car
lines in 2016 after nine decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  