-- Acciona Gets Brazil Approval to Supply Turbines With State Loans
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-09-18T18:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/acciona-gets-brazil-approval-to-supply-turbines-with-state-loans.html
Acciona SA (ANA) , the Spanish renewable-energy company, may sell sell  wind turbines  in Brazil financed
with state-backed loans after it met local-content requirements.  The company was approved yesterday, a press official for
BNDES, the Rio de Janeiro-based government bank that provides
the debt, said in an e-mail today. The official didn’t want to
be identified because of agency policy.  BNDES requires that turbine makers get a significant
portion of their components from local suppliers to boost
investment in the domestic supply chain, Helena Chung, a Sao
Paulo-based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today
in a telephone interview.  “If you want to sell turbines in Brazil you need to be
approved by BNDES,” Chung said. Wind-farm developers qualify
for the development bank’s loans if they’re buying turbines from
approved suppliers. The decision “effectively grants Acciona
access to the Brazil market.”  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, as
the state lender is officially known, has also approved
Argentina’s Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, France’s
 Alstom SA (ALO) , Spain’s  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , the U.S.’s
General Electric Co. and Wobben Windpower, the local unit of
Germany’s Enercon GmbH, the official said.  Acciona will build a factory to assemble nacelles, the car-sized units that house the gears, electronics and gearboxes for
turbines, in the northeastern state of Bahia, the Alcobendas,
Spain-based company said in a Sept. 3 statement. The facility
will begin production in the fourth quarter of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  