-- Hackers With Ties to China Led Hundreds of Attacks Symantec Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T12:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/hackers-with-ties-to-china-led-hundreds-of-attacks-symantec-says.html
A professional team of hackers
called Hidden Lynx has used network infrastructure in  China  to
target hundreds of organizations worldwide since November 2011,
computer security company  Symantec Corp (SYMC)  said in a report.  The group mostly targeted the financial services sector and
is “breaking into some of the best-protected organizations in
the world,” Symantec said in its Sept. 17  report .  The exposure adds further details about hacking groups with
alleged ties to China, a country U.S. officials have said is
behind cyber attacks to acquire technology. China has said it is
a major target of hacking and has called for international
regulations to address the issue.  “Much of the attack infrastructure and tools used during
these campaigns originate from network infrastructure in
China,” the report said.  The report found Chinese software was used during the
construction of Trojans. It didn’t mention any links with the
Chinese government.  In one campaign it found a popular Chinese application was
used to install a Trojan, which infected victims’ computers in
China, the U.S. and  Hong Kong , Symantec said.  The group’s methods suggest that it may be a private
organization of “hackers for hire” obtaining information
“that could be used to gain competitive advantages at both a
corporate and nation-state level,” the report said.  The group pioneered a technique in which Trojans were
distributed via websites visited by targets, the report said.
One such website was one that featured the history of  New York .  Financial organizations, including investment banks and
asset management companies, made up 24.6 percent of the group’s
targets since November 2011, followed by education and
government organizations, it said.  “Targeting this sector in such a concentrated fashion
could provide invaluable information when negotiating large
takeovers or trading shares on the stock exchange,” Symantec
said.  The report detailed a July 2012 attack on the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based security company Bit9 Inc. by Hidden Lynx,
which used Trojans that made their way into the defense
industrial sector, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  