-- Activision Stock Sale Blocked by Judge Over Investor Vote
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-09-19T07:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/activision-stock-sale-blocked-by-judge-over-investor-vote.html
Activision Blizzard  Inc. was barred
by a judge from proceeding with a stock sale that investors say
would give control of the video-game maker to a group led by a
company director and its top executive.  Activision officials must hold a shareholder vote on the
proposed sale of $2.34 billion in company stock to a group led
by director  Brian Kelly  and Bobby Kotick, Activision’s chief
executive officer, before the deal can be completed, a Delaware
Chancery Court judge in Wilmington ruled yesterday, Activision
officials said in a statement.  “Activision Blizzard remains committed to the transaction
and is exploring the steps it will take to complete the
transaction as expeditiously as possible,” the company said in
the statement.  In July, Activision announced it would buy back $5.83
billion of its shares from  Vivendi SA (VIV) , while a group including
Kelly, Kotick and Shenzhen, China-based game maker  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  will pay $2.34 billion to acquire shares in the
company also held by the French company. The sale would reduce
Vivendi’s stake in the world’s biggest video-game publisher from
61 percent to 12 percent, according to court filings.  Judge Travis Laster said yesterday in court, according to a
transcript, that he is requiring that the deal to be approved by
shareholders other than Vivendi.  Bottom Line  “To give you the bottom line up-front,” Laster told
lawyers, according to a transcript, “The defendants are
enjoined from proceeding with the transactions contemplated by
the stock purchase agreement pending, one, trial on the merits;
two, receipt of a favorable stockholder vote; or three, a
modification of the injunction by this court” or, a ruling on
appeal from the Delaware  Supreme Court .  If the sale is completed, Kotick’s investor group will
emerge as  Santa Monica , California-based Activision’s biggest
shareholder with a 25 percent stake, according to court filings.  “The net effect of this injunction is potentially delaying
rather than jeopardizing the deal,”  Colin Sebastian , an analyst
with Robert Baird in  San Francisco , said in an e-mail.  Activision fell 1 cent to $17.15 in  New York  yesterday and
its shares remained unchanged after regular trading hours.
Vivendi added 0.4 percent to 17.53 euros at 9:10 a.m. in Paris.  Activision Blizzard was the result of a 2008 merger after
Vivendi agreed to contribute its $8.1 billion video-game
business and pay $1.7 billion in cash in exchange for control of
the entity it combined with Activision Inc. to surpass
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the market leader at the time.  Executives’ Shares  An Activision shareholder sued Sept. 11 in Chancery Court,
arguing the company’s board breached its legal duty to investors
by approving the purchase of the 172 million shares now held by
Vivendi. He asked Laster to block the stock sale, according to
court filings.  Given Activision shares already held by company executives,
the acquisition of Vivendi’s stake would allow Kotick’s and
Kelly’s group to exercise control of the company, according to
the shareholder’s suit.  Edward Micheletti, an attorney for Activision, and Michael Hanrahan, a lawyer for the lawsuit plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  In a letter to Laster, Hanrahan argued that under
Activision’s incorporation papers, the stock purchase agreement
is “a merger, business combination” involving Activision and
Vivendi, and “requires approval” by a majority vote.  Share Buyback  Micheletti countered in a letter to the judge that
“Activision will be accounting for the stock purchase as a
share buyback, not as a business combination.”  In court, Laster said the stock-purchase agreement has a
termination date of Oct. 15 and that after that, any party may
elect to terminate it.  The transaction “is precisely the type of thing that
common sense would dictate” needs a vote, the judge said. “It
could be a good deal, it could be a bad deal; they get to
decide.”  The case is Hayes v. Activision, CA8885, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  