-- AIG’s Miller Says Retail Next Industry Under Threat
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-09-18T13:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/aig-focuses-on-risk-as-pricing-power-limited-chairman-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chairman  Steve Miller , who spent his career helping hobbled
companies survive, said retailers pressured by online
competitors are among the most vulnerable investments.  “The next industry that is under enormous threat is the
brick-and-mortar retailing business,” Miller told  Tom Keene ,
Scarlet Fu and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” today.  Online retailers led by Amazon.com Inc. have been putting
traditional stores under pressure, forcing changes in their
operations and pricing.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S.
discount retailer, and consumer-electronics seller Best Buy Co.
both announced permanent policies of matching rivals’ online
prices this year to win back customers who had fled to Internet-based competitors.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of junk-rated
retailers including Best Buy and J.C. Penney Co. yielded 6.85
percent yesterday. That compares with 6.75 percent for the $1.18
trillion of bonds in a broader high-yield index.  “My wife, yesterday, instead of going one block away to
Home Depot to get a household item went online to Amazon to have
it delivered the next morning,” Miller said. “That to me said
it all, that if you have a big investment in brick and mortar
you are under threat.”  Miller became AIG chairman in 2010 and worked with Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  as the insurer divested non-U.S. units to simplify the company and raise funds to repay a
taxpayer rescue. He titled his autobiography “The Turnaround
Kid,” and previously oversaw the bankruptcy of auto-parts
supplier Delphi Corp. and helped Chrysler Corp. return to
profitability after taking government loans in 1980.  Commercial Mortgages  AIG had about $2.9 billion at risk tied to retail
properties in its $14.7 billion commercial mortgage loan
portfolio as of June 30, the insurer said in a filing. That
compares with $4.9 billion for offices and $2.3 billion for
apartments.  Miller said the insurer has limited ability to charge more
for coverage and won’t settle for unattractive rates to draw
market share.  “We do not have pricing power, except to the extent we can
prove we can give better service than our competitors,” he
said. “But the main thing that will distinguish us is that we
select the right risks and price them right with our premiums.
And if that means that we lose some business elsewhere, so be
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 Mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  