-- ir France Drops Earnings Goal, Putting 2,800 Jobs at Risk
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-18T14:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/air-france-scraps-goal-to-return-to-profit-to-deepen-cost-cuts.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  scrapped a
plan to break even at its main French unit this year, prompting
management to deepen job cuts and retire planes to pare costs.  The stock fell as much as 4.4 percent after the Paris-based
company said today that a reduction in capacity will leave it
with 2,800 excess posts in  France  as more European flights move
to discount arm Transavia. The airline, which is still seeking a
group profit, indicated in July the positions might go.  Chief Executive Officer Alexandre de Juniac is extending
cuts initiated during the economic slump after pledging to
revive short- and medium-haul passenger operations squeezed by
discount operators led by  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)  In the long-distance
market,  Europe ’s biggest airline will phase out  Boeing Co. (BA)  747
passenger jets and freighters to cope with weak demand and
competition from Gulf rivals including Dubai-based Emirates.  “We had to add other measures,” de Juniac, who took over
in July, said on a conference call, adding that tough economic
conditions meant Air France was no longer on course to save 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion) by 2015 as previously envisaged.  Final Phase  Air France-KLM traded 4.2 percent lower at 6.80 euros as of
3:49 p.m. in Paris after earlier sliding to 6.77 euros, leaving
it 2.4 percent lower for the year to date.  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline, has lost 3.8 percent, and
No. 3  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , parent of
British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia, is up almost 74 percent.  The latest restructuring will mark the final phase in the
Transform 2015 plan, and make the company competitive with
Lufthansa and IAG, Air France unit CEO Frederic Gagey told
reporters. Earlier measures generated a 100 million-euro gain in
operating profit in the first half, the carrier said.  While the Air France division’s intercontinental network
will be enhanced by more fuel efficient Airbus SAS A350 and
Boeing 787 jets due from 2017, deliveries of some Airbus A380
superjumbos may need to be adjusted, Gagey said.  Unprofitable routes, particularly those connecting
secondary cities in France, will be closed, and some freight
activities will be outsourced, the airline said.  The Air France unit is now headed for its sixth straight
annual loss, according to the statement. At group level, the
carrier continues to predict an operating profit, which prior to
today had been  estimated  at 200 million euros, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts.  The outlook revision comes after Dublin-based  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount carrier, said on Sept. 4
it may miss its annual profit target, with Irish rival Aer
Lingus Group Plc also cutting its profit forecast on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  