-- Taiwan Bonds, Currency Gain on Reduced Fed Tapering Estimates
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-09-18T03:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/taiwan-bonds-currency-gain-on-reduced-fed-tapering-estimates.html
Taiwan’s 10-year bonds rose for a
fourth day and the currency gained as economists reduced their
projections for how much the  Federal Reserve  will cut debt
purchases that have driven demand for emerging-market assets.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably announce today that
monthly bond purchases will be lowered to $80 billion from $85
billion, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists, less
than predicted in previous surveys. Asian markets also got a
boost as former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers ,
considered by some investors to be less in favor of maintaining
stimulus, withdrew from the race for the next Fed chief, leaving
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  as one of the main contenders.  “Suddenly Summers quit the game and Yellen, a dove who’s
expected to be a continuation of Bernanke, became the front-runner, so people corrected their overreaction in terms of
stocks, currencies and bonds,” said Eric Hsing, a Taipei-based
fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. “The mood is
bullish now.”  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 dropped three basis points to 1.687 percent as of
11 a.m. in Taipei, taking the three-day decline to nine basis
points as markets close for the rest of the week for a holiday,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  The Ministry of Finance will announce its fourth-quarter
bond issuance plan on Sept. 23.  Share Purchases  Overseas investors added to their holdings of Taiwanese
shares for a 15th day yesterday, with purchases totaling a net
$3.8 billion, stock exchange data show.  Taiwan ’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to NT$29.653 versus the
greenback and climbed 0.6 percent from Sept. 13, prices from
Taipei Forex Inc. show.  The currency was trading 0.2 percent stronger 18 minutes
before the 4 p.m. close yesterday, and finished 0.1 percent
weaker. The central bank has sold the local dollar in the run-up
to the close on most days since March 2012, according to traders
who asked not to be identified.  Taiwan’s central bank has euros, yen and dollars to meet
banks’ demand for foreign currencies should Fed tapering trigger
fund outflows, the Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  One-month non-deliverable forwards in the  Taiwan dollar 
climbed 0.3 percent this week to NT$29.576 and were little
changed today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 12 basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 4.06 percent today and was down
three basis points from Sept. 13.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
this week and today at 0.388 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  