-- Alzheimer’s Targeted in $45 Million U.S. Government Study Grant
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-18T18:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/alzheimer-s-targeted-in-45-million-u-s-government-study-grant.html
The U.S. government renewed its
commitment to preventing and treating Alzheimer’s disease, and
its focus on drugs that target the amyloid that builds up in
patients’ brains, with a new $45 million in research funding.  The bulk of the money, or $33.2 million, will help fund a
prevention trial of an experimental, as-yet unnamed anti-amyloid
medicine for healthy older adults with a genetic predisposition
to Alzheimer’s. Another $1.5 million will go to an existing
study of drugs from  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , MorphoSys AG and  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY)  to see whether they can ward off the disease in people who
inherited genes that predestine them to get an early-onset form.  The pharmaceutical industry’s track record with drugs
designed to remove the amyloid that accumulates between the
brain’s nerve cells in people with Alzheimer’s has been poor.
The latest efforts funded by the  National Institutes of Health 
are designed to move in on the disease earlier, focusing on
high-risk people who haven’t yet developed signs of Alzheimer’s.  “We know that Alzheimer’s-related brain changes take place
years, even decades, before symptoms appear,” said Richard Hodes, director of the NIH’s National Institute on Aging, in a
statement. “That really may be the optimal window for drugs
that delay progression or prevent the disease altogether.”  The U.S. government’s research funding has been hit by
federal spending cuts brought on by sequestration, the
automatic, across-the-board reductions triggered in March when
lawmakers failed to agree on the nation’s budget. NIH Director
Francis Collins provided $40 million of the $45 million from his
own office, with the remainder coming from the NIA.  Urgent Need  “We are determined, even in a time of constrained fiscal
resources, to capitalize on exciting scientific opportunities to
advance understanding of Alzheimer’s biology and find effective
therapies as quickly as possible,” Collins said in a statement.  The need is urgent. More than 5 million Americans are
suffering with Alzheimer’s disease, and the number is expected
to triple by 2050. There are no effective remedies to slow or
treat the disease itself, while existing drugs ease symptoms for
several months. The cost of caring for those patients tops $109
billion annually, more than both heart disease and cancer.  The NIH didn’t restrict its funding only to anti-amyloid
drugs or patients who don’t yet have symptoms. The agency
allocated $2.4 million for an early trial of allopregnanolone, a
natural brain steroid that promotes the development of new brain
cells and improves cognitive function in animal tests. The 12-week study will look at increasing doses of the treatment for
patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer’s disease.  The remainder of the money will go to researchers working
to better understand the complex networks that go awry in
Alzheimer’s disease, potential targets for treatment and other
genetic mutations that may make people more susceptible to it.  The drugs being evaluated in people that are genetically-predisposed to early-onset Alzheimer’s include gantenerumab from
Roche, based in  Basel , Switzerland and MorphoSys, of
Martinsried,  Germany , and solanezumab from Lilly, based in
Indianapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  