-- Emerging Markets Jump as S&P 500 Retreats From Record
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-19T20:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/asian-futures-rise-as-fed-holds-stimulus-aussie-retreats.html
Emerging market stocks jumped the
most in two months and metals rallied after the Federal Reserve
unexpectedly refrained from cutting monetary stimulus. U.S.
shares retreated after benchmark indexes reached records
yesterday.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 2.4 percent at 4
p.m. in New York as  Turkish (XU100)  shares jumped the most in three
years. The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed to the highest
level since 2008 while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped
0.2 percent after rallying 1.2 percent yesterday. The cost of
insuring high-yield European company bonds against losses fell
to the lowest since May 2011. Copper jumped more than 2 percent
while oil fell for the fourth time in five days.  U.S. policy makers said yesterday they want more evidence
of an economic recovery before paring its $85 billion-a-month
quantitative-easing program. Fed Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke, who
said in June the central bank may start curbing stimulus this
year and end it in 2014 if the economy finally achieves
sustainable growth, said yesterday the central bank must
determine its policies based on “what’s needed for the
economy,” even if it surprises markets.  “Bernanke had threatened to take away the punchbowl and
bring the QE-party to an end,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist
at Societe Generale SA in London, said in a report today. “But
he’s changed his mind, found more happy juice, and told us all
to ’Party on, dude!’”  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index pared its decline for the
year to 2.9 percent. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index
extended its gain from a low on Aug. 28 to more than 20 percent,
the common definition of a bull market. The Jakarta Composite
Index rallied 4.7 percent, the most in almost two years, while
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa slipped 1.3 percent after jumping 2.6 percent
yesterday.  India ’s Sensex rose 3.4 percent and the rupee rallied 2.5
percent, paring this year’s drop to 11 percent. The Malaysian
ringgit appreciated 2.6 percent, the most since 1998.  Global funds were boosting holdings of Asian assets in the
run-up to yesterday’s Fed announcement and this trend is likely
to be “reinforced” in coming trading sessions, according to
Mitul Kotecha, the global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Credit Agricole SA in Hong Kong. Overseas investors pumped about
$10.5 billion into equities in South Korea,  Taiwan  and India
this month, after net sales of about $500 million in August.  The S&P 500 retreated today after jumping the most since
Aug. 1 to a record yesterday.  “It’s been essentially a bleeding off of some of the party
atmosphere from yesterday,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $150 billion, said by phone. “At some point the
market’s got to take a breather and I think today’s that day.
There’s no real catalyst today in the data.”  U.S. Movers  Among U.S. stocks moving today, ConAgra Foods Inc. lost 4
percent after first-quarter sales missed analyst estimates. Walt
Disney Co. dropped 2.1 percent as Morgan Stanley downgraded the
shares.  Apple Inc. jumped 1.6 percent to pace advances among
technology shares before the release of its new iPhone models.
Agilent Technologies Inc. added 3.4 percent as the provider of
bio-analytical and electronic measurement services said it will
split into two public companies. Rite Aid Corp. surged 23
percent as the drugstore chain raised its profit forecast.  Economic Data  A Labor Department report showed jobless claims in the U.S.
rose less than forecast last week as two states began working
through a backlog of applications that were caused by computer-system changeovers. Another report showed sales of previously
owned U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in August to the highest
level in more than six years as buyers rushed to lock in
interest rates before they rise further. Purchases climbed 1.7
percent to a 5.48 million annual rate, the National Association
of Realtors said.  Equity gauges whose performance some chart analysts
consider predictive of stock market gains closed at records
yesterday, including the Dow Jones Transportation Average, the
Russell 2000 Index and the Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index. The
S&P 500 Financials Index is about 1 percent from its five-year
high from July though it remains 45 percent below its 2007
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 0.6 percent to the
highest level in more than five years. Mining companies helped
lead gains, with Randgold Resources Ltd., Fresnillo Plc and
Lonmin Plc climbing at least 5.4 percent. The volume of shares
changing hands in the Stoxx 600 was 35 percent greater than the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility fell, with the VStoxx Index, a gauge of the cost
of using options to hedge against moves in the Euro Stoxx 50
Index, sinking 7.1 percent to a one-month low.  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  lost 0.4 percent after advancing 1.5 percent
yesterday. Oil and gasoline fell more than 1 percent, while
nickel, lead, aluminum and copper climbed more than 2 percent.  Spot gold prices added 0.4 percent $1,369.20 an ounce,
after yesterday’s 4.1 percent gain, the biggest jump since June
2012. Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as
the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial system
by purchasing debt. Silver added 1.1 percent after rallying 5.5
percent yesterday, the most since June 28.  WTI declined 1.6 percent to $106.39 a barrel as Libya’s oil
production increased and President Bashar al-Assad said  Syria 
will make available information about its chemical weapons.  Japan Stimulus  The yen slid 1.5 percent versus the dollar after a Bank of
 Japan  policy maker said pressure may mount to expand on
unprecedented monetary stimulus. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
rose 0.3 percent, after dropping for four days and reaching the
lowest level since February yesterday.  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.6031 after a report showed
U.K. retail sales unexpectedly dropped in August.  Five-year Treasury yields increased five basis points to
1.48 percent after dropping to 1.38 percent, the lowest since
Aug. 12, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The  yield  tumbled
18 basis points yesterday, the biggest drop since March 18,
2009.  The 10-year yield rose six basis point to 2.75 percent,
having fallen as low as 2.67 percent yesterday, the least since
Aug. 13, after the Fed said it needed more evidence of a lasting
improvement in the economy before scaling back stimulus. Yields
on the 10-year notes, the benchmark for loans ranging from
mortgages to corporate bonds, climbed to 3.01 percent on Sept. 6
from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before Bernanke said the
central bank could slow the pace of asset purchases in the next
few policy meetings.  French 10-year  rates  dropped nine basis points to 2.42
percent, while similar-maturity Dutch yields slid seven basis
points to 2.28 percent.  Credit-default swaps insuring speculative-grade bonds
dropped to the lowest since May 2011. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 junk-rated
companies decreased 12 basis points to 364 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  