-- ASX Directors Resign After SEC Action Against Hedge Fund
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-09-19T00:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/asx-directors-resign-after-sec-charges-against-hedge-fund.html
Shane Finemore and Russell Aboud
resigned from their positions on the board of  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  after
their hedge fund, Manikay Partners LLC, agreed to settle claims
of improperly buying shares of companies they had bet against.  Aboud said by telephone today that he spoke to ASX Chairman
Rick Holliday Smith informing him he would resign. New York-based Manikay agreed to pay $2.6 million to settle the action.
The hedge fund was sanctioned by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission as part of an enforcement against 23 firms,
the agency said in a  statement  Sept. 17. Aboud, a member of the
board of the ASX, is chairman of the fund.  “I don’t believe it creates any governance issues at the
ASX,” Aboud said. “But even a perception of an issue has the
ability to damage the ASX. I think it was the right thing to
do.”  Aboud said the action stemmed from a Citigroup Inc. share
sale in 2009. ASX board member Finemore is the managing partner
of Manikay. Finemore did not respond to e-mailed requests for
comment. The company made no admission of guilt. ASX confirmed
the two resignations in a statement today.  The firms cited in these cases allegedly bought shares from
an underwriter, broker or dealer participating in a share sale
after having sold short the same security during the restricted
period, according to the SEC statement. In a short sale,
speculators borrow and then sell securities on expectations they
will be able to repurchase the shares at a cheaper price before
returning them to their owners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  