-- Kiwi Rises to 4-Month High on N.Z. Growth; Aussie Falls on Rates
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-19T07:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/australian-yields-drop-most-in-6-weeks-kiwi-stronger-after-gdp.html
New Zealand ’s currency reached a
four-month high against the dollar after data showed the South
Pacific nation’s economy beat estimates in the second quarter.  Associate Finance Minister Steven Joyce said earlier this
week that gross domestic product was projected to have shrunk
during the period. Australia’s dollar fell against most major
peers as speculation the Reserve Bank will cut  interest rates 
damped the currency’s allure, even after the U.S. central bank
maintained bond buying that has supported global asset prices.  “The kiwi currency obviously got a huge boost from the
decision by the U.S.  Federal Reserve ,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
currency strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. The GDP report “was seen as a positive by
the market and that provided another boost.”  New Zealand’s dollar jumped 0.5 percent to 84.11 U.S. cents
as of 5:11 p.m. in Sydney after touching 84.13, the highest
since May 10.  Australia ’s currency was little changed at 95.21
U.S. cents after surging as much as 1.9 percent to 95.29
yesterday, the strongest since June 19.  New Zealand’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent in
the April-June period from the first quarter, the government
statistics bureau reported today. Joyce said on Sept. 17 that
his office expected the economy contracted 0.2 percent in the
second quarter. GDP rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier,
compared with the 2.3 percent forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Fed Policy  The Fed yesterday maintained its $85 billion pace of
monthly debt purchases, while economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had projected it would dial down the quantitative-easing program
by $5 billion. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said conditions in
the U.S. job market are still far from what policy makers would
like to see.  Ten-year  Treasury yields  dropped 16 basis points in New
York yesterday, the most since October 2011. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares jumped 1.2 percent to a record.  Both the Aussie and kiwi gained versus the yen as the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 2.3 percent, sapping demand
for lower-yielding assets. Australia’s currency advanced 0.7
percent to 93.88 yen, a level unseen since June 6. The  New
Zealand dollar  surged as much as 1.3 percent to 82.98 yen, the
strongest since May 28.  Australian Bonds  Ten-year Australian  bond yields  tumbled 18 basis points to
3.88 percent today, the biggest drop since Aug. 5. Three-year
yields fell 15 basis points to 2.77 percent, nearing the RBA’s
2.5 percent benchmark rate. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “Given that markets were widely anticipating a tapering
and that hasn’t happened, and they seem to be less committed
about when tapering will happen, you saw an immediate reaction
in equity, bond, commodity and  currency markets ,” said  Besa Deda , the chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney.
“The long end of the Australian  bond market  will find support
because it’s heavily influenced by what happens in the U.S. bond
market.”  The Aussie has dropped 8.3 percent in the past six months
against the greenback, the worst performer among Group of 10
currencies. The kiwi appreciated 2 percent during the period.  There’s a 54 percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia 
will lower its benchmark rate, already at a record low 2.5
percent, by April, overnight-index swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The cash-rate target has been reduced from 4.75
percent in 2011.  “If Australia’s policy rate was as high as it used to be,
investors would expect funds to flow to the Aussie from the
greenback after the Federal Reserve refrained from tapering,”
said Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “But the Aussie no longer has the
appeal of being a high-yielding asset.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand said on Sept. 12 that
interest-rate increases will likely be required next year from
the all-time low of 2.5 percent as inflation picks up. Traders
see about a 93 percent chance the RBNZ will raise the benchmark
rate by April, data on swaps show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  