-- Avoiding Next Detroit Means Watching Muni Ratings, Fischer Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/avoiding-next-detroit-means-watching-muni-ratings-fischer-says.html
Phil Fischer, head of municipal
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, has a
simple suggestion for investors who want to avoid the next
Detroit: Look at the ratings.  Michigan’s biggest city, which filed a record municipal
bankruptcy on July 18, had a junk grade since January 2009 from
Moody’s Investors Service.  Fischer, 66, who assumed his current role in June,
discussed the $3.7 trillion muni market for today’s Bloomberg
Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  Q: What value does  Bank of America  place on ratings?  A: As a research group, we do credit research and strategy,
and we try to have a balance. Credit in the muni market is
basically bifurcated by rated and unrated bonds.  Because of that, if you want to avoid most of the credit
issues in the muni market, it’s an extremely easy thing to do.
There aren’t very many credit surprises. All you have to do is
buy rated bonds and then watch the ratings. And if the ratings
start to trend adversely, then ask yourself whether or not that
bond is something you still want to hold. That appears to
clearly be working for us.  Q: How does  Detroit ’s bankruptcy get resolved?  A: Chapter 9 is an area of the bankruptcy law which has not
had enough legal developments. Hopefully, the Detroit litigation
will clarify the role pensions have in Chapter 9 proceedings,
and of course the role unsecured general-obligation bonds have.
Those two items particularly need to be clarified so the market
can properly assess the relative value of those bonds.  Q: Was it always a mistake for general-obligation
bondholders to think they would get top priority if a local
government fell into distress?  A: It’s a complicated legal issue and there are elements
that need to be worked out. If, in fact, the decision is
returned adversely to general-obligation bondholders, the
issuers of general-obligation bonds should think about
redesigning them to give them more security.  Q: Are we going to see an increase in Chapter 9 filings?  A: There’s not much to indicate any great surge in the
area. Moody’s just upgraded states to stable, the revenues seem
to be coming in quite solidly and the budgets are balanced.  Detroit was very much its own particular economic scenario.
It has had a long-term cycle of economic issues.  Michigan 
thought for this particular city, the most rational thing to do
was to let a bankruptcy court resolve the various competing
issues. We see it in the market as its own unique circumstance.  Q: Muni bonds are experiencing the worst losses since 1999,
driven by persistent withdrawals from mutual funds. Is the
market behaving like it usually does -- outflows lead to sales
which lead to price declines which lead to more outflows which
lead to more sales -- or is this time different?  A: We know that in this market we set up an unfortunate
cycle of that occurring. The market’s behavior will turn around
when we see a general level of rates and expectations of rates
turn around. Munis now -- especially long-term munis -- are
 cheap , and for many investors would be a very attractive place.  Investors, especially individual investors, chase returns.
So when returns are good, they put money into the funds and
invest until the returns turn poor. And once they turn poor,
they start selling.  Q: Do you think there will be proposals that will threaten
the muni-bond tax exemption? If so, what will they look like?  A: The Treasury’s interest in reducing the tax exemption is
very long-term. The difference between now and earlier this year
is state and local governments have stepped up and affirmatively
acted to defend the tax exemption. They need to continue to do
that. That has taken the momentum away from discussions about
removing the tax exemption. But it will never really go away.  We don’t know what would replace it. You can’t just make
all these bonds taxable, because the price to state and local
governments would be very high. Congress or the Treasury might
suggest one of their favorite remedies, which is a tax credit
bond, but we’ve seen that they trade very poorly.  Q: Will there be a bond-insurance rebound, given that
 yields  are up and Detroit is proving the value of the backing?  A: The insurers are probably going to find more demand for
their product. But returning to 50 or 60 percent of the market
being insured is very difficult to see.  The headline discussions of unique credits are likely to
make some individual investors want some more support. As a
market we’re not seeing any fundamental shift in credit. If
anything, the credits in the muni sector are getting stronger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  