-- Bank of Canada Governor Poloz's Speech in Vancouver (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-18T14:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/bank-of-canada-governor-poloz-s-speech-in-vancouver-text-.html
Following is the text of a speech
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz is delivering today in
 Vancouver .  Returning to Natural Economic Growth  Introduction  Thank you for that kind introduction and to all of you for
coming this morning. It’s my pleasure to be here with the
members and guests of the Vancouver Board of Trade.  My focus this morning is the Canadian economy and, in
particular, how it will return to natural growth. The story has
three parts: Where are we now? Where are we going to end up? And
how will we know we are on the right path?  Where We Are Now  I probably don’t need to tell anyone here that the recent
global recession was the worst downturn since the Great
Depression. In very short order, global GDP fell more than 3 per
cent and millions of jobs were lost. In Canada, almost a half
million jobs were lost and GDP fell by more than 4 per cent.  The recession in Canada is now history, of course, thanks
in large part to timely fiscal and monetary policy measures. We
were the first of the G-7 to recover our recessionary decline in
output and start expanding anew. We have regained all the jobs
lost in the crisis and added almost 600,000 more.  But everyone knows, we are not yet back to normal.  Interest
rates  are at extraordinarily low levels. With unemployment above
7 per cent, there is still slack in the labour market. The
export sector, close to 7 per cent below its pre-recession peak,
still has a lot of ground to make up.  Firm creation has been lagging...  There’s something else. A characteristic of a naturally
growing economy is a steady increase in the population of
companies. However, for five years after the start of the
crisis, we saw virtually no increase in the population of
Canadian companies.  This matters, a lot. Large, established companies certainly
provide the foundation of economic growth. As they grow, or
become more productive, or generate new ideas, everyone
benefits. However, it is the creation of new companies that
serves as a natural engine for growth. New ideas, new products
and new ways of producing them are often the seeds of new
companies. As they grow from one employee, to five, to 20 or
more, they generate an outsized proportion of employment -- in
every economy, not just ours.  New companies create new jobs, which create new incomes,
which get spent, creating a virtuous circle of self-sustaining
growth. That’s what makes it natural.  Although the data on the population of firms are choppy, in
the period from 2008 to 2012, there was almost no net creation
of companies in Canada. Particularly hard hit have been Canada’s
exporters, which were exposed to the full brunt of the global
crisis. Their numbers out-and-out declined in the recession and,
based on their ongoing weak output, have likely remained flat
since then. The group most profoundly affected has been
manufacturing exporters.  ...as is broader business investment  Meanwhile, many existing businesses also seem hesitant to
make major investments -- and no wonder.  Yes, there has been significant capacity added in the
mining, oil and gas sectors. We have seen important, long-term
investment in such projects as the  oil sands , shale gas
extraction here in British Columbia, and some mining projects.
Indeed, during the recovery, this activity accounted for three-quarters of the contribution to growth made by investment. It
helped return the share of overall business investment in GDP to
close to historical levels.  However, companies in other sectors have told us that they
have held off on creating new capacity until they see more
concrete signs of stronger demand. In the meantime, they have
focused on small, targeted or niche projects -- in other words,
getting the most out of their existing capital. Such investments
are important. But a more normal, post-recession evolution would
show greater investment in the capital stock of firms across
most sectors -- not just mining, oil and gas.  Confidence in short supply  In our summer Business Outlook Survey, companies told us
that uncertainty about the nature and timing of improving growth
prospects is weighing on their investment decisions. Much
uncertainty centres around U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, the
future of  Europe ’s economy, and the sustainability of growth in
 China . But other factors also affect business confidence,
including concerns about Canadian domestic demand, access to
credit, and uncertainty about regulatory costs or government
approvals. Together, these various elements of uncertainty
create a sort of wedge, blocking companies from making optimal
investment decisions.  Understandably, Canadian firms have been reluctant to add
new capacity until the U.S. economic recovery gains traction and
is more certain. Given what firms have been through, it
naturally would take a lot of confidence to expand. However,
once there is a shift in sentiment, research shows that business
decision-makers tend to react and move forward very quickly with
their investment plans. Economists call this “animal spirits”
because it is very hard to predict.  Encouraging Signs  But some new data suggest we may be turning the corner.  Recently published private surveys of business sentiment
show some improvement. Further, financial market uncertainty has
declined, according to Canadian and global indicators. Such
measures of financial volatility may well be serving as proxies
for actual world events or developments. We will be watching
these closely to see if this improving trend continues.  The Bank’s interviews with Canadian business leaders for
our autumn Business Outlook Survey are being conducted right
now. I am looking forward to learning about their views and
perspectives -- and if, and how, they may be changing.  But perhaps the most exciting sign is that the population
of Canadian companies is growing again. Today, there are some
40,000 more firms with at least one employee than there were
last year at this time. This pace is considerably stronger than
we would expect in normal, non-recessionary times and suggests
that we may be replacing some of the firms that were lost in the
recession with new ones. This is excellent news.  We also know that most of the jobs created since the
recession are in occupations requiring relatively high skill
levels and are mostly in industries with above-average wages.
What this will do is help contribute to the virtuous circle of
higher incomes, more spending, and more jobs that is associated
with natural growth.  All of these signs are hopeful. They are signalling that we
are on our way home.  Where We are Going: Natural  Economic Growth   Let’s talk about that right now. What does home look like?
This is a discussion about the future, so there are many
unpredictable variables.  However, I anticipate that the Canadian economy will
normalize and growth will become natural, in contrast to the
economic activity of the past six years, which has been fuelled
by policy, including record-low interest rates. Natural growth
will be self-generating and self-sustaining, and the economy
will be growing at its potential, as its productive capacity
expands. Inflation will be back to our target of 2 per cent. As
I have said before, policy rates in Canada will be higher than
they are today. We can expect that short-term interest rates, as
is normal, will be above inflation. Long-term rates will settle
into place along a natural, upward-sloping yield curve.  We can anticipate a better balance in Canada between
domestic and foreign demand. All components of GDP will
contribute to growth, again, as normal.  The  unemployment rate  in Canada can also be expected to
come down to a more natural level. Consumer and government debt
loads will be on a sustainable path. Firms will be generating
self-sustained growth.  In addition to these familiar elements, some things will
look significantly different when we get home.  We may be trading with new customers in new markets.
Emerging markets are becoming more important to our exporters.
Canadian companies have done a lot during this cycle to
diversify into emerging markets, which are a growing -- although
still small -- piece of our total trade.  The nature of trade is also changing. More and more
exporters are part of global value chains. Today, an exported
good to the  United States  can ultimately end up being re-exported to more than 100 other countries in a global value
chain.  Research shows that companies that are part of a global
value chain, because they have specialized, have higher
productivity, which means better-paying jobs.  The mix of what we trade externally and what we sell here
in Canada has already begun to evolve and undoubtedly will be
different when we get home. The future will likely include a
shift in the shares of manufacturing and services in the
economy. Commodities may constitute a larger share than they do
today. The sectors with the greatest anticipated job growth are
both traditional and new: on the one hand, mining, oil and gas,
and on the other, computer system design services. Employment is
also expected to grow steadily in health care and
transportation.  We also have to be ready for surprises, when we get home,
especially among the new emerging businesses. For example, in
1971 when the first microprocessor was invented, we didn’t even
have microcomputers.  Just as new technologies and industries emerged from
previous recessions, this return to natural growth will include
the development of new technologies, new firms and new jobs.  Whole new sectors will take off; descriptions of new
classes of jobs will be written; and people will be hired under
brand-new, yet-to-be-defined job titles. For instance, until
recently, who would have thought of a social media expert or a
professional blogger as careers that our kids might aspire to?  I’m not going to try to predict what new product, service
or technology will deliver the next big boost to our economy and
the labour force. But there are sectors that have the potential
for ground-breaking innovations: 3-D printing, artificial
intelligence and synthetic biology, among others.  The Path Home  Let me shift gears and talk about how we get home. How do
we get to natural growth? What is the path? And how will we know
we are on it? I have suggested before that there is a sequence
of events we can anticipate: foreign demand will build; our
exports will strengthen further; confidence will improve;
existing companies will expand their production; companies will
invest to increase capacity; and, new companies will be created.  Evidence suggests we are now close to the tipping point
from improving confidence into expanding capacity.  We are seeing improvements in foreign demand. The Bank
expects that strong increases in U.S. business and residential
investment will particularly benefit the sectors of Canada’s
export market that have lagged thus far, notably machinery and
equipment and wood products.  Long-term interest rates have recently begun to return to
more normal levels, consistent with the strengthening  U.S.
economy  and the anticipation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will
begin to exit from its unconventional monetary policy. But it’s
important to make the distinction between policy tightening and
a slowing of the rate at which additional stimulus is being
provided. Talk about “tapering” refers to the latter.  I sometimes use a spaghetti-sauce model to help explain
this. When the bubble burst in 2008, we were left with a crater,
which is where we now find ourselves. If you look carefully at a
pot of simmering spaghetti sauce, under every bubble there is a
crater that’s equal in size. So, a 7-year bubble, a 7-year
crater. Central banks have been filling that crater with
liquidity, so we can row our boats across it. We need to make
sure we’re getting to shore and not just hitting a rock. But
when we get to the other side, when we get home and can climb
out of the crater, central banks can gradually reduce the rate
at which they add liquidity.  That’s not policy tightening. Rather, it is another welcome
sign that things are getting back to natural growth. It
indicates that the underlying momentum of the U.S. economy is
expected to hold.  Further, the efforts of Canadian businesses to diversify
into faster-growing  emerging markets  will pay off and will also
help Canada’s export performance. Exports more than doubled over
the past decade to countries that are not members of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and now
account for 13 per cent of total exports. This growth has added
roughly $38 billion to our exports, which is equivalent to
adding a market bigger than the province of  Nova Scotia  to our
economy in just a decade.  Indeed, the Bank projects a solid pace of further
improvement for our exports. This gathering momentum should help
lift the confidence of Canada’s exporters and lead to more, and
more broadly based, capacity-building investment. It should
provide additional incentives for new start-up businesses.
Historically, the lag between an improvement in exports and a
pickup in investments has been about six months.  Certainly, the preconditions are in place: the balance
sheets of corporate Canada are healthy; the cost of capital is
low; and credit appears to be accessible. The corporate
environment is favourable: depending on which international
consultant you believe, Canada is one of the top five, or the
top three, or even the top two places in the world in which to
launch a business.  Stronger investment means more new jobs will be created. It
means more capital and better tools for workers, which will
increase labour productivity. It means more efficient ways of
working and producing products and services. It means a
resumption of the natural growth in the number of firms being
created and more innovation and more creativity. This is the
virtuous circle at work. This is what the Bank wants to see. It
is what we expect to see.  New demand creates new supply  As firms gain confidence in the pickup of demand, they will
invest more, which, by definition, adds to supply. In short, new
demand will create new supply. As global demand improves and
investment growth strengthens, we should see higher potential
output growth -- that is, an increase in the speed at which the
Canadian economy can grow without causing inflationary
pressures.  With potential output higher and growing faster in response
to stronger investment, the output gap -- the gap between what
the economy is capable of producing and what it is producing --
could close later than if investment (and, ultimately,
potential) did not respond to demand.  The message here is that the economy should be able to
support stronger activity without stoking inflation, as
investment ticks upward. Such an endogenous response of
potential to stronger demand would be natural, given the slack
that we see in our labour market.  The Bank will monitor closely the various indicators,
including investment, productivity, labour participation and
inflation, to determine the strength of potential output growth
and the size of the output gap and the labour market gap. Rest
assured, we will conduct monetary policy that is appropriate and
consistent with achieving our target of 2 per cent inflation.  Conclusion  Many of the conditions needed to support a return to
natural growth are already in place in Canada. These include a
sound macroeconomic framework, a stable financial system, a
well-educated workforce, and abundant natural resources.  We are optimistic that the gathering momentum in foreign
demand, especially in the United States, should help lift the
confidence of Canada’s business leaders and exporters. We can
expect the emergence of new products, new processes, new
structures and new industries -- in short, a resurgence of the
creation side of the creative-destruction process we attribute
to  Joseph Schumpeter . It may be slow in coming, but it will
emerge, and it will serve as a driving force of economic growth.  The Bank is absolutely committed to keeping inflation
predictable, stable and on target. This is sacrosanct. Our
flexible inflation-targeting framework is the best contribution
monetary policy can make so that Canadian households and
businesses can make decisions about their financial future with
confidence.  In short, this is what we can do to help nurture a return
to natural economic growth in Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  