-- Porto Wins in Champions League as Basel Shocks Chelsea
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-18T23:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/basel-beats-chelsea-in-champions-league-messi-sets-scoring-mark.html
Basel came from behind to defeat
Chelsea 2-1 in soccer’s  Champions League , while  Lionel Messi 
scored three goals for a record fourth time in the competition
as Barcelona routed Ajax 4-0.  Mohamed Salah and Marco Streller scored in the final 19
minutes at  Stamford  Bridge in London last night to give Basel
the victory. It ended a run of 19 winless visits by Swiss clubs
to England in European play, dating back to 1995.  “We will remain humble now and know that all we did was
win the first game,” Basel coach Murat Yakin said on the
website of tournament organizer UEFA. “After years we have
finally managed to win a game over here.”  Arsenal, AC Milan, Schalke, Napoli,  Atletico Madrid  and
Porto also won as the first round of group-stage matches in
Europe’s elite club competition concluded.  Basel’s late comeback handed Chelsea its first group-stage
home loss in 30 games dating back to 2003. The Blues, who last
season became the first Champions League holder to be knocked
out in the group stage, took the lead just before halftime on a
goal from Oscar.  Basel tied the score in the 71st minute as Streller laid
off a pass for Salah, who sent a shot past  Petr Cech . Streller
got the winner 11 minutes later when he headed a corner kick
between Cech and the near post.  “I am not in shock,” Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  told
 Sky Sports . “Football is a game. Sometimes you win, sometimes
you lose. I am not happy with the result.”  Schalke also won in Group E, 3-0 over Steaua Bucharest on
goals from Atsuto Uchida, Kevin-Prince Boateng and Julian
Draxler.  Messi’s Mark  Messi scored his fourth Champions League hat trick to move
ahead of Mario Gomez and Filippo Inzaghi as Barcelona began its
bid for a fifth title with the home win over Ajax in Group H.  The Argentine scored once in each half for a 2-0 lead after
55 minutes. After Gerard Pique increased Barcelona’s lead, Messi
completed the scoring with 15 minutes remaining.  “The Champions League group stage is always complicated,”
Messi said on UEFA’s website. “We were better in the second
half.”  Messi, 26, now has 62 Champions League goals to move nine
behind record-holder  Raul Gonzalez .  In the other match in Group H, seven-time champion AC Milan
got two late scores to beat Celtic 2-0.  Late Goals  Milan took an 82nd-minute lead as Cristian Zapata’s shot
deflected in off Emilio Izaguirre for an own goal. Sully Muntari
added the second four minutes later when he tapped in the
rebound after Fraser Forster saved  Mario Balotelli ’s free kick.  In Group F, Theo Walcott and  Aaron Ramsey  scored in the
second half as Arsenal won 2-1 at Marseille to extend its away
winning run to 10 games in all competitions.  The Gunners took the lead in the 65th minute following a
defensive error as Jeremy Morel’s mistimed headed clearance
attempt fell to Walcott, who fired a shot into the net.  Ramsey made it 2-0 in the 83rd minute before Jordan Ayew
scored for Marseille with a penalty kick in stoppage time.  “It was a victory linked with patience and experience,
even if we were not flamboyant,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
told Sky Sports. “But we start with three points and that is
good.”  Napoli also won in the group, 2-1 against 10-man  Borussia
Dortmund , last season’s runner-up to  Bayern Munich .  Gonzalo Higuain and Lorenzo Insigne got the Napoli goals,
while Dortmund’s score came on an own goal from Camilo Zuniga.
Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller was shown a red card just
before halftime for handling the ball outside the area.  Miranda, Arda Turan and Leo Baptistao scored to give
Atletico Madrid a 3-1 home win over Zenit St. Petersburg in
Group G, while Porto won 1-0 at Austria Vienna on a goal from
Lucho Gonzalez.  The Champions League continues with the next round of
 group-stage matches  Oct. 1 and 2. The top two teams in each of
the eight pools after six games advance to the knockout stage,
which finishes with the May 24 final in Lisbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 