-- Berlusconi Revives Forza Italia in Plea for Help Against Trials
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-18T17:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/berlusconi-revives-forza-italia-in-plea-for-help-against-trials.html
Former Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi revived Forza Italia, his first political
party, in a televised plea for help against the criminal trials
and adversaries that threaten to end his career.  “They think they have put me out of politics with a
monstrous, politicized sentence,” Berlusconi, 76, said in the
18-minute address aired today on Italian television stations
including SkyTG24. “I’m telling all decent Italians with common
sense to react, protest, make yourselves heard. You have the
obligation to do something strong and big to get out of the
situation they put us in.”  Berlusconi blamed the judiciary and political rivals he
called “The Left” for attacking him personally and corrupting
the rule of law. The three-time premier, who has been convicted
of tax fraud and paying a minor for sex in the last 11 months,
withheld any expression of support for Prime Minister Enrico Letta in the video.  The backing of Berlusconi, who leads the second-biggest
party in Letta’s coalition, is key to the government’s survival.
The alliance has come under stress as Letta’s Democratic Party,
a union-backed force that describes itself as “center-left,”
supports proceedings in the Senate to strip Berlusconi of his
seat.  “I am here to ask you, each of you, to open their eyes, to
react and get in the game to combat this Left and this use of
justice for political reasons,” Berlusconi said. “I never
committed a crime. I’m not guilty of anything. I am innocent, I
am absolutely innocent.”  Berlusconi Appeal  Berlusconi, who appeals to professionals and entrepreneurs
at the ballot box, has been in rivalry with the Democratic Party
and its predecessor parties for nearly two decades. The two
sides set aside their differences and teamed up in April after
neither won enough votes in February elections to govern alone.  In the video appeal, Berlusconi appealed specifically to
Italians standing trial, suggesting they were victims of a
flawed system.  “We can’t allow  Italy  to remain closed in the cage of a
sick justice system that every day leaves its mark on the live
flesh of millions of Italians involved in civil or criminal
trials,” Berlusconi said.  Berlusconi created Forza Italia, a stadium chant translated
as “Go Italy!,” when he entered politics to run in the 1994
election, which he won. Berlusconi, who accumulated a fortune of
more than $7 billion building businesses from real estate to
television, subsequently enlarged his party and changed the
name, most recently to People of Liberty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  