-- BHP Made Liable for Damage From Ok Tedi in Papua, ABC Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-09-19T07:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/bhp-made-liable-for-ok-tedi-damage-in-papua-new-guinea-abc-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, has been made liable by the Papua New
Guinea parliament for environmental damage caused by the Ok Tedi
copper mine, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Mine waste, known as tailings, from Ok Tedi caused damage
to the Fly River in the 1980s and 1990s. In 2002, BHP
transferred its majority share of the mine to the PNG
Sustainable Development Program Ltd., and in return was granted
legal immunity. The mine has continued to operate.  Prime Minister Peter O’Neill yesterday said the decision to
grant immunity was wrong, according to the ABC. The parliament
also passed legislation to take control of the mine from the PNG
Sustainable Development Program, which holds 52 percent of the
mine and invests profits back into the region.  “It does show how keen the PNG government is for income,”
Peter Rudd, resources and mining manager at Altitude Private
Wealth in Melbourne, said by phone. “BHP absolved itself from
all the environmental concerns or at least incorporated them
into that trust and not part of BHP itself, so you’d think it
would be sufficiently at arm’s length.”  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based  BHP
Billiton , declined to comment on the government’s decision
regarding changes to Ok Tedi ownership and the company’s legal
immunity. Companies with mining and energy assets in PNG include
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Oil
Search Ltd. (OSH)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)   Raised Bed  Mine waste from the Ok Tedi mine has raised the river bed,
causing flooding that’s damaging to local landowners on either
side of the river system. The mine produces about 170,000 metric
tons of copper and 500,000 ounces of gold annually from its Mt.
Fubilan open-cut mine, Ok Tedi Mining Ltd. previously said on
its website.  The government’s decision to claim ownership of the trust
and revoke previous agreements made the Pacific nation riskier
in the eyes of investors, said Michael Elliott, sector leader
for EY LLP’s global mining practice.  “While the PNG government and those promoting projects may
see this as an isolated case, many others who are providing the
investment will be factoring it in,” Elliott said. “It’s hard
to see how this doesn’t increase mining risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  