-- BHP Sees Risks to South African Coal Supply in Draft Mining Law
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-09-18T11:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/bhp-sees-risks-to-south-african-coal-supply-in-draft-mining-law.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  said planned
amendments to  South Africa ’s mining laws that could see coal
declared strategic and subjected to export curbs threaten to
compound likely energy shortages in  Africa ’s largest economy.  South Africa’s energy needs “can only be met if there is a
requisite investment in new coal mines,” BHP’s local coal unit
said in a written submission to lawmakers today. The “specter
of changes” proposed in the amendments will deny the coal
mining industry the regulatory certainty needed to encourage
investment, it said.  BHP commented on the last of four days of hearings at
parliament in  Cape Town  on proposed changes to the 2002 Mineral
and Petroleum Resources Development Act. The government says the
changes are to ensure the nation benefits more from its mineral
endowment. They would enable the mines minister to force
producers to offer an unspecified part of their output to local
processors and get permission to export any strategic minerals.  “Such discretionary powers will be a disincentive,”
Melbourne-based BHP said. The world’s largest mining company
joins  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and a succession of other metals, oil
and gas producers in telling lawmakers that the proposed
amendments are overly onerous, too vague and will have
unintended consequences.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state power utility, last week
backed plans to have coal declared a strategic resource to avert
expected shortages of the fuel from 2018.  Coal Abundance  While Eskom, which burns coal to generate 85 percent of its
electricity, has contracted 80 percent of the amount it needs
for the next five years, it anticipates a shortage of as much as
40 million metric tons of the fuel a year after 2018.  “South Africa is blessed with an abundance of coal that is
sufficient to meet not only local demand, but also demand for
exports,” said BHP, whose officials are due to address
lawmakers later. “The requisite expansion in mining can only be
achieved if an appropriate and competitive return is offered to
investors.”  South Africa is the continent’s largest coal and gold
producer and the world’s biggest supplier of platinum and
chrome. Besides legislative changes, the  mining industry  is
contending with rising costs, slumping mineral prices and
ongoing labor unrest.  Compelling companies to sell their output for less than
they could obtain on the open market may constitute
expropriation and violate the country’s constitution, BHP said.
The law, if implemented, could also force companies to breach
their long-term supply contracts and be in violation of South
Africa’s international trade obligations, it said.  The Chamber of Mines, an industry body whose members
include BHP and London-based Anglo American, said on Sept. 13 it
is continuing talks with the government over the proposed law
and shortcomings may still be addressed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  