-- Billionaire Gertler Seeks Partner for Potential Congo Oil Find
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-09-18T09:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/billionaire-gertler-seeks-partner-for-potential-congo-oil-find.html
Billionaire Dan Gertler is looking
for partners to develop oil blocks in the Democratic Republic of
Congo after seismic studies revealed “a lot” of oil, the
director of Gertler’s Oil of DR Congo sprl said.  Exploration by the company shows a geological structure
beneath Congo’s Lake Albert that may contain as much as 2
billion barrels of liquid, Oil of DR Congo director Giovanni
Pedaci told reporters yesterday in Kinshasa, the capital. The
company needs to drill to test how much oil the structure
contains, he said.  “To develop a reservoir so big is capital intensive -–
two, three, four billion dollars,” Pedaci said at the iPad oil
conference. “My shareholders are looking for some people to
share the risk.”  Lake Albert straddles the border between Congo and Uganda.
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer, has already found more than 1
billion barrels of crude on the Ugandan side. The structure
beneath the Congolese portion of the lake is “a mirror image”
of the Ugandan part, Pedaci said.  Oil of DR Congo completed an eight-month second phase of
seismic exploration in August that covered 470 square kilometers
(181 square miles) of land and water within blocks 1 and 2,
Pedaci said.  “Already we’ve found a lot of oil,” he said.  Rebel groups, unexploded ordnance and disputes with Uganda
over the shared border have hampered exploration, Pedaci said.  Congo currently produces about 25,000 barrels of crude per
day and is exploring for more throughout the country, which is
the largest in sub-Saharan  Africa . Parliament is scheduled to
consider a new oil law in its current session that began on
Sept. 16.  In April, Congo announced it reached a deal with Gertler to
purchase another of his oil blocks along the Atlantic coast
bordering  Angola . Cohydro, Congo’s state-owned oil company, and
Sonangol EP of Angola, will develop the block together. Congo
hasn’t announced the details of the deal or the purchase price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  