-- Billionaire Broad Tops Art List; Storm Over Ming Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/billionaire-broad-tops-art-list-storm-over-ming-sale.html
Billionaire philanthropist Eli Broad is the world’s top art collector, according to a new
database containing profiles of more than 3,000 wealthy buyers.  Broad, whose contemporary art museum in  Los Angeles  is
scheduled to open next year, is ranked by the website  Larry’s
List , based in  Hong Kong .  The site provides contact information about collectors in
more than 70 countries and details of the specific artworks
they’ve bought over the years. Names of artists can be entered
into a search feature that lists who collects them. Individual
collector profiles can be purchased for $9.50 each from the
site, which goes live this week.  Artists can access the information for free, Larry’s List
Ltd. said in an e-mail.  “There will be reluctance at the beginning,” Magnus
Resch, the company’s founder, said in an interview. “We believe
it will be a standard tool at some point. It’s cheap compared to
other databases compiled from accessible sources.”  Resch, 29, said information about the collectors was
compiled by 25 researchers using freely available media. The
collectors themselves were not consulted, he said.  The database ranks collectors according to Internet
presence, institutional engagement, art fair participation,
communications platforms, and the physical visibility and scale
of their collection.  According to these criteria, Eli and Edythe Broad are the
world’s No. 1 art collectors, followed by Cyprus-born Dakis Joannou and the London-based couple, Anita and Poju Zabludowicz.  These rankings contrast with the 2013 ARTnews 200
assessment which has Helene and  Bernard Arnault , Debra and  Leon Black  and the Broads occupying the top three spots.  An inaugural 60-page “Larry’s List Art Collector Report”
will be published in the fall, said Resch.  Sale Anger  A U.K. council has become the latest local authority to
provoke anger with plans to sell some of its artworks.  Chinese ceramics from a local museum in south  London  are
estimated to raise more than HK$113 million ($15 million) when
they’re auctioned in Hong Kong in November.  The 24 most valuable items from the Riesco Collection will
be sold by the London Borough of Croydon at Christie’s
International on Nov. 27, the London-based auction house said in
an e-mailed statement on Sept. 13.  They’d been part of a permanent display in the council’s
Croydon Clocktower museum of 230 works formerly owned by Raymond
Riesco, a Surrey-based businessman, who died in 1964.  Government Cuts  Conservative-led Croydon is the latest cash-strapped U.K.
local authority selling artworks to offset cuts from central
government.  Cambridgeshire County Council sold an L.S. Lowry painting
for 542,250 pounds ($696,280) at Christie’s, London, in May 2009
to fund youth services. Bonhams auctioned a John Everett Millais
for 74,400 pounds on behalf of Bolton Council in July 2011.  Tower Hamlets  provoked protest with its plan to sell a
Henry Moore sculpture last year. Local governments in other
countries have come under attack for art-sale proposals, such as
in the bankrupt city of  Detroit .  “It’s sad,” the London-based dealer John Berwald said in
an interview. “We’ve lost important pieces from one of the top
provincial collections. People won’t want to leave things to
local museums if they think they’re going to be sold off.”  The Hong Kong entries include a Ming dynasty blue-and-white
double-gourd “moonflask” vase estimated at HK$22 million to
HK$30 million, and a pair of Kangxi polychrome enameled cups at
HK$7 million to HK$10 million.  No Bequest  “There was no bequest,”  David Mills , Croydon Council’s
press officer, said in an interview. “We bought the collection
in the 1960s and we are entitled to do what we want to do with
it.”  The value of rare Chinese porcelain has soared in recent
years, driven by  China ’s desire to buy back artifacts associated
with its emperors. Prize items from the Riesco Collection were
removed from public display a year ago owing to prohibitive
insurance and security costs, Mills said.  “We have a code of ethics and what Croydon Council is
doing is in clear contravention of a chunk of that,” Maurice
Davies, head of policy and communications at the Museums
Association, said in an interview. “We’re considering taking
disciplinary action.”  If the pieces are sold,  Arts Council England  will assess
Croydon Council’s accreditation status which allows it to
attract cultural funding from institutions, the Arts Council
said in an e-mail.  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on art and  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 