-- Billabong Sees Revival With Oaktree-Centerbridge Debt Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-09-19T06:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/billabong-accepts-refinancing-offer-from-centerbridge-oaktree.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s largest surfwear company, said it’s better placed to
rebuild its business after accepting a refinancing plan from
Oaktree Capital Management LP and Centerbridge Partners LP.  The long-term financing terms offered by the U.S. funds are
better than those proposed by Altamont Capital Partners,
Chairman Ian Pollard said in an interview today. Neil Fiske,
former chief executive officer of outdoor-wear company Eddie
Bauer Holdings Inc., will be appointed as Billabong’s CEO and
start work with a meeting in California Sept. 21, he said.  “The key thing is that this financing and this
relationship is in place and has permanence,” Pollard said by
phone. “Our job now is to focus on rebuilding the business.”  Billabong lost A$860 million ($816 million) after tax in
the year ended June and wrote down the value of its 40-year-old
namesake brand to zero as a drop in sales put revenue below the
company’s operating costs amid store closures, firings and a
breach of debt terms.  The company’s  shares  rose 5.6 percent to 47.5 Australian
cents at the close in Sydney, the highest level since Sept. 3.
The S&P/ASX 200 benchmark advanced 1.1 percent.  “They can fund themselves a lot more cheaply and with a
lot more clarity now,” Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG
Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by phone. “The next question is, where
is the income going to come from, and are they going to compete
going forward?”  Consulting Costs  Worth almost A$4 billion at its peak in 2007,  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based Billabong’s market value tumbled to A$216
million as of yesterday.  The company fielded takeover or refinancing proposals for
all but five weeks of the time since former CEO Launa Inman took
over last May. It spent A$23 million on consulting and banking
costs in relation to the proposals last year, greater than the
value of its earnings before interest and tax.  The employees “have had a tough year by any dimension,”
Pollard said. “I’ve known the uncertainty we’ve had at the
senior executive level, just because of the quite extraordinary
circumstances of the company.”  Since last January, the board has fielded approaches from
companies including TPG International LLC; an unnamed bidder
that people familiar with the matter identified as  Bain Capital ;
Sycamore Partners Management; Vans-maker  VF Corp. (VFC) ; as well as
Altamont, Oaktree, and Centerbridge.  Billabong has also sold a controlling stake in its Nixon
brand to Trilantic Capital Partners for $285 million and raised
another $70 million selling its DaKine label to Altamont.  Rejected Earlier  Founded in 1973 by surfer Gordon Merchant, the company had
earlier rejected initial approaches from Oaktree and
Centerbridge, who bought about A$189 million of its syndicated
loans to support their plans.  The funds’ initial refinancing offer was delivered to the
company at 2:15 p.m. on July 16, and Pollard said he hadn’t seen
it when he addressed the media about 75 minutes later at
Billabong’s store in Sydney’s city center to announce an
alternative loan package with Altamont.  “The core distinction between the two consortiums ended up
being a function of the financials,” Pollard said.  Under the terms of the package, Oaktree and Centerbridge
will lend as much as $360 million to the surfwear company for
six years at a fixed rate of 11.9 percent.  That compares with Altamont’s revised agreement announced
Aug. 21, which would have provided a $275 million loan with a 15
percent interest rate and another $35 million at a 10 percent
rate, both with five-year terms.  Shareholding  The accepted offer will also give Billabong’s existing
shareholders a larger stake in the company, with Oaktree and
Centerbridge buying new shares and options that could ultimately
give them between 34 percent and 41 percent of the company,
according to the statement today.  The Oaktree and Centerbridge group will buy 329 million
newly issued shares at 41 Australian cents each, giving
Billabong A$135 million in cash. Other shareholders will be able
to buy a further 179 million new shares for 28 cents each, to
provide a further A$50 million in cash.  Billabong will also issue about 30 million options to the
funds, which can be converted into shares for 50 Australian
cents each within seven years.  Altamont said it declined to revise the terms of its
proposal. The group is “no longer pursuing long-term financing
with the company,” Ilse Schache, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman
for Altamont, said in an e-mailed statement.  Altamont will still hold options which can be vested at 50
Australian cents each to give it a stake of about 4 percent, and
will be entitled to one nominee on Billabong’s seven-person
board while it holds the options or shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  