-- Blue Jays Dent Yankees’ Playoff Chances; Rangers Snap Losing Run
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-18T04:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/blue-jays-dent-yankees-playoff-chances-rangers-snap-losing-run.html
Colby Rasmus and Rajai Davis hit
solo home runs and R.A. Dickey pitched seven scoreless innings
as the Toronto Blue Jays won 2-0 to hand the  New York  Yankees
their fourth straight loss in Major League Baseball.  The Texas Rangers and Tampa Bay Rays (both 82-68) lead the
race for the two wild-card spots that go to non-division-winning
teams in the American League. They’re followed by the Cleveland
Indians (82-69), Baltimore Orioles (80-70), and the Kansas City
Royals and Yankees (both 79-72), who lost their prior three
games at the Boston Red Sox.  The Rangers beat the Rays 7-1 last night to snap a seven-game skid, the Orioles topped the AL East-leading Boston Red Sox
3-2 and the Indians defeated the Royals 5-3.  “It’s not good, that’s for sure,” said Yankees starting
pitcher Andy Pettitte (10-10), who allowed one run on six hits
in 6 2/3 innings. “Go into  Boston  and get swept, then lose the
first game here. We’re playing terrible and it’s not good. It’s
a bad time to be doing that.”  Rasmus’s homer gave the Blue Jays a 1-0 lead in the fourth
inning at Rogers Centre in Toronto and Davis added the second
run with his seventh-inning shot.  Dickey (13-12) allowed four hits and struck out eight for
the win. Casey Janssen recorded his 31st save, giving up one hit
and striking out three in the ninth inning.  The Yankees have 11 regular-season games remaining.  “We’re darn close,” New York manager Joe Girardi told
reporters.  At Fenway Park in Boston, Baltimore’s Chris Davis set a
franchise record with his 51st home run to surpass the mark set
by Brady Anderson in 1996.  Davis’s MLB-leading shot tied the game in the sixth inning
and the Orioles won it in the ninth when Alexi Casilla scored on
Matt Wieters’s sacrifice fly.  Nationals Win  In the National League, the  Washington  Nationals swept the
Atlanta Braves in a doubleheader to keep alive their chances of
securing a wild-card spot. The Nationals won the first game 6-5
and the nightcap 4-0.  The first game at Nationals Park had been delayed a day
after 12 people were shot to death at the Washington Navy Yard,
which is several blocks from the Nationals’ stadium.  The Pittsburgh Pirates (87-64) lead the wild-card standings
in the NL, with the Cincinnati Reds (86-66) holding the second
spot. Washington (81-70) is third, 4 1/2 games further back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  