-- Blue Bird Taps Taxi Know-How to Expand Logistics: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-09-18T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/blue-bird-taps-taxi-know-how-to-expand-logistics-southeast-asia.html
The owner of Blue Bird,  Indonesia ’s
biggest taxi operator, plans to boost revenue from logistics at
least fivefold by delivering more sandwiches and electronics to
a burgeoning middle class.  The Djokosoetono family, whose Iron Bird unit transports
dry and chilled goods to 7-Eleven convenience stores in Jakarta,
plans to increase the share of  logistics  in group sales to more
than 50 percent “ideally,” from about 10 percent now, said
Noni Purnomo, a director at PT Pusaka Citra Djokosoetono, the
parent company of Iron Bird and Blue Bird. Purnomo didn’t
specify a timeframe for the target.  The goal highlights opportunities to profit from poor
public infrastructure in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, where
high logistics costs add to inflation and create delays. Blue
Bird sees more companies wanting to avoid the hassles of dealing
with distribution, and is relying on its reputation for
reliability that has spawned a host of copycat taxi operators.  “Our passenger land transportation has been growing in
line with the consumer market so we want logistics to also track
that” growth, Purnomo, whose grandmother Mutiara Siti Fatimah
Djokosoetono founded the taxi company in 1972, said in an
interview on Sept. 11. “We have a solid system of managing a
fleet that’s been developed for 40 years.”  Share Sale  Blue Bird, which plans an initial public offering, has
about 28,900 vehicles, more than three times its closest rival
 PT Express Transindo Utama (TAXI) , which has a market value of 3.6
trillion rupiah ($318 million), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Express Transindo shares have surged 91 percent this
year, outperforming the Jakarta Composite index’s 3.4 percent
gain.  Blue Bird seeks to raise at least $600 million from the
IPO, which may start in the fourth quarter, three people with
knowledge of the matter said in July. There’s no decision to
postpone the share sale, Purnomo said, declining to disclose
details of its size. The family will retain a majority stake
while proceeds will be used to expand taxi operations, she said.  Pusaka Citra is combining the logistics operations with its
warehouse, trucking and freight-forwarding units to offer a more
complete service, Purnomo said.  Fleet Management  “Logistics is a low-margin business that depends on
volume, so if you have more trucks then you can grow,” Adrianus Bias Prasuryo, an analyst at PT Samuel Sekuritas Indonesia in
Jakarta, said by phone. The family “has expertise in managing a
fleet and that’s the main point for entering logistics.”  Even so, rising fuel prices could pose a risk as Iron Bird
may not be able to pass on higher costs to customers, Prasuryo
said. Blue Bird may face weaker demand in an economic downturn
as fewer people would be able to afford a cab ride, he said.  The government raised subsidized fuel prices in June to
curb a  budget deficit  amid rising crude prices. West Texas
Intermediate crude rose 16 percent this year. Indonesia’s
economy grew 5.81 percent from a year earlier in the last
quarter, expanding less than 6 percent for the  first time  since
2010.  Bank Indonesia  lowered on Sept. 12 its 2013 GDP growth
forecast to a 5.5 percent to 5.9 percent pace.  Blue Bird’s success has spawned knock offs by local taxi
operators who copy the company’s blue color cabs, Purnomo said.
Blue Bird operates in 18 cities across Indonesia, serving 8.5
million passengers a month, according to a company presentation.  Port Jam  Boosting the group’s logistics services to deliver  consumer
goods  may help the family tap deeper into a middle and affluent
class that is estimated to double to 141 million people by 2020,
according to a March  report  by  Boston Consulting Group .
Household spending in the world’s fourth-most populous nation
accounted for about 55 percent of the economy in the second
quarter, data from the nation’s statistics office show.  The costs of logistics across the archipelago account for
about 24 percent of gross domestic product, higher than in
neighboring countries, World Bank trade specialist Henry Sandee
wrote in a  report  this month. The waiting time at Jakarta’s
Tanjung Priok port, which handles more than two-thirds of
Indonesia’s international trade, increased to 6.4 days in
November 2012, from 4.8 days in October 2010, the report said.  “In Indonesia what we need right now for growth is
infrastructure and logistics services,” Purnomo said. “We hope
our logistics services will later be as big as, or even bigger
than our passenger” business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  