-- BMC Software Loses Repatriation Case in U.S. Tax Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/bmc-software-loses-transfer-pricing-case-in-u-s-tax-court.html
BMC Software Inc. faces a $12.9
million tax bill after the U.S. Tax Court upheld a finding by
the  Internal Revenue Service  that some earnings repatriated in
the mid-2000s were ineligible for a temporarily lower tax rate.  BMC, based in Houston, contended that accounts receivable
on its books shouldn’t be counted as debt that would reduce the
amount of money it could bring to the U.S. from foreign
affiliates at the reduced tax rate.  Judge Diane Kroupa disagreed, ruling that the IRS’s
“treatment of the accounts receivable are consistent with the
dictionary definition” and “may constitute indebtedness” for
purposes of calculating how much in earnings could be taxed at
the lower rate in effect at the time.  Ann Duhon, a spokeswoman for BMC, said she hadn’t seen the
ruling and had no immediate comment. Christine Vaughn, of Vinson
& Elkins LLP, an attorney on the case for BMC, didn’t
immediately reply to a phone message requesting comment.  The 2004 repatriation program permitted U.S. corporations
to bring home income held outside the U.S. at an effective rate
of 5.25 percent instead of the top 35 percent corporate income
 tax rate .  BMC claimed $709 million in earnings qualified for the tax
holiday. The IRS ruled that $43 million was ineligible for
taxation at the lower rate because it represented a foreign
unit’s debt to BMC created by accounts receivable, according to
court filings.  Tax Holiday  The question of how much debt a company had at the time of
the tax holiday is relevant because Congress wanted new money
brought into the U.S. and sought to prevent companies from
loaning money to offshore affiliates in order to bring it back
at a lower tax rate, said David Rosenbloom, a tax attorney
Caplin & Drysdale Chartered.  “That’s just running money in a big circle,” Rosenbloom
said.  BMC’s accounts receivables were set up to deal with an
accounting issue involving royalty payments to a foreign
subsidiary, BMC Software European Holdings, according to the
ruling. Kroupa didn’t find them to be part of an abusive
transaction, Philip West, a tax attorney with Steptoe & Johnson
LLP, said.  “They weren’t being abusive, but according to Judge
Kroupa, the rules compel this result,” West said.  The  case  is BMC Software Inc. v. IRS, 15675-11, U.S. Tax
Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Andrew Zajac} in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  