-- Boeing to Cut Almost 3,000 Jobs as Work Ends on C-17 Jet
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-09-18T22:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/boeing-to-cut-almost-3-000-jobs-as-work-ends-on-c-17-jet.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  plans to cut almost
3,000 jobs as shrinking military budgets force an end to
production of its C-17 Globemaster transport jet, a four-engine
cargo plane developed for the U.S. Air Force.  The C-17 assembly facility in Long Beach, California, will
close by 2015, and dismissals will begin in early 2014, Chicago-based Boeing said today in a statement. Boeing said it expects
to record a charge of less than $100 million this quarter, which
won’t affect the company’s forecasts for the year.  “Budgets cannot support additional purchases in the timing
required to keep the production line open,” Dennis Muilenburg,
chief executive officer of Boeing’s defense unit, said in the
statement. “Here in the United States the sequestration
situation has created significant planning difficulties for our
customers and the entire aerospace industry.”  Boeing had been signaling for years that the Long Beach
factory was probably destined to close as orders for the C-17
tapered off. The last Air Force plane was handed over last week
from the plant and Boeing has 22 more still to be completed for
international customers.  The facility, which employs about 2,000 of the program’s
workers, is the last major airplane plant in southern
 California . Boeing inherited the factory when it acquired
McDonnell Douglas Corp. in 1997.  Boeing hasn’t decided what it will do with the plant,
although it doesn’t intend to move manufacturing for other
commercial or defense aircraft into the building, Nan Bouchard,
a Boeing vice president and C-17 program manager, told reporters
during a conference call today.  “It will be sad that we’re closing the last major
production facility in southern California, but we’re all proud
to be part of that heritage,” said Bouchard, who has spent her
career in the region. “There are other air lifters, but none
are like the C-17.”  Boeing increased 1.1 percent to a record $118.40 at the
close in New York, the eighth straight day its shares have
risen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  