-- Booker Fights Newark Crime With OT as Trenton Begs Help
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/booker-fights-newark-crime-with-ot-as-trenton-begs-help.html
Newark , New Jersey’s biggest city,
had 10 killings in as many days. Trenton, the state capital,
reached a record 32 homicides this year. Governor  Chris Christie , heading toward a second term, is forcing urban mayors
to confront the crime wave largely on their own.  Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , a Democrat running for  U.S.
Senate , approved police overtime and increased patrols in high-crime neighborhoods. Trenton Mayor Tony Mack, who is awaiting
trial on federal corruption charges, asked Christie for $46.4
million to hire more officers. The Republican governor refused
to work with Mack, though he sent state police in to help.  Christie’s fiscal 2011 budget cuts prompted cities to fire
hundreds of police officers, leading to claims of longer
response times and stretched departments. The governor, who this
week pledged $15 million to aid victims of a fire that destroyed
Seaside’s oceanfront boardwalk, needs to help its cities, too,
Booker said during an interview yesterday in  Washington .  “The answer can’t be ‘We can’t do anything,’” said
Booker, 44. “There’s a fire on the boardwalk and he’s putting
$15 million into helping those families. So there’s a fire in
some of our cities, too.”  Christie and Booker, though members of different parties,
bonded on issues such as education, pushing for independently
operated charter schools in communities with high failure rates.
They appeared together on  Oprah Winfrey ’s television show in
2010 to accept a $100 million pledge for Newark schools from
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg .  Wall Street  Booker also won support from Wall Street investors to help
Newark overcome crime and poverty that took root after 1967 race
riots left 26 dead and led people to resettle in the suburbs.  Nicolas Berggruen, chairman of Manhattan-based private-equity firm Berggruen Holdings Inc., is among the backers of
Teachers Village, a $150 million development in Newark. Hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman , founder of New York-based Pershing
Square Group LLC, donated millions of dollars for security
cameras and other law-enforcement tools.  Since Booker became mayor in 2006, homicides in the city of
278,000 residents have dropped 17 percent; rape, 38 percent; and
aggravated assault, 12 percent, according to statistics released
by James Allen, his spokesman. Still, Newark saw nine straight
days of killings and recorded its 10th on Sept. 4, hours after
the mayor announced the stepped-up patrols.  Not Safe   Trenton has no  Wall Street  investors willing to be what
Booker calls “venture philanthropists.” A one-time
manufacturing hub, a quarter of its 84,500 residents live in
poverty. At night and on weekends and holidays, the downtown
commercial district is empty because state government, the
city’s biggest employer, is closed.  Mack, 47, took office in 2010. In December, the Democrat
pleaded not guilty to eight corruption charges, including
bribery, extortion and mail and wire fraud, after an FBI sting
involving plans to build a parking garage on a city-owned lot.
Mack has refused to resign, and collects a salary of $126,000 a
year while awaiting a January trial.  In an Aug. 2 letter to Christie, Mack asked for $46.4
million over four years to hire 75 police officers. He said the
force is down 44 percent to 241 employees from 428 authorized,
as a result of a 42 percent drop in state aid to $44 million, in
three years. He said he expected “some resistance” and
encouraged state mandates to “to avoid waste and abuse.”  ‘No Response’  Christie, a prospective 2016 presidential candidate, told
reporters on Aug. 12 that he had “no response to anything the
indicted mayor of Trenton has to say.” Three days later, acting
Attorney General John Hoffman, citing the city’s “war-zone
conditions,” announced a temporary deployment of state police
for the fourth time in 18 months.  Neither Mack nor Ralph Rivera Jr., the city’s police
director, responded to telephone calls seeking comment on the
rise in murders.  From January to August, violent crime in Trenton dropped 5
percent and nonviolent crime fell 12 percent, from the same
period last year. Homicides more than tripled, though, to 31
from 10. Robbery with a firearm increased 23 percent, and
assault with a gun, 21 percent, according to state police
uniform crime reports.  Even an ex-Trenton police officer, George Muschal, now a
City Council member, says the state shouldn’t have a role in
fixing the city’s problem.  “I back Christie not giving any funds to Trenton until
Mack gets out of there,” said Muschal, 65, first elected five
years ago. “I ran on ‘Safe, Clean and Prosperous.’ It sure
isn’t safe. It’s not clean. And nobody’s going to come and
invest here.”  Little Fallout  Not helping Trenton wouldn’t have the same political impact
for Christie in 2016 as not aiding Newark, said  Brigid Harrison ,
who teaches law and politics at  Montclair State University .  “There would be very little fallout from him not rushing
in to Trenton’s aid,” she said. “For Jane or Joe average
voter, in a presidential election, the thing that will stick out
in their mind is the relationship with Cory Booker, because
Booker and the city of Newark are so much more high-profile.”  Booker, 44, a Yale Law School graduate and Oxford
University scholar, uses his Twitter Inc. Internet account to
communicate with 1.4 million followers, telling them about
rescuing a neighbor from a fire, his weight struggles and
tackling potholes. He’s favored to win a special Oct. 16
election to fill the seat held by Democrat  Frank Lautenberg 
until he died in June at age 89.  County Force  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling
Institute in  West Long Branch , called Trenton “isolated,” and
of little concern to most  New Jerseyans .  “Most people don’t go to the state capital,” he said.
“Only if it starts spilling beyond Trenton -- then it becomes a
risk for Christie.”  Christie has said Trenton should consider modeling itself
after Camden, New Jersey. After a record 67 homicides in 2012,
that city outside Philadelphia fired all its officers and recast
its police as a unit of the Camden County force in April.  From May to July, gun recoveries increased 76 percent and
homicides declined 29 percent compared with the same period last
year, according to statistics released by Michael Daniels, a
spokesman for the Camden County force.  Booker said the surge in violence is happening across the
state, from  Atlantic City  to Irvington. Though Christie has been
“a partner” in helping Newark fight crime, the same can’t be
said when it comes to other cities, he said.  “There’s a crisis in  New Jersey ,” Booker said. “There
can’t be this universal throwing up our hands. The question is
how do we get folks to the table to work together? It’s
obviously not happening in Trenton right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  