-- Brazil Top Court Grants Lula Aides Right to Appeal Jail Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-09-18T19:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/brazil-top-court-grants-lula-aides-right-to-appeal-jail-ruling.html
Brazil ’s Supreme Court today
allowed former aides of the ruling party to appeal sentences in
a cash-for-votes scandal, further delaying the conclusion of the
highest-profile corruption case during 28 years of democracy.  Celso De Mello today became the sixth justice in the 11-member high court to vote in favor of granting defendants the
right to appeal if they obtained at least four votes against the
convictions in November. Jose Dirceu, cabinet chief during
former president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s first term, was
previously sentenced to almost 11 years in prison on criminal
conspiracy and corruption charges for his role in masterminding
the scheme, dubbed mensalao, meaning “big monthly payment” in
Portuguese.  More than one million people demonstrated in June against
corruption, poor public services and misallocation of public
funds. The prospect of a drawn-out appeals process could lead
the statute of limitations on some crimes to expire and
sentences to be overturned after two new judges joined the
court, frustrating protesters and renewing a sense of impunity
in  Latin America ’s largest country, said Gil Castello Branco,
founder of Open Accounts, a Brasilia-based watchdog of public
spending.  “An appeal is a bucket of cold water for those who are
fighting corruption in this country,” Castello Branco said in a
telephone interview before the decision. “It reinforces
widespread perception that justice is too slow to be
effective.”  The Probe  Brazilian prosecutors opened the probe into the mensalao in
2005 after one of the scheme’s operators went public, and the
 Supreme Court  began its trial in August 2012. Lula himself has
been neither incriminated nor charged in the mensalao scandal.  The world’s second-largest emerging market ranked 69th
among 176 countries in Berlin-based Transparency International’s
2012 study of corruption perceptions, worse than Rwanda and
 Georgia .  Chief Justice Joaquim Barbosa has since become the
institutional face of a crusade against impunity, with masks of
his visage sold as Carnival costumes. As today’s ruling came
down, about 30 protesters stood outside the Supreme Court, some
wearing masks and holding signs denouncing corruption.  Barbosa is scheduled to make the official announcement on
the court’s decision later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  