-- Brazilian Soccer Investor Gets Surprise Stage for Playing Talent
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-18T00:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/brazilian-soccer-investor-gets-surprise-stage-for-playing-talent.html
A Brazilian sports marketing
agency’s purchase of a Portuguese soccer team to access  Europe ’s
$2.2 billion player trade market is reaping a surprise bonus.  Traffic Sports bought  Grupo Desportivo Estoril Praia  two
years ago to provide a European stage for its Brazil-borne
talent. The team was since promoted to  Portugal ’s elite division
and makes its debut in the group stage of a continental club
competition tomorrow when it faces Sevilla in the Europa League.  “It’s a best-case scenario,” Jochen Loesch, president of
international business at Sao Paulo-based Traffic, said in a
telephone interview. “We never thought we would go to the
Europa League. It gives us a better platform to showcase the
players so it will be even easier to sell them.”  Estoril, as the team based 15 miles (24 kilometers) west of
Lisbon is known, hosts Sevilla in the first of six guaranteed
games in European club soccer’s second-tier competition.
Matches, typically played on Thursdays to avoid clashing with
the elite  Champions League , are broadcast in at least 66
countries, according to European soccer’s governing body UEFA.
Estoril reached the group phase via qualifying rounds.  The 56 clubs that participated in the 2012-13 Europa League
received payments worth 209 million euros ($175.5 million) from
UEFA. Competition winner Chelsea received 10.7 million euros,
while  Israel ’s Hapoel Kiryat was paid the least, getting 1.55
million euros.  Traffic ’s business model means the team that takes on
Sevilla will differ from the one that helped Estoril qualify for
the Europa League, according to Loesch. Estoril has sold about
seven players since the end of last season, he said.  Long-Term  Loesch didn’t give details on how much Traffic made from
player sales. While it was profitable, it didn’t cover the
purchase price of the team or infrastructure costs, he said.  “This is a long-term project,” Loesch added. “We have to
sell players to open up opportunities for new players. It’s part
of our business.”  About half of Estoril’s squad started off at  Desportivo
Brasil , a team created by Traffic in 2005 to develop players for
sale. Porto Feliz-based Desportivo’s academy is one of the most-developed in  South America  and has formed an alliance with
record 20-time English champion Manchester United.  Convincing young Brazilians to leave their home country for
Portugal isn’t hard, according to Loesch.  “We don’t force anyone but with the salary increase and an
opportunity of playing in Europe it’s not that difficult,” he
said. “It’s totally under control and it’s proved to be a very
good learning curve.”  Defender Ismaily Goncalves dos Santos is the project’s
biggest success. The left-back started out at Desportivo before
joining Estoril, where he was then loaned to fellow Portuguese
club Sporting Braga. Ismaily joined Ukrainian team  Shakhtar
Donetsk  in February for about 5 million euros.  Player-Trade Rights  As well as buying into teams, Traffic deals in player-trade
rights, where stakes are bought in players’ so-called economic
rights in the hope of profiting when they are sold on. FIFA is
investigating the practice, which  UEFA  has said it will outlaw
if the global governing body takes no action.  “It’s nicer if you are able to develop your own players,”
Loesch said. “There’s more time and effort so when it works out
it’s rewarding.”  Still, Traffic’s eye for spotting talent outside its clubs
has proved lucrative. Vitinho, a 19-year-old striker the agency
held a stake in, was sold this month by  Brazil ’s Botafogo to
 CSKA Moscow  for 10 million euros in what Loesch described as a
“great deal.”  While selling top players on a regular basis would
typically be met with supporter opposition, things are different
at Estoril, according to Loesch. He said the team attracted
crowds of fewer than 500 before Traffic bought the club, and
about 2,000 people now come to watch.  “Fans are happy because it’s the best performance in
Estoril’s history,” he said. “They’ve never been in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  