-- Brazil’s Tombini Says Inflation Remains at ‘Uncomfortable’ Level
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-09-18T19:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/brazil-s-tombini-says-inflation-remains-at-uncomfortable-level.html
Brazil ’s inflation remains at an
“uncomfortable” level and monetary policy will help mitigate
the pressure of a weaker currency on prices, according to
central bank President Alexandre Tombini.  The economy is recovering gradually and increased
investment is promising, Tombini said today during a
congressional hearing in Brasilia. The central bank could offer
more swaps auctions in the exchange market, as needed, he said.  Brazil’s policy makers have pledged to slow price increases
that have curbed demand and investments in the world’s second-largest emerging market. Central bankers have lifted the key
rate 1.75 percentage points this year after inflation surpassed
the upper limit of their target range for the first time since
2011. Inflation has been fanned by a weaker real, which dropped
to a nearly five-year low before officials announced a $60
billion intervention program on Aug. 22.  “In the medium and long term, that movement will benefit
the Brazilian economy, though in the short term it constitutes
an inflationary pressure,” Tombini said regarding the weaker
real. “Execution of monetary policy will limit the pass-through
of the currency’s devaluation to inflation.”  Strongest Level  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell 27
basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 10.09 percent at 4:53
p.m. local time. The real rose by 2.9 percent to 2.1918 per  U.S.
dollar , hitting its strongest level since late June. The
currency has declined 0.5 percent in the past three months, the
third-most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Tombini said the bank’s program to auction swaps has helped
revert the depreciation of the real.  The central bank this year has lifted the key rate the most
of any major world economy tracked by Bloomberg. Policy makers,
who raised rates by a half-point to 9 percent at their Aug.
27-28 meeting, consider the current pace of tightening to be
appropriate, they said in the minutes of that gathering.  Inflation measured by the IPCA index  in August  slowed to
6.09 percent, the lowest since December. Analysts polled by the
central bank have increased their 12-month inflation estimates
for 11 straight weeks, to 6.21 percent. Tombini said today the
bank hopes inflation will converge more toward the target this
month.  Policy makers target 4.5 percent inflation, plus or minus
two percentage points.  Economic expansion in  Latin America ’s largest economy has
been inconsistent. While retail sales in July jumped 1.9
percent, almost 10 times above economists’ forecasts, industrial
production in the same month contracted the most since February.
The central bank’s economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, declined 0.33 percent in July, compared with a
median estimate for a 0.6 percent fall from economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s economy will expand 2.7 percent this year after
climbing 0.9 percent in 2012, according to the latest central
bank estimates. Policy makers will publish updated forecasts in
their quarterly inflation report this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  