-- Caesars Entertainment Plans $4.85 Billion Debt Refinancing
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-09-18T21:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/caesars-entertainment-seeking-4-85-billion-in-debt-to-refinance.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, is raising $4.85 billion in bonds
and loans to refinance debt, according to a regulatory filing
today.  Citigroup Inc. is arranging a $3 billion  term loan  for the
Las Vegas-based company as well as a $269.5 million revolving
credit facility, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction who isn’t authorized to speak publicly and asked not
to be identified. Caesars also plans to issue $1.35 billion of
second-lien notes and $500 million of first-lien debentures,
according to the filing. The proceeds will be used to repurchase
commercial mortgage-backed securities and a $450 million senior-secured facility.  The most indebted U.S. gaming company. which is controlled
by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital, is refinancing
debt through the Caesars Entertainment Resort Properties at the
PropCo unit, with most of its more than $23 billion of debt held
by the operating company, or the OpCo. The move signals its
parent’s plans to shift assets away from lenders at the OpCo in
the case of a bankruptcy, according to Fitch Ratings analyst
Alex Bumazhny.  “This was the next big maturity wall they had to address
and it removes some of the overhang,” Bumazhny said in a
telephone interview. “The overarching theme has been that the
sponsors have found a way to solidify the PropCo entity, and to
safeguard the online gaming assets, from a possible default at
the operating company.”  Octavius Tower  With the closing of the refinancing transaction, Caesars
will shift the equity interests of subsidiaries that own
properties such as the Octavius Tower at Caesars Palace  Las
Vegas  and “Project Linq” to another unit, which will be an
issuer under the new financing, according to the filing.  Shares of Caesars slumped as much as 15 percent to $22.11
in New York on trading volume more than five times the three-month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock had more than tripled this year though yesterday.  The company’s $3.3 billion 10 percent notes maturing in
December 2018 slumped 2.5 cents to 60.5 cents on the dollar, to
yield 23.5 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s
the biggest drop in price this year on the debentures, the data
show.  New Offering  The company is  rated  CCC+ by  Standard & Poor’s  and one
level lower at Caa2 at Moody’s Investors Service. Bonds in the
S&P CCC category are considered vulnerable to nonpayment, with
issuers dependent on favorable conditions to make good on their
debt.  The company is seeking to raise as much as $1.18 billion by
offering shares in Caesars Acquisition Co., a new entity that
will own stock in its online gaming business as well as two
casinos in Las Vegas and Baltimore.  Apollo and TPG acquired Caesars in 2008 for about $30
billion and still hold a 70 percent stake. The private-equity
firms received as much as $22.3 billion in financing to fund the
biggest buyout of a casino operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  