-- California Fuel Standard Doesn’t Discriminate, Court Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-18T19:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/california-fuel-standard-doesn-t-discriminate-court-says.html
California ’s low-carbon fuel
standard doesn’t discriminate against Midwest ethanol producers,
a federal appeals court ruled in upholding what it called
“innovative” regulations to fight global warming.  Handing a victory to state regulators, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco  ruled that, on its face, the standard
isn’t unfair just because it assigns a higher “carbon intensity
score” to ethanol made in the Midwest. The standard applies to
companies that sell transportation fuel in the state and
requires a 10 percent average reduction in carbon intensity by
2020.  “We will not at the outset block California from
developing this innovative, nondiscriminatory regulation to
impede global warning,” the judges said in a 2-1 ruling. The
panel sent the case back to the trial court to determine whether
the fuel standard’s purpose or effect is discriminatory.  The  California Air Resources Board , which monitors  air
quality  and administers the standard, asked the appellate judges
to reverse a lower-court ruling that threw out parts of the
carbon-fuel plan as unfair to out-of-state ethanol producers and
illegal regulation of businesses outside of California.  “This is a very good step for Californians and the fight
against  climate change ,” said Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the
air resources board.  “We are pleased, on behalf of the people
of California and its environment, that the court recognized the
importance of this program and that the Low-Carbon Fuel Standard
remains in effect,”  Farm Groups  Farm and oil-industry groups sued in 2011 to overturn the
standard. The appeals court temporarily reinstated it after U.S.
District Judge Lawrence O’Neill in Fresno ruled that by
assigning a higher score to out-of-state ethanol, California was
unconstitutionally interfering with interstate commerce.  The standards assign a higher carbon intensity score to
ethanol produced in the Midwest. The higher score for Midwest
ethanol is science-based and fair, because while the fuel is
chemically and physically identical to ethanol produced in
California, corn farming, transportation and processing produces
more emissions, California officials say.  Peter Keisler and John O’Quinn, attorneys for corn growers
and petrochemical manufacturers, didn’t immediately return e-mails seeking comment on the ruling.  The fuel standard discourages refiners such as  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  from processing types of crude that
release more carbon when produced and transported into the
state, such as output from Canada’s oil sands.  The case is Rocky Mountain Farmers Union v. Goldstene,
12-15131, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  