-- Canada Dollar Rises to 3-Month High as Fed Refrains From Taper
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-18T21:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/canada-dollar-falls-versus-major-peers-before-fed-tapering-call.html
Canada ’s dollar rose to a three-month high after the U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained
from reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly bond purchases and
will keep pumping money into the economy to boost growth.  The central bank left unchanged its guidance that it will
probably hold its target interest rate near zero “at least as
long as” unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the
inflation outlook is no higher than 2.5 percent. The currency
pared earlier losses versus its U.S. peer after Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz said in a Vancouver speech that growing
confidence has brought the country near a “tipping point” for
companies to boost investment. Oil and stocks climbed.  “We were expecting $10 billion in  U.S. Treasuries , and
obviously we got nothing,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone from
 London . “It’s very positive for all types of risky assets.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, ended 0.7 percent higher at
C$1.0220 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0202, the strongest since June 19. One loonie buys 97.85
U.S. cents.  “The Committee decided to await more evidence that
progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its
purchases,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington . While “downside
risks” to the outlook have diminished, “the tightening of
financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained,
could slow the pace of improvement.”  Bond Auction  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion)
of notes due November 2015 at an average yield of 1.303 percent.
The securities are the final re-opening of the issue, which will
assume benchmark status, economists at the RBC Capital Markets
unit of Royal Bank of Canada wrote in a note today. The auction
drew orders for C$8.49 billion of bonds, for a coverage ratio of
2.57 times. That compares to 2.84 times more demand in the last
sale of the securities Aug. 21, which yielded 1.27 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
yields down nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.68
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent securities maturing in
June 2023 gained 70 cents to C$89.98 in Toronto.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, climbed
2.7 percent to $108.22 a barrel in  New York , the biggest jump on
a closing basis since Aug. 27. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
of stocks  rose 1.2 percent.  ‘Expanding Capacity’  “Evidence suggests we are now close to the tipping point
from improving confidence into expanding capacity,” Poloz said
in the text of a speech to the Vancouver Board of Trade. An
expected strengthening in exports will bolster confidence and
lead to new capacity-building investment, reversing a trend of
low  capital spending  in industries outside of resources, Poloz
said.  “I don’t think the appreciation we’ve seen will be
sustained,” Nomura’s St-Arnaud said. “The rebalancing of
growth in Canada towards business investment may be delayed by a
quarter or two.”  Canada’s economic growth won’t accelerate this year,
expanding at the 1.7 percent rate it posted in 2012, according
to a Bloomberg economic survey. The U.S. will pull ahead next
year, gaining 2.7 percent and 3 percent in 2015, while Canada
grows 2.3 percent and 2.7 percent, the surveys estimate.  Rate Forecasts  The Bank of Canada has cautioned for more than a year that
its next move will be to raise interest rates as a quickening
recovery takes up slack in the economy and lifts inflation. The
country should expect “a gradual normalization of policy
 interest rates ,” Poloz said Sept. 4.  Economists predict the central bank will raise its policy
rate to 1.5 percent by the end of 2014, from 1 percent now,
according to the median of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey conducted this month.  “The market has been quite excited recently that central
banks could be hiking in 2014,” Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by phone from London.
“Downward revisions of growth have tempered that and diluted
the loonie’s rise.”  The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar against its Canadian counterpart versus contracts to
sell, rose to as high as 1.35 percent, the highest in almost two
weeks, before falling to a seven-week low of 1.21 percent. The
measure rose to 1.64 percent on Aug. 23, the highest level on a
closing basis since July 2, and hit a low of 0.79 percent on
Jan. 14. The 2013 average is 1.26 percent.  The loonie fell 3.2 percent in the past year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index, making it the third-worst performer.
The yen lost 20 percent, and the Australian dollar slipped 8.3
percent. The  U.S. dollar  rose 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  