-- CEO Expectations for U.S. Economy Ease as Headwinds Persist
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-09-18T13:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ceo-expectations-for-u-s-economy-ease-as-headwinds-persist.html
Fewer chief executive officers in
the U.S. project a pickup in sales and capital spending in the
next six months as the budget debate in  Washington  puts hiring
plans on hold, a survey showed.  The Business Roundtable’s economic outlook index dropped to
79.1 in the third quarter from a one-year high of 84.3 in the
previous three months, the Washington-based trade group said
today. Measures greater than 50 are consistent with economic
expansion. Today’s reading is close to the long-term average of
79.3.  “CEO expectations for the next six months remain
essentially the same with some downside bias,” said Jim McNerney, chairman of the Business Roundtable and CEO of Boeing
Co. “While U.S. business performance remains strong, as
evidenced by robust recovery in the automotive sector, business
leaders still see headwinds preventing a more sustained, robust
recovery.  Seventy-one percent of respondents project an increase in
sales in the next six months, down from 78 percent who said so
in the second quarter. The share expecting increased business
investment in the next six months fell to 27 percent in the
third quarter from 37 percent in the previous three months.  Thirty-two percent of corporate leaders plan to boost
payrolls, unchanged from the second quarter. Half of the CEOs
surveyed said the disagreement over the 2014 U.S. government
budget and the debt ceiling was having a negative impact on
hiring plans.  The survey, completed between Aug. 16 and Sept. 6,
tabulated the responses of 134 CEOs who belong to the  Business
Roundtable . The group’s members represent companies with a
combined workforce of more than 16 million employees and about
$7.4 trillion in annual revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  