-- China August Home Prices Rise on Major Cities’ Record Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T07:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/china-august-home-prices-rise-as-major-cities-post-record-gains.html
New home prices in  China ’s four
major cities rose the most since January 2011 last month, led by
a 19 percent jump in  Guangzhou , as the government refrains from
imposing further curbs to cool the market.  Beijing and  Shanghai  prices climbed 15 percent from a year
earlier, while in Shenzhen they gained 18 percent, the National
Bureau of Statistics said in a statement today. Prices rose in
69 of 70 cities tracked by the government, the same as in July.  Premier Li Keqiang has come up with no additional measures
to rein in property prices since his predecessor Wen Jiabao
stepped up a three-year campaign in March to cool the housing
market, ordering the central bank to raise down-payment
requirements for second mortgages in cities with excessive cost
gains. Thirty-five provincial cities have set annual home-price
targets this year, mostly capping gains at the growth rate of
local disposable incomes.  “The government is unlikely to take strong action
nationwide to curb the property market, as that may damp
economic growth,” said  Zhu Haibin , Hong Kong-based chief China
economist with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in a phone interview today.
“But local governments should come up with their own property
policies by tightening in major cities and making some
adjustments in smaller ones that have too much housing supply.”  Major Cities  A  gauge  tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.2 percent at the close of trading, the best
performer among the five industry groups on the benchmark, which
closed 0.3 percent higher.  All four of the country’s major cities had their biggest
gains since the government changed its methodology for the data
in January 2011. For the fourth month in a row, the eastern city
of Wenzhou was the only one to post a decline, with prices
dropping 2.1 percent from last year.  The rally of home prices in major cities will probably
continue because September and October are the traditional peak
season for property sales in China, said JPMorgan’s Zhu.  Existing home prices rose 16 percent in Beijing last month
from a year earlier and increased 11 percent in Shanghai and
Guangzhou, according to the data.  Private data have shown rising housing values. Home prices
jumped 8.6 percent from a year earlier last month, the biggest
gain since December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
nation’s largest real estate website owner.  Land Prices  A rally in the land market also fueled home prices,
according to SouFun. A residential land parcel in Beijing sold
at a record price 73,000 yuan ($11,924) per square meter (10.76
square feet) on Sept. 4, while  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ,
Hong Kong’s biggest developer by market value, bought a site in
Shanghai for 21.8 billion yuan in an auction the next day, a
record price in that city.  New home prices rose in 66 out of 70 cities in August from
a month earlier, according to today’s data. That compared with
62 cities in July.  The value of home sales fell for a second month in August
to 514.6 billion  yuan , the statistics bureau reported Aug. 9.  The government is expected to release a “long-term
mechanism” for stable and healthy property-market development
in about three months, the official Xinhua News agency reported
on Aug. 15, citing Zhu Zhongyi, the deputy head of the China
Real Estate Industry Association.  Property Policies  China’s “long-term” property policies, on which the
government hasn’t elaborated, may include acceleration of
shantytown redevelopment and property taxes in more cities,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Smaller cities have taken their policies in different
directions. The eastern city of Wenzhou is “fine tuning” its
home purchase restrictions by allowing second-home purchases by
qualified local residents, Xinhua reported on Aug. 15, citing a
local housing bureau official. The northern city of  Zhengzhou 
banned residents under 20 years old from buying homes, the
Securities Times reported on Sept 3.  Wang Jianlin, China’s richest man and owner of closely held
Dalian Wanda Group, the country’s biggest commercial land
developer, is seeing an overheated real estate market.  The property market is “definitely” in a bubble, though
it is “controllable” and not big, Wang said in an interview on
Sept. 11 before the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, in the
country’s northeast.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  