-- Christie Signs Bill to Overhaul N.J. Tax-Breaks Program
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-18T18:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/christie-signs-bill-to-overhaul-n-j-tax-breaks-program.html
Governor  Chris Christie  signed a
bill overhauling the way  New Jersey  awards tax breaks to entice
companies to move to or expand in the state.  The measure merges five incentive  programs  into two, the
Grow New Jersey awards focused on attracting employers from
other states and the Economic Redevelopment and Growth program
aimed at retaining businesses.  Christie, a Republican seeking a second term in November,
has awarded at least $2.1 billion in tax breaks to businesses,
including electronics-maker  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and casino-operator
Revel Entertainment Group LLC, in an effort to create jobs. New
Jersey’s  unemployment  rate was 8.6 percent in July. While that’s
down 1.1 percentage points from a year earlier, it’s above the
U.S.  level  of 7.4 percent for that month.  “The Economic Opportunity Act incentivizes  job creation ,
makes our state more competitive and lets private-sector
employers know that New Jersey is the place where they should
open their doors,” Christie, 51, said in a statement today.  Earlier this month, Christie conditionally vetoed the bill,
and told lawmakers he would sign it if they removed a provision
that maintenance workers at companies receiving incentives be
paid an area’s prevailing wage. He also rejected another section
expanding credits for the redevelopment of shuttered non-acute
hospitals. Lawmakers approved his changes.  Panasonic Office  Panasonic got $102.4 million from Christie to move its
North American headquarters and 1,000 jobs to  Newark  from
Secaucus after the company had threatened to move out of the
state. Christie was there this week for a ribbon cutting.  Revel was promised $261 million in tax reimbursements to
open a $2.6 billion resort and casino in  Atlantic City  in 2012.
The resort’s former owner, Revel AC Inc., filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in March after gambling revenue was less than it
projected. The resort was approved to exit court protection in
May under a prearranged deal with lenders.  More than 250 companies have used the state’s assistance
programs, which have attracted $11 billion in investment and
created or retained 70,700 jobs, according to Christie’s office.  Philip Kirschner, president of the 21,000-member New Jersey
Business & Industry Association, said the state needs to compete
with neighboring Pennsylvania and  New York , which both offer
competitive tax incentives.  “Tax incentives, at least in my experience, are closers in
a lot of negotiations,” Kirschner said today in an interview.
“There’s fierce competition out there for jobs and for these
facilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  