-- Citigroup Favors North Asian Stocks as Exports Gain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-18T21:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/citigroup-favors-north-asian-stocks-as-exports-gain.html
North Asian stocks will rise faster
this year than the rest of the region as a strengthening global
economy boosts exports, according to Citigroup Inc.  Citigroup is recommending investors buy technology and
industrial companies from  China ,  South Korea  and Taiwan, said
Haren Shah, Singapore-based chief strategist for Asia-Pacific at
the brokerage’s wealth management division, which oversees $210
billion. The bank also favors stocks in Japan, the U.S. and
Europe, he said.  “There are signs of recovery in the global economy,” Shah
said in an interview on Sept. 16. “Export-oriented economies in
North Asia such as China, South Korea and Taiwan should do
relatively better than Southeast Asian markets that are much
more domestic-oriented economies.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 4.5 percent this month
through yesterday as data showed manufacturing output in the
world’s second-largest economy accelerated to a 17-month high in
August, while overseas shipments beat estimates. South Korea’s
Kospi index advanced 4.1 percent, while  Taiwan ’s Taiex index
gained 2.3 percent.  International money managers pumped $2 billion into South
Korea last month, boosting the won by 1.2 percent, the biggest
gain among Asian currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In contrast, foreign investors sold a net $2.2
billion of Thai, Indonesian and Philippine shares amid signs of
slowing regional expansion and speculation that the U.S. would
start tapering stimulus.  Fed Stimulus  The Federal Reserve yesterday unexpectedly refrained from
reducing its $85 billion monthly bond buying program, saying it
needs to see more signs of lasting improvement in the economy.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a press conference in Washington after a two-day
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee . “The committee
has concern that rapid tightening of financial conditions in
recent months would have the effect of slowing growth.”  Bernanke said a decision on tapering asset purchases
depends on economic data, and there is no set timetable.  “Investors are beginning to realize tapering will only
come if you see growth,” Shah said. “We’re moving away from a
liquidity-driven to an earnings-driven market. The trend is
heading in the right direction.”  Most Potential  Stock valuations in China and South Korea are cheap and
these markets have the most upside potential in Asia, Shah said.
The Shanghai Composite Index traded at 9.6 times  estimated
earnings  as of Sept. 17, compared with 10 times for the Kospi
index, 15.4 times for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 times
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese shares will advance more than other markets in Asia
given their low valuations and as the government retools the
economy to rely more on consumption and less on exports and
investment, Shah said. China’s Communist Party will review
economic policy in November.  The Beijing plenary meeting of the party’s  Central
Committee , which includes President  Xi Jinping , Premier  Li
Keqiang , government ministers and the heads of the biggest
state-owned enterprises and banks, will discuss extending
reforms, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported last month.  Bull Market  “Everybody will be watching the plenary session in
November where they’re going to put in a lot of economic reforms
for the next few years,” Shah said. “If all the right noises
are made and we continue to see improvements in the economy and
signs of stability in the banking system, then  Hong Kong  and
China can continue to rally.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
shares traded in the city entered a  bull market  last week after
rebounding more than 20 percent from a June low, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  erased its 2013 loss.  A recovery in China and the U.S. will also benefit South
Korea, Shah said. China accounts for about 26 percent of the
country’s exports, with the U.S. buying 10 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
nation’s biggest shipper of consumer electronics, gets about 20
percent of sales from mainland China and 22 percent from
America, the data show.  “We’re quite optimistic about South Korea,” Shah said.
“It’s one of the cheapest right now and their exports are
improving. If the U.S. and China continues to recover, they will
be the prime beneficiary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  