-- Cleveland Clinic Trims Budget to Corral Costs Before Obamacare
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/cleveland-clinic-trims-budget-to-corral-costs-before-obamacare.html
The  Cleveland Clinic , one of the
world’s foremost medical and research centers, is cutting costs
and trimming its $6 billion annual budget as patients and
providers grapple with health care changes in the U.S.  The clinic plans to shave 5.5 percent from its yearly
spending by tightening operations budgets for things like
travel, filling vacancies only where necessary and combining
services in areas where there are overlapping offerings, said
spokeswoman Eileen Sheil. The clinic will offer early retirement
to 3,000 employees and may cut jobs if it can’t otherwise reach
$330 million in savings for 2014, she said.  The move is designed to help the clinic and its patients
prepare for the  Affordable Care Act , the $1.3 trillion overhaul
passed by Congress in 2010 that’s intended to extend insurance
coverage to the nation’s 50 million uninsured citizens. Online
health insurance exchanges are slated to open in October, and
the overhaul is expected to increase the number of people on
Medicaid, the government’s insurance program for the poor.  “We’re seeing a rise in overall health care costs across
the country, and the Cleveland Clinic is trying to be
proactive,” Sheil said in a telephone interview. “We have to
make health care more affordable to patients because the costs
are going to fall more on them in the future.”  The clinic’s goal is to update its approach to providing
care that fits more with current needs, rather than the existing
approach that was designed for users in the 1950s, she said. The
organization hasn’t had any layoffs for several years and only
cut about 200 jobs during the economic downturn in 2008 and
2009, she said. The new changes are designed to improve
efficiency and won’t affect services for patients, she said.  “Through these changing times, we are focused on providing
the highest quality of care to our patients in the most
efficient and cost-effective manner,” according to a statement.  The Cleveland Clinic’s main campus includes a hospital, a
children’s hospital, an outpatient clinic, a research institute
and facilities for cancer, eye, heart and urologic care. It has
eight community hospitals in  Ohio , 75 outpatient locations and
facilities in  Florida , Las Vegas, Toronto and one slated to open
next year in Abu Dhabi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  