-- Commerzbank Sees Islamic Market Vexing Babacan: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-19T14:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/commerzbank-sees-islamic-market-vexing-babacan-turkey-credit.html
Turkey  should consider selling more
Shariah-compliant sovereign debt as a syndicated Islamic loan
taken by the local unit of a Bahrain bank signals strong demand,
according to Commerzbank AG.  Investors in Gulf Cooperation Council countries would be
lured to such a sale, Apostolos Bantis, a credit analyst at the
bank in  London , said in an e-mail interview. There is still
“plenty of liquidity” in the market amid concern about the
pace that the  Federal Reserve  will trim its stimulus program and
the emerging-market selloff that began late May, he said.  “Turkey would not have a hard time issuing new paper,”
Bantis said yesterday. Investors in GCC countries “seem to have
faith in Turkey’s potential, they just want to get a bit higher
spread.”  Following the Fed’s surprise move yesterday to keep its
bond-buying program intact, Turkey’s Treasury said today it
would hold investor meetings starting next week for a possible
sukuk sale.  Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK)  concluded a $430
million in a dual-currency syndicated financing facility this
week, exceeding its $250 million target. Deputy Prime Minister
Ali Babacan said yesterday, before the Fed announcement, that
market volatility may be delaying use of  Islamic finance .  Yields Plunge  The yield on Turkey’s $1.5 billion sukuk due March 2018
tumbled 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, today to 4.06
percent, taking this month’s drop to 89 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a decline of nine
basis points in September to 4.03 percent yesterday for the
average yield on HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s U.S. Dollar Sukuk Index.  The yield on Turkey’s Islamic bonds, which were sold at
2.803 percent a year ago, had soared 217 basis points in the
three months to Aug. 30 amid speculation the Fed would begin
scaling back monetary stimulus and on concern over a U.S.-led
military strike in neighboring  Syria .  The country will hold investor meetings between Sept. 23
and Oct. 1, starting in the Qatari capital, Doha, the Treasury
said today. The plan follows an offering of 1.82 billion liras
($933 million) of two-year local-currency sukuk last month, the
government’s biggest Shariah-compliant sale of 2013.  Indonesia 
raised $1.5 billion of Islamic securities last week at 6.125
percent, the highest yield since paying 8.8 percent on its debut
dollar sukuk in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Syndicated Loans  Albaraka is one of four lenders in Turkey that comply with
Shariah, which forbids the payment of interest. It used a
facility known as murabaha, where banks buy an asset on behalf
of the customer and sell it back at a profit.  ABC Islamic Bank, Barwa Bank QSC, Emirates NBD Capital,
Noor Islamic Bank and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  managed the dual-currency facility, according to Albaraka. The bank sold $200
million of sukuk on April 29, paying a profit rate of 7.75
percent, nine months after canceling a sale of Islamic bonds
because yields were too high.  Investor concern over the pace at which the Fed will taper
asset purchases pushed borrowing costs higher and slowed Islamic
syndicated-loan issuance in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa 
by more than 50 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A total of $7.26 billion was raised through 15 issues
this year through yesterday, down from $15.6 billion in the same
period last year.  Loan Demand  The Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing the $85
billion  pace of monthly bond buying yesterday, saying it needs
to see more signs of lasting improvement in the economy.  “The loan market has been almost dead in the past couple
of years,” according to Samer Mardini, Dubai-based vice
president of fixed income at SJS Markets. “Most of the banks
are trying to activate the loan markets because this sector in
their balance sheet is not performing well, so that’s why we are
seeing loan demand from both sides, borrowers and lenders.”  Asya Katilim Bankasi AS (ASYAB) , another Islamic lender, applied to
Turkey’s market regulator to sell sukuk of different maturities
within one year of receiving approval, it said in a statement to
Borsa Istanbul on Aug. 26.  Turkey is looking to develop its Islamic banking industry
and legislation may be needed, Babacan said at the Istanbul
Finance Summit yesterday. Public institutions may buy sukuk
issued by the Turkish Treasury, a government decree in the
Official Gazette said Sept. 11.  ‘Very Benign’  The lira is the most-volatile emerging-market currency in
the EMEA region after the South African rand, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg yesterday. The currency surged 2.6 percent
yesterday to 1.9491 per dollar, compared with a record-low
2.0685 on Sept. 5. It weakened 0.7 percent today. Yields on  two-year benchmark notes  dropped 83 basis points to 7.82 percent
today, the lowest since July 5.  Albaraka’s fundraising comes as the lender’s profit is set
to grow 14 percent this year, according to the average estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Demand for this particular loan was driven by the fact
that the sukuk primary market has been really very benign over
the past few months,” Commerzbank’s Bantis said. “Despite all
the fears of tapering and the volatility in emerging-market
bonds there is still plenty of liquidity on the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  