-- Criteo Files for IPO as Web-Advertising Firm Seeks Growth
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-18T11:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/criteo-files-for-ipo-as-web-advertising-firm-seeks-growth.html
Criteo SA filed for an initial
public offering in the U.S. as the French Web-advertising
company seeks cash for product development and expansion.  The company plans to sell American depository shares on the
Nasdaq Stock Market this year, Criteo said in a regulatory
filing without giving an exact date. The proposed $190 million
offering size is a placeholder amount used to calculate
registration fees and may change. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche
Bank AG and Jefferies Group LLC will lead the sale.  The startup, founded in Paris in 2005, may seek a valuation
of as much as $2 billion, a person with knowledge of the
company’s plans said in April. The company plans to use the
proceeds for research and development, sales and marketing,
 capital expenditures  and other general corporate purposes.  Revenue rose 89 percent last year to 271.9 million euros,
or $353.7 million, the company said. Net income dropped to
981,000 euros from 6.1 million euros a year earlier after the
company almost doubled operating expenses on higher sales,
research and development and administrative costs.  Criteo, which raised 30 million euros in late 2012 and is
backed by Index Ventures among other investors, operates in 37
countries and partners with about 4,000 clients, according to
its website. With  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  among its clients,
Criteo has been profitable since 2009 and gets most of its
revenue from the U.S. market.  The company tracks user activity on websites to help
advertisers target potential customers. The company’s software
is designed to spot hesitant shoppers online and send them
tailored banner ads to lure them into buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  