-- Denmark’s Central Bank Seeks Probe Into Stricter Bank Rules
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-19T08:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/danish-central-bank-seeks-investigation-into-stricter-bank-rules.html
Denmark ’s central bank wants a
study conducted into the need for tightening  bank  capital rules
beyond levels recommended by a government-appointed committee.  “We support another investigation into whether there’s a
need to strengthen rules further,” central bank GovernorLars Rohde said yesterday in an interview in Copenhagen. “The first
priority is to implement what’s been recommended.” As central
bank governor, Rohde is also the head of Denmark’s Systemic Risk
Council, which monitors the banking system with a view to
identifying potential threats to the greater economy.  Denmark’s systemically important financial institutions
should hold as much as 5 percentage points in additional capital
to protect the  $340 billion economy  from bank system shocks, a
government-backed panel said in March. A separate committee
appointed to investigate the causes of Denmark’s housing and
banking crises said yesterday the latest recommendations may
still be too low to protect taxpayers.  “The financial crisis demonstrates the magnitude of costs
associated with financial breakdowns,” said Rohde, who became
central bank governor in February after Nils Bernsteinretired.
“Denmark suffered a substantial setback to the economy, even
though it didn’t suffer any major casualties in the financial
sector, and therefore we believe there’s plenty of reasons to
strengthen the financial sector to a level that will make future
crises less severe.”  Past Failures  Lax oversight by the country’s Financial Supervisory
Authority and the central bank exacerbated the losses inflicted
on Denmark’s housing and banking markets following the 2008
failure of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., according to
yesterday’s report.  “One of the lessons of the crisis is that tighter
regulation and oversight is essential,” the report said. “It
is one of the committee’s concerns that pressure will build to
ease the tightening that is underway to secure robust financial
institutions, including capital and liquidity requirements.”  Jesper Rangvid, professor of finance at Copenhagen Business
School and the main author of yesterday’s report, said March
recommendations on capital levels for systemically important
banks still leave room for lenders to under-estimate balance
sheet risks.  Risk Weights  “We think the general Sifi recommendations are very good
and we support them strongly,” Rangvid said yesterday in an
interview. “What we are concerned about is the risk weights --
whether they can be estimated too low.”  Denmark needs an expert group to determine whether there’s
a need for a higher  leverage ratio  -- which shows capital
relative to total assets -- than the 3 percent contained within
Basel III rules, the report also said. That could result in
higher  capital requirements  for banks than those recommended in
March for the country’s too-big-to-fail lenders and would also
exceed minimum requirements under European capital rules.  “We don’t think there are any costs associated” with
raising capital buffers, Rohde said. “We said in our financial
stability report earlier this year that recent evidence suggests
that the more capital a lender holds, the lower  capital costs 
run, and that remains our position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  