-- Danske Says S&P Rule Change Triggers Bond Buyback Above Par
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-18T08:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/danske-buys-back-bond-above-par-after-s-p-revises-capital-rules.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  offered to buy back
its bond due 2037 at a price above par after  Standard & Poor’s 
changed its calculations in a move that wiped out the security’s
loss-absorbing content.  Denmark’s biggest bank said today it will redeem the bonds
at 101.50, plus accrued interest, in a buyback it expects to
close in November. Copenhagen-based Danske said it will pay 100
percent to holders who don’t accept the offer.  “It’s an easy offer for investors,” Christian Hede, an
analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, said by phone. “They’re being asked
whether they want 100 or 101.50. I thought it would be a bit
more complicated.”  Since Danske issued the $1 billion bond in September last
year, S&P adjusted its capital definitions, undermining the
equity content of a note that Danske has paid investors a 7.125
coupon to hold. Steen Blaafalk, head of group treasury at the
bank, said in May Danske faced a Jan. 1 deadline to decide
whether to call the bond. The bank could also have opted to buy
the bond back at par or to swap it for another security,
according to Hede.  The bond hit a low of 100.5 on June 24 amid concern the
bank would risk angering investors and buy the security back at
par. The bond traded at 101.50 at 10:05 a.m. in Copenhagen,
according to Composite Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  ‘Market Price’  “The price is more or less market price at the moment,”
Hede said. “It is market price because people were afraid of a
100 call. It’s a bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy that it
approaches 100.”  Danske said today it doesn’t expect its ratings to be
affected by the repurchase. The bank has an  issuer rating  of A-with a stable outlook at S&P. Moody’s Investors Service rates
the bank Baa1 with a stable outlook.  Per Tornqvist, an S&P bank analyst, said in July that
excluding the bond from Danske’s capital wouldn’t jeopardize its
issuer rating. The lender would still have “adequate” risk-adjusted capital, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  