-- Danske Expansion Singled Out in Report on Denmark’s Crisis
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-18T10:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/danske-expansion-singled-out-in-report-on-denmark-s-crisis-1-.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s international
ambitions in the years leading up to the financial crisis put
the stability of the entire Danish economy at risk, according to
a government-commissioned report.  The report, published today by the Business Ministry in
Copenhagen, singled out  Denmark ’s largest bank, arguing Danske’s
expansion into Ireland at the height of its housing bubble
fueled unsustainable gearing and a reliance on  capital markets .  While Danske met its solvency requirements, “there is
still no doubt that the bank put itself in a vulnerable position
that, given the bank’s size, would have shaken financial
stability in Denmark if the risks had materialized,” the report
said.  Denmark’s banking industry has shrunk by more than one-third in the past five years as a burst property bubble sent
impairments soaring and wiped out regulatory capital. The shock
was exacerbated after Denmark became the first European Union
nation in 2011 to enforce bail-ins on senior creditors in its
failing banks. Denmark’s lax fiscal policy in particular
contributed to the imbalances, the report said.  Denmark, which has been ahead of the EU in pushing its bank
resolution framework and designing requirements for systemically
important banks, can’t afford to bow to pressure to ease its
oversight, the crisis committee said.  Irish Ambitions  Danske expanded into Ireland in 2005 under then Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Straarup . He was replaced by the former
head of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s shipping line, Eivind Kolding,
in February 2012. Danske Chairman Ole Andersen fired Kolding
this week, arguing Danske needs a more experienced banker. He
was replaced by Thomas Borgen, a member of the executive board
who has responsibility for corporate and institutional banking.  Some lenders may still need bigger capital buffers than
those recommended for too-big-to-fail banks to avert another
financial crisis in Denmark, according to the report.  “One of the lessons of the crisis is that tighter
regulation and oversight is essential,” the report said. “It’s
is one of the committee’s concerns that pressure will build to
ease the tightening that is underway to secure robust financial
institutions, including capital and liquidity requirements.”  Lax Regulation  Lax regulation by the country’s Financial Supervisory
Authority and central bank exacerbated the losses inflicted on
Denmark’s housing and banking markets following the 2008 failure
of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., according to the report. Jesper
Rangvid, a finance professor at the Copenhagen Business School
and the report’s main author, attached 18 recommendations to the
study to help Denmark avert future crises.  Denmark needs an expert group to determine whether there’s
a need for a higher  leverage ratio  than the 3 percent contained
within Basel III rules, the committee said. That could result in
higher  capital requirements  for banks than those recommended in
March for the country’s too-big-to-fail lenders and would also
exceed minimum requirements under European capital rules.  Denmark suffered a systemic banking crisis after the 2008
collapse of Roskilde Bank A/S, an event that triggered
considerable losses, writedowns and liquidity shortages,
according to the report. Rangvid concluded that unlimited state
guarantees on deposits prevented an outright run on the banks.
Still, the crisis was so severe that 62 lenders closed in the
five-year period through August 2013.  Risk Weights  The committee also recommended that banks using internal
models to assess asset risk publish what their capital levels
would be if they used standard risk-assessment models.  Existing regulations allow risk weightings that can be
“too low,” the committee said.  The FSA should also tighten limits on the amount banks can
lend to a single customer, and banks need to be more aggressive
in ascertaining clients’ credit worthiness, according to the
report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  