-- Denmark’s Central Bank Warns Against Risks of Fiscal Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-18T11:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/denmark-s-central-bank-warns-against-risks-of-fiscal-easing.html
Denmark’s central bank warned
against easing fiscal policy, arguing such a step would risk
fueling imbalances that could lead to a new phase of economic
overheating.  “From a cyclical perspective, there is no foundation for 
easing fiscal policy,” Governor Lars Rohde said in a statement. 
“There is a substantial risk that the timing will be wrong so 
that fiscal policy boosts an economy which is already on its 
way up. That will increase the risk of a new overheating of 
the economy.”  The bank cut its economic growth forecast for this year to
0.3 percent in 2013, from 0.5 percent previously, in a quarterly
report published today. The economy will expand 1.6 percent next
year, versus a June forecast for 1.7 percent, it said.  Denmark has lagged behind neighboring Norway and  Sweden  in
surfacing from the fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis. A 20 percent
slump in  house prices  since their 2007 peak wiped out more than
a dozen community banks as impairments ate through solvency
buffers. A report today showed house prices grew 0.7 percent
last quarter from the three months through March.  The statistics office said last month gross domestic
product grew 0.5 percent in the second quarter from the first.
While Denmark emerged from a technical recession, the recovery
was driven by  government spending  and an increase in exports.
Household spending, which fell in the first three months of the
year, stalled in the quarter through June.  Denmark uses monetary policy to defend the krone’s peg to
the euro. The central bank targets a krone rate of 7.46038
against the single currency. The bank in May cut its key lending
rate to 0.2 percent from 0.3 percent and kept its deposit rate
at minus 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  