-- Desert Locust Swarms in Yemen Seen Potentially Dangerous by FAO
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-18T10:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/desert-locust-swarms-in-yemen-seen-potentially-dangerous-by-fao.html
Desert locusts are forming swarms
in Yemen, with the situation potentially dangerous after rain
boosted summer breeding, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said.  The insects are reported in remote and isolated areas of
north and central Yemen, with breeding still in progress and
hatching and swarm formation expected to continue this month,
the Rome-based FAO wrote on its  Locust Watch  website yesterday.  “These areas are extremely difficult to access, and it is
here where an outbreak occured in 2007 that led to a swarm
invasion in the Horn of  Africa ,” the FAO wrote. “It appears
that widespread breeding may have occurred in the interior.”  Should several days of northerly winds develop over the
 Gulf of Aden , locust swarms could reach northern Somalia or
eastern  Ethiopia , according to the report. A swarm of locusts
covering a square kilometer (0.4 square mile) can eat between 80
and 160 metric tons of crops a day, based on calculations using
FAO data.  Most breeding in Yemen hasn’t been confirmed as ground
surveys are difficult to perform due to insecurity and limited
resources, the FAO wrote. Many areas can’t be sprayed because of
beekeeping and insecurity, the agency said.  “Consequently, adult groups and small swarms are likely to
escape detection and control,” the FAO said. “As vegetation
dries out, they are expected to move to the coastal plains along
the Gulf of Aden and the  Red Sea . Neighboring countries should
be on alert.”  Yemen is the  Middle East ’s poorest country, and most people
are employed in agriculture or herding, according to the CIA
World Factbook.  An adult desert locust can eat its own weight of about 2
grams (0.07 ounce) daily, and swarms can cover several hundred
square kilometers, with 40 million to 80 million of the insects
per square kilometer, according to the FAO.  Desert-locust distribution can extend over 60 countries
during plague years,  covering  about 29 million square
kilometers, according to the UN agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  