-- Detroit’s Orr Says Sewer Repair Money May Go to Pay Debts
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-18T21:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/detroit-s-orr-says-sewer-repair-money-may-go-to-pay-debts.html
Detroit  may use hundreds of
millions of dollars earmarked for required upgrades and repairs
to its water and sewer system to pay debts it’s trying to
restructure in bankruptcy.  Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, was asked in a
Sept. 16 deposition whether he was considering using cash from
the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department “to fund existing
obligations rather than new capital improvements,” according to
a transcript filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit.  “We have examined a number of options and alternatives
related to DWSD including those that might be implicated by your
question,” Orr said. “I didn’t say that we would take any
capital. I said we will -- we would consider it.”  Detroit filed the largest-ever U.S. municipal bankruptcy in
July, listing debt of about $18 billion. The city has about
$5.4 billion worth of water and sewer bonds that Orr has said
would be paid in full. Creditors seeking a share of Detroit’s
remaining cash may seek to nullify the bankruptcy by arguing the
city isn’t really insolvent because it has access to more money
than it claims, such as the water and sewer revenue.  The deposition was filed by unions and retirees challenging
the city’s eligibility for federal bankruptcy court protection.  “Mr. Orr was responding to a hypothetical posed by an
attorney representing city retirees and not elucidating on a
plan currently under consideration,” Bill Nowling, a spokesman
for Orr, said in an e-mail.  Possible Obstacle  Orr also said in the deposition that restrictions in bond
instruments or previous rulings from the bankruptcy judge may
bar him from using water and sewer repair funds for anything
else.  Separately,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report today that it
expects Detroit to default on its general-obligation bonds on
Oct. 1. The New York-based ratings company already cut the Motor
City’s pension-obligation certificates to D in June after Orr
announced it would miss a $39.7 million payment. A grade of D
signals a failure to pay debt service.  “Detroit’s landmark bankruptcy sets the stage to confirm
or challenge basic premises underlying municipal debt credit
ratings,” Amy Laskey, a Fitch managing director, said in the
report.  If Detroit’s case lumps general-obligation bonds with post-employment benefit payments, Fitch may “reconsider” municipal
grades broadly, according to the statement. Fitch said there’s
“substantial protection” for the city’s water and sewer debt.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York 
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York
at   bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  