-- Dish’s Ad-Skipping Feature Survives ABC’s Shutdown Bid
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/dish-s-ad-skipping-feature-survives-abc-s-shutdown-bid.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-skipping
recording feature survived a court bid by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC
television to shut it down almost a year after a Los Angeles
judge rejected a similar effort by other broadcasters.  ABC’s request for a preliminary injunction against the ad-skipping service was denied yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain, who placed her opinion under seal because it
contained confidential business information, according to a
filing in federal court in Manhattan.  The dispute over Dish’s ad-skipping technology is playing
out in U.S. courts on both coasts. Dish sued ABC,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC in  New York  in May 2012, seeking a judgment
that its AutoHop feature, which allows viewers to skip ads only
in broadcast shows, doesn’t violate network copyrights or
contracts.  The same day, Fox Broadcasting Co., CBS and NBC sued Dish
in  Los Angeles  for copyright infringement and breach of
contract. In November, U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los
Angeles rejected Fox’s bid for an injunction similar to the one
sought in New York. An appeals court upheld Gee’s ruling in
July.  “The decision is yet another victory for American
consumers, and we are proud to have stood by their side in this
important fight over the fundamental rights of consumer choice
and control,” Stanton Dodge, Dish’s general counsel, said in a
statement. “This is the third federal court decision that has
sided with consumers’ right to enjoy television as they want,
when they want, including the right to skip commercials.”  Preliminary Decision  Karen Hobson, an ABC spokeswoman, said in e-mail that
yesterday’s ruling was merely a preliminary decision.  “We continue to firmly believe that Dish’s AutoHop and
PrimeTime Anytime services breach our retransmission consent
agreement with Dish, infringe upon ABC’s copyrights, and
unfairly compete with the authorized on-demand and commercial-free options currently offered by ABC and its
licensees,” Hobson said.  Dish , based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its digital-video recorder, the Hopper, in March 2012. Its PrimeTime Anytime
feature can record all the major networks’ primetime shows and
store them for eight days after their initial broadcast.
AutoHop, introduced in May 2012, allows viewers, with the touch
of a button, to skip all ads automatically, without having to
manually fast-forward through them.  Video Recorders  Dish’s argument relied in part on a 1984 U.S. Supreme Court
ruling that consumers have the right to make copies of TV shows
with video recorders for later viewing. It also relied on a 2008
decision by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York that a company
isn’t liable for infringement if its customers initiate the
recording process.  “The Hopper is nothing but a souped-up DVR,” Dish said in
its written arguments opposing an injunction. “Consumers are
making the copies, not Dish.”  The New York case is In re AutoHop Litigation, 12-04155,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  