-- ‘Good Dinosaur’ Delay Leaves Pixar Without 2014 Release
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-19T20:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/disney-delays-two-pixar-movies-in-shuffling-of-future-film-slate.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  delayed the 2014
Pixar film “The Good Dinosaur” by 18 months, leaving the
animation studio that produced “Toy Story” without an annual
release for the first time since 2005.  “ The Good Dinosaur ,” about a 70-foot-tall teenage
Apatosaurus that befriends a boy, was pushed back to Nov. 25,
2015, from a scheduled release on May 30, 2014, for additional
work. “Finding Dory,” a sequel to “Finding Nemo,” was
delayed about seven months to June 17, 2016, Burbank,
California-based Disney also said in a statement yesterday.  The delays add to recent turbulence in the film operation.
This month, Disney pulled the fifth installment of  Jerry Bruckheimer ’s “Pirates of the Caribbean” series from its
schedule. That followed the August announcement that the company
will lose as much as $190 million this quarter on “The Lone
Ranger,” another Bruckheimer film.  Disney  fell  2.1 percent to $65.72 at the close in  New York 
after Benjamin Swinburne, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, lowered
his rating on the stock to the equivalent of a hold from buy.  The world’s largest entertainment company will rely more on
the performance of its movies and consumer products, where
profit is less predictable, compared with the past three years
when 85 percent of earnings growth was driven by Disney’s cable
TV channels and theme park division, Swinburne said in a note
today.  Animation Studios  Bob Peterson, the director of “The Good Dinosaur,” left
the project last month, and it’s now being overseen by Pixar
executives, Disney said.  The company decided to take more time with the picture, Ed Catmull, president of Pixar and Disney’s animation studios, told
the  Los Angeles  Times.  To fill a hole at the beginning of the summer 2014 movie
season, Disney is rescheduling the live-action film
“Maleficent,” featuring  Angelina Jolie , for the weekend
following Memorial Day next year.  “The most important thing is not to have any more big
losses, like ‘ John Carter ’ and ‘The Lone Ranger,’” said  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets who recommends
buying Disney stock. The delay in “The Good Dinosaur” shows
they are “taking the time to get the movie right.”  Disney shares have gained 32 percent this year, compared
with 21 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  