-- Dollar Falls to 7-Month Low as Fed Unexpectedly Retains Stimulus
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-18T21:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/dollar-declines-as-fed-says-it-will-maintain-bond-buying-pace.html
The dollar declined to an almost
seven-month low as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained
from reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases and will
keep pumping money into the economy.  The U.S. currency fell the most against  Brazil ’s real and
 Turkey ’s lira among its 16 most-traded peers after Fed policy
makers “decided to await more evidence” of economic progress,
including holding its interest-rate target at almost zero until
the  unemployment rate  falls below 6.5 percent. A survey of
economists conducted by Bloomberg forecast a $5 billion
reduction of  Treasury purchases . The pound strengthened versus
the dollar after  Bank of England  minutes showed policy makers
saw no need for more stimulus.  “The lack of tapering and lack of adjustment to the
unemployment threshold is driving the dollar lower,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of the most
dovish outcomes possible.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index  decreased  1.1 percent to
1,008.28 at 5 p.m. in New York, touching the lowest level on a
closing basis since Feb. 20. The greenback slipped 1.2 percent
to $1.3521 per euro, reaching the weakest level since Feb. 7,
and fell 1.2 percent to 97.94 yen.  Real Rally  Brazil’s real rose 3.1 percent to 2.1860 per dollar, the
strongest level since June 27. Turkey’s lira rallied 2.6 percent
to 1.9491 per dollar, the strongest in a month.  South Africa ’s rand rose versus the dollar following the
Fed’s decision to refrain from tapering even after inflation in
 Africa ’s biggest economy accelerated a second month to 6.4
percent in August, meeting economists’ estimates, from 6.3
percent in July.  The currency appreciated 2.2 percent to 9.5872 per dollar
after reaching its strongest level since May 27. The rand
earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent.  The pound rose to an eight-month high versus the dollar as
Bank of England minutes showed policy makers voted unanimously
to keep policy unchanged this month. The pound gained 1.5
percent to $1.6146.  Bernanke View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  initially signaled on May 22
that the central bank may reduce its monthly bond purchases,
sending the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index to the highest level of
the year.  “The market has been building up to September tapering,
and now they’re disappointed,” said Sireen Harajli, a
strategist at Mizuho Bank in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Most Fed policy makers expect the first increase in the
nation’s benchmark lending rate to occur in 2015, according to
projections released today.  The federal funds rate target will be 2 percent at the end
of 2016, according to the median of estimates by five governors
on the Fed’s board and 12 reserve bank presidents. That rate
compares with their median estimate of 4 percent for where the
rate should be at a time of full employment and stable prices.  “The dollar is getting sold and weakening as a result of
the Fed prolonging the current rate of asset purchases,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It was largely
expected that they were going to announce tapering today. The
fact that the markets didn’t get that is reversing
expectations.”  Economic Benchmarks  Bernanke previously said he expected the central bank to
complete its asset-purchase program in the middle of next year
when the  unemployment  rate is around 7 percent, down from
August’s 7.3 percent. Bernanke and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  have said they won’t consider raising its federal
funds rate target as long as unemployment is 6.5 percent or
higher.  A Commerce report today showed builders began work on fewer
U.S. homes than projected in August underscoring the risk that
higher  mortgage rates  pose for the real-estate rebound.  Housing starts rose 0.9 percent to a 891,000 annual rate,
following the prior month’s 883,000 pace that was weaker than
previously estimated. The median estimate of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 917,000.  The Fed has kept  interest rates  at almost zero since
December 2008 and undertaken three rounds of bond buying that
have swelled its  balance sheet  to a record of $3.66 trillion.
Ending the Fed’s third round of quantitative easing carries
greater significance than completion of the previous two because
QE3 involves open-ended purchases, both in amount and duration,
whereas its predecessors were introduced with defined purchase
levels over a fixed period of time.  Options Activity  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $20.5 billion, from $17 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.2 billion, the largest share of
trades at 21 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $3
billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 7.8 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 11 percent less than average.  The dollar has gained 1.8 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 4.7 percent while the yen lost
11.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  