-- The Market’s Unhealthy Obsession With Tapering
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-18T20:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/the-market-s-unhealthy-obsession-with-tapering.html
Markets have developed a fixation
with the  Federal Reserve ’s plans for its bond-purchase program,
known as quantitative easing. The Fed should do more to shift
their attention to what matters: how it intends to help millions
of unemployed Americans get back to work.  The Fed sent a welcome signal today when  it announced  that
it would keep adding to its giant portfolio of Treasuries and
mortgage securities at a rate of $85 billion a month, contrary
to expectations that it would start tapering the purchases.
Given the recent rise in  mortgage rates  and deterioration in the
economic outlook, it’s  important  that the Fed let people know
it’s still on the case.  Together with the exuberant market reaction, though, the
Fed’s move demonstrates a problem: Investors still don’t make a
distinction between its plans for bond purchases and its pledge
to keep short-term  interest rates  low until after the economy
recovers. In  futures markets , for example, the expected date of
the Fed’s first increase in its interest-rate target immediately
moved out by about a month, even though there was no major
change in interest-rate policy.  The perception of tapering as a proxy for the Fed’s overall
stance on stimulus is unfortunate, because there may be good
reasons to taper that are not related to the outlook for the
economy. The Fed, for example, might become concerned that the
size of its holdings will leave it too exposed to losses or
hamper the functioning of markets. As a result, perfectly
sensible moves to cut back on bond purchases can send the wrong
signal. Alternatively, the desire to manage perceptions can push
the Fed into maintaining quantitative easing against its better
judgment.  Such confusion would be counterproductive at a time when
businesses and investors need more certainty. The employed share
of the  U.S. population  has hardly budged since the bottom of the
recession, raising concerns that the economy will lose its
capacity to grow as long-term unemployment erodes skills and
motivation. Congress is poised to create further trouble, which
Bernanke alluded to in his news conference, as it approaches
deadlines for funding the federal government and raising the
debt ceiling.  How, then, can the Fed give companies the confidence they
need to hire and invest, and get the market’s mind off tapering?
A clue can be found in the  economic projections  the central bank
published together with today’s policy statement. They show that
most Fed officials expect their short-term interest-rate target
to remain at or below 2 percent at the end of 2016, much lower
than their forecast for unemployment suggests it should be. In
other words, as Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has said, they’re ready 
to keep stimulus going for long after the  unemployment rate  drops 
below the 6.5 percent threshold they have set for interest-rate
increases.  If the Fed wants to make a bold statement, it can take
those plans and turn them into a promise: The central bank will
keep interest rates below 2 percent until the end of 2016, no
matter what happens with jobs or inflation. Such simple, clear
policy guidance would help focus the market’s attention and
erase employers’ and investors’ concerns that the Fed will
reverse course just as the recovery is gaining momentum --
worries that the Fed’s changing tapering schedule have only
served to encourage.  True, a policy promise would be a risky move. But given the
subdued outlook for inflation, and the threat of permanent
economic damage if the recovery weakens, it’s a risk worth
taking.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 