-- Tekstilbank Set for Month-High on Takeover Bets: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-09-18T12:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/tekstilbank-set-for-month-high-on-takeover-bets-istanbul-mover.html
Tekstil Bankasi AS (TEKST)  headed for the
highest level in a month after selling its headquarter at a
profit almost double last year’s net income, stoking speculation
of a takeover soon.  The  shares  of Tekstilbank, as the Turkish lender is known,
rose 3.3 percent to 1.57 liras by 3:06 p.m. in Istanbul, set for
its highest since Aug. 19. The trading volume was about 1.6
times the stock’s three-month average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Owner  GSD Holding AS (GSDHO)  climbed 3 percent,
while the Borsa Istanbul National 100 index fell by less than
0.1 percent, the first time in three days.  The premises in Istanbul was sold for $62.7 million,
according to a bourse filing after the market closed yesterday,
generating a profit of 47.2 million liras ($24 million).
Tekstilbank posted a net income of 26.1 million liras last year,
the highest since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The bank is making a substantial profit from the sale,”
Haydar Acun, managing partner at Sardis Securities Inc in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments today. “Investors may be
betting that a possible takeover of the lender is near and the
prospective buyer may be preferring not to pay for the
building.”  GSD Holding hired BNP Paribas SA to advise on a potential
sale of “all or part” of its stake in Tekstilbank, according
to a statement made to Borsa Istanbul on April 3. Tekstilbank
and GSD officials did not immediately provide comment when
contacted by phone and e-mail today.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. ,  China ’s biggest lender by market value, was
“rumored to be close to taking over” Tekstilbank, the
Economist magazine said in a report dated May 18 without citing
a source.  Tekstilbank reported a  net income  of 1.51 million liras in
the second quarter, compared with 3.19 million liras a year ago.
Its shares trade at 20 times estimated 12-month earnings,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a multiple of 9.3
for Turkish lenders  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , 7.3 for  Sekerbank
TAS (SKBNK)  and 8.2 for the nation’s banking index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  