-- Telefonica Said to Mull Doubling Down in Italian Gambit
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-09-19T16:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/telefonica-said-to-mull-doubling-down-in-italian-gambit.html
As  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s financial
investors prepare to cut off funding, the future of the phone
company at the brink of  junk  is in the hands of another indebted
carrier:  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   Telecom Italia directors gathered in Milan today, with
Madrid-based Telefonica looking to resolve price differences to
double its holding by buying out  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are confidential. The Spanish company owns an
indirect stake of 10.4 percent, with a market value of 1.1
billion euros ($1.5 billion).  An alternative is for Telefonica to take part in a Telecom
Italia capital increase that won’t be matched by the partners in
the holding company Telco SpA, the people said. Telco owns a
22.4 percent stake in the Italian carrier. Telefonica would back
a share sale only if the plan comes along with measures to shore
up Telecom Italia’s finances such as a disposal of its Brazilian
unit,  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , in the medium term, the people said.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe doesn’t have time on
his side. Moody’s Investors Service in August gave him three
months to strengthen Telecom Italia’s balance sheet or else the
company could be stripped of its investment-grade rating, said
another person with knowledge of the matter.  Bernabe said in an interview at Milan’s Linate Airport that
he’s “confident” of an agreement on the company’s future when
directors meet Oct. 3 to consider any proposals or
recommendations that need to be voted on. He termed today’s
informal meeting of directors “constructive,” and declined to
elaborate.  ‘Many Actors’  “Telecom Italia has become a thriller in which there are
way too many actors and the screenplay isn’t clear at all,”
said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell.
“Everybody has interests that seem to be incompatible.
Telefonica would be keen to remain a shareholder and even
increase its stake, but without taking full control of the asset
and without paying too much for it.”  Telefonica and the financial investors agreed to pay 4.1
billion euros in 2007 for an 18 percent stake in  Italy ’s biggest
phone company. At the time it was a compromise by the government
to keep the carrier Italian and fend off a takeover bid by  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB. The new owners have
written down their investments at least five times -- most
recently to 1.20 euros a share -- as Telecom Italia shares
slumped more than 70 percent over six years.  Telco Writedown  Now with the financial investors focusing on selling non-core assets, and as a window for a cancellation of the
shareholder pact opened this month, Mediobanca this week further
devalued its stake to 53 cents a share. Putting more equity into
Telecom Italia “is not in line” with Mediobanca’s strategy,
CEO Alberto Nagel said on a Sept. 17 conference call.  Telecom Italia fell 0.3 percent to 59.05 cents in Milan.
Telefonica rose 0.3 percent to 11.37 euros in  Madrid .  The Italian investors are at the same time discussing a
sale of their shares to potential buyers and were approached by
different parties, one of the people said, asking not to be
named because the discussions are private. If a deal can’t be
reached with Telefonica, the Italian partners will consider
selling the stakes after exiting Telco, the person said.  Spokesmen for Telefonica and Milan-based Telecom Italia
declined to comment. Representatives for Generali, Intesa
Sanpaolo and Mediobanca declined to comment on negotiations with
Telefonica or other potential investors.  Net Debt  For Telefonica, increasing investments in Italy is a
preferred option because a sale would mean another writedown
similar to the one Mediobanca has just made. Having sold assets
in the past year from Ireland to Central America, CEO Cesar Alierta has averted a rating downgrade and gained the financial
flexibility that allowed him to expand in  Germany  by agreeing to
take over Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus business in an 8.55 billion-euro
transaction.  While Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt reached 28.8
billion euros at the end of June, the Tim unit is adding
customers and division’s stock is up 20 percent this year,
boosting its market value to $10.9 billion.  Telecom Italia is “quite valuable” for Telefonica because
it could help the Spanish carrier to boost growth in  Brazil  by
potentially divvying up Tim among the current carriers in the
country, said  Pedro Oliveira , an analyst at Banco BPI in Porto,
 Portugal . Telefonica reported 49.8 billion euros in net debt as
of June. It has a market capitalization of 51.6 billion euros.  Full Merger?  Alierta is in favor of a full merger with Telecom Italia
over time as he sees Italy as a good market to expand its
operations in  Europe  amid the current consolidation wave in the
industry, said people close to him.  “The main problem is how much Telefonica needs to pay to
do this as it doesn’t have much room for maneuver,” Oliveira
said. “It’s not impossible, but certainly very difficult.”  Politics may be on Telefonica’s side. Prime Minister Enrico Letta was from 1993 until April last year secretary-general of
 Arel , a research institute of economics and politics that
coordinates Italy-Spain forum of dialog with  Cidob , a Barcelona-based foundation. Letta was undersecretary for former Prime
Minister  Romano Prodi  when the government blocked AT&T and
America Movil’s bid for Telecom Italia.  Another potential investor in Telecom Italia is Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris . Sawiris is in discussions with movie
producer and distributor Tarak Ben Ammar, who is an independent
board member at Mediobanca as well as Telecom Italia, about a
possible investment in the carrier, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Sawiris couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. A
spokesman for Letta’s cabinet declined to comment.  “It’s mostly a political battle,” said Maximino Carpio, a
former Telefonica board member. “The fact that Letta is prime
minister now may help Telefonica but it would still be a very
difficult deal to get done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  