-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Ringgit Soars Most Since 1998
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-19T21:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/emerging-stocks-fall-from-3-month-high-before-fed-tencent-drops.html
Emerging-market climbed to a four-month high, bond yields plunged and  Malaysia ’s ringgit posted
the biggest advance since 1998 after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from cutting stimulus.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 2.2 percent to
1,022.54. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded fund dropped after the gap to its  net asset value  swelled
to the widest since 2008. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index
had the biggest gain among 94 world gauges, entering a  bull
market . The ringgit rose 2.6 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to own developing-nation government dollar debt instead
of U.S. Treasuries slid the most since July 2012.  The Federal Open Market Committee yesterday refrained from
reducing the $85 billion pace of its monthly securities buying,
spurring a rally in global equities as investors repositioned
for a more accommodative central bank. The measure for stocks in
developing nations has retreated as much as 16 percent since May
22, when the Fed signaled its asset-buying program could be
trimmed if the  U.S. economy  showed sustained improvement.  “The good news was that the markets don’t have to worry
about the taper they were concerned about,” Bruce McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland 
said by phone. “They set up pretty strong expectations they
would begin to taper.”  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose today
as financial and energy shares had the biggest gains. The
measure for developing markets trimmed this year’s decline to
3.1 percent, trading at 10.8 times projected earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That trails the 14.2  valuation  of
the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index ETF, which trades
under the ticker EEM, dropped 0.5 percent, after surging 4.2
percent yesterday. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, slid 4.6 percent to 21.81.  “The EEM jumped like a rocket ship after the Fed
yesterday,”  Dave Lutz , the head of exchange-traded fund trading
and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said by
phone. “You do get a deviation in the EEM relative to the index
or those underlying simply because the EEM is trading in the
U.S. while the underlying companies are closed.”  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell for the first time in five days as
pulp maker Fibria Celulose SA led exporters lower. The real
retreated from a three-month high after Finance MinisterGuido Mantega said that the central bank may curtail its intervention
in the foreign-exchange market.  Currency Volatility  Brazilian state development bank president  Luciano Coutinho 
said he expects currency volatility to increase because the Fed
didn’t start tapering.  “For us, the sooner it starts and ends, the better,”
Coutinho said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York  yesterday. “I would rather see it start today and have
some date to finish because then we will feel the whole impact.
The worst thing is the uncertainty.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 1.5 percent, the highest since
March 15. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, rose 2.8
percent. The ruble posted a record streak of gains against the
dollar, advancing for a 10th consecutive day.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index jumped the most since
May 2010.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the nation’s largest bank
by market value, climbed 13 percent, capping the biggest
increase since October 2008.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index jumped 2.2 percent in
Johannesburg as  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Harmony Gold Mining
Co. gained at least 6.5 percent.  India, Indonesia  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  climbed 3.4 percent to the highest
level since November 2010. Yes Bank Ltd. jumped 22 percent,
leading a measure of 13 lenders to a two-month high. Tata Steel
Ltd. surged 7 percent. The rupee increased to the highest level
in more than a month.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  rallied 4.7 percent to a one-month high, while the rupiah rose the most since May 2012.
Benchmark stock gauges in  Thailand , the  Philippines  and Malaysia
added at least 1.2 percent. The ringgit rallied the most since
September 1998.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, rose 1.7 percent.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of
toys and clothes that gets most its revenue from the U.S., rose
2.6 percent. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co., China’s No. 2 gold
producer, surged 12 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging market
government dollar debt instead of  U.S. Treasuries  plunged 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 319 basis points at
5:10 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  