-- Merkel Rejects Joint Euro Debt, Promises to Stay Hard Course
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-18T22:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/merkel-rejects-joint-euro-debt-promises-to-stay-hard-course.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told supporters she’ll stand as a bulwark against joint debt in
the euro area if she’s re-elected in four days and continue to
extract conditions from indebted nations.  Speaking at an election rally of several thousand at a
portside warehouse in Hamburg yesterday, Merkel denounced plans
that have been supported by the opposition  Social Democrats ,
such as a debt-redemption fund and jointly issued euro bonds to
overcome the nearly four-year-old  European debt crisis .  “We help each other in the euro area, but we have good
reason to help only under conditions -- that other countries
bring order to things that are right now not in order,” Merkel
told the crowd. “Whether we continue on this path is what
you’ll decide on Sunday.”  With  polls showing  the election tightening, Merkel
showcased her stewardship over  Germany ’s record-low unemployment
and her guidance of the country through the debt crisis. Should
her Christian Democratic-led bloc fall short of a majority with
its Free Democrat coalition partner, Merkel may be forced into a
so-called grand coalition with the SPD.  Merkel’s CDU bloc fell a point to 39 percent, while the SPD
gained a point to 26 percent, according to an  Allensbach survey 
published yesterday. The poll indicated that neither party has
enough votes to form a government with its favored partner.  The party calculus has made the election a question of
whether Merkel can hold on to her coalition with the pro-business FDP, whose support has plummeted in four years, as she
looks likely to secure a third term as chancellor. In an ARD
broadcast interview yesterday, Merkel was asked whether she
would continue the partnership even with a one-seat majority.  ‘Nothing Unusual’  “Obviously we are campaigning for more votes than that,
but narrow majorities in Germany are nothing unusual,” she
said.  Across town, the SPD’s  Peer Steinbrueck  held his own rally
in the northern port city where both candidates were born.
Steinbrueck has said that Germany will have to foot the bill for
euro rescues such as  Greece , and that the euro area has always
been a “liability union.” The SPD has said that there’s no way
to avoid pooling debt in some form.  Merkel spoke to a crowd packed into Hamburg’s Fish Auction
Hall on the banks of the Elbe, with CDU supporters waving their
trademark orange “Angie” placards, many cheering and shouting,
“yes!” when she took specific aim at a debt-redemption fund
designed to pool euro-area debt and euro bonds.  “I’m firmly convinced that we won’t make  Europe  stronger -
- Europe has to emerge stronger out of this crisis -- if we’re
too indulgent with one another, if we can’t rely on what we’ve
promised to do,” Merkel said.  Main Challenger  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister turned
main election challenger, says her austerity push has divided
Europe, and he advocates more emphasis on growth.  Steinbrueck’s strength “is his power of economic judgment,
something that Merkel lacks,” Helmut Schmidt, the former Social
Democratic chancellor, was cited as saying in an interview
published in Bild newspaper yesterday.  Both candidates will continue their campaigns through the
end of the week. Merkel winds up her campaign Sept. 21 in Berlin
and in Stralsund, the main city in her electoral district on the
 Baltic Sea . Steinbrueck will hold his final rally in  Frankfurt ,
Germany’s financial capital in the western state of Hesse, which
holds regional elections on the same day as the federal ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Hamburg at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  