-- MetLife Says U.S. Chases Bank Threat, Misses Insurer Risk
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-18T20:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/metlife-says-u-s-chases-bank-threat-misses-insurer-risk.html
Federal regulators may miss
important threats to the financial stability of U.S. insurers by
focusing on bank risks,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chief Financial Officer
John Hele said.  “Bank rules overlook key insurance risks,” Hele said
today at a conference in New York held by KPMG LLP. The bank
regulatory system “doesn’t look at liabilities at all, it
doesn’t look at asset-liability mismatch directly.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, is in the final
stage of evaluation to be designated systemically important by
U.S. regulators, which would put the firm under Federal Reserve
oversight. The New York-based company has been pressuring the
Fed to avoid bank-like capital rules tied to Basel III for
insurers that fall under the central bank’s supervision.  Rules designed for banks would raise prices for some
insurance products, and may fail to make the system safer,
MetLife has said.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest
U.S. life insurer, is challenging its systemically important
designation. Both MetLife and  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential have said they aren’t systemically risky.  “If you apply Basel III to an insurance company’s balance
sheet, we would be incented to shorten our  assets ,” Hele said
today. “We have long-dated liabilities. We’re supposed to be
holding long-dated bonds to match against them.”  Committee Votes  The Financial Stability Oversight Council is voting this
week on Prudential’s challenge, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The council, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and
including Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , received voting
materials via e-mail today, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hadn’t been made public. The
regulators are expected to submit their decisions by tomorrow,
one of the people said.  MetLife has proposed an alternative system for insurer
regulation that builds on the risk-based capital system used by
state watchdogs in the U.S. The company has presented the
system, which calls for additional capital for activities
regulators deem risky, to the Fed, and also described it at the
KPMG conference.  “The life-insurance business neither caused nor
contributed to the financial crisis and is not a source of
systemic risk,” Hele said. Insurers that failed were brought
down by activities including credit-default-swap sales and
certain types of guaranteed investment contracts that fall
outside traditional insurance activities, he said.  Customer Withdrawals  Regulators in  Washington  disagree with the industry over
whether life insurers face a risk of rapid customer withdrawals
in a crisis that would be similar to a bank run, Hele said.  Lapses and surrenders declined for MetLife during the 2008
crisis, and insurers haven’t faced runs in the past, he said.  Withdrawals from life insurance and annuities could
undermine  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and might harm other
insurers if concerns spread, the FSOC said in July, when it
declared AIG systemically risky. The products typically have
restrictions such as surrender fees designed to discourage
customers from ending contracts.  AIG received a U.S. bailout that began in 2008 and swelled
to $182.3 billion after bets tied to home loans soured. The New
York-based insurer, which repaid the rescue last year, has said
it welcomes Fed supervision.  MetLife declined 2.5 percent to $48.63 at 4:10 p.m. in New
York. It has rallied 48 percent this year, compared with the 43
percent advance at AIG. Prudential has jumped 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  