-- EU Probes Hydropower Contracts Amid French Battle Over Tendering
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-18T13:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/eu-probes-hydropower-contracts-amid-french-battle-over-tendering.html
The European Union is investigating
how hydropower contracts are awarded in countries such as  France 
and  Portugal  where projects are operated by state-run companies.  The European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive
arm, “requested preliminary information” from some countries
and will begin a probe into contracts granted to Energias de
Portugal SA in 2007, it said today in an e-mailed  statement .  The EU action means it’s weighing in on a controversy over
French government plans to put hydropower concessions that are
mostly held by state-run  Electricite de France SA  out to tender.
French Energy Minister Philippe Martin defended the proposals
last night after opposition within the ruling Socialist Party.  EU competition regulators are “observing what is happening
in our country,” Martin said. “We can’t just do anything.”  France will eventually start tenders from the first half
after President  Francois Hollande  at first put off predecessor
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plans to offer 5,300 megawatts of capacity.
The state auditor criticized the government, saying delaying
tenders may cost hundreds of millions of euros in royalties.  Putting French dams into the public domain would “imply a
renationalization of EDF,” Martin said yesterday. “There’s
little room for alternative solutions to competitive tenders.”
The EU had previously challenged France on competition rules.  French lawmakers including Marie-Noelle Battistel yesterday
published a report backing alternatives to further competition,
including spinning off EDF’s dams into a separate state unit.  “Our preferred solution is to extend the concessions,”
Battistel said. The government doesn’t appear to favor keeping
electricity costs low for households and industry, she said.  France’s hydropower plants, the nation’s biggest source of
electricity after nuclear reactors, are run by former monopoly
utilities EDF and  GDF Suez SA. (GSZ)  Foreign competitors have said
that they would be ready to bid for the operating contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  