-- Teva Payout Counters Exclusivity Loss: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-18T22:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/teva-payout-counters-exclusivity-loss-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, rebounded from
a six-month low as prospects for dividend payments outweighed
competition to its top-selling treatment.  Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company rose 0.2
percent to $37.71 in New York yesterday, after slumping 3.2
percent over the previous three days. The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli companies in New York
gained for a second day, led by  Partner Communications (PTNR)  Co. The
shekel rallied 1.3 percent versus the dollar after the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from reducing the pace of monthly
bond buying. Israeli markets are closed today for a holiday.  Teva suffered a setback in July, when a U.S. court ruling
gave its multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone less than a year
of patent protection. The remedy accounted for about 20 percent
of the company’s revenue in 2012. Since then, the stock has
fallen 7.4 percent to trade at about 7.5 times estimated
earnings, the lowest multiple among the world’s biggest drug
companies, which have an average price-to-earnings ratio of
15.5. Still, Teva’s dividend yield is  four times  higher than
that of global peers.  “The dividend is big and, of my coverage list which is
predominantly pharmaceutical names, it’s far and away the
cheapest stock,” Judson Clark, an analyst at  Edward Jones , said
by phone yesterday from  Des Peres ,  Missouri . “The dividend
offers protection on the downside.”  Cash Flow  CEO Jeremy Levin, who came from Bristol-Myers Squibb & Co.,
said in December that Teva will use 20 percent to 25 percent of
 cash flow  from operations to pay dividends and will generate as
much as $5.5 billion in “organic cash flow” a year until 2017.
Teva’s board will continue to review the dividends
“frequently,” Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said on a
May 2 conference call.  Teva’s free cash flow rose to a record $3.5 billion in 2012
and the company’s current dividend yield of 3.2 percent is
bigger than the 0.8 percent for global peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a very strong cash flow business and they may even
have room to grow the dividend,” Kevin Kedra, an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. said by phone from Rye,  New York  yesterday.
“We’re value investors and Teva is by far the cheapest name in
the space.”  Teva is trying to reduce its dependence on Copaxone, which
generated $1.1 billion in sales in the first quarter. The
injection faces competition from pills such as  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera and the threat of generic copies as early as
next year. MS causes the immune system to attack the insulating
tissue around nerve fibers.  Teva closed at a 1.3 percent discount to its Tel Aviv-listed shares.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity gauge rose 0.1 percent to
$97.52. Partner Communications rose 2.3 percent to a three-week
high of $7.57 to trade at a 1.6 percent discount to the stock in
 Tel Aviv .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  