-- Ex-Banker Pleads Guilty in Olympus Fraud Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-18T21:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ex-banker-pleads-guilty-in-olympus-fraud-case.html
A former  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  banker admitted to aiding  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s $1.7
billion accounting fraud.  Chan Ming Fon, a Taiwanese citizen, pleaded guilty to a
single charge of conspiracy to commit wire fraud in a hearing
today in  Manhattan . Chan, who was arrested Dec. 20 in  Los
Angeles , is cooperating with the government’s investigation in
hopes of leniency.  Chan admitted conspiring with officials at the Tokyo-based
maker of cameras and medical equipment to hide losses from
investors in a phony transaction in 1999 that was intended to
conceal debt.  “I acknowledge that my conduct was wrong,” Chan, speaking
through an interpreter, told U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain.  Chan, who was indicted Jan. 17, faces as many as five years
when he’s sentenced. Swain told him he may be deported from the
U.S. after he serves his sentence.  Restated Earnings  Olympus in 2011 restated five years of earnings and took a
$1.3 billion cut in net assets after the company admitted it
paid inflated fees on takeovers and overpaid for three companies
to conceal past investment losses. Last year, three former
Olympus executives including ex-Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa
pleaded guilty to their roles in the accounting fraud.  The losses at Olympus were exposed by  Michael Woodford  a
few months after he was appointed as the company’s first non-Japanese president in 2011. Chan testified in a Japanese inquiry
into the Olympus scandal, his lawyer, Christine Chung, told
Swain in January.  Chan appeared in court today wearing tan jail fatigues and
sneakers. Swain granted a joint request by Chung and prosecutors
that he be released on $3 million bond, to be secured by $1.5
million in cash and the $200,000 equity in his sister’s
California home, where he plans to live until his sentencing.  Chan, who lived in Singapore, was arrested when he took his
family to Los Angeles on vacation, the first time in 16 years
he’d been in the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Chan, 13-CR-52, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  