-- Facebook ‘Like’ Is Protected Speech, Appeals Court Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-18T19:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/facebook-like-is-protected-speech-appeals-court-says.html
Using  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s “Like”
feature to show support for a candidate in an election is speech
shielded by the U.S. Constitution, a federal appeals court said,
handing a victory to the social networking company which argued
such protection is vital to its business.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond,  Virginia , issued its
ruling today in a lawsuit brought by former employees of a
sheriff’s office who said they lost their jobs because they
supported their boss’s opponent, partly by endorsing a campaign
page on Facebook.  The appeals court reversed a lower-court judge who said
that simply clicking the “Like” button on a Facebook page
didn’t amount to “a substantive statement” that warrants
constitutional protection.  “Liking a political candidate’s campaign page communicates
the user’s approval of the candidate and supports the campaign
by associating the user with it,” U.S. Circuit Judge William Traxler wrote. “It is the Internet equivalent of displaying a
political sign in one’s front yard, which the  Supreme Court  has
held is substantive speech.”  The post, made four years ago when a Virginia jailer
clicked the “Like” button on the “Jim Adams for Hampton
Sheriff” Facebook page, became the subject of arguments over
how to view one-click, online endorsements of a person, idea or
product.  Facebook’s Position  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , said in
arguments before the appeals panel in May that the “Like”
feature is vital to 500 million people who share ideas on the
social network and must have free-speech protection.  “We are pleased the court recognized that a Facebook
‘Like’ is protected by the First Amendment,” Pankaj Venugopal,
an associate general counsel at Facebook, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Danny Carter, the jailer, claims he was fired after he
posted a picture of his boss’s opponent in the sheriff’s race on
his Facebook page, along with a link to the contender’s website.  U.S. District Judge Raymond Jackson in Norfolk, Virginia,
dismissed the suit in April 2012, rejecting the First Amendment
claim. Two federal court decisions in 2011 that held
constitutional protections extended to Facebook involved actual
statements posted on a user’s page, Jackson said.  The ruling was criticized by constitutional lawyers who
said the judge ignored the fact that other protected speech on
the Internet, such as uploading a video or donating money to a
campaign, are done with one click of a button.  ‘Good Enough’  “You are expressing the relevance of a message and that’s
good enough,” Eugene Volokh, a law professor at the  University
of California  at  Los Angeles , said in an interview in May.  In today’s ruling, the court said Carter’s use of the
“Like” button was both “pure speech” and symbolic
expression.  “On the most basic level, clicking on the ‘like’ button
literally causes to be published the statement that the User
‘likes’ something, which is itself a substantive statement,”
Traxler said.  In the context of a political campaign page on Facebook,
“the meaning that the user approves of the candidacy whose page
is being liked is unmistakable,” the judge wrote.  The appeals court, which unanimously ruled that liking
something on Facebook was protected speech, reinstated the
claims of Carter and two others out of six who sued. Two of the
judges ruled that the sheriff was immune from monetary damages
because of a separate legal issue in the case.  ‘Qualified Immunity’  “Sheriff Roberts is gratified that the court agreed that
he was entitled to qualified immunity because the law was not
clear with regard to whether sheriffs could demand political
loyalty from their deputies,” Jeff Rosen, a lawyer for Roberts,
said in a statement.  During arguments in May, Rosen said that “liking” a
Facebook page means many things and was too obscure an act to
warrant protection. People may “like” Target’s page to get a
coupon or because they’re curious about something that can only
be seen by hitting the feature, he said.  “We do not believe the court’s decision on the Facebook
issue will impact the final outcome of the case,” Rosen said in
the statement.  The case is Bland v. Roberts, 12-1671,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 