-- Billionaire Geek Meets Washington Chic on Immigration
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-09-19T20:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/facebook-s-zuckerberg-pushes-immigration-in-washington.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  arrived on  Capitol Hill  in a business
suit to meet a U.S. senator. For his next engagement, he emerged
from a car in his familiar hooded sweatshirt and Nike sneakers
to speak to a roomful of women and men in suits.  “People assume that we’re trying to be cool,” Zuckerberg,
29, told his  Washington  audience yesterday. “That’s never been
my goal. I’m like the least cool person there is.”  Cool or not, a billionaire with 1 billion customers
commands undivided attention where money and influence conjoin.
That much was clear yesterday when Zuckerberg arrived for two
days of private meetings with Republican and Democratic leaders
otherwise occupied with a budget showdown threatening to shut
down the U.S. government.  “He was very kind and thoughtful,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  told reporters after meeting today with Zuckerberg,
who had donned a suit again. “He took pictures with all my
staff.”  Not all lawmakers were into hero worship. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and chairman of the
commerce committee, said in a statement he stressed to the CEO
“the utmost importance of strong consumer protections and how
this must be a priority for his company.”  Friending Politicians  Zuckerberg ranked 27th, with a net worth of $22.1 billion,
on yesterday’s Bloomberg Billionaires Index of the world’s
wealthiest individuals. He’s making what he called his once-a
year visit every three years to Washington as the world’s
largest  social network  tries to engage on policy issues.  “Zuckerberg has not forged a strong relationship with a
lot of these lawmakers,” said Ron Bonjean, who was press
secretary to former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and House
Speaker Dennis Hastert. “It’s smart of him to come out of the
ivory tower and talk to elected officials.”  Zuckerberg in April announced the formation of an advocacy
group, Fwd.us, to push for more visas for skilled immigrant
workers. He pressed that cause yesterday in a meeting with
Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, and later in a
public question-and-answer session at the city’s Newseum.  Increasing visas for foreign technology workers “isn’t the
big point,” Zuckerberg said during yesterday’s session with
James Bennet, editor-in-chief of The Atlantic, a publisher of
current-affairs websites and a magazine. “Addressing and
helping out the 11 million undocumented is actually a much
bigger problem.”  Reid, McConnell  Zuckerberg and Schumer, the No. 3 Senate Democratic leader,
focused on immigration reform during “a very positive and
productive meeting” that lasted about 45 minutes, Matt House, a
Schumer aide, said in an e-mail.  “Both agreed to keep working and are optimistic that the
House will move forward this fall,” the aide said.  The Senate in June approved immigration changes including a
path to citizenship for about 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S., while spending more money on border security. The
measure is now held up in the House, where many Republicans
oppose giving undocumented immigrants citizenship.  Today, Zuckerberg wore a plain red tie and dark suit as he
returned to the Capitol, meeting first with Democrat Reid before
holding a private session with Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican.  Zuckerberg Entourage  Zuckerberg refused to take questions, but Reid told
reporters afterward that the two discussed immigration and also
spoke about “The Social Network,” the 2010 movie about the
founding of Facebook and the resulting lawsuits.  With a dozen lobbyists and reporters struggling to keep up,
the boy-faced billionaire then made his way to the hearing room
of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee for
a series of meetings with panel members, including Rockefeller.  The West Virginia Democrat stressed the importance of
privacy protection for consumers and pressed Zuckerberg to take
tough action on “cyberbullying.”  He later met with House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and
other leading Republicans, before a final meeting with the top
House Democrat,  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , and other key
Democrats who are key in the immigration debate.  Republican leaders after their meeting said they discussed
a range of matters that included immigration, online privacy,
and the NSA’s surveillance. They gave no indication of budging
on the matter of a pathway to citizenship.  Immigration Debate  “A lot of people have a lot of different views on it,”
said House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican. “We discussed how we’re working toward solving our
immigration problems.”  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, had no
registered lobbyists in Washington five years ago, and it
reported it had only two who were in-house in 2009.  By the second quarter of this year, the company spent $1.3
million over three months to lobby through an in-house staff of
seven registered lobbyists and 20 hired advocates from five
firms that include Patton Boggs LLP, and Steptoe and Johnson
LLP, according to disclosures filed with the  U.S. Senate .  Facebook’s in-house lobbyists include Joel Kaplan, who was
deputy White House chief of staff under President  George W. Bush ; and Caitlin O’Neill, Pelosi’s former chief of staff. The
company reported it was lobbying on issues related to online
privacy legislation, international regulation of the Internet,
online advertising, immigration overhaul, cybersecurity and
corporate taxation.  ‘Pro-Knowledge Economy’  Facebook established a political action committee beginning
in the 2012 election cycle, and through it the company’s
employees raised $345,421 and donated $270,000 to federal
candidates during the two-year cycle, according to data
collected by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics.  Zuckerberg, in his remarks at the public event, said he
identifies his political leanings as “pro-knowledge economy”
rather than Democratic or Republican.  Facebook gave 53 percent of its donations to Republicans in
the 2012 cycle, compared with 46 percent to Democrats. Among
Republicans Boehner, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and
McCarthy each got $5,000, as did Democrats Pelosi and  Steny Hoyer , the House minority whip.  Zuckerberg’s advocacy may not bear fruit, Roy Beck,
president of Numbers USA, an Arlington, Virginia-based group
that backs immigration curbs, said in an interview.  House Republican leaders aren’t advancing the bill “not
because they haven’t seen Mark Zuckerberg, but because the vast
majority of their membership doesn’t want them to move
forward,” Beck said. “I can’t imagine how there’s anything
that Mark Zuckerberg could say that could change the equation in
any way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  