-- French Govt Approves Measures to Narrow Pension Deficit
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-09-18T11:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/french-govt-approves-measures-to-narrow-pension-deficit.html
France ’s government today approved
a series of measures to cut losses at the state retirement
system by extending the working life of the French and raising
some social charges.  The package, announced in late August by Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault, increases some social charges and lengthens
the number of years of work required to achieve a state pension.  “This is an important progressive step that assures the
financial future of the retirement system,” Social Affairs
Minister Marisol Touraine told reporters in Paris after today’s
weekly cabinet meeting.  Cutting losses at the retirement system was one of the
conditions when the European Commission last May gave President
Francois Hollande’s government two extra years to hit deficit
targets. While the commission is still studying the pension
reform, it has suggested that plans don’t go far enough.  “There’s always the question whether the glass is half
full or half empty” with France, European Economic Commissioner
Olli Rehn said Sept. 13 in Vilnius,  Lithuania . “France is going
into the right direction in terms of economic reforms but there
is still much more to do.”  ‘Uncontroversial’ Measures  Without touching the official retirement age of 62, the
measures raise the effective retirement age as French workers
will have to contribute to the system for 43 years in 2035, up
from 41 years currently. Contributions by both employees and
employers will increase starting next year, though the
government will reduce other payroll charges in an effort to
contain labor costs.  “The relatively uncontroversial character of the proposed
measures will probably allow for a rather smooth approval
process of the law,”  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Teneo
Intelligence, wrote in a note to clients today. “The reform is
yet another example of the consensual and risk-averse policy
style of President Hollande.”  The plans are aimed at eliminating the 20 billion-euro ($27
billion) deficit facing the pension system in 2020 and keeping
its accounts in balance until 2035, when the impact of the
postwar baby boom will begin to fade. The parliamentary debate
on the measures will start on Oct. 7, according to government
spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem.  The plans don’t touch the more generous so-called “special
systems” in place for electricity and railroad workers, among
others.  Touraine today defended the government’s work.  “For too long in this country we’ve acted as if reform
rhymes with brutality,” she said. “This is a reform worked out
through consultation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  