-- GE Shake-Up Puts Youngest Leader at Helm of Fastest-Growing Unit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ge-shake-up-puts-youngest-leader-at-helm-of-fastest-growing-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s decision to
hand control of the rapidly growing oil and gas division to
Lorenzo Simonelli is fueling speculation that its youngest top
executive is a leading candidate to someday run the company.  Simonelli, 40, will take control on Oct. 1 of a business
that’s seen annual sales climb 54 percent since 2008 and has
become a focus of GE’s acquisition strategy. He takes over for
Dan Heintzelman, who was elevated to vice chairman after running
the unit since 2011, GE said yesterday in a statement.  “If Simonelli is able to take the franchise Heintzelman
created and take it to the next level, he’s obviously going to
be in an excellent position,”  Nick Heymann , a William Blair &
Co. analyst in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. He has a market-perform rating on GE. “The Oil & Gas
platform has the telltale signs of being the next chief vehicle
of value creation on the industrial side.”  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt, 57, is putting the
oil and gas division at the forefront of his push to increase
earnings at GE’s industrial businesses while shrinking its
lending arm. It’s grown faster than any other unit since
financial markets froze in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008.  Drilling Boom  Immelt spent $3.3 billion to  acquire  Lufkin Industries Inc.
and bought Dresser Inc. and the well-support division of  John
Wood Group Plc (WG/)  to help push the oil and gas division’s annual
sales to $15.2 billion in 2012. He has said that the moves
position the company to benefit from a domestic “natural gas
revolution” and climbing oil production from the U.S. shale
drilling boom.  Seth Martin, a spokesman for GE, declined to comment on
what the moves mean for CEO succession planning.  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut ,  rose  1.7 percent to
$24.86 yesterday in New York. The shares advanced 18 percent
this year compared with a 21 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Both Heintzelman’s new position, in which he’ll help
oversee operations and the company’s highly profitable services
businesses, and Simonelli’s move show how valuable they are to
Immelt, according to Eric Hugel, a New York-based analyst at S&P
Capital IQ.  “These are promotions for everyone involved,” Hugel, who
has a buy  rating  on GE’s stock, said by telephone. “These guys
could be running multibillion corporations if they chose to
leave, and GE understands they need to give them bigger and
better challenges if it wants to keep its best talent.”  Future Executives  Simonelli, born in Florence,  Italy  and educated at Cardiff
University in  Wales , is a 19-year GE veteran. The youngest among
executives at GE’s eight operating divisions, he joined the
company through its entry-level financial management program,
which recruits directly from universities and is designed to
groom future executives. He’s being replaced at GE
Transportation by Russell Stokes.  Heintzelman started his career at GE in 1979 at the
company’s aircraft engines management development program and
eventually headed its aircraft engines services business before
taking over leadership roles at its energy businesses, according
to the company’s website.  “His background lines up well with GE’s focus going
forward as the company emphasizes industrial businesses like
energy and aviation, and de-emphasizes the financial side,”
Christian Mayes, an analyst with St. Louis-based Edward Jones,
said in a phone interview yesterday. Mayes rates GE a hold.  Profit at divisions making industrial products including
oil and gas equipment will account for about 65 percent of GE’s
operating earnings by 2015, the company forecast at a meeting
with investors and analysts last year. Those earnings made up 55
percent of profit, on the same basis, in 2012.  The changes follow a shake-up last year in which Immelt
broke up GE Energy, with $43.7 billion in sales in 2011, into
separate power and water, oil and gas and energy management
units following the retirement of  John Krenicki , its CEO. That
eliminated a layer of management and put the new businesses’
leaders directly reporting to Immelt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  