-- German Stocks Advance as Investors Await Fed Decision
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-18T15:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/german-stocks-little-changed-as-investors-await-fed-news.html
German stocks  advanced to a record,
as investors awaited the  Federal Reserve ’s decision on reducing
its monthly bond purchases.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  rose 1.4 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the shares.  Siemens AG (SIE) 
climbed to its highest price since July 2011 after nominating
SAP AG’s Jim Hagemann Snabe to its supervisory board and
appointing a new chief financial officer.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  fell 2.8
percent after Citigroup Inc. said the synthetic-rubber maker’s
plan to cut 1,000 jobs and management bonuses to save about 100
million euros ($134 million) would put additional pressure on
its  cash flow .  The DAX gained 0.5 percent to 8,636.06 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge has surged 13 percent this year
as central banks around the world pledged to leave  interest
rates  low for a prolonged period. The broader HDAX Index also
added 0.5 percent today.  “We continue to believe they’re going to taper today and
we think $10 billion is the most likely outcome,”  Andrew Wilson , head of fixed income at Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television in London.
“There’s certainly  job creation  happening and that’s what the
Fed had mentioned initially.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 13 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  ends a two-day policy
meeting today, at which officials will probably decide to lower
its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. Of 64 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News , 33 predict the Fed will reduce its
buying of Treasuries by $5 billion or less, with 31 forecasting
a cut of $10 billion or more.  The FOMC releases both its policy statement and forecasts
for economic growth, inflation and unemployment at 2 p.m. New
York time. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a press conference
half an hour later.  In the U.S., builders began work on fewer U.S. homes in
August than projected and applications for future work declined
more than forecast, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington.  Housing starts rose 0.9 percent to an 891,000 annual rate,
following the prior month’s 883,000 pace that was weaker than
previously estimated. The  median  estimate of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 917,000. Permits dropped 3.8
percent to a 918,000 pace.  German Election  Investors are also watching the latest pre-election surveys
on this weekend’s vote in Germany. Support for  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc held at 39 percent in a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine published yesterday, while
her Free Democratic coalition partner lost a percentage point to
5 percent, the threshold to win parliamentary seats.  Support for  Peer Steinbrueck ’s Social Democrats was
unchanged at 25 percent and the Greens held at 9 percent. That
leaves neither main bloc with a majority, according to Stern.  Merkel is campaigning on her economic stewardship and her
insistence on reforms in exchange for aid during the debt
crisis. Her case was bolstered yesterday as data showed German
investor confidence climbed to the highest level in more than
three years in September.  HeidelbergCement added 1.4 percent to 58.20 euros. Goldman
Sachs raised its rating on the cement maker to buy from sell,
saying increased spending will drive growth opportunities.  Siemens Appoints  Siemens climbed 1.3 percent to 89.70 euros. Europe’s
biggest engineering company said it has nominated Snabe to
succeed former Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef
Ackermann  on the supervisory board. Siemens also appointed Ralf
Thomas as CFO. Previously, he was finance chief of the industry
division.  Thyssenkrupp AG rose 1.9 percent to 17.21 euros, its
highest price since July 25. Chief Executive Officer Guido
Kerkhoff said Germany’s largest steelmaker isn’t working on a
plan to raise capital and that it still expects to sell its
Steel Americas unit.  Lanxess fell 2.8 percent to 49.95 euros. The Cologne-based
company said late yesterday that its  savings program  will cost
150 million euros in one-time charges that will be booked in
2013 and 2014. Citigroup reiterated its sell rating on the
shares, saying the plan isn’t a game changer.  Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said in August that
he would review strategy after orders slumped and he had to
abandon a 2014 profit forecast. Lanxess, which  generates  about
40 percent of sales from the auto and tire industries, has
suffered as European car sales faltered, with a decline in
August bringing deliveries this year to the lowest since records
began in 1990.  Hochtief AG fell 1.6 percent to 62.39 euros. Goldman Sachs
cuts its rating on Germany’s largest construction company to
neutral from buy following a 44 percent rally this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  