-- Ghana Central Bank Holds Key Rate to Help Support Economy
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-09-18T12:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ghana-central-bank-holds-key-rate-to-help-support-economy.html
Ghana ’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a second consecutive
meeting to counter sluggish growth and a weaker cedi.  The policy rate was kept at 16 percent, Bank of Ghana
Governor Kofi Wampah told reporters in the capital, Accra today.
The decision was in line with the forecast of all six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The risk in the outlook for inflation and growth are
balanced,” Wampah said. “Pressures in the foreign exchange
market will ease further” by the end of the year, he said.  West  Africa ’s second-biggest economy is forecast by the
government to grow by 8 percent this year from 7.9 percent in
2012. The economy shrank 3.1 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months as industry output contracted amid
frequent power outages. Ghana, which cut fuel subsidies in
February to help narrow the budget deficit, raised the gasoline
price by 3.7 percent on Sept. 16.  Inflation slowed for the first time in seven months to  11.5
percent (GHCPALLY)  in August from 11.8 percent in July. The cedi has lost
13 percent of its value against the dollar this year, ranking it
Africa’s worst performer after South Africa’s rand, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation risks remain to the
upside, Wampah said.  The currency was unchanged at 2.18 per dollar at 12:14 p.m.
in Accra.  “Recent cedi weakness does pose a risk to the inflation
profile going forward,” Razia Khan, head of Africa economic
research for Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a note to
clients after the decision. “Should the currency continue to
come under pressure, more tightening may well be needed in this
cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  