-- Glencore, Chinese Group Bid to Develop Australian Bauxite Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-09-18T03:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/glencore-chinese-group-bid-to-develop-australian-bauxite-mine.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  China ’s
Australian Indigenous Resources Pty submitted proposals to
 Australia ’s  Queensland government  to develop the Aurukun bauxite
project in the northeast state.  Queensland in April shortlisted a number of companies,
including Rio Tinto Group, to develop the Aurukun resource after
dropping a previous requirement to include a refinery. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., known as Chalco, in 2010 ended an accord
with the state government to develop the mine in the Cape York
Peninsula after aluminum prices fell. The project cost was
estimated at A$3 billion ($2.8 billion) at the time.  “The Queensland government will now assess each proposal
keeping in mind the project must be delivered at no cost or risk
to the state and must meet strict environmental conditions,”
Acting Premier Jeff Seeney said today in a statement. “The
government will now work towards a final decision on a preferred
proponent by the end of the year.”  Rio Tinto (RIO)  and Chalco have withdrawn from the bidding
process, the government said in the statement. Cape Alumina
Consortium, another shortlisted bidder, didn’t submit a proposal
by a Sept. 13 deadline, it said.  Mining companies are seeking to cut expenses as commodity
prices decline, focusing on the lowest-cost projects. Refining
bauxite from Aurukun at an existing refinery in Australia or
overseas would make the project more competitive.  Australian Indigenous Resources is a Chinese consortium
made up of Hong Kong-listed  APAC Resources Ltd. (1104)  and Aust-Pac
Capital Pty. Cape Alumina Consortium included Australia-listed
Cape  Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , commodity trader Noble Group Ltd. and Qube
Bulk Pty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  