-- Goldman Drawing Negative Loops as SBI Risk Climbs: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-09-18T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/goldman-drawing-negative-loops-as-sbi-risk-climbs-india-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. warned
that “negative feedback loops” triggered by waning investor
confidence are threatening India’s finances, after state-owned
lenders’ bond risk surged the most in  Asia  this quarter.  The investment bank said in a Sept. 16 report the rupee may
drop to 72 per dollar in six months from 63.385 now as weaker
capital inflows force the central bank to raise  interest rates ,
hurting lenders and the economy. Rising bad loans then require
more capital injections, further worsening perceptions of
India’s finances.  “There might be a need to recapitalize banks above the
budgeted amounts, but there is not much fiscal room available
this year,”  Tushar Poddar , Mumbai-based economist at Goldman
Sachs, said in an interview yesterday.  Banking Secretary Rajiv Takru said last month authorities
may delay cash infusions into government-controlled banks, as
the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the government’s
deficit will reach 8.3 percent of the economy this year, the
 highest  since 1987. Credit-default swap prices on  State Bank  of
India, a sovereign proxy, surged 32 basis points to 307 this
quarter, the worst in the Markit iTraxx Asia ex-Japan
investment-grade index.  The next-worst performers were also state-owned lenders.
Contracts on IDBI Bank Ltd. jumped 27 basis points to 342, while
those on  Bank of India  leapt 25 basis points to 325.  China
Development Bank  was the best performer, declining 43 basis
points to 104.  ‘Increasingly Tough’  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, warned this week that India faces risks of
ratings reductions. The chance of a downgrade by major credit
agencies is “large” even as “outright default” is unlikely,
Roland Mieth, Pimco Asia’s EM senior vice president, said in an
interview.  “Compared to previous years, it’s increasingly tough now
for the government to sustain the cost of capital infusion,”
said M. Narendra, chairman of  Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) , in a
telephone interview from Chennai yesterday. “A sustained period
of difficulties is inevitable.”  India may delay injecting capital into state-run banks
including IDBI and Indian Overseas Bank because it doesn’t want
to lose money on price declines when buying lenders’ shares,
Takru said in an Aug. 19 interview. The government, which
usually infuses cash by buying lenders’ shares, doesn’t want to
lose money on stock price declines, Takru said. While the S&P
BSE Bankex index, a gauge for 13 banking stocks, has rebounded
from a 20-month low marked on Sept. 3, it remains down 17
percent this year.  Slowing Economy  The government needs to provide 910 billion rupees ($14.3
billion) of equity capital to state-run lenders by March 2018 in
order to maintain its current stakes,  Duvvuri Subbarao , who was
governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India at the time, said in
October.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s economic advisory council
said last week that containing the fiscal deficit within the
budget estimate of 4.8 percent “could be a challenge.” The
 ratio  was 4.9 percent in the year through March 31.  Capital adequacy ratios at the state-run banks under the
so-called Basel II rules averaged 12.4 percent as of March 31,
data compiled by the central bank show. That exceeds India’s
minimum regulatory requirement of 9 percent. A higher figure
shows lender’s ability to absorb bad loans.  India’s currency and bonds have dropped this year as Asia’s
third-largest economy expanded 4.4 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, the least since the three months ended March 2009.  Positive Possibility  The yield on  India ’s 7.16 percent rupee-denominated bond
due May 2023 fell 7 basis points to 8.37 percent yesterday,
according to central bank prices. It reached a five-year high of
9.23 percent on Aug. 19. The rupee was little changed yesterday
after slumping as much as 13 percent this year, making it the
worst performer in Asia.  “I think the commitment to banks on infusing capital will
be met as it will strengthen the fundamentals of the economy,”
D. R. Dogra, managing director of CARE Ratings Ltd., said in a
Sept. 17 telephone interview from Mumbai. “The central bank as
a regulator will respond to the developing situation pro-actively.”  Central bank governor  Raghuram Rajan  faces pressure to
signal a reversal this week in his predecessor’s tightening
measures. Rajan will hold the repurchase rate at 7.25 percent
tomorrow, his first meeting in charge of the central bank,
according to all 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Higher Costs  Goldman Sachs, whose report was meant “to illustrate the
risk of feedback loops, not to predict them,” wrote that there
is also the possibility of a positive circle in which any
improvement in the current account could lead to stability in
the rupee. That in turn could encourage capital inflows.  Takru’s retreat from earlier comments that India will
inject as much as 140 billion rupees by September comes after
the proportion of bad loans and restructured assets as a
percentage of total lending rose to a 10-year high of 10.02
percent at the end of June, central bank data show.  Soured loans in the banking system rose to 3.92 percent of
total lending as of June 30, the highest in at least five years,
from 3.4 percent at the end of March, according to central bank
data.  “Expectations that the bad loan situation will worsen are
not out of place,” Pratip Chaudhuri, chairman of  State Bank of
India (SBIN) , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It looks
imminent the government will have to bear a higher cost for
supporting the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  