-- Gold Jumps Most in 15 Months as Fed Refrains From Taper
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-19T00:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/gold-tumbles-below-1-300-to-six-week-low-before-fed-statement.html
Gold jumped the most in 15 months
after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from reducing
the pace of monthly U.S. bond purchases, increasing demand for
the metal as a store of value.  The Federal Open Market Committee “decided to await more
evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the
pace of its purchases,” according to a statement yesterday at
the conclusion of a two-day meeting. Spot gold dropped beneath
$1,300 an ounce for the first time in six weeks yesterday on
speculation the central bank would rein in quantitative easing.  “The markets have been trading based on some sort of
reduction of the Fed buying bonds and mortgage-backs,”  Michael Cuggino , who manages $12 billion at  Permanent Portfolio (PRPFX)  Family
of Funds Inc. in San Francisco, said by phone. “What this does
for all those people that are expecting tighter money quick,
it’s going to cause them to reassess their portfolios and
strategies for next 6 to 18 months. Time will tell as to what
the longer-term effects on the marketplace are.”  Gold for immediate delivery climbed 4.1 percent to
$1,364.02 yesterday, the biggest gain since June 1, 2012,
rebounding from a drop of as much as 1.4 percent to $1,292.02,
the lowest since Aug. 8. Bullion fluctuated between gains and
losses today and traded at $1,363.20 at 8:12 a.m. Singapore
time, taking this week’s gain to 2.8 percent.  Analysts Surprised  Futures for December delivery traded at $1,363 an ounce on
the Comex in New York, up 4.2 percent from yesterday’s
settlement of $1,307.60 before the Fed announcement. Trading on
the Comex today was 15 percent above the average for the past
100 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts were divided on the amount by which policy makers
would scale back its monthly asset purchases. Among 64
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the announcement,
33 predicted the Fed would reduce buying of Treasuries by $5
billion or less, while 31 forecast a cut of $10 billion or more.  Spot gold fell 19 percent this year after some investors
lost faith in the metal as U.S. equities rallied to a record
amid subdued inflation. The commodity, which fell into a bear
market in April, headed for the first annual drop in 13 years.  ETF Assets  Holdings in exchange-traded funds backed by the metal fell
26 percent in 2013, erasing $56.9 billion of market value.
Mining companies reported at least $26 billion in writedowns.  Gold surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008 to
June 2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the
financial system by purchasing debt.  “Gold’s upside may be limited if investor expectations
shift to a tapering in December,” James Steel, an analyst at
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., wrote in a note to clients. “If the
U.S. dollar keeps on the defensive gold is likely to stay firm
but additional gains may be limited. The buying witnessed in the
aftermath of the FOMC statement is partly short-covering but
also some fresh buying.”  Gold futures in New York came within three percentage
points of entering a bull market on Aug. 27 as the threat of
U.S. military action against  Syria  boosted demand for a haven.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials  rose
the most in three weeks yesterday. The  dollar  traded near a
seven-month low against the euro today.  The Fed said that it needs more evidence of lasting
improvement in the economy and warned that an increase in
interest rates threatens to curb the expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  