-- Google CEO Seeks to Tackle Health, Aging With New Company
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-18T22:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/google-announces-new-company-focused-on-health.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s most-popular search engine, is investing in a new
company focused on health and well-being.  The business, called Calico, will address the challenge of
aging and related diseases, Google said in a blog  posting . The
venture will be led by Arthur Levinson, chairman of  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech unit and a former Google director.  The focus on health, which Google Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  acknowledged was a “lot different from what Google
does today,” comes as the co-founder himself battles with
personal ailments. Earlier this year, he disclosed he was
diagnosed with left vocal-cord paralysis, a condition that
restricts vocal-cord movement, and is also experiencing
impairment on the right side.  “Illness and aging affect all our families,” Page said in
the posting. “With some longer term, moonshot thinking around
health care and biotechnology, I believe we can improve millions
of lives.”  Google is stepping up investments in areas outside its core
online-advertising and consumer-services business. The search
provider has already put money into health-related companies
through its venture arm, called Google Ventures, among other
sectors. The Mountain View, California-based company has also
worked on longer-term bets through a research unit that’s
unveiled plans for computerized eyeglasses and driverless cars.  Overlapping Interests  Levinson, who is also a founding investor in Calico, will
remain a director of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. as well as chairman
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Google’s announcement didn’t include any details
on the size of the new health-care company or the scope of the
investment.  The new venture comes after Levinson stepped down from
Google’s board in 2009, a move that resolved a regulatory probe
into overlapping directors at Google and Apple. Both companies
have continued to compete in more areas, including on mobile
devices and in software.  Tim Cook , who took over as Apple’s CEO after Steve Jobs
died in 2011 at the age of 56 from complications of pancreatic
cancer, praised Levinson in the Google statement.  “For too many of our friends and family, life has been cut
short or the quality of their life is too often lacking,” Cook
said. “Art is one of the crazy ones who thinks it doesn’t have
to be this way. There is no one better suited to lead this
mission and I am excited to see the results.”  Page’s health condition can result in hoarse speech and
labored breathing, though according to doctors won’t impede him
from running the company.  Google rose 1.9 percent to $903.32 at 4 p.m.  New York  time
today. The shares have gained 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  