-- Li Revives Old Lending Playbook After Cash Crunch: China Credit
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-09-18T02:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/li-revives-old-lending-playbook-after-cash-crunch-china-credit.html
Syndicated loans to Chinese
companies are poised for their best quarter in two years, after
a cash crunch curbed expansion in the bond market.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. led $21.3 billion of bank loans denominated in
either U.S. dollars or  yuan  since June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Including $4 billion of deals in the
pipeline, volumes this quarter are set to challenge the $26.8
billion raised in the three months ended Sept. 30, 2011. Local-currency corporate bond sales total 51.3 billion yuan ($8.4
billion) this period, the slowest in two years.  Premier Li Keqiang is seeking to ensure companies have
access to sufficient funds for strategic projects and offshore
acquisitions, even as he tightens cash supply to rein in
expansion by property developers. Li said last week in a speech
in Dalian that 2013’s main economic goals can be achieved, after
export and factory-output growth accelerated in August.  “Financial stress caused the government to revert to its
old lending- and investment-driven playbook,” said  Alaistair Chan , a Sydney-based economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. Even
so, he added, “China’s economy appears to have stabilized after
June’s financial-market volatility.”  Willing to Lend  Gross domestic product is expected to rise to 7.9 percent
year-on-year in the third quarter, up from 7.5 percent in the
second, as  electricity consumption , rail freight volumes and
bank lending trend higher, Moody’s Chan said in a Sept. 15
report. Demand for loans from Chinese companies remains strong
because of the improved growth prospects, according to Edmond Law, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian (Hong Kong) Ltd.  “Company spending is likely to increase on optimism the
economy is stabilizing,” said Law. “Banks in  China  will be
more willing to lend money, although the pace of loan growth
will depend on asset quality and lending quotas.”  As the record cash crunch wound down, the State Council
said in a July 5 statement that misallocation of capital by
finance companies was hampering the restructuring of the
economy. It said banks should “pro-actively support” key
infrastructure projects such as railways, small companies,
agriculture-related businesses and growth industries.  Alibaba Financing  The cash squeeze in June sent money-market interest rates
to record highs as commercial lenders scrambled to find funds to
meet quarter-end requirements set by the People’s Bank of China.
Cash-hungry Chinese companies turned to the offshore loan market
to refinance debt or support acquisitions.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, in July
completed a $8 billion facility, the biggest syndicated
financing in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan  this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shuanghui International last week began marketing a $4
billion two-part loan to back its $4.7 billion bid for
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  in general syndication, after signing the
deal with eight arranging lenders in late August, three people
familiar with that matter said on Sept. 13.  “We’re seeing more Chinese private enterprises going out
to make acquisitions overseas,” said Lei Fang, a Hong Kong-based executive director of loan syndications at  Credit Agricole
SA. (ACA)  “This will continue to fuel syndicated loan market volumes
this year and provide more opportunities for both Chinese and
international banks.”  M&A Deals  Companies in the world’s second-largest economy have spent
$119 billion on M&A transactions this year, making China the
second-most acquisitive country after the U.S.  When  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s largest offshore oil and gas
explorer, bought  Canada ’s Nexen Inc. for $15.1 billion in 2012
in the biggest outbound takeover by a Chinese company, it raised
$6 billion via a 12-month bridge loan signed in February.  Banks are preparing to ink at least another $4 billion of
loan facilities for Chinese borrowers this quarter. China
National Offshore Oil Corp., Cnooc’s parent, is seeking $3
billion in the bank debt market, two people familiar with the
matter said on Aug. 22, while advertising company Focus Media
Holdings Ltd. has approached existing lenders for $500 million
to fund a dividend recapitalization, other people familiar with
that matter said on Sept. 11.  China Electronics Corp., which via its units makes and
sells mobile phones, is seeking a 1.2 billion yuan three-year
offshore loan, another person said on July 10.  Credit Risk  Inside China, the nation’s broadest measure of new credit
almost doubled in August from the previous month in a sign
leaders are committed to meeting economic goals even at the cost
of adding financial risks. Aggregate financing was 1.57 trillion
yuan, the central bank said on Sept. 10, topping the 950 billion
yuan median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
New yuan loans from banks accounted for about 45 percent of the
total, down from July’s 87 percent, as non-traditional credit
played a bigger role.  Yuan-denominated bond sales meanwhile are suffering with
companies reluctant to sell notes amid a surge in credit
downgrades and rise in borrowing costs. Yields on top-rated
three-year corporates securities averaged 5.15 percent on Sept.
17, the most since November 2011, Chinabond indexes show. The
 yield  on benchmark 10-year government bonds has climbed 56 basis
points this quarter to 4.074 percent.  As growth prospects improve, bond risk has declined and the
yuan is extending gains. China’s credit-default swap contracts
insuring the nation’s debt against non-payment have dropped 37.3
basis points this quarter to 81.5 as of Sept. 17, according to
data provider CMA. The yuan, which has risen 1.8 percent against
the dollar this year, was little changed at 6.1217 as of 10:40
a.m. in  Shanghai .  ‘Ample Liquidity’  Companies from Hong Kong and China paid an average of about
284 basis points more than the London interbank offered rate for
dollar loans signed this year, down from about 302 basis points
in 2012, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “The loans market has certainly become more attractive
versus the bond market since June,” said Phil Lipton, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong-based head of syndicated finance for
Asia-Pacific. “Loan pricing has fallen over the past 12 months
while tenors for blue-chip borrowers have increased to five
years from three years. With lower pricing and ample liquidity,
we should see more borrowers from China and Hong Kong access the
loans market in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  