-- Iceland Business Group Urges Writedown on Banks’ Krona Assets
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-09-18T09:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/iceland-business-group-urges-writedown-on-banks-krona-assets.html
Icelandic business is urging the
government to write down krona assets held by the nation’s
failed banks to help scale back capital controls and restore
financial stability.  “The economy simply isn’t capable of allowing these funds
to be converted into foreign currencies using the current
 exchange rate ,” Frosti Olafsson, the managing director of the
island’s Chamber of Commerce in Reykjavik, said in an interview.
“As time passes, the capital controls are becoming increasingly
burdensome for the economy and Icelandic corporations.”  The north Atlantic island’s central bank, which imposed
currency restriction following the failure of Glitnir Bank hf,
 Kaupthing Bank hf  and Landsbanki Islands hf in October 2008, is
now seeking ways to remove the controls. The restrictions are
blocking about $8 billion from leaving the economy, according to
an Arion banki hf estimate.  The caretakers of the three failed banks hold a combined
461 billion kronur ($3.8 billion) in krona-denominated assets,
according to their latest financial statements. Both Glitnir and
Kaupthing have requested that Sedlabanki grant exemptions to the
 capital controls  to allow them to complete creditor settlements.
The central bank has yet to respond.  Completing settlements and removing the capital controls
are key to improving Iceland’s economy and fostering production-driven long-term growth, according to Olafsson.  If the government acts “immediately” the restrictions can
be abolished within the next four years, he said.  “The key to removing the capital controls is building
credibility in both domestic and international markets that the
Icelandic economy is externally sustainable,” he said.
“Completing these settlements and reducing uncertainty with
regards to the external position is a vital next step for
removal of the capital controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  