-- Idaho Man Pleads Guilty in 2011 White House Shooting Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-18T16:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/idaho-man-pleads-guilty-in-2011-white-house-shooting-case.html
(Corrects to “discharging a firearm” in first paragraph.)  An  Idaho  man accused of trying to
assassinate President  Barack Obama  by firing a semi-automatic
assault rifle at the White House almost two years ago pleaded
guilty in federal court in Washington to discharging a firearm
during a crime and jeopardizing lives.  Oscar Ramiro Ortega-Hernandez, 22, of Idaho Falls, Idaho,
faces as long as 27 1/2 years in prison, based on sentencing
guidelines agreed to by prosecutors and the defense. U.S.
District Judge Rosemary Collyer in Washington set a Jan. 10
sentencing date.  Ortega-Hernandez shot at the White House through the
passenger window of his 1998 Honda Accord from Constitution
Avenue on Nov. 11, 2011, according to federal prosecutors.  The attack “was the culmination of several months during
which the defendant fulminated against the president, whom he
perceived to be the Antichrist, made threats against him and
prepared to take violent action against him,” federal
prosecutors said in court papers.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation found bullet marks on
the south side of the White House in the area of the first
family’s living quarters and linked bullets found nearby to
Ortega-Hernandez’s weapon, a Romanian Cugir AK-47, according to
statements made today in court.  Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama weren’t in the White
House at the time of the shooting, prosecutors said in court
papers. Two other members of the first family were in the
building, according to Collyer.  Defendant’s Anger  Ortega-Hernandez “expressed anger towards the government
regarding the continued criminalization of marijuana,”
prosecutors said in April.  The shooting incident occurred more than 18 months before
the Obama administration eased its opposition to marijuana by
announcing that it wouldn’t challenge laws in Colorado and
 Washington  that legalized the recreational use of the drug.  Ortega-Hernandez has been in custody since he was arrested
on Nov. 16, 2011, in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  He previously pleaded not guilty to 19 criminal charges
including attempting to assassinate the president and assaulting
federal officers with a deadly weapon and faced a possible
sentence of life in prison. A trial had been set for Sept. 30.  The case is U.S. v. Ortega-Hernandez, 12-cr-00014, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in federal court in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net . 