-- Illinois Top Lawmakers Seek Paychecks Amid Pension Fight
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-18T22:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/illinois-top-lawmakers-seek-paychecks-amid-pension-fight.html
Illinois’s top two lawmakers are
asking a judge to invalidate Governor  Pat Quinn ’s decision to
veto salaries for the state’s 177 legislators over their failure
to resolve a $100 billion pension funding shortfall.  The governor struck more than $13 million in lawmaker pay
and expenditures from an appropriations bill in July after
Senate President John Cullerton and House Speaker Michael Madigan let their chambers go out of session for the third time
in 11 months without resolving the shortfall, the worst among
the 50 states.  Accusing Quinn of breaching the doctrine of separation of
powers, the legislative leaders sued him and state Comptroller
Judy Baar Topinka on July 30. State Court Judge Neil H. Cohen in
 Chicago  today engaged the parties’ lawyers in two hours of
debate.  “Is it your position the governor is limited in his
ability to use the line-item veto?” he asked lawmakers’ lawyer
 Richard Prendergast .  A governor can exercise that power, “as long as it doesn’t
create unconstitutional results,” the attorney said.  Cohen repeatedly questioned Prendergast, as he did Quinn
attorney Steven F. Pflaum of Chicago-based Neal Gerber &
Eisenberg LLP and the state’s chief deputy attorney general,
Brent D. Stratton, who’s representing Baar Topinka.  Under Advisement  “I have not made up my mind on this,” Cohen said
afterward, telling the lawyers he’d take the matter under
advisement and rule by Sept. 26.  The governor, who entered the courtroom after Prendergast
began his argument, left at the hearings’ end without taking
questions from reporters.  Quinn, 64, was elevated from lieutenant governor in 2009
when his predecessor,  Rod Blagojevich , was impeached. A
Democrat, he is serving his first full term as governor of the
fifth-most populous U.S. state after narrowly defeating
Republican challenger Bill Brady in 2010 by fewer than 20,000
votes out of more than  3.7 million cast .  William M. Daley, former chief of staff to President  Barack Obama , this week abandoned a planned Democratic Primary campaign
against Quinn, leaving him unchallenged for re-nomination next
year. State Attorney General Lisa Madigan in July said she would
seek re-election to her present post.  Speaker Madigan, who is the attorney general’s father, and
Cullerton are both Democrats. Baar Topinka, who opposed
Blagojevich’s 2006 gubernatorial bid, is a Republican.  ‘Constitutional Violation’  Cullerton and Madigan, each of whom represent Chicago-based
districts, are seeking a court order either compelling the
comptroller to disburse their pay under a separate section of
the appropriations bill or to find Quinn’s veto
unconstitutional.  “The purpose of this lawsuit is to protect the
independence of the Legislature and preserve the separation of
powers,” they said in a joint statement when the suit was
filed. “It is our hope that the court will remedy this
constitutional violation and that future governors will not feel
empowered to use such coercive tactics.”  Quinn, in a July 30 statement, called the lawsuit “just
plain wrong.”  “What he did was absolutely constitutional,” Pflaum
argued today, telling Cohen the appropriations subject to the
governor’s veto are not law. Quinn’s attorneys also argued the
legal dispute isn’t ripe for judicial review because the
legislators still have the right to attempt to override the line
item veto.  ‘Every Penny’  Prendergast dismissed that option, stating the legislators
would then be forced to forfeit two months’ pay because the bill
applies only prospectively, not retroactively.  Pflaum disagreed.  “They would get every penny that they haven’t been paid,”
Quinn’s lawyer said.  Cohen also pressed Baar Topinka’s lawyer, Stratton, on why
-- if the status of the legislation is unsettled -- she’s not
paid the legislators.  “Is the answer because she just didn’t know what to do?”
the judge asked.  “It was an unprecedented event,” Stratton replied.  The governor’s intent shouldn’t be disregarded, his
attorneys said in a Sept. 13 court filing. “A line-item veto,
after all, is part of a legislative process for which the
fulfillment of legislative intent is the primary objective.”  ‘Hypothetical Checks’  The Legislature maintains the power to render the suit moot
with an override, his lawyers said in an earlier filing.  The lawmakers disputed Quinn’s assertion their case was
merely hypothetical because the legislative process hasn’t run
its course.  “This will come as a surprise to the legislators (and
their families), who now have not been paid for two months,”
Madigan and Cullerton said in a Sept. 6 filing. “Perhaps their
banks can issue hypothetical credits to their accounts so that
they can write hypothetical checks to pay their very real
monthly bills.”  No matter how the judge rules, Quinn already has won, said
Dick W. Simpson, a political science professor at the  University
of Illinois  at Chicago.  “I think the fight with the Legislature has put pressure
on them to act,” Simpson said in a phone interview, “and has
redounded to the governor’s political benefit.”  The decision to dock lawmakers’ pay has proved popular with
the public, Simpson said. He said that if a committee of
Illinois legislators now crafting a compromise is successful,
Quinn “can reasonably claim that it was his continual efforts
with the Legislature that finally forced them to act.”  The case is Cullerton v. Quinn, 13-ch-17921, Cook County
Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in state court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  