-- Independent Scotland May Need 15% Public Spending Cut, IFS Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/independent-scotland-may-need-15-public-spending-cut-ifs-says.html
An independent  Scotland  may need to
reduce public spending by 15 percent in the two years after
quitting Britain if it wants to keep its budget deficit in line
with current U.K. plans, according to a report published today.  Scotland would have to cut spending by 6 percent, or 2.5
billion pounds ($4 billion), by 2017-2018 to match U.K. spending
plans, the  Institute of Fiscal Studies  said. Further cuts of 3.4
billion pounds may be needed if forecasts of declining oil and
gas revenues are accurate, the IFS said. The alternative would
be to raise taxes or cut benefits.  “Spending on public services is substantially higher per
person in Scotland than in the U.K. as a whole,” David
Phillips, author of the report, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Even with cuts to defense and aid spending, an independent
Scotland may need to cut spending on other services or raise
taxes by more than if it remained part of the U.K.”  Independence is the flagship policy of the semi-autonomous
Scottish government run by the  Scottish National Party . A
referendum on whether Scotland should quit the U.K. is to be
held on Sept. 18 next year. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
wants an independent Scotland to keep the pound. Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne said in April that a formal
currency union was highly unlikely.  Cuts of 5.9 billion pounds were equivalent to 15 percent of
public spending in 2011-2012, when spending per head on public
services was 17 percent higher in Scotland than in the U.K. as a
whole, the IFS said.  Even if North Sea revenue turns out to be higher than
Office of Budget Responsibility forecasts, an independent
Scotland would be “ill-advised” to cut spending or raise taxes
by less than if it remained part of the U.K., the IFS said.  “It will need to build a strong fiscal position in order
to gain credibility in the financial markets,” the IFS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  dlytle@bloomberg.net  