-- Inditex First-Half Profit Beats Estimates as Sales Rise
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-09-18T10:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/inditex-first-half-profit-beats-estimates-as-sales-increase.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the Spanish owner of
the Zara and Massimo Dutti chains, reported an unexpected rise
in first-half profit and said sales growth has accelerated since
July after the retailer opened stores at a faster rate.  Net income climbed 0.7 percent to 951 million euros ($1.3
billion) in the six months through July, the company said today,
beating the 934 million-euro average of seven  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. That was still weaker than the first-quarter’s 1.6
percent growth, the slowest in about four years.  Inditex, based in Arteixo, Spain, is finding profit growth
tough to come by this year as the strength of the euro weighs on
earnings and a recovery in its domestic economy remains at an
early stage. Net income at the world’s largest clothing retailer
has risen at least 10 percent in each of the last three years
and analysts expect profit to strengthen in the second half of
this one as the company adds stores from  Germany  to  Japan .  “The battle is not over for Inditex, but the company is
now approaching the end of a tough year in good shape,”  Anne Critchlow , a London-based analyst at  Societe Generale , said by
phone. “We are seeing a gradual improvement from the first
quarter, and the current trading update is very reassuring.”  Inditex  rose  as much as 2.2 percent in  Madrid  trading and
was up 0.7 percent at 111 euros at 12:26 p.m.  ‘Less Challenging’  Constant-currency sales growth at the retailer’s stores was
10 percent from Aug. 1 to Sept. 14, Inditex said today. First-half revenue gained 5.7 percent to 7.7 billion euros.  Earlier this week,  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest retailer, reported monthly sales that beat analysts’
estimates, sending its shares to a record high.  Some indicators are showing an improvement of the Spanish
economy, Inditex Chief Executive Officer Pablo Isla said on a
webcast conference call today.  “The retail sales environment in Europe, especially in
 Spain , has become less challenging in the last few weeks, while
the weather overall has also been more stable,” Critchlow said.  For the year through January, net income at Inditex may
climb about 10 percent to 2.6 billion euros, according to
the average of 18  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Spanish retailer opened 95 stores in 40 markets during
the first half, which it said was in line with forecasts. Those
included the first Pull & Bear store in Germany and the first
Zara Home stores in Japan. Inditex had 6,104 outlets in 86
markets as of the end of July.  Online Expansion  Inditex isn’t preparing to introduce a new brand in the
short term, CEO Isla said on the call. Instead, the company is
boosting growth of existing brands such as Massimo Dutti, for
which it sees “very significant growth opportunities in all the
different geographies,” Isla said.  Inditex is also expanding online. In August, it started
Internet sales of Zara in  Russia , while Massimo Dutti and Zara
Home made their online debuts in  Canada . Web sales have reached
24 markets, the company said in a separate press statement.  Positive foreign-exchange fluctuations last year have
reversed due to shifts in some currencies, mainly the Japanese
yen, Marcos Lopez, Inditex capital markets director, said during
the call. “This is something that we are still seeing at the
start of the third quarter.”  The  gross margin,  a measure of profitability, shrank to
58.6 percent from 59.6 percent, the company said. Isla said he’s
satisfied with first-half gross margin and predicted it will be
“stable” in the second half.  “The gross margin was weaker than expected probably due to
the impact of higher costs of raw materials,” Ivan San Felix,
an analyst at  Renta 4 Banco SA (R4)  in Madrid, said by phone.
“However, the drop isn’t a big concern as the company should be
able to stabilize it in the coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  