-- IRS Closed 69 Percent of Delayed Tax-Exempt Applications
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-18T19:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/irs-closed-69-percent-of-delayed-tax-exempt-applications.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  has
completed work on 91 of 132 applications for tax-exempt status
from politically oriented groups and approved 70 of them, the
agency’s acting commissioner said today.  Those groups’ applications had been delayed for at least
120 days and some had been stalled for years. The IRS said 21
groups either withdrew their applications or didn’t respond to
correspondence from the agency and weren’t approved.  “While we work to ensure fairness and efficiency in making
determinations about  tax exemption , we will continue to uphold
the law as it relates to exempt organizations,” Danny Werfel,
the acting IRS commissioner, said today at a House Ways and
Means subcommittee hearing. “We will continue to meet our
obligation to grant tax-exempt status only to those” that are
fully eligible.  Lawmakers have criticized the IRS for its scrutiny of Tea
Party groups, which the agency acknowledged and apologized for
in May. That disclosure led to several employees losing their
posts and to investigations from congressional committees and
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  “What is clear is that the IRS faces a long road to
recover its reputation,” said Representative Charles Boustany,
a Louisiana Republican who cited new data about examinations of
Republican-leaning groups.  Audits Suspended  Werfel said the IRS has suspended audits in this area to
make sure it had appropriate “safeguards” in place. “That
whole process is on hold,” he said.  IRS regulations require that organizations must not be
primarily involved in politics to receive tax-exempt status as a
social-welfare group.  Separately, Ways and Means panel members and the IRS sought
an investigation into the leak to  USA Today  of a 2011
spreadsheet listing 162 groups and an agency lawyer’s comments
on whether they should qualify for tax exemption.  Under the  tax code , that is confidential information and
disclosure is a felony.  The IRS issued a statement saying it was “troubled” by
the apparent violation.  “We have referred the matter to the Treasury Inspector
General for Tax Administration, which is our standard practice
for potential disclosure violations,” the IRS said in the
statement. “We understand TIGTA is reviewing the matter.”  ‘Clear Violations’  Under the tax code, such confidential information is
restricted to a few entities, including the IRS and the
inspector general’s office, and the chairmen of the House Ways
and Means and Senate Finance panels with jurisdiction over tax
legislation.  Sarah Swinehart, a spokeswoman for Ways and Means
Republicans, said the office didn’t release the document, and
she said the leak is a “clear violation” that the committee
takes “very seriously.”  “Whoever leaked this document, and I can only assume it
was a Republican, left out any context within which to view
it,” said Josh Drobnyk, a spokesman for the committee’s
Democrats. “That’s been the pattern from Republicans throughout
this investigation -- selective leaking in an effort to score
political points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  