-- IRS Enforcement at Risk as Collections Drop 9% Amid Cuts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/irs-enforcement-at-risk-as-collections-drop-9-amid-cuts.html
Advocates for the  Internal Revenue
Service  are renewing warnings that the U.S. government will lose
money by starving the agency’s budget.  According to a report released yesterday, IRS enforcement
actions yielded $50.2 billion in fiscal year 2012, a 9 percent
drop from 2011 in part because of budget cuts.  The IRS shed 8,000 full-time positions from 2010 to 2012
including 5,000 front-line enforcement workers. That represents
a 14 percent reduction, according to  the report  from the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration.  House Republicans  are proposing to cut the IRS budget by 24
percent for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. In seeking to
make their case, they point to overspending on agency
conferences and bonuses to IRS executives involved in the
scrutiny of Tea Party groups seeking tax-exempt status.  “Our concern is where the next step is arbitrarily cutting
the budget,” said Edward Karl, vice president for taxation at
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in
 Washington . “Oversight is appropriate. Effective administration
is appropriate. But so is full funding.”  The Obama administration proposed a $1 billion, or 9
percent, increase for the IRS for the coming fiscal year. Danny Werfel, the agency’s acting commissioner, is scheduled to
testify today before a House Ways and Means subcommittee.  In a statement earlier this year, the IRS said enforcement
revenue totals in 2010 and 2011 were unusually high because they
included revenue from the agency’s voluntary disclosure program
for undeclared offshore accounts.  Economic Slowdown  “In addition, the economic slowdown contributed to lower
enforcement figures, as most enforcement dollars collected
resulted from audits of returns for years during the slowdown,”
the agency said in its statement.  Some of the decline in collections may be the result of IRS
policy changes. The agency’s Fresh Start Initiative was designed
to reduce the number of tax liens filed and was created in
response to concerns that the IRS was seizing property too
aggressively.  The IRS also has been charged with implementing parts of
the 2010 health-care law, diverting resources that could have
been devoted to audits and collections.  Because of across-the-board budget cuts known as
sequestration, the IRS furloughed employees for three days this
fiscal year, closing the agency to the public.  IRS Criticized  An inspector general’s report earlier this year criticized
IRS spending on conferences, including a $4.1 million training
event in 2010 with an artist who was a paid motivational
speaker. The event also featured a video parody of the “Star
Trek” television show and movies starring IRS employees.  Other IRS parody videos showed employees line dancing and
acting out the NBC television show “The Apprentice.”  IRS officials and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew have
argued for a budget increase in fiscal 2014, citing the risk of
uncollected taxes from what they call counterproductive cuts.  The IRS audited one in 97 individual tax returns in 2012,
down from one in 90 in 2010. The tax agency has been auditing S
corporations, partnerships and gift-tax returns more frequently
in recent years.  Congress probably won’t resolve the agency’s funding until
later in the year. Lawmakers in both parties are negotiating on
bills that would extend current funding levels into December.  The amount of money in what the IRS calls “the queue” of
accounts to be collected has increased by 46 percent over the
past five years, to $63.1 billion, according to the report.  “Although many of the cases in the queue may be assigned
to be worked, a significant number may only be sent an annual
reminder notice in attempt to resolve the delinquency,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  