-- Isagen Declines as Doubts About Stake Sale Fester: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-09-18T18:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/isagen-declines-as-doubts-about-stake-sale-fester-bogota-mover.html
Isagen SA (ISAGEN) ,  Colombia ’s third-largest
energy producer, slumped to a one-month low on growing doubts
that the government will be able to complete a plan to sell its
majority stake.  The  shares  slid 3 percent to 2,900 pesos at 12:35 p.m. in
Bogota, poised for the lowest closing price since Aug. 12. The
decline was the worst performance on the  Colcap index,  which was
down 0.8 percent.  Speculation is building that the sale won’t happen or will
be further delayed amid opposition to the plan from former
President  Alvaro Uribe , who says fully privatizing the company
would make electricity service less reliable. Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  said July 29 that the government is seeking to
sell its 57.66 percent stake in Isagen for a minimum of 2,850
pesos a share, valuing the holding at least 4.5 trillion pesos
($2.4 billion). Cardenas had previously said the first round of
the sale would start the last week of August.  “Investors are getting tired,” Juan David Ballen, an
analyst at Alianza Valores SA brokerage, said in a telephone
interview from Bogota. “There’s a lot of noise in the market, a
lack of clarity of what will end up happening, and it’s just
getting more delayed.”  Isagen said in a Sept. 5 regulatory filing that an
administrative tribunal notified the government of a demand by
Uribe to halt the sale and that it had 10 days to answer. Uribe
said in a Twitter posting on July 30 that he opposes the sale
because Isagen is “needed to guarantee electric
infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  