-- JAB Removes Conditions From $10 Billion Master Blenders Takeover
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-09-18T07:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/jab-removes-conditions-from-10-billion-master-blenders-takeover.html
Joh. A. Benckiser removed
conditions from its takeover bid for Dutch coffee maker D.E
 Master Blenders (DE)  1753 NV and said Pierre Laubies, a former Mars
Inc. manager, will become chief executive officer.  “All conditions for a successful offer have been satisfied
or waived,” JAB, the Vienna-based investment arm of the
billionaire Reimann family, said in a statement today. About
91.8 percent of all shares have been committed, and JAB said it
canceled a requirement to get 95 percent of the shares.  JAB said on April 12 it agreed to buy Master Blenders, the
Amsterdam-based maker of Douwe Egberts, for about 7.5 billion
euros ($10 billion) to build a coffee conglomerate in the
industry’s biggest deal ever. JAB also owns Peet’s Coffee & Tea
Inc. and Caribou Coffee Co.  French-born Laubies, who has run Mars’s global pet food
business and previously was head of  Europe  for  Campbell Soup
Co. (CPB) , will replace Michiel Herkemij, who left in December after
only 12 months in charge. Jan Bennink, who oversaw the company’s
spinoff from Sara Lee Corp. last year, has run Master Blenders
during the search for a successor.  Master Blenders also named JAB co-chiefs Peter Harf, Bart Becht and Olivier Goudet to its board, along with  Byron Trott ,
head of BDT Capital Partners LLC, the Chicago-based investment
firm that’s helping fund the deal. The appointment will be
effective as of Sept. 23.  Investors who accepted the offer will receive 12.50 euros a
share, Oak Leaf, a unit of JAB, said. Shareholders who haven’t
tendered have the possibility to do so in a post-closing
acceptance period starting tomorrow and ending Sept. 25, the
 investment company  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  