-- Gold Profits in Japan Seen in Abe Mulling Higher Tax
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-09-18T06:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/japan-sales-tax-increase-seen-as-chance-to-profit-from-gold.html
Japanese gold retailers are
preparing for an acceleration in consumer purchases in the next
six months if a planned sales-tax increase is carried out as
part of the government’s policy to end deflation.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will decide whether he will go
ahead with a plan to raise the tax to 8 percent in April from 5
percent after analyzing business confidence data from the  Bank
of Japan  on Oct. 1. Assuming the dollar-denominated gold price
is unchanged and the dollar-yen  exchange rate  remains the same,
investors would profit as much as 3 percent from purchasing
bullion on March 31 and selling it back on April 1, according to
broker Fujitomi Co.  Japanese consumers are reviving their interest in gold as
Abe’s policy of ending deflation through unprecedented monetary
stimulus weakened the yen 13 percent against the dollar this
year, highlighting the role of bullion as a hedge against
 currency depreciation  and inflation. Japan’s gold imports more
than tripled to 14.2 metric tons in the seven months through
July 31 from a year earlier, government data showed.  “We may experience a gold boom similar to what happened in
1997, the last time the Japanese government increased the
levy,” Masahiro Arai, general manager at Tokyo-based bullion
house Tokuriki Honten Co., said in an interview yesterday.  Japan  boosted the tax to 5 percent in April 1997 from 3
percent, the first increase since the nation introduced the duty
in 1989. Demand for gold from Japanese investors more than
doubled to 24 tons in the first quarter of 1997 from 9 tons in
the previous three months, according to the World Gold Council.  1997 Increase  Japanese investment in gold bars and coins more than
doubled to 4.5 tons last quarter from 2.1 tons a year earlier,
WGC data showed. Demand increased as a slump in the
international market made bullion more affordable to investors
while Abe’s economic policy boosts expectations for inflation.
Japan’s consumer prices increased in July at the fastest pace
since 2008, signaling progress in Abe’s goal of pulling the
Japanese economy out of 15 years of deflation.  Gold traded at $1,301.74 an ounce at 3:38 p.m. Tokyo time
after slumping to $1,180.50 on June 28, the lowest level since
August 2010. It is headed for the first annual drop in 13 years
as some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value,
and as the  U.S. economy  improved and stocks and the dollar
rallied. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted on Sept. 13 that
bullion may drop below $1,000 as the U.S. Federal Reserve
withdraws stimulus.  Trading Boost  The prospect of a sales-tax increase may also boost trading
on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, with investors buying gold for
February delivery and selling the metal for April delivery,
according to research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo.  “The activity has boosted the price of February-delivery
gold above that of April-delivery futures, creating an unusual
backwardation in the market,” said JSC analyst Takaki Shigemoto.  The volume of gold trading on the bourse, known as Tocom,
 expanded  27 percent to 9.5 million contracts in the eight months
through Aug. 31 from a year earlier. Abe’s economic policy
weakened the yen and boosted yen-denominated gold prices,
attracting investors to the market, Shigemoto said. Gold futures
on Tocom climbed to a record 5,081 yen a gram ($1,592 an ounce)
on Feb. 7 and closed at 4,165 yen today.  The  sales tax  is set to rise to 8 percent in April then
increase to 10 percent in October 2015, pending a final decision
by Abe. Economy Minister Akira Amari said on Sept. 13 that
corporate-tax reduction is an option as part of a planned
package to reduce the economic blow from raising the sales tax.  Japanese Confidence  Delaying an increase in the sales tax could undermine
confidence in Japan’s fiscal sustainability and lead to higher
government bond yields, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on
Sept 5.  Japanese shares could plunge 10 percent or more if Abe
fails to carry through on a plan to raise the sales tax,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Masamichi Adachi and
UBS AG economist Daiju Aoki. Postponing an increase would have a
large and negative impact on Japan’s financial markets, said 22
of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “A rout in the bond and currency markets could boost
Japanese demand for gold as a haven,” said Naomi Suzuki, an
economist at the Sumitomo Shoji Research Institute in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  