-- JPMorgan Said to Pay $900 Million to Settle Whale Probes
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-19T01:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/jpmorgan-said-poised-to-pay-900-million-to-settle-whale-probes.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is poised to
pay about $900 million to settle U.S. and U.K. claims that lax
internal controls led the bank to provide inaccurate information
about last year’s record trading loss to the board, investors
and regulators, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The bank is set to announce deals today with four
regulators over its handling of the trades by an employee known
as the London Whale because his bets were so large, the people
said, requesting anonymity because talks were private.
Separately, the firm may also pay less than $80 million to
settle two watchdogs’ probes tied to consumer lending practices,
two people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , whose pay was cut in
half last year after the board said he was partially responsible
for faulty oversight of the trades, told employees in a Sept. 17
memo the bank is making an “unprecedented effort” to simplify
its business, overhaul controls and improve relations with
regulators. The firm has been beset by inquiries this year,
including the emergence last month of an investigation into its
hiring practices in  Asia  as well as criminal probes tied to
mortgage-bond sales and energy trading.  The package of penalties to be announced today is a message
to banks “that regulators are going to really ratchet up the
fines if the organization is deemed too big to manage in order
to get the organization to simplify their structure,” said
Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New
York .  Penalty Breakdown  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is imposing
about $300 million in penalties, while the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission,  Federal Reserve  and the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority each levy about $200 million in sanctions, one
of the people said.  JPMorgan lost more than $6.2 billion last year on the
errant bets placed by Bruno Iksil, the so-called London Whale.
The bank disclosed the souring trades in May 2012, weeks after
Dimon called initial press reports on the positions a “tempest
in a teapot.” The firm was forced to restate earnings results,
and its market value fell by almost $51 billion before
recovering.  Ex-Employees Indicted  Iksil’s former boss, Javier Martin-Artajo, and junior
trader Julien Grout were indicted Sept. 16 on five charges each,
including  securities fraud  and conspiracy, for allegedly seeking
to hide initial losses. The men are in  Europe  and have yet to
appear in U.S. court. Prosecutors have said Iksil, who wasn’t
charged, is cooperating with the case. An attorney for Grout
said this week that his client relied on Iksil’s expertise and
will be found innocent.  “This is the financial blunder of the decade,” said  John Coffee , a securities law professor at  Columbia University  in New
York. “We have mainly negligence, slow response and some
confused self-protective statements made by senior people at
JPMorgan,” though they were allegedly deceived, he said.  The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
accused JPMorgan in a 301-page report of misinforming investors
and regulators. The panel’s chairman, Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , referred its findings to the SEC and  Department of
Justice  in April.  CFTC, DOJ  Today’s settlements won’t close investigations of the
trades by the Justice Department, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and state attorneys general, people familiar with the
matter said this week. The CFTC has been investigating whether
the bank manipulated trading in  credit derivatives  while the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan , which is part of the
 Justice Department , is conducting a criminal probe.  “The settlement will not resolve the full extent of the
bank’s liability and the consequences that could arise,” said
Samuel Buell, a former prosecutor who now teaches law at Duke
University Law School.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan, the OCC, CFTC,
Justice Department and FCA declined to comment. Spokesmen for
the SEC and Fed didn’t respond to messages after business hours.  The OCC and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau have been
investigating JPMorgan’s credit-card debt collection practices
as well as its sales of identity-theft products, people said
last week. They also are poised to announce accords with the
bank today, two people said.  Legal Reserves  The bank is seeking to settle as many inquiries as possible
before the third quarter ends Sept. 30, the people said. Chief
Financial Officer Marianne Lake told investors last week that
the quarter’s addition to legal reserves would “more than
offset” about $1.5 billion of consumer reserve releases.  Former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew and her head of
the international chief investment office, Achilles Macris, were
among the top executives who left the bank after the trading
debacle, along with Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein.
JPMorgan clawed back more than $100 million in pay from Drew and
other managers involved in the bets.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and SEC have been
scrutinizing public statements, calls with investors and an
April 2012 earnings presentation by Dimon and Braunstein,
 Bloomberg News  reported in June, citing five people with
knowledge of the probes.  While the OCC and Fed censured JPMorgan this year and
ordered it to strengthen internal controls, the regulators
didn’t assess fines at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  