-- Julius Baer's Brazilian Private-Wealth Firm Goes Local
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-18T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/julius-baer-s-brazilian-private-wealth-firm-goes-local.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd.’s  Brazil 
private-banking firm plans to open offices outside the nation’s
two biggest cities to seek wealthy clients amid slower growth in
the industry.  GPS Investimentos Financeiros & Participacoes SA, partly
owned by Zurich-based Julius Baer, will hire about 15 people and
open branches in  Belo Horizonte  and  Porto Alegre  to serve the
states of Minas Gerais and  Rio Grande  do Sul, Jose Eduardo Martins, a partner and founder of GPS, said in an interview at
the company’s Sao Paulo headquarters.  “The agricultural and mining commodities boom of the past
years and the Brazilian emerging middle-class created a whole
new world for wealthy people in Brazil that is far away from the
big centers” in  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro , Martins said.  Growth in the industry will cool to 15 percent this year
from 21 percent in 2012 as the nation’s economic rebound falls
short of forecasts, Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest
wealth manager, said in May. Credit Suisse Group AG, Brazil’s
top merger adviser, said last month it’s increasing its focus on
wealth management and will boost hiring in the same regions GPS
is targeting.  Assets under management at GPS have grown to about 16
billion reais ($7.1 billion) from 11 billion reais in May 2012,
and the number of employees increased to 102 from 90, according
to Martins, who said GPS may also expand in other Latin American
countries.  Sao Paulo  Sao Paulo state still accounts for the largest share of
assets under management in the industry, with 56 percent of the
total 532.4 billion reais outstanding in June, according to
Anbima, the nation’s capital-markets association.  The  Minas Gerais /Espirito Santo states and the Central-West
regions are growing fastest, at 9.53 percent and 10 percent this
year through June, respectively. Sao Paulo grew 0.81 percent in
the same period as the overall market expanded 0.98 percent,
compared with a growth rate of 8 percent for the first half of
2012, according to Anbima.  GPS is looking for local partners in the Northeast and
Central-West regions. It already has a local partner in
Fortaleza, the capital of the northeastern state of Ceara, which
Martins declined to name.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse’s effort includes hiring for regional offices
in Porto Alegre, Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro, said Jose Olympio Pereira, the Zurich-based bank’s CEO for Brazil, in an
interview in Sao Paulo last month. The bank, which has about 800
workers in Brazil, has doubled to 30 the number outside Sao
Paulo in the past two years. It’s also seeking an executive to
lead a team in Northeast Brazil.  Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo, the bank’s asset-management
unit, has 60 billion reais in private-banking assets under
management. The business expanded 36 percent last year, compared
with a 21 percent increase for the market overall.  GPS’s acquisition of the  wealth-management  boutique Bawm
Investments announced in December was responsible for about 10
percent of GPS’s 40 percent growth in assets under management in
the past 12 months, Martins said.  “Multifamily offices like GPS are taking clients from some
banks because lower  interest rates  reduce returns on fixed-income investments and clients seek more advice and attention,
which specialized houses can provide,” Martins said.  Economic Slowdown  Brazil’s economy expanded at an annualized rate of 1.9
percent last quarter, after annual growth averaged  3.8 percent 
from the end of 2003 through last year. Private-wealth managers
benefited in the past decade as real average income rose  19
percent , according to IBGE, the nation’s statistics agency.  “The assets of the private-banking industry are growing
much less this year than last year because portfolio returns are
smaller since the average interest rate in Brazil shrank and the
stock exchange isn’t performing so well,” said Geraldo
Lamounier, a partner at GPS.  The benchmark Ibovespa index dropped 11 percent this year
through yesterday.  The central bank’s benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate is 9 percent,
compared with 10.5 percent in January 2012.  Last year’s 21 percent growth in the private-banking
business followed a jump of almost 22 percent in 2011, according
to Anbima. Since 2009, private wealth has grown 82 percent in
Brazil, the world’s second-biggest emerging market behind  China .  GPS’s strategy contrasts with  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., which closed its Merrill Lynch
private-banking operation in Brazil and dismissed about 40
people in 2011 to focus on more profitable businesses.  BTG Pactual  UBS AG was among the top three wealth managers in Brazil in
2009, when it sold the Brazilian unit to billionaire  Andre Esteves  and his partners, who created Grupo BTG Pactual. BTG now
has 65 billion reais in private-banking under management.  Zurich-based UBS is building a new wealth-management
business from scratch. The bank has 5.5 billion reais under
management and sees Brazil as a priority, UBS said in a e-mailed
statement, adding that it is also considering acquisitions.  GPS, founded in 1999 by Martins, Marco Belda and Roberto
Rudge, attracted an investment last year from Julius Baer,
Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager, which purchased 30
percent of the company for an undisclosed amount. Julius Baer
doesn’t have any plans currently to increase its stake in GPS,
though it may decide to in the future, Martins said.  Julius Baer sees  emerging markets  as a place for new wealth
creation, Chief Executive Officer Boris F.J. Collardi said Sept.
6 in an interview with CNBC. The bank’s goal is to boost assets
under management from  Asia ,  Latin America , the  Middle East  and
 Russia  to 50 percent of the total, which is now 300 billion
Swiss francs ($324 billion), from 37 percent, Collardi said to
reporters in Hong Kong in May.  “Our partnership with GPS is doing very well,” Collardi
said on an earnings call in February. “The honeymoon with GPS
is continuing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  