-- Kiosked Linking Kobe Clips to Nike Store Draws Investors
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/kiosked-linking-kobe-clips-to-nike-store-draws-investors.html
Kiosked Oy, a startup that links
images on the Web to online stores, plans to triple its
workforce after attracting a Digital Sky Technologies partner to
its board in its second round of multimillion-dollar funding.  The Finnish company collected $6.9 million from private
investors including John Lindfors, who is joining the board with
event producer Kevin Wall. Lindfors has been at Digital Sky,
billionaire Yuri Milner’s investment firm that backed Facebook
Inc., for three years, and previously ran Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s  Europe  technology investment banking.  “What these people bring us is substance and
credibility,” Kiosked founder and Chief Executive Officer Micke
Paqvalen said over coffee at the company’s glass-walled
headquarters in Espoo, Finland. “Now we’re going to hit the
accelerator hard.”  Kiosked , founded in 2010, develops technology that makes it
easier for people to buy an item they see in an online picture
or video clip -- be it a news photo or sports highlight reel. It
is seeking to expand in a market also targeted by companies such
as  Mountain View , California-based Luminate Inc.  Last year, Kiosked received a $5.75 million funding round
led by Kaj Hed, who is chairman of “Angry Birds” maker Rovio
Entertainment Oy and also participated in the most recent round.
Another early investor and board member is Andreas Rosenlew,
chairman and founder of brand consultancy Grow Partners AB. In
January, Kiosked brought in Tero Ojanperae, the former head of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s service unit.  Wall is the CEO and founder of Control Room, which
organized the opening concert for the 2010 FIFA  World Cup  in
South Africa.  Kobe’s Shoes  Kiosked’s technology links advertisers’ products to
relevant online content. A compilation clip of basketball player
 Kobe Bryant ’s dunks might be automatically tagged with a link to
purchase the  Nike Inc. (NKE)  shoes he’s wearing. In addition to Nike,
customers include video-platform provider  Brightcove Inc. (BCOV)  and
stock-photo supplier  Getty Images .  The company charges advertisers 10 percent per transaction
on average, half of which goes to the content-sharing party.
Kiosked also charges 1 to 5 cents when a user clicks into the
store to look for more information.  The company seeks to boost its workforce to 200 over the
next 12 months from the current 60, targeting mainly northern
Europe, the U.K., the U.S., southeast Asia and China.  Kiosked also plans to provide detailed retail analytics
through its platform, which tracks consumers’ actions, according
to CEO Paqvalen.  “We timestamp every single event, how the mouse moves,
what is clicked and so on,” he said. “We know in real time
what products sell at which price and in which color where.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  