-- N.Z., Australian Dollars Snap Two-Day Gain Before Fed Decision
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-18T07:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/kiwi-dollar-holds-near-4-month-high-after-current-account-data.html
The  New Zealand  and Australian
currencies snapped two-day gains versus the greenback as Federal
Reserve policy makers debate a reduction in U.S. stimulus that’s
elevated asset prices across the globe.  The kiwi dollar fell against all its major peers as New
Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said his nation would
benefit if the currency weakens. The Aussie was supported by
private reports showing  Australia ’s leading economic indicators
improved in July. The Fed concludes a meeting today, with
economists forecasting a $5 billion cut in monthly bond buying.  “The Aussie and particularly the kiwi have rallied quite
significantly over the last two to three weeks,” said  Thomas Averill , a managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a
currency and interest-rate risk-management company. Before the
Fed’s announcement “people that have been long these currencies
are perhaps taking a little bit of risk off the table.” A long
position is a bet an asset will rise.  The kiwi fell 0.1 percent to 82.26 U.S. cents as of 4:51
p.m. in Sydney after climbing as much as 1 percent to 82.49
yesterday, the highest since May 16. The Aussie was unchanged at
93.56 U.S. cents after rising 1.2 percent in the two days
through yesterday.  The  yield  on Australia’s three-year note added one basis
point to 2.91 percent, while the rate on the 10-year security
advanced two basis points to 4.06 percent.  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  will reduce
 Treasury purchases  by $5 billion to $40 billion, while
continuing to buy $40 billion of mortgage backed securities,
according to the median estimates of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  English’s View  New Zealand’s English said his nation’s companies would be
comfortable with the kiwi dollar at the high 70 U.S. cents
level. The finance minister is betting that gradual reduction in
stimulus by Fed will raise U.S. interest rates and help the kiwi
decline, regardless of expectations that the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand will start to raise borrowing costs next year.  “A fair bit of that effect is priced in, and we look
forward to further positive developments as the  Federal Reserve 
continues to unwind,” English said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “We’re in a pretty good position to benefit from any
relaxation of pressure on the kiwi exchange rate.”  The currency has strengthened 6.3 percent this quarter, the
best performer among the greenback’s 16 major counterparts,
while the Australian dollar has risen 2.4 percent.  Current Account  The deficit in New Zealand’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, was NZ$1.252 billion ($1.03 billion) in the
second quarter, the statistics office said today, compared with
the estimate of NZ$1.9 billion in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The negative balance for the prior period was also
revised lower.  The nation’s whole-milk powder prices rose for the second
time in three auctions to remain near four-month highs,
according to Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s biggest dairy exporter.  Powder for delivery across all contracts through March rose
1.1 percent, according to a trade-weighted index posted on
Fonterra’s  GlobalDairyTrade  website.  N.Z. Rates  The RBNZ said on Sept. 12 that interest-rate increases will
likely be required next year from the all-time low of 2.5
percent as inflation picks up.  “We are broadly constructive on the  New Zealand dollar ,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. The central bank has a hawkish policy
stance, while “the economy is still outperforming, commodity
prices are very high.”  Traders see about an 87 percent chance that the RBNZ will
raise the benchmark rate by April, overnight-index swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The likelihood for the  Reserve Bank
of Australia  to lower the benchmark rate from 2.5 percent by
that month was estimated at 39 percent.  The New York-based Conference Board said today its index of
leading economic indicators for Australia rose 0.3 percent in
July from a revised 1.1 percent decline in June. A separate
gauge by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute in Sydney
showed  growth  of 0.6 percent in July after stagnating the month
before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  