-- Natural Gas Falls From Eight-Week High on Mild Weather Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-18T20:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/natural-gas-trades-near-eight-week-high-on-stockpile-speculation.html
Natural gas dropped from an eight-week high on speculation that milder weather will cut fuel use.  The futures fell 0.9 percent as forecasts showed seasonally
mild weather on the East Coast and cooler readings in the West
from Sept. 23 through Sept. 27, according to Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Gas rose yesterday on
speculation that a government report tomorrow will show a
stockpile gain that’s below year-earlier levels, the first time
that would happen since April.  “I can’t get too excited with regard to the weather
forecast from a cooling demand standpoint and it’s too early for
significant heating demand,” said  Stephen Schork , president of
Schork Group Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “Tomorrow’s report is really priced into the
market.”  Natural gas for October delivery fell 3.2 cents to settle
at $3.713 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Trading volume was 17 percent above the
100-day average as of 2:52 p.m. Prices yesterday closed at
$3.745, the highest settlement since July 19. The futures are up
11 percent this year.  The discount of October to November futures narrowed 0.3
cent to 7.4 cents. October gas traded 32 cents below the January
contract, compared with 30.9 cents yesterday.  Natural gas was the biggest loser in the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials, as commodities rallied
after the  Federal Reserve  said it would maintain stimulus
spending.  Fed Decision  The  Federal Open Market Committee  concluded a two-day
meeting by saying it will keep monthly bond purchases at $85
billion, saying it needs to see signs of lasting improvement in
the economy. The Fed was forecast to cut purchases by $5
billion, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Uncertainty over what the Fed’s decision could mean for
commodities in general prompted some gas traders to capture
profits after the jump in prices earlier this week, said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. in New York.  October $3.80 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 0.9 cent lower at 3.2 cents per
million Btu on volume of 1,294 at 3:37 p.m. Calls accounted for
61 percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for November
at-the-money options was 29.19 percent at 3:30 p.m., compared
with 28.46 percent yesterday.  Mild Weather  The high temperature in  New York City  on Sept. 24 may be 72
degrees Fahrenheit (22 Celsius) and  Washington  may be 76
degrees, both in line with historical norms, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. Power
generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand, according
to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  A large area of thunderstorms and low pressure drifting
across the Yucatan Peninsula has an 80 percent chance of
becoming a tropical system within five days, according to the
National Hurricane Center.  The system will probably become Tropical Storm Jerry soon,
said Jared Smith, a meteorologist with MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. A system becomes a tropical storm when
its winds reach 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour and a
hurricane when winds hit 74 miles per hour.  Tropical Weather  Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in
State College, Pennsylvania, said the system might be picked up
by a cold front coming across  Texas  and pushed further north
into the  Gulf of Mexico  for a possible landfall somewhere
between Louisiana and  Florida . There is also a chance it will go
west into  Mexico , he said.  The Gulf will account for 5.6 percent of U.S. natural gas
production this year, EIA data show.  A weekly EIA report due tomorrow may show that gas
inventories rose by 55 billion cubic feet last week, based on
the median of 21  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A
number below 54 billion would be a record low for this time of
the year, Schork said.  The five-year average gain for the seven days is 74 billion
cubic feet, EIA data show. Supplies rose 61 billion the same
time last year.  U.S. stockpiles totaled 3.253 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Sept. 6, 1.4 percent above the  five-year average  for
the period, last week’s supply report showed. A  deficit  versus
year-earlier levels narrowed to 5 percent from 6.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  