-- Navy Yard Shooter Reported Hearing Voices Before Rampage
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s ,   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/navy-yard-shooter-reported-hearing-voices-before-rampage.html
Six weeks before he opened fire at
the Washington Navy Yard, Aaron Alexis complained he was being
followed, spoken to and kept awake by unseen harassers,
prompting a police officer to warn naval authorities they might
have a contractor who was “hearing voices.”  It would be at least the fourth time that Alexis, the 34-year-old technology contractor and former Navy reservist who
fatally shot 12 people and injured eight others Sept. 16, would
be flagged by  law enforcement  in the years preceding the
massacre without losing the security clearance that allowed him
access to military facilities.  The U.S. Department of Defense plans a security review of
military facilities amid scrutiny over how Alexis kept his
security clearance given his arrest record, troubled military
career and history of mental illness. The Pentagon’s inspector
general also released a report yesterday documenting lapses that
allowed 52 convicted felons routine access to naval bases.  While Alexis was involved in a series of run-ins with law
enforcement, none is known to have led to a criminal conviction
or serious legal consequences. Warning signs were surfacing as
recently as a few weeks before the shooting rampage.  Alexis called police to his Newport,  Rhode Island , hotel
room early Aug. 7 to report that he believed three people had
been sent “to follow him and keep him awake by talking to him
and sending vibrations into his body,” according to a police
incident report. He told the responding officers he was a naval
contractor and said he thought the people had been sent to
harass him by a stranger with whom he had argued at the airport
in  Virginia  while boarding his flight to Rhode Island.  ‘Microwave Machine’  Because of the voices, Alexis said, he had switched hotels
three times -- at one point checking into one on a Navy base. He
said he continued to hear the voices, telling police he was
afraid he would be harmed by the people, who he said were using
“some sort of microwave machine” to send vibrations to
penetrate his body.  Alexis “stated that he does not have a history of mental
illness in his family and that he has never had any sort of
mental episode,” the responding officer wrote in the report,
adding that he informed Alexis to stay away from the people
following him and call the police if they attempted to make
contact with him.  An officer who approved the incident report was concerned
enough about the episode and Alexis’s stated connection to the
Navy to notify the Naval Station Police, he wrote in a
subsequent report.  ‘Hearing Voices’  “Based on the Naval Base implications” and Alexis’s claim
that he was “hearing voices,” that officer wrote, he contacted
on-duty Naval Station Police personnel and faxed over a copy of
the incident report.  The second report indicates that the Naval Station
individual who was contacted, whose name was not released, told
the officer that he or she “would follow up on this subject and
determine if he is in fact a naval base contractor.”  A public affairs officer at Naval Station Newport referred
all questions to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, which is
leading the inquiry into the rampage. Jacqueline Maguire, an FBI
spokeswoman, said the agency was aware of the police report.  “It is part of our investigation to track back and look at
Mr. Alexis’ past, his history, his activities,” Maguire said in
an interview. She declined to comment on whether the information
recorded by the Newport police officer was pursued.  The Newport episode was one in a series of contacts with
police by Alexis -- including gun-related incidents in Forth
Worth,  Texas , and Seattle that didn’t lead to convictions.  Cleaning Gun  In 2010,  Fort Worth  police arrested Alexis after an
upstairs neighbor who said she was “terrified” of Alexis
reported that a bullet came through her floor from his apartment
below, missing her by only feet.  Alexis told officers he was cleaning a gun when it went
off, according to police records, and Tarrant County believed
him, declining to charge him with recklessly discharging a
firearm.  In 2004, Alexis was arrested in  Seattle  for shooting the
tires on a car belonging to a construction worker parked near
where he lived, according to an incident report posted by city
police. Alexis told police that he’d shot his gun and then
suffered from a “blackout” fueled by anger, after he believed
the construction worker had mocked and disrespected him.  Alexis also told the arresting officer he had been
“disturbed” by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and, in a
subsequent interview, his father told authorities his son had
“anger-management problems” the family thought stemmed from
stress following his involvement in post-9/11 rescue efforts.  ‘Unknown Why’  Charges in the Seattle incident were never pursued, for
reasons that aren’t clear to law enforcement authorities there.  Kimberly Mills, a spokeswoman for the Seattle city
attorney, said the police report -- which contained allegations
of property destruction and discharge of a firearm -- “did not
get to our office -- unknown why -- and thus it was not
considered for charges.”  The King County prosector’s office handled Alexis’s initial
court appearance the day of his arrest June 4, said Dan Donohoe,
a spokesman, and Alexis was released on personal recognizance on
the condition that he not have contact with the construction
worker and return to court on June 7. Because no charging
decision had been made by that date, Alexis’s case was cleared
from the calendar, Donohoe said.  In 2008, Alexis was arrested for disorderly conduct in
DeKalb County,  Georgia , and spent two nights in jail after being
ejected from a local club, WGCL Television in Atlanta reported.  Security Clearance  Scrutiny of military security came as law enforcement
officials released more details on the shooting, the deadliest
since the December massacre at a Connecticut elementary school.  Authorities believe Alexis entered the base on the morning
of Sept. 16 with a shotgun he had purchased legally in Virginia,
according to Valerie Parlave, assistant FBI director in charge
of the Washington field office. He also may have gained access
to a handgun after he began shooting inside the facility, she
said.  The attack lasted more than half an hour, from start to
finish, Washington Police Chief  Cathy Lanier  told reporters at a
briefing yesterday. Officers entered the building where Alexis
was within seven minutes and engaged him multiple times before
he was shot to death, she said.  Alexis gained access to the Navy Yard on Sept. 16 with a
valid identification card because of his status as a government
contractor, Parlave said.  Navy Reprimands  Alexis, who was born in  New York  City, enlisted in 2007 and
was last assigned to a logistics support squadron in Fort Worth,
according to the Navy. He was granted his secret-level clearance
in March 2008, according to a defense official.  While in the Navy, he was reprimanded at least eight times
for misconduct, including extended, unauthorized absences,
according to another defense official.  He asked to leave the Navy and was honorably discharged in
January 2011 because the Navy wanted him to separate from the
service, according to a Navy official. The officials asked not
to be identified discussing personnel matters.  After departing the Navy, Alexis retained his clearance,
which was good for 10 years, and wasn’t subject to a
reinvestigation, one of the defense officials said.  About 3.5 million Americans held secret or confidential
clearances as of October 2012, including about 582,524 who
worked for contractors, according to  data  from the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.  ‘Hard to Believe’  Alexis had a history of mental illness, which was first
revealed during interviews with family members in New York,
according to a law enforcement official briefed on the case who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The symptoms, which
included hearing voices, had been apparent for an extended
period of time, the official said.  “It really is hard to believe that someone with a record
as checkered as this man could conceivably get clearance, could
get credentials, to be able to get on the base,” Washington
Mayor Vincent Gray said during an interview yesterday with  CNN .
“This is one of the most secure facilities in the nation.”  At the time of the shooting, Alexis was employed by the
Experts firm, a subcontractor of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , on a
contract to upgrade equipment on the Navy Marine Corps Intranet
network, according to a statement by Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman.  The Experts said in a statement that it confirmed his
secret clearance with the Defense Department and that two
background checks revealed no issues except a minor traffic
violation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  