-- Storm Manuel May Reach Hurricane Level on Path to Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-09-18T23:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/new-system-may-follow-storms-that-left-57-dead-in-mexico.html
Tropical Storm Manuel may
strengthen to a hurricane, bringing new flooding to  Mexico , as
the nation struggles to clean up after two storms that killed at
least 80 people and trapped thousands of tourists in the resort
city of  Acapulco .  Flooding rains starting last week from Manuel and Hurricane
Ingrid have driven 40,000 people from their homes and stranded
40,000 more in Acapulco, on Mexico’s Pacific coast, according to
the nation’s interior ministry. Another tropical system may be
on its way.  “The last time the country experienced two phenomena of
this nature at the same time, one in the Pacific and the other
in the Gulf, was in the 1950s,” said Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, according to a transcript of remarks sent to
reporters. New storms “could eventually bring rains once again,
very strong and intense. This could practically be a repeat of
what we’ve seen in past days, both in the Pacific and in the
Gulf.”  Manuel’s top sustained winds rose to 70 miles (113
kilometers) per hour as of 5 p.m.  New York  time, 4 mph under the
threshold for hurricane status, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said  in an advisory . It may reach that later today.  The system was moving north-northwest at 5 mph about 120
miles west-northwest of Mazatlan.  Alerts Posted  Mexico issued a  hurricane warning  for the western coast
from  La Cruz  to Topolobampo and tropical storm warning from La
Cruz to Mazatlan. A storm watch is in place from  Cabo San Lucas 
to San Evaristo on the  Baja California  peninsula.  “Because it’s moving so slow, it’s going to continue to
generate heavy rainfall,” said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist
with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The center
said as much as 15 inches (38 centimeters) may fall in the state
of Sinaloa.  Forecast models are split on where Manuel will go,
Kottlowski said. Some take it north into mainland Mexico, while
others have it drift west across Baja  California . The hurricane
center’s  forecast track  takes the storm to the mainland.  Over the weekend, Manuel struck Mexico’s Pacific coast,
driving heavy rains into the mountains, while at the same time
Hurricane Ingrid pushed in from the Bay of Campeche. As much as
15 inches of rain was reported in some areas near Mexico’s
eastern coast, Kottlowski said.  More rain certainly fell in the mountains, although exact
measurements have been hard to come by because many locations
were cut off, he said.  Manuel’s Return  Ingrid broke apart in central Mexico yesterday, while
Manuel degenerated in the Pacific only to be reborn today at the
mouth of the Gulf of California.  Grupo Aeromexico SAB and Interjet said today they’ll fly
all stranded Acapulco tourists for free to Mexico City as
airport conditions improve.  “Surely, due to the effects of the rainfall, which will
continue, we’ll have more victims in shelters in order to
protect their lives,” Interior Minister Miguel Osorio Chong
said. “The president has ordered to continue with all resources
necessary to supply food in all states where there are
victims.”  A low-pressure area in the  Gulf of Mexico  has an 80 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system in the next five days,
according to the  hurricane center .  “Regardless of development, this disturbance will likely
spread heavy rains over portions of eastern Mexico and could
cause life-threatening floods and mudslides over areas already
impacted by torrential rains during the last several days,”
Jack Bevin, a senior hurricane specialist at the center, said in
a forecast.  Storm Jerry?  The system will probably become Tropical Storm Jerry soon,
said Jared Smith, a meteorologist with MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “It does seem likely that we will see something develop on
this,” he said. “The biggest question mark is what exactly
happens at the end of the week.”  Kottlowski said the system might be picked up by a cold
front coming across  Texas  and pushed further north into the Gulf
of Mexico for a possible landfall somewhere between Louisiana
and  Florida . There is also a chance it will go west into Mexico,
he said.  The Gulf is home to about 23 percent of U.S. crude
production, 5.6 percent of gas output, and more than 45 percent
of petroleum refining capacity, according to data from the
Energy Department. The southern end of the Gulf, the Bay of
Campeche, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil
company known as Pemex, has its two largest  oil fields , which
produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  In the Atlantic, forecasters are also tracking Tropical
Storm Humberto, currently 1,670 miles west-southwest of the
Azores with top sustained winds of 40 mph. It isn’t an immediate
threat to land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  