-- N.Z.’s Economy Expanded More Than Forecast on Construction
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-19T00:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/new-zealand-economic-growth-slows-as-drought-curbs-farm-output.html
New Zealand ’s economy expanded more
than forecast in the second quarter from a year earlier as
increased construction activity offset the drag from the worst
drought in 30 years, sending the nation’s currency higher.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.5 percent in the three months
through June from the year-earlier period,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in a report in Wellington, beating the median
forecast of 2.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from an
upwardly revised 0.4 percent in the first, matching estimates.  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler this month said he is
likely to start raising  interest rates  next year as the pace of
growth picks up to the fastest since 2007, led by  consumer
spending , house construction and rebuilding in earthquake-damaged Christchurch. He said he expected to keep borrowing
costs unchanged in 2013 at a record-low 2.5 percent.  “Aside from drought-induced volatility, the New Zealand
economy is firmly in the grip of a widespread upturn,”  Michael Gordon , senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Auckland,
said in an e-mailed note. “The driving forces are the
Canterbury construction boom and rising house prices,” which
are starting to stoke consumer spending, he said.  New Zealand’s dollar rose to as much as 84.07 U.S. cents,
the highest since early May. It bought 83.92 U.S. cents as of
12:34 p.m. in Wellington from 83.33 cents before the data.  Christchurch Rebuild  The central bank on Sept. 12 projected annual growth will
be 3.5 percent by the second quarter next year, led by the NZ$40
billion ($33 billion) rebuild in the South Island city of
Christchurch, where houses, roads, shops and commercial
buildings were destroyed by earthquakes in 2010-11.  “Business and  consumer confidence  have been high and the
Canterbury rebuild continues apace,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a statement today. “All these factors mean that
we can anticipate relatively strong growth resuming in the
September quarter.”  Wheeler last week said he expected to start raising
borrowing costs next year, citing the outlook for inflation amid
the housing boom and pick-up in consumer spending.  Thirteen of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
earlier this month expected he will raise the rate by March 31.  Construction Surge  Construction expanded 15 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, led by residential building and civil
engineering projects on roads and bridges.  Farm output fell more than 10 percent in the first half of
the year as the drought hurt milk and meat production, the
statistics agency said. New Zealand in March declared a drought
across the entire  North Island  including the province of
Waikato, its biggest milk producing region.  “The cumulative effect of the drought has been
significant,” the agency said in the report. “Because of the
strong increase in slaughter numbers, especially for dairy cows,
it may take longer to recover from than previous droughts.”  Quarterly growth matched economists’ expectations as
construction expanded, offsetting a drop in farm output and
manufacturing, today’s report showed. Residential building fell
for the first time in five quarters.  Retail spending and business services such as architecture
increased in the quarter from the previous three months.
Electricity generation declined, reflecting a warmer-than-normal
autumn.  The expenditure measure of GDP increased 0.1 percent in the
quarter, led by household spending and investment, today’s
report showed. Exports fell. Spending on durable goods such as
furniture and cars contributed most to the rise in consumption,
the statistics agency said. Purchases of services also rose.  Business spending on civil engineering projects rose the
most since 1992, the agency said. Investment in plant and
machinery also increased. Exports, which make up about 30
percent of the economy, declined 5.9 percent as overseas
shipments of meat and dairy products dropped. Imports gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  