-- New Zealand Beats USA to Move One Win From Taking America’s Cup
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/new-zealand-tops-usa-to-move-one-win-from-taking-america-s-cup.html
Emirates Team New Zealand can
capture the America’s Cup today after beating Oracle Team USA by
15 seconds yesterday to take an 8-1 lead in the latest edition
of the 162-year-old sailing regatta.  The Kiwis need one more win to reach nine and take the cup
back to New Zealand, which first won the trophy in 1995 and
defended it off Auckland in 2000. The Americans would have to
win the next eight races in the best-of-17 series to hold on to
the cup.  “We’re just going to try and race hard and if we could get
a win, that’d be great,” Dean Barker, the New Zealand skipper,
told reporters after the race.  Sailing in winds that averaged about 15 knots (17 miles per
hour, 28 kilometers per hour), New Zealand led off the starting
line, rounded the first mark three seconds in front and doubled
that advantage by the end of the second leg. Oracle closed the
gap as the teams raced upwind toward the Golden Gate Bridge,
before New Zealand extended it to 17 seconds at the next turn.
The Kiwis then held off the U.S. team until the finish.  Officials called off yesterday’s second scheduled race 33
seconds before the start when winds topped a 20-knot safety
limit, postponing the potentially decisive race until today.  James Spithill, Oracle’s helmsman, said that while both
teams probably would have preferred to race on, the wind limits
were imposed for safety reasons.  The Oracle team is backed by  Larry Ellison , the world’s
eighth-richest man according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  Spithill said his team still believes it can win, taking it
one race at a time.  “Stranger things have happened in sport,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in San Francisco at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  