-- Next Plans First Bond Sale in Two Years as Yield Premiums Drop
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-18T14:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/next-plans-first-bond-sale-in-two-years-as-yield-premiums-drop.html
Next Plc (NXT)  is planning its first bond
sale in more than two years as the average extra yield investors
demand to hold pound-denominated company notes instead of U.K.
debt fell to the lowest in almost two weeks.  Britain’s second-largest clothing retailer hired banks to
arrange meetings with investors starting Sept. 20 for a possible
sale of notes in sterling, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, is marketing its first bonds in the currency since
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies sold 4.2 billion pounds ($6.7 billion) of bonds
in the U.K. currency this month, the most since February,
Bloomberg data show. Issuance is surging amid concern borrowing
costs will rise as the strengthening economy prompted  Bank of
England  policy makers to vote unanimously that no more stimulus
is needed at present, according to minutes from its latest
meeting.  “Given the better data we’ve seen in the U.K., the market
is pricing in hikes earlier than the Bank of England is
predicting,” said Tim Butcher, an investor at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership in Edinburgh who helps oversee about 30
billion pounds of corporate debt. “People are spooked about the
prospect of policy errors by central bankers and companies
concerned about yields rising are getting issuance away now.”  The spread between sterling corporate debt and gilts
narrowed 2.6 basis points to 135 basis points, the least since
Sept. 5, Bloomberg  index data  show.  ’Scarcity Value’  Next last sold bonds in May 2011 when it priced 325 million
pounds of notes maturing in October 2021 to yield 207 basis
points more than gilts, according to Bloomberg data. The
Leicester, England-based company has about 86 million pounds of
outstanding bonds maturing on Sept. 30, the data show.  The proceeds of a potential bond sale will be used for
general corporate purposes, to refinance existing debt and to
fund any possible future share buybacks, according to a
spokesman for Next who asked not to be named citing company
policy.  “Next has scarcity value given that the company hasn’t
been in the market recently,” Butcher said. “I’d be surprised
if there wasn’t decent investor appetite for this deal.”  Gazprom is seeking to raise 500 million pounds from seven-year notes that will be priced to yield 315 basis points more
than similar-maturity gilts, a person familiar with the matter
said. The Moscow-based company’s 800 million pounds of 6.58
percent bonds issued in May 2007 mature in October, Bloomberg
data show.  Phones 4u  British mobile phone retailer Phones 4u Finance Plc priced
205 million pounds of senior payment-in-kind toggle notes due
2019 to yield 10.25 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The PIK notes give the Newcastle-under-Lyme-based retailer
the option of paying coupons with cash or more debt and can be
bought back by the company after 1 1/2 years.  Phones 4u , which
is owned by private-equity firm BC Partners Ltd., sold the debt
through its Phosphorus Holdco Plc unit to pay dividends to
shareholders and other fees and expenses.  The company, rated B2 or five levels below investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service, was placed on review for a
downgrade on Sept. 16 when it announced plans to sell PIK debt.  “Gross leverage, interest cover and free  cash flow  would
be negatively impacted by the increased amount of debt and
related interest payments,” Margaux Pery, an analyst at
Moody’s, wrote in a report.  Moody’s assigned the new securities a provisional Caa2
rating, eight levels below investment grade.  -- With assistance from Leo Laikola and Lyubov Pronina in
 London . Editors: Jennifer Joan Lee,  Michael Shanahan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  