-- North Korea Willing to Work to Resume Nuclear Talks, China Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-09-18T04:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/north-korea-willing-to-work-to-resume-nuclear-talks-china-says.html
North Korea  is willing to work with
 China  to resume six-party talks aimed at curtailing its nuclear
program, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said today.  North Korean Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan told
China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi in a meeting yesterday that his
country would work toward resumption of the talks “to
fundamentally ensure peace and stability on the Korean
Peninsula,” according to a statement posted on the Chinese
Foreign Ministry’s website.  Kim was in China for a conference marking the 10th
anniversary of the start of the six-party process, which aimed
to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions in
return for aid. The talks began after North Korea withdrew from
the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 2003 and stepped up efforts to
develop nuclear weapons. The country has since tested three
nuclear devices and extended its ballistic missiles’ range.  The Chinese comments come amid signs that North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un is trying to ease tensions with the South.
The two Koreas agreed in August to reopen the jointly run
Gaeseong industrial park and those talks paved the way for an
accord to renew reunions of families separated by the  Korean
War . Gaeseong, which was shuttered in April when the North
pulled out its 53,000 workers, opened Sept. 16.  Nuclear Test  Little has come of China’s previous signals that North
Korea was willing to revive the six-party talks, which involve
the two Koreas, the U.S., China, Japan and Russia. North Korea
quit the process in 2009, a month before its second nuclear
test. North Korea held its third test in February and threatened
a nuclear first strike against the U.S. and  South Korea  in
March, complicating efforts to revive negotiations.  North Korea may have restarted its main nuclear reactor at
Yongbyon, a site capable of producing enough plutonium to make
one atomic bomb every year, the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns
Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies
said this month. That reactor was mothballed in 2007 as part of
the six-nation process.  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special representative for North
Korea, on Sept. 10 ruled out a quick resumption of the talks
unless the North first showed signs of reversing its nuclear
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  