-- Norway’s Salmon Stocks Repel Market Plunge on Production
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-19T09:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/norway-s-salmon-stocks-repel-market-plunge-as-production-peaks.html
Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s
biggest salmon farmer, and other producers are surviving a slump
in fish prices over the last two months as a supply overhang is
seen coming to an end.  Spot prices for Atlantic salmon plunged 32 percent from a
record in July as warmer sea temperatures hastened fish growth
and boosted volumes, according to data from the Bergen, Norway-based Fish Pool ASA salmon exchange. The Oslo Stock Exchange’s
15-member Seafood Index has fallen 0.6 percent since mid-July,
helped by an outlook for a “pretty tight” market next year,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said.  “Despite the price decline, expectations for 2014 are
almost unchanged,” Henning Steffenrud, chief analyst at
Swedbank First Securities, said in a phone interview. “Combined
with the fact that salmon stocks are looking attractive on
earnings multiples, that’s holding share prices up.”  An easing of market imbalances will probably stem a price
decline, the worst since a market crash in 2011. Production in
Chile, the world’s second largest, has peaked for the year and
output from  Norway , the biggest producer, isn’t expected to grow
beyond the seasonal pre-Christmas jump, said analyst Kolbjoern Giskeoedegaard at Nordea Markets in Oslo.  Marine Harvest’s biggest owner, billionaire  John Fredriksen , has since July 22 bought about 100 million shares,
boosting his share in the company to 31.31 percent. Marine
Harvest is up 21 percent this year, valuing the company at 22.6
billion kroner ($3.8 billion). The seafood index has risen 28
percent in the same period.  Price Bounce  Spot prices for Atlantic salmon fell to an average of 31.9
kroner a kilogram (2.2 pounds) for 3-6 kilo fish last week from
46.9 kroner eight weeks earlier, according to Fish Pool, the
world’s only salmon derivatives exchange. Weekly  data  from
Norway’s statistics agency show a similar price decline. The
price of fresh salmon has slid 25 percent since July’s record to
33.73 kroner per kilo this week.  Prices should bounce back to about 35 kroner before the end
of the year and into the first quarter of 2014, according to
Giskeoedegaard. That would allow the market to avoid a repeat of
2011, when prices plunged 60 percent over 10 months, reaching 18
kroner because of a supply shock from  Chile , sending the seafood
index down 50 percent, he said.  Salmon Selloff  “We’ll probably have a two-month period with prices in the
20s, but I would be surprised if they fall below 25 kroner,”
Giskeoedegaard said in a Sept. 16 phone interview. “Harvesting
will be high for the next three months, but as we approach
December, demand from the smoking industry will create a better
market balance.”  The salmon selloff comes as an unusually cold winter to
start the year delayed growth and harvesting, before warmer-than-average sea temperatures during the past weeks led to
accelerated growth and pressure on farmers to harvest,
Giskeoedegaard said. From August to the beginning of September,
exports from Norway grew by 39 percent to 23,153 tons of whole-fish equivalent a week, said Fish Pool trader Simen Thorbeck.  While supply will continue to weigh on prices in the coming
weeks, forward contracts for 2014 trade at 35.5 kroner,
reflecting confidence, Thorbeck said.  Nordea (NDA)  forecasts average
spot prices of 37 kroner and 36 kroner in 2014 and 2015, while
Swedbank sees prices at about 34 kroner in 2014.  ‘Fantastic Earnings’  “It’s a bit conservative compared to the current forward
prices, but this level still represents fantastic earnings for
salmon farmers, who at the moment are breaking even at slightly
higher than 25 kroner,” said Swedbank’s Steffenrud.  Analysts are optimistic about Oslo-listed salmon farmers.  Marine Harvest is seen gaining by an average of 22 percent
to 7.25 kroner over the next year by 11 analysts. Of 18 analysts
covering the company, 14 recommend buying the stock, which has
slipped 1.5 percent since the salmon price drop started in July.  Salmar ASA (SALM)  and  Bakkafrost P/F (BAKKA) , Nordea’s “top picks”
amongst salmon farmers, rose 4 percent and 6.9 percent in that
period respectively. Of 11 analysts covering Salmar and nine
following Bakkafrost, a majority recommend buying the shares and
none recommend selling.  Carnegie ASA today upgraded its rating on the Norwegian
fish-farming sector to buy, arguing there’s a 25 percent to 50
percent upside for salmon shares over the next year thanks to
“strong  cash flow , dividends and M&A ahead,” the Oslo-based
investment bank said in an e-mailed note to clients.  The Oslo Seafood Index rose as much as 1.1 percent as of
9:28 a.m., extending a winning streak to four days.  Marine Harvest and other farmers such as  Cermaq ASA (CEQ)  and
Leroey ASA are trading at a price-to-earnings estimate for 2013
of 11.86, 12.03 and 8.15, respectively, compared to a 12.60 for
Oslo’s  OSEBX benchmark  index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re definitely in the low-end” of historical price-earnings ratios for Norwegian salmon farmers, Nordea’s
Giskeoedegaard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at  on
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  