-- NWR Rises to Highest in 4 Months on Mine Shutdown: Mover
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-09-18T15:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/nwr-rises-to-highest-in-4-months-on-mine-shutdown-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the
largest coking-coal producer in the Czech Republic, rose to the
highest in four months after announcing it will close its
unprofitable Paskov mine.  The stock gained as much as 17 percent to 39.70 koruna, the
highest since May 16, and closed up 5.9 percent today in Prague.
The value of NWR shares has jumped 25 percent in the last four
days of trading.  NWR will close Paskov, a coking-coal mine with 3,000
employees located in northeastern Czech Republic, by the end of
next year unless the government agrees to provide financial
support, in which case it could remain open until 2018, it said
last night. NWR posted losses last year as demand for coal from
steelmakers fell and the commodity price plunged almost 60
percent in the past two years.  “Operating the Paskov mine is economically
unsustainable,” Jan Fabian, the chief executive officer of
NWR’s main OKD unit, said yesterday in an interview on state
television.  About 3,000 miners marched yesterday in the city of Ostrava
to protest wage reductions and job cuts planned by NWR. Shutting
down the mine, which produces about 1 million tons of coal a
year, would result in a “social catastrophe” for the region,
union leader Jaromir Pytlik told CTK news agency.  The mine is located in the district of Karvina, which has
the fourth-highest  jobless rate  among 77 districts in the
country, according to data from the Labor Ministry. The
unemployment in the district was 12 percent in August.  Demands       NWR will offer most Paskov employees work at its three
other active mines in the Czech Republic, Fabian said. He didn’t
rule out extending mining at Paskov if the state agrees to
subsidize operations. NWR will present its demands to the
government “in several weeks” and negotiate potential state
help, he said.  The interim government is unlikely to make any decision
about potential help to save jobs as the country gears up for
early elections on Oct. 25-26. The Social Democratic party,
which has been leading in opinion polls since Prime Minister
Petr Necas’s pro-austerity government collapsed in June, said it
will not burden the state budget to save Paskov jobs.  “To demand another 4 to 6 billion koruna from the state to
help phase out Paskov is absolutely outrageous,” said Lubomir
Zaoralek, the Social Democrats’ deputy chairman. President Milos
Zeman called on NWR’s biggest shareholder, billionaire Zdenek
Bakala, to say whether he created cash reserves for difficult
times, CTK reported, citing an interview with Zeman in Brussels.  The Paskov mine has a yearly loss of about 1.5 billion
koruna ($78 million), according to Petr Bartek, an analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG in Prague.  “This is NWR’s smallest mine with operating costs double
the company’s average,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  