-- Obama Should Name Banker, Not Insider, to Fed
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/obama-should-name-banker-not-insider-to-fed.html
Now that  Lawrence Summers  has taken
himself out of the running to become the next chairman of the
 Federal Reserve , President  Barack Obama  should look for a truly
“post-crisis” candidate who can reassert the Fed’s
independence and move away from the unusual policies of the last
six years.  During the credit crunch of 2007-2008 and its aftermath, it
was proper and right that the Fed and the Treasury Department
were joined at the hip: Both had an interest in easing the
financial crisis, which took precedence over everything else. It
was also proper for the Fed to aggressively lower  interest rates 
-- a popular policy that the administration avidly supported.  But the next chairman will have to decide when to trim the
Fed’s portfolio, swollen with its extraordinary program of bond
purchases. And it will have to raise short-term interest rates,
which are currently near zero. It may be sooner, it may be later
-- the moment will come. Money cannot be free forever.  To make this decision, the Fed should be led by a fresh
pair of eyes -- one not compromised by its current policies.
That would rule out  Janet Yellen , the Fed vice chairman and
odds-on favorite. It would also exclude her predecessor,  Donald Kohn , as well as former Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  (not
to mention Summers, who was director of the National Economic
Council).  Since 2007, Fed policy has been gauged through the prism of
the financial crisis. Its almost exclusive mission has been to
avert a depression. Since then, unemployment has fallen to 7.3
percent from 10 percent. That is still too high, yet it is close
enough to the “new normal” for other priorities to get
attention as well.  Careful Balance  For instance, ultra-low interest rates are punishing savers
and discouraging thrift, not a healthy condition. Investors are
responding to razor-thin yields by “looking for yield” in
suspect places. (Rwanda  offered  $400 million of debt this year,
and the issue was wildly oversubscribed.) As we’ll recall from
the mortgage crisis, chasing yield can lead to big trouble. The
still-slow economy also remains a risk; this is why the next Fed
chairman will have to strike a careful balance.  History suggests that moving away from zero rates will be
unpopular and difficult -- especially for a Fed on cozy terms
with the White House. In the early 1970s, President  Richard Nixon  gave blunt instructions to economist Arthur Burns, his new
Fed chief and a political ally: “You see to it,” Nixon
commanded Burns. “No recession.” Burns complied by priming the
pump, and runaway inflation resulted.  Alan Greenspan , who ran the Fed before  Ben Bernanke , had
better results on inflation, but he also was compromised by his
palpable eagerness to be a popular administration insider.  If the next chairman isn’t a Washington hand, who should it
be? It is too soon after 2008 to tap an executive from  Wall
Street , which bundled the toxic mortgages at the heart of the
crisis. That rules out  William Dudley , president of the  New York 
Fed and a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist.  There is no head-hunting recipe for a Fed chairman, but
knowing a little institutional background helps. It’s worth
recalling that the central bank is a bank or, rather, a
government board with an affiliated network of privately owned
reserve banks. Just as individuals go to a bank to park their
savings and to seek loans, banks need an institution to house
their reserves and to provide them with credit. That is why the
Fed was created: to be a banker to the nation’s banks, a
backstop to other lenders.  This leads to a heretical thought: What about a banker to
run the central bank? Not a banker who bundled mortgage
securities, but a traditional banker who would remind the nation
that issuing loans can be a noble calling.  Independence Needed  In recent times, the Fed has been dominated by policy
makers. Bernanke was an academic and then a government official
(Yellen has a similar background, though she also ran the San
Francisco Fed). Greenspan was a consultant and adviser to
President  Gerald Ford . Geithner was a Treasury official before
taking over the New York Fed.  But  Paul Volcker , the most independent Fed chairman in
history, was a banker -- president of the New York Fed and an
economist at Chase Manhattan Bank when Chase was a lender to
corporations. William McChesney Martin, who served from 1951 to
1970, was a traditional banker as well as a regulator. Although
he knuckled under to pressure from President  Lyndon Johnson 
toward the end of his tenure, Martin set the standard for Fed
independence, proclaiming it was his job to “take away the
punch bowl” when the party warms up.  The punch brewed by Bernanke consists of trillions of
dollars in banking reserves that private banks now hold as
credits. As these reserves are converted into loans, the economy
will heat up and the Fed’s new chief will need to dampen the
merrymaking.  Rather than look for a consultant, an academic or a
regulator, Obama should nominate a chairman with an
institutional grasp of the banking system. The next Fed chief
should be a banker.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is writing a book on the origins of the
 Federal Reserve System .)  To contact the author of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 