-- Obama Seeks Help From Executives to Pressure Congress
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-18T15:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/obama-seeks-help-from-executives-to-pressure-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  told a
meeting of business executives that a faction of Republicans in
Congress is holding hostage a deal on the budget and the federal
debt ceiling to engage in an “ideological fight.”  Obama appealed to members of the Business Roundtable to use
their influence on lawmakers to break the stalemate, with a
deadline for reaching a budget deal 13 days away and the
government closing in on its debt ceiling.  “You have never seen, in the history of the U.S., the debt
ceiling, or the threat of not raising the debt ceiling, being
used to extort a president or a governing party, in trying to
force issues that have nothing to do with the budget and have
nothing to do with the debt,” Obama said in Washington.  The two top Republicans in the House, Speaker  John Boehner 
of Ohio and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, said just
before Obama spoke that they will insist on stripping funding
from the president’s health-care law as the price for any
agreement on the budget or the debt limit. Obama has rejected
that condition.  A failure to reach a deal on funding federal operations may
result in a government shutdown when the new fiscal year begins
Oct. 1. By mid-October, the government will bump up against the
$16.7 trillion debt ceiling and without an increase the
government is at risk of default.  Obama’s remarks at the Business Roundtable continued a
theme he set out Sept. 16 at the White House, when he accused
congressional Republicans, who control the  House of
Representatives , of focusing on slashing spending and trying to
block the phasing in of his health-care law at the expense of
measures to ensure economic growth.  ‘Scare Tactics’  A spokesman for Boehner took issue with Obama, who said the
debt limit shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip.  “The president only uses these scare tactics to avoid
having to show the courage needed to deal with our debt
crisis,”  Brendan Buck , the spokesman, said in a statement
anticipating Obama’s remarks today. “Every major deficit deal
in the last 30 years has been tied to a  debt  limit increase, and
this time should be no different.”  The Business Roundtable is composed of chief executive
officers from U.S. companies with a combined $7.4 trillion in
annual revenues and 16 million employees, according to its
website. Its president is former Michigan Governor  John Engler ,
a Republican, while the head of the group’s executive committee
is  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney .  Obama also conducted a question-and-answer session with the
executives in private.  Carney said he doesn’t expect Obama to solicit executives’
opinions as he considers a nominee to lead the  Federal Reserve ,
while “obviously, anybody that meets with him is free to raise
any issue that he or she wants.”  Former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , a leading
contender for the Fed post, withdrew his name from consideration
on Sept. 15 as he faced opposition from some of Obama’s
Democratic allies. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has emerged
has the strong favorite for the job, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  