-- Mol Fights Croatia’s Bid to Retake Control of National Oil Group
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-09-18T06:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/mol-fights-croatia-s-bid-to-retake-control-of-national-oil-group.html
Hungarian oil and gas group Mol
Nyrt. will try to fend off an attempt by  Croatia ’s government to
reassert control over the country’s $7.3 billion refiner in
talks due to start today.  Croatia owns 44.84 percent of the Zagreb-based  INA
Industrija Nafte d.d.  and wants to renegotiate a 2009 deal that
gave Mol control over  INA  after a judge ruled it was signed in
an “act of corruption” under Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Mol,
with 49.1 percent in INA, said last week it would not cede
control even if it may consider some changes to the deal.  Croatian officials complain Mol has resisted investing in
INA and is running it as a subsidiary rather than a stand-alone
company. Mol threatened to sue the Adriatic nation for 2 billion
kuna ($351 million) if the talks are not successful because
Zagreb has not made good on its 2009 pledge to take over INA’s
money-losing gas unit. INA produced 38 percent of Mol’s
hydrocarbon output in the first half of 2013.  “Clearly the negotiations will be tough, since the
Croatian authorities have put forward a number of requests, and
Mol doesn’t want to lose its control over INA, which has
important upstream assets,” Oleg Galbur, analyst at Raiffeisen
Centrobank AG, said by e-mail. “In my opinion, both parties
realize that a break-up would represent a negative outcome for
them,” said Galbur, who has a hold rating on Mol.  Croatia’s government wants to discuss management, cost
control, investment, profit sharing, exploitation, refining and
other issues in INA, according to an agenda posted on its 
website . Talks begin at 10 a.m., according to Tomislav Cerovec,
spokesman at the  Economy Ministry .  Power Struggle  Mol first bought into INA in 2003 and increased its stake
in the 2009 agreement. Successive governments in the European
Union’s newest member have since struggled to reverse the
contract arranged by Sanader, who quit office in July of that
year and was later convicted of bribery and abuse of power.  “We are seeking a new model to run INA, where control
would be proportional to shareholdings,” Ivan Vrdoljak, Economy
Minister and head of Croatia’s negotiating team, said in an
interview on Sept. 5.  Sanader, who was sentenced to 10 years in prison, is
appealing the verdict, and Mol has denied any wrongdoing.  The Supreme Court is expected to rule on the appeal in the
coming months. Should the Supreme Court uphold the verdict in
Sanader’s case, Croatia may seek to annul the contract which,
according to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, “the former
government signed in a very unusual way.”  “There is a legal procedure against the person who signed
that contract, who was prime minister at that time, and who was
pronounced guilty in a non-binding verdict,” Milanovic told
reporters yesterday in Zagreb. A confirmation of the verdict
raises the “possibility of nullifying the contract.”  ‘Painful Process’  Croatian prosecutors have also pushed for  Hungary  to assist
with questioning Mol Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi , who signed the
contracts with Sanader’s government.  The prosecutors said they may also pursue further action,
including an EU-wide arrest warrant. Mol considers Croatian
allegations against Hernadi to be “unfounded,” a Mol
spokesperson said on July 11.  Mol supervisory board chairman Gyorgy Mosonyi said last
week the company may consider some changes to the shareholding
agreement, such as over veto rights. He said Mol won’t give up
management control in INA, adding he was confident differences
between the two shareholders can be resolved.  The Croatian government says that “Mol doesn’t run INA in
INA’s best interest,” Jasminko Umicevic, an analyst at London-based Oil and Gas Consulting International LLP and a former INA
manager, said in a Sept. 5 interview.  Possible Sale?  Failing to reach an agreement with Croatia, Mol may be
forced to sell its stake, Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based
analyst at  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  unit KBC Securities, said by phone.  “Such a robust change wouldn’t necessarily be positive for
Mol, with the final outcome hinging on the price it would get
for the INA stake,” said Szentirmai, who has a sell rating on
Mol.  Croatia has contacted  Russia ’s OAO Rosneft as a potential
buyer of Mol’s stake and part of the government’s stake as a way
of solving the dispute, Bloomberg reported on Sept. 6, citing
people familiar with the matter.  The office of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  on Sept. 9
said the government is not in talks with the Russian company
over selling the state stake.  To contact the reporters on this story: Jasmina Kuzmanovic in
Zagreb at   jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ; Edith
Balazs in Budapest at   ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  