-- Homebuilders Rise Most Since July After Taper Refrained
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-09-18T20:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/homebuilders-rise-most-since-july-after-taper-refrained.html
Homebuilder shares jumped the most
in two months after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly said it
plans to continue $85 billion of monthly bond purchases to keep
interest rates low.  The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index gained 6 percent at the close, the biggest increase since
July 11. The index, which includes  Lennar Corp. (LEN) ,  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) 
and D.R. Horton Inc., rose to the highest level since July 23.  The Fed’s decision “is hugely positive in the near to
intermediate term,” Stephen East, a homebuilder analyst with
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in St. Charles,
Missouri, said in a note today. He predicted the move will lead
to lower mortgage rates. “That drop will have a quick, positive
impact on home sales -- particularly at the entry level. If
rates drop, those moping potential buyers are suddenly given a
second chance at a home.”  Shares of homebuilders fell 29 percent from May 14 to Sept.
5 after  rates  for 30-year mortgages surged by a more than a
percentage point from near record lows of 3.35 percent in early
May. The S&P builder index is up almost 18 percent since Sept.
5.  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , based in Westlake Village,  California ,
was today’s biggest gainer, climbing 8.7 percent, followed by
Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) , which rose 8.2 percent. Both builders
cater to first-time buyers.  “Today’s actions show that the Fed is cognizant that
increasing rates could potentially derail the housing recovery,
which is a key driver of economic growth,” said Robert Wetenhall, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York.
“There’s no question that higher interest rates negatively
affect buyers at the lower end of the market.”  Yields Drop  Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage securities
that guide U.S. home-loan rates dropped to the lowest level in
more than a month. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages
averaged 4.57 percent last week, according to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  Builders broke ground on new homes at an annual pace of
891,000 in August, fewer  starts  than projected, according to a
Commerce Department report today.  The Fed wants to see more signs of lasting improvement in
the economy before it tapers purchases of bonds, a surprise move
for the central bank that sent stocks and Treasuries up.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said at a press conference today in  Washington  after a two-day
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. “The committee
has concern that rapid tightening of financial conditions in
recent months would have the effect of slowing growth.”  Growth Slowdown  Whether or not mortgage rates rise, the housing market
needs more robust job growth to flourish, said Megan McGrath, an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “We’ve seen a preview what happens when rates do go up --
we got a taste of that over the summer,” McGrath said in a
telephone interview today. “It was nothing monumental but there
was a slowdown in growth. The hope is that the next time they go
up, they won’t go up in the absence of job growth, which is what
we had over the summer.”  Other real estate stocks also rallied today. The Bloomberg
Real Estate Investment Trust Index gained 3.4 percent, the
biggest increase since November 2011. Lower interest rates
benefit REITs because they reduce the companies’ borrowing
costs, making property purchases more affordable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  