-- One-Hundred-Year Bond Wipeout in Mexico Triggered by Fed
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-09-18T15:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/one-hundred-year-bond-wiped-out-by-21-cent-plunge-mexico-credit.html
Three years after  Mexico  took
advantage of the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented stimulus effort
to sell the world’s longest-dated government debt, the Latin
America nation’s timing is proving to be prescient.  Mexico’s bonds due 2110 have plunged 21.2 cents since Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that policy makers may
taper their monthly asset purchases of $85 billion. On a total
return basis, the 17.4 percent decline was the most among
investment-grade sovereign notes maturing in 30 years or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At 92.94 cents on the
dollar, the 100-year bonds currently trade below their issue
price of 94.276 cents and yield 6.19 percent.  While Mexico locked in a fixed rate of 5.75 percent
annually to borrow $2.7 billion for a century, bondholders have
been blindsided by a jump in Treasury yields spurred by concern
the Fed will curb its bond-buying program as soon as today. The
correlation between the 30-year U.S. notes and the 100-year
bonds reached an all-time high this month. Modified duration,
which measures a bond’s sensitivity to rate changes, was 16 for
Mexico’s 100-year notes, compared with 13.8 for  Brazil ’s
longest-dated dollar-denominated notes, which mature in 2041.  “The speed with which U.S. rates have come up makes
Mexico’s decision to issue look so much better,” Joe Kogan,
head of emerging-market strategy at Scotiabank, said by phone
from  New York . “Bad for investors, but certainly Mexico seems
to have found the right time to issue such a long-duration bond
and lock in rates.”  Yield Surge  An official in the  Finance Ministry ’s press office didn’t
respond to telephone and e-mailed messages seeking comment on
the performance of the country’s 100-year debt.  Yields on the 2110 bonds have surged 1.16 percentage points
since before Bernanke’s May 22 comments, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those on the  U.S. 30-year note  have
increased 0.7 percentage point to 3.83 percent over the same
period. The century bonds lost the most among fixed-rate
sovereign bonds with at least $500 million outstanding and
investment grade ratings over the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed policy makers are finishing up a two-day meeting today
and will probably lower the monthly pace of their asset
purchases by $5 billion to $80 billion, according to the median
responses of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Bernanke has said
he expects the Fed to complete its asset-purchase program in the
middle of next year when the  unemployment rate  is about 7
percent, down from August’s 7.3 percent.  ‘Pretty Marked’  While the century bond sale three years ago was a “great
deal for Mexico,” it implied “a sizable duration risk” to
bondholders, according to Robert Abad, a  money manager  who helps
overseas $51 billion at Western Asset Management in  Pasadena ,
 California .  “The steady rise in long-end U.S. rates caused that risk
to materialize in a pretty marked way,” Abad said in an e-mailed response to questions.  A percentage point yield jump for Mexican 2019 dollar debt
would translate into a price decline of 5.48 cents on the
dollar, one-third the price drop a similar yield increase would
provoke in a century bond, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who oversees about $2.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston ,
said the 100-year bonds will probably rebound as the Fed is
likely to reiterate its pledge to keep its key  interest rate 
near zero even as it pares asset purchases.  ‘More Positive’  The central bank said in July near-zero borrowing costs
will be appropriate as long as the unemployment rate remains
above 6.5 percent and the inflation outlook doesn’t exceed 2.5
percent.  “What they may change is the language about expectations
for increases in interest rates,” Sanchez-Dahl said by phone.
“That’s what would make the market a bit more positive.”  Sanchez-Dahl said he bought the 100-year bonds from the
government and sold them in 2012 when he was a portfolio manager
at Federated Investment Management Co.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 186 basis points at 11:22 a.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that
protect holders of the nation’s debt from non-payment, fell
three basis points to 104 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 12.9693
per  U.S. dollar .  Mexico initially sold the century bond in October 2010 and
issued more of the securities in follow-up offerings August 2011
and August 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I wonder if they’re wishing they had done more,”
Scotiabank’s Kogan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  