-- Money-Fund Rule Fight Goes to House as Providers Lobby Anew
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-18T15:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/money-fund-rule-fight-goes-to-u-s-house-as-providers-lobby-anew.html
Money-market mutual fund providers
and the municipalities and corporations relying on them to
manage cash are telling U.S. House lawmakers to be wary of new
regulation for the $2.6 trillion industry.  The groups are using a House Financial Services panel’s
 hearing  in Washington today to kick off a lobbying campaign
against a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal that would
force funds that buy corporate and municipal debt and cater to
institutional investors to adopt a floating share price. The
agency is weighing arguments as it decides whether to amend its
plan, which was issued in June after a previous effort
splintered the five-member commission last year.  Some parts of the SEC’s proposal “would devastate the
industry, rendering money-market funds entirely unattractive to
investors,” Investment Company Institute President Paul Schott Stevens said told lawmakers at the hearing.  The proposal is aimed at improving the stability of an
industry that experienced an investor run in 2008, when the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund was brought down by losses on
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. debt after the investment bank
filed for bankruptcy. Thousands of households and businesses
invest in money funds, which aren’t federally insured.  Investor Panic  The move to a floating net-asset value, or NAV, is intended
to reduce the willingness of investors to run during a panic. An
investor exiting a fund whose share price dropped below $1 would
share in the fund’s losses.  The SEC’s proposal also includes a recommendation favored
by the ICI: allowing funds to impose withdrawal fees during
times of stress. The regulator said a final regulation could
feature the so-called liquidity fees in combination with a
floating-share requirement.  Representative Scott Garrett, the New Jersey Republican who
leads the Financial Services panel’s Capital Markets
Subcommittee, while praising changes to a capital buffer in the
SEC proposal, said he doesn’t agree with every aspect of it.  “When rulemaking is done correctly, it is a deliberative
and thoughtful process based off of hard economic data,”
Garrett said. “Fortunately, the second iteration of the SEC’s
money fund rule proposal -- the rule proposal we will examine
today -- seems to be more in line with this standard.”  Representatives of the Investment Company Institute, San
Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the National Association
of State Treasurers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce testified
at today’s hearing. The witness list also included Sheila C. Bair, former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Industry Positions  Schwab, Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group
Inc., and Boston-based Fidelity Investments all say the SEC
should allow municipal funds to retain a constant share price.
ICI and the state treasurers group also will tell lawmakers
today that these funds, which account for about $266.8 billion
in assets, should be allowed to keep a $1 share price.  “Since municipal money-market funds have been very stable
through many market cycles and did not experience large
redemptions in the 2008 financial crisis, imposing a floating
NAV on such funds seems entirely unnecessary,” Georgia State
Treasurer Steve McCoy said in testimony.  Republican Randy Hultgren, an Illinois Republican, said he
is also concerned how the proposal would affect municipal funds.  “Money market funds provide a unique and widely used
municipal cash-management product that may no longer be
available if the DNA of money market funds is changed,”
Hultgren said at the hearing. “I’m also concerned that the
SEC’s inclusion of tax exempt municipal money market funds will
drive away money market investors, dampening these funds’
interest in municipal securities.”  Picking Winners  Bair, who now leads the nonpartisan Systemic Risk Council,
has urged the SEC to apply the floating-share price to all types
of money funds, including those that cater to retail investors.
The current proposal “picks winners and losers” by imposing a
floating-share price on some funds while allowing others to
maintain the stable $1 price, she said.  “A floating NAV for all money market funds would not only
address the core structural weakness and systemic risks posed by
money funds, it would improve market functioning and fair
competition by applying equally to all issuers and all
investors,” Bair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  