-- ONGC Said to Seek Stake in Brazil Oil Field Ahead of Sinochem
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-09-18T10:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ongc-said-to-seek-stake-in-brazil-oil-field-ahead-of-sinochem.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s
biggest explorer, is seeking to raise its stake in a Brazilian
oil field that’s also the subject of a bid by China’s  Sinochem
Group , said two company officials with knowledge of the matter.  ONGC Videsh Ltd. , ONGC’s overseas unit, has informed its
local partner,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  or Petrobras, that it
intends to exercise its right to buy a 12 percent stake in the
Parque das Conchas field, the two people said, asking not to be
identified before an announcement. The price would be more than
$500 million, one of the people said.  ONGC already owns 15 percent of the field, according to its
website.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the operator of the block, holds
50 percent. Petrobras said last month  it would sell  its 35
percent stake in the offshore project to Sinochem for $1.54
billion. The existing partners in the field have the right of
first refusal and can block the Chinese company’s offer,
Petrobras said at the time.  ONGC Videsh and Shell will together buy the 35 percent
stake that Petrobras had planned to sell to Sinochem,  Press
Trust of India  reported earlier today. Shell would purchase 23
percent of the stake and ONGC the rest, it reported.  Sarah Bradley, a spokeswoman for Shell in London, declined
to comment. Sudhir Vasudeva, chairman of ONGC, didn’t answer two
calls to his mobile phone seeking comments  Two calls outside business hours to Petrobras’s press
office in Rio De Janeiro went unanswered. Hu Hongjun, Sinochem
Group’s Beijing-based spokesman, did not answer three calls to
his office line seeking comment.  ONGC lost out on a $5 billion bid to buy a stake in
Kazakhstan’s biggest oil field in July, after the government
exercised its right to step in and purchase it in place of the
Indian company. Kazakhstan then sold the stake to China National
Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  