-- Mooncakes Go Unsold as Vietnam Slowdown Hurts Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-19T06:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/mooncakes-go-unsold-as-vietnam-slowdown-hurts-companies.html
By noon on a recent weekday, Nguyen
Thi Hanh hadn’t sold a single mooncake at her sidewalk kiosk set
up for the Mid-Autumn Festival on a busy street in Hanoi. She
squatted on the ground to tend to her embroidery, instead.  “I’m very worried the slow sales will cut into my bonus
this year,” said the 52-year-old vendor, who sells the sweet
pastry stuffed with mung beans at 36,000 dong ($1.70) each for a
local food chain. Sales are about half of last year’s, she said
Sept. 3, about two weeks before the festival. “There’s no way I
can meet the quota set by the company if this continues.”  Hanh’s difficulty in selling during one of the busiest
shopping periods in  Vietnam  adds to evidence that the country’s
economic woes are spreading.  Retail sales  growth cooled to the
slowest since at least 2004 in the eight months through August
as consumers cut back on purchases of items from cars and plasma
televisions to food, piling pressure on companies weighed down
by bad debt, a struggling  property market  and mounting losses.  “If people aren’t spending, businesses aren’t moving their
merchandise, their revenues are falling and they are falling
behind on paying back their debt,” said Alan Pham, Ho Chi Minh
City-based chief economist at VinaCapital Group, the nation’s
largest fund manager. Faltering retail sales “are a risk to the
economy. GDP growth can’t recover if such a big chunk is weak.”  The  economy  expanded 4.9 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, and the  International Monetary Fund  predicts
Vietnam is set for a third straight year of sub-6 percent growth
for the first time since 1988. Retail sales make up about 60
percent of gross domestic product, according to Pham’s estimates.  Stocks Rise  Asian stocks rose to a four-month high today and bonds
climbed after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from
reducing U.S. economic stimulus. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
climbed 2.3 percent as of 3:23 p.m. in  Tokyo .  New Zealand ’s economy expanded more than estimated in the
second quarter from a year earlier, and  Japan ’s exports rose the
most since 2010 in August.  In  Europe , the Swiss central bank will probably keep the
band for its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Initial jobless claims in the U.S. probably
rose to 330,000 last week, a separate survey showed.  Vietnam’s central bank has cut its refinancing rate eight
times since the beginning of 2012 to spur lending, and the
government has set up an  asset management company  to clear bad
debt at banks. Still, credit grew 6.5 percent in the eight
months through August compared with a full-year target of 12
percent, official data showed. Third-quarter GDP data is due by
the end of the month.  Elevated Inflation  Private consumption growth slowed to 3.5 percent last year
from 4.7 percent in 2011, according to the General Statistics
Office. It accounts for about 65 percent of Vietnam’s GDP.  In comparison, private consumption in  Malaysia  climbed 7.7
percent in 2012 from a year earlier, while in  Indonesia  it
climbed 5.3 percent last year, according to official data.  Spending in Vietnam is also hindered by  inflation , which
quickened to 7.5 percent in August, the fastest pace since May
2012. Retail sales of goods and services rose 12.3 percent in
January through August from a year earlier, before accounting
for inflation, according to official data compiled by Bloomberg.
That is the slowest pace in at least nine years.  After accounting for inflation, retail sales growth in the
first eight months of the year was 5.1 percent compared with 6.8
percent in the same period a year earlier. The HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics manufacturing purchasing managers’  index 
for Vietnam remained below 50, signaling contraction, for a
fourth straight month in August.  Jobs Cut  “Vietnam’s businesses and wage earners are in for a rough
ride,”  Trinh Nguyen , Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC, said in
a note last month. “With softer purchasing power, demand for
goods, especially manufactured goods, has decelerated.”  The return on equity of Vietnam’s consumer staple companies
lags behind some regional peers, according to the companies’
latest filings. Vietnam’s companies in that category returned an
average of 11 percent compared to  Thailand ’s 16 percent and
Indonesia’s 15 percent. Masan Group Corp., which makes noodles
and soy sauce, returned 4 percent, compared with Thai instant
noodles company  President Rice Products Pcl (PR)  at 18 percent.  While Tran Kim Thanh, chairman of Kinh Do Corp., Vietnam’s
biggest mooncake maker, predicts “good” sales this Mid-Autumn
season, Saigon Securities Inc. analyst Nguyen Thi Thuy Giang is
less optimistic. The outlook for the consumer industry is “not
positive” due to slow sales and weak demand, she said.  Jobs Cut  Struggling with rising costs and slowing demand, Vietnamese
companies have cut jobs and wages. The  unemployment rate  was 2.3
percent at the end of June, up from 1.96 percent as of Dec. 31,
according to the statistics office.  Those figures are probably underreported, underemployment
“has increased significantly and that reflects the change in
the economic conditions,” HSBC’s Nguyen said. The number of
business closures in Vietnam increased 12 percent in the first
six months from a year earlier, according to government data.  “People are buying less of almost everything,” said Le
Thi Hao, 46, who lost her job as a cleaner in a food factory
last year when it cut output, and now sells fruits on a sidewalk.
“My family can afford to eat meat only once every 10 days.”  Vehicle sales grew 13.6 percent in August from a year
earlier, slowing from 22.7 percent in July. Consumers are also
cutting back on essentials such as groceries and toilet paper,
according to the Ho Chi Minh City office of market research
company TNS, which surveyed 500 urban households late last year.  The TNS survey showed 79 percent of people planned to spend
less, or the same amount this year, on household-care products,
while 25 percent said they will cut spending on utilities.  Accountant Tran Thi Hong Mai, whose salary was cut by 40
percent late last year, has had to make many adjustments. She
doesn’t buy expensive foreign labels any more, and instead gets
locally-made apparel. She also packs lunch to work every day.  For the  mid-Autumn Festival  today, Mai bought mooncakes at
a street kiosk rather than from a luxury hotel as she used to.  “When we are earning much less and inflation is high, we
need to be careful with our spending,” Mai said, picking up a
box of four mooncakes for 140,000 dong. “I only spend on
essential items like milk and books for the kids these days.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  