-- Oracle Forecast Trails Estimates as Cloud Rivals Hover
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-19T00:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/oracle-profit-tops-estimates-as-acquisitions-generate-expansion.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  issued a weaker-than-projected outlook for the remainder of the year, warning that it
still has to close big corporate deals to remain on course.  The largest maker of corporate-database software predicted
that profit, excluding some items, for the fiscal second quarter
will be 64 cents to 69 cents a share. Oracle would have to reach
the top of that range to match analysts’ 69-cent average
projection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is coming off a year
of stagnant sales as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  eat
into Oracle’s revenue with Web-based products. While he’s
seeking to convert customers to cloud-computing and buying
smaller companies to offer more business software, Ellison faces
headwinds in technology spending that’s resulted in flat to
negative sales growth in the last two fiscal quarters.  “The broad brush with Oracle is you have a challenging IT
spending environment and a number of new-product cycles,” said
Josh Olson, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who recommends
buying the shares. “That’s going to be the story for the next
fiscal year: how much momentum they can get for these new
products.”  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , fell as much as
4 percent to $32.50 in extended  trading  after gaining 1.8
percent to $33.87 at the close in New York. The stock has
advanced 1.7 percent this year,  compared with  a 21 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Delivering Results  Oracle is selling databases and applications that run on
businesses’ own computers, Web-delivered cloud computing
services and two types of computer hardware. While the company
is managing an expanding product line, it’s also seeking to
convert customers to newer cloud-computing tools.  “Everybody’s just trying to have a little bit of room, and
we could do significantly better,” Chief Financial Officer
Safra Catz said on a conference call today. “Even though our
pipelines are big, we still have to close all those deals, and I
just can’t assume that we will.”  Adjusted sales in the fiscal first quarter ending in August
trailed analysts’ estimates, rising 2.1 percent to $8.38
billion, compared with the average analyst projection for $8.48
billion. Net income rose 7.7 percent to $2.19 billion.  New software license and cloud revenue, a key indicator of
future sales, climbed 4 percent to $1.66 billion in the first
quarter, Oracle said. Walter Pritchard, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., had projected new license sales of $1.65 billion.  Replacement Revenue  A survey of 100 chief information officers in the U.S. and
Europe showed companies predicting flat information-technology
spending in the second half of the year from a year earlier,
according to a report issued by Barclays Capital Inc. today.
That’s less robust than an April survey in which CIOs
anticipated budget growth.  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-management
applications, reported its first software-sales decline in more
than three years in July. Salesforce and Workday, which deliver
their tools as a service over the Internet, said today that
they’re making it easier for customers to access data from each
other’s products and have reported strong sales gains.  “That’s a really fundamental issue the incumbents are
having with this shift to software as a service,” said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco,
who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the shares. “It’s
replacement revenue, it’s not new revenue.”  High Stakes  Hardware sales gained in Oracle’s 2010 acquisition of Sun
Microsystems fell 14 percent to $669 million, compared with
Pritchard’s $803 million estimate.  There were bright spots. Sales of Oracle’s Exadata and
Exalogic computers increased 60 percent during the quarter, and
software license growth was 15 percent in North and South
America, when adjusted for currency effects.  Ellison is scheduled to kick off Oracle’s annual OpenWorld
conference on Sept. 22. The company said he’ll unveil an add-on
product to Oracle’s latest 12c database that lets customers run
programs using faster computer memory instead of hard drives.  The update, designed to speed software performance,
bolsters competition with SAP’s high-speed database called Hana.
Oracle executives are scheduled to discuss financial goals for
the year with analysts on Sept. 26.  The results added up to a tough day for Ellison. The CEO
couldn’t join the analyst call because he was attending an
America’s Cup yacht race on San Francisco Bay, Catz said. Oracle
Team USA, backed by Ellison, lost the first race and the second
was scrubbed because of strong winds, putting Emirates Team New
Zealand one race away from clinching the trophy.  “It’s symbolic, what’s going on in the race,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG who recommends buying Oracle shares.
“They’re having a tough time on the water and they’re having a
tough time in the office.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  