-- Orbital Sciences Launches Test Flight to Space Station
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-09-18T15:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/orbital-sciences-launches-test-flight-to-space-station-1-.html
Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  successfully
launched a rocket in an attempt to send an unmanned commercial
craft to the International Space Station.  The company’s new  Antares (ANT)  rocket carrying the Cygnus
capsule lifted off today at 10:58 a.m. from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Wallops Flight Facility
on Virginia’s Eastern Shore. The scheduled 36-day-long mission
is the final test before Dulles, Virginia-based Orbital can make
regular cargo deliveries under its $1.9 billion  NASA  contract.  Orbital’s flight is its first attempt to fly to the space
station, an orbiting research laboratory that conducts
experiments in physics, meteorology, biology and other fields.
In an earlier test, the company successfully launched a rocket
and delivered a mock cargo ship into space.  “This is a final demonstration of their ability to do the
mission,” said John Logsdon, a professor emeritus and founder
of George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute.  If the mission is successful, Orbital could begin launching
more capsules to the  space station  as early as December. The
Cygnus capsule is designed to burn up in the atmosphere on re-entry.  Closely held Space Exploration Technologies Corp.,
controlled by billionaire Elon Musk, last year became the first
company to berth a private supply ship with the station.  Companies Supplying  NASA is counting on private companies such as Orbital and
SpaceX to resupply the  space station , a task formerly done by
its own space shuttles. NASA retired the fleet in 2011.  SpaceX’s Dragon spacecraft underwent two test flights
before it began shuttling cargo to the space station. Orbital
decided on one test flight because it has more experience in
space, said Jeffrey Foust, a space and telecommunications
analyst with Futron Corp. in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “They’re anxious to demonstrate Cygnus’ capability so they
can start commercial flights and the revenue that comes with
doing those cargo flights,” he said.  The first stage of the launch rocket is to separate four
minutes after liftoff, and after the protective nosecone
deploys, the second stage will fire. The stage will separate 10
minutes after liftoff and the spacecraft’s systems will then be
activated. During its four-day trip to the space station, Cygnus
is scheduled to perform 10 demonstrations that test the
spaceship’s capabilities.  4,400 Pounds  The Orbital spacecraft is expected to reach the station
Sept. 22 with 1,300 pounds (590 kilograms) of cargo, less than
one-third of its capacity. A robotic arm from the station will
grab the capsule and glide it into the port. The spacecraft will
remain for about 30 days.  When missions start for real, Cygnus initially will carry
about 4,400 pounds of cargo, said Barron Beneski, an Orbital
spokesman. For later flights, the spacecraft will be able to
carry as much as 5,500 pounds, he said.  SpaceX, which has a $1.6 billion contract for 12 missions,
has successfully completed two trips. Unlike SpaceX’s Dragon
spacecraft, which is designed to return to Earth and be reused,
Cygnus will burn up in the atmosphere upon re-entry.  Dragon can be used to bring back experiments or equipment,
while Cygnus will be used to ferry away trash, which will be
incinerated along with the spacecraft, Foust said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  