-- More Than Half of Scots Want to Remain Part of U.K., Poll Shows
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2013-09-18T08:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/more-than-half-of-scots-want-to-remain-part-of-u-k-poll-shows.html
Fifty-two percent of  Scotland ’s
electorate want to remain part of the U.K., while 32 percent
favor independence, a poll for the  Times newspaper  found.  When voters were asked to envisage a victory for the
 Conservative Party  in the 2015 election, support for
independence rose by four percentage points to 36 percent while
backing for the union fell by one point to 51 percent, the
YouGov Plc poll of 1,139 adults in Scotland showed.  First Minister  Alex Salmond , leader of the governing
 Scottish National Party  in Edinburgh’s semi-autonomous
parliament, has said Scots repeatedly get governments in  London 
for which they do not vote. Scotland’s electorate will cast
ballots in a referendum on independence a year from today.  The YouGov survey was broadly in line with other recent
opinion polls showing about a 20 percentage-point lead for the
campaign against independence. The Times didn’t give a margin of
error for the poll, which was conducted Sept. 13-16  About 13 percent of voters said that they were undecided.
When YouGov subtracted undecided people and those who said they
would not vote from the responses, the lead rose to 24 points.  Women showed less support for independence than men, with
about 25 percent of women saying they will vote “Yes” to
separation, compared with 40 percent of men, the poll showed.  One in four respondents between the age of 18 and 24 said
they favor independence with 55 percent saying they will vote
against, according to the YouGov poll. About 28 percent of those
over the age of 60 said they will vote for independence, while
61 percent said they will vote against.  In a separate survey, 45 percent of Scots said the economy
would perform less well after a split with the U.K., compared
with 23 percent who said it would improve. The survey of 1,017
adults was conducted Aug. 21-27 by TNS BRMB for the Glasgow-based Herald daily. The newspaper didn’t give a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  