-- Morgan Stanley CEO Says He Invests in Muni Bonds, Biotech
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-09-19T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/morgan-stanley-ceo-says-he-invests-in-muni-bonds-biotech.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said his personal investments include
municipal bonds and a biotech fund, while he favors global
equities for his children’s accounts.  Gorman, who owns about $31 million of his firm’s stock, has
a Morgan Stanley private wealth adviser, he said yesterday at an
event sponsored by the Economic Club of Washington, D.C. He was
interviewed by Carlyle Group LP co-CEO  David Rubenstein , who
asked Gorman if he had enough private equity in his portfolio.  While Gorman, 55, said he believes the U.S. currently
offers the best risk-return trade-off, he invests in global
equities  for his two children because the “rest of the world
will bounce back” in the long term. He described his personal
investing strategy as “very modest and very unspectacular.”  “We’re pretty boring, partly because of the job I’m in,
and partly because I think in life and in business, it behooves
you to take catastrophic risk off the table,” said Gorman,
whose New York-based company owns the world’s biggest brokerage.
“We invest in municipal bonds, to ensure we have catastrophic
risk off the table and have a  cash flow  if, God forbid, the
world falls apart.”  He didn’t identify his Morgan Stanley private wealth
adviser or the manager of the “very small” biotech fund, who
he said has “done a phenomenal job.”  Gorman’s Morgan Stanley holding comes from bonuses, as well
as 100,000 shares he bought in August 2011 as a sign of
confidence in the firm as its stock plunged amid concern the
U.S. recovery was weakening and the European sovereign-debt
crisis would spread. The value of his stake climbed almost $10
million this year as the bank’s shares  surged 52 percent .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  