-- Osborne Defends High-Speed Rail Plan as Key to Competitive U.K.
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-18T11:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/osborne-defends-high-speed-rail-plan-as-key-to-competitive-u-k-.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  reinforced his commitment to building a high-speed rail
link between London and northern  England , saying Britain would
regret not making the 43 billion-pound ($69 billion) investment.  “It would have been so easy to scrap that project when I
came into government, with a  massive deficit  to cut,” Osborne
said in a speech to the Institute of Directors’ annual
convention in London today. “I passionately believe that if we
don’t invest now we’ll regret it.” He said the link is needed
to boost competitiveness.  The government has been forced to defend High Speed 2 amid
mounting criticism that the project may cost more than estimated
and take too long to complete. A report by the House of Commons
Public Accounts Committee said Sept. 9 that the government had
failed to make a convincing case for the line, which would run
initially from  London  to Birmingham, with a second phase
connecting it to Manchester and Leeds.  “We’re supporting the largest program of investment in our
railways since Victorian times,” Osborne said. “Our rail
system is already full and it will only get worse without HS2.”  Construction is scheduled to start in 2017, with the line
from London to Birmingham due to open in 2026 and traffic
starting on extensions to Manchester and Leeds by 2033.  Opposition to HS2 is growing, with rank-and-file Tory
lawmakers joining former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling from the Labour opposition in withdrawing their support.  Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin backed the plans in
a speech last week, saying HS2 was crucial for Britain’s
economic development and will act as a “heart bypass for the
clogged arteries of our transport system.”  Osborne also said today that Britain’s  economy “has turned
a corner, ” though he cautioned there was still a long way to
go. “It would be a mistake to think we can ease up in
repainting our economy and fixing what went wrong,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Glasgow on  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  