-- Lhota Hunkers Down With Sharpton Over Policies for NYC
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/lhota-hunkers-down-with-sharpton-over-policies-for-nyc.html
Joseph Lhota, the Republican
nominee for New York mayor, met with the Reverend Al Sharpton to
talk over education and housing policies as well as the law-enforcement method known as “stop and frisk.”  “I’m here because dialogue is needed in the city of New
York,” Lhota, 58, told reporters after the 25-minute private
session last night in Harlem at the National Action Network, a
nonprofit civil rights organization Sharpton started in 1991.
“I believe in an open door policy, I believe a mayor should
communicate with all of New York,” the candidate said.  Lhota met with the black powerbroker and fixture of New
York politics as part of a strategy to peel away voters from
Democratic nominee Bill de Blasio, 52. Lhota also met yesterday
with District Council 37, the city’s largest public-employee
union, only to see its leaders endorse de Blasio.  By sitting down with Sharpton, Lhota broke with his old
boss, former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, a Republican who shunned
the activist while in City Hall.  Sharpton acknowledged that he and Lhota have divergent
views on subjects such as stop and frisk, and said the candidate
didn’t seek his endorsement.  “You can disagree without being disagreeable,” Sharpton
said. “I would hope that this fall campaign is around issues
and policies of all New Yorkers to look for solutions and to
look for how we make it a better city.”  Nothing Non-Negotiable  Lhota said the meeting was the first of what he hopes will
be many discussions with Sharpton and members of his
organization. Saying he believes there’s no problem that’s “not
negotiable,” the candidate added: “I will take that with me
into City Hall.”  Sharpton said the meeting reflects his effort to see that
after a winner emerges in the election, “we’re not dealing with
venom, but we’re dealing with the future of this city.”  Lhota’s trip to Harlem followed his endorsement from former
Governor George Pataki and New York Senate Majority Co-Leader
Dean Skelos, both Republicans who backed supermarket billionaire
John Catsimatidis in the Sept. 10 mayoral primary. Skelos and
Pataki are “known for their ability to win crossover votes from
Democrats and independents,” Lhota’s campaign said in a
statement.  “Lhota has been the kind of leader who not only brings
people together, but he keeps them together to get the job
done,” Pataki said in the statement. “Joe will reach out to
all New Yorkers with a shared vision of opportunity and optimism
that will unite the city to overcome the challenges we face.”  De Blasio Leads  Democrats hold a 6-to-1 edge in voter registrations heading
into the Nov. 5 election, yet haven’t controlled City Hall for
20 years. In his bid to persuade New Yorkers to elect him, Lhota
has said that turning to a Democrat will return the city to the
high crime, weak economic growth and fiscal decay of the 1980s.  De Blasio led Lhota 65 percent to 22 percent in a survey of
930 registered voters the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in
Poughkeepsie, New York, released yesterday. The Sept. 15-16 poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.  Lhota’s municipal experience includes eight years as a top
City Hall aide to Giuliani and, most recently, his 12-month
tenure leading the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which
runs the biggest U.S. transit system.  TV Appearance  De Blasio, a former City Council member who was elected to
the watchdog post of public advocate in 2009, was a guest on
Sharpton’s MSNBC television show last week. He has spent months
decrying the harmful effects of rising income inequality among
the city’s residents, a theme that Lhota has called divisive.  District Council 37, with 125,000 members and 50,000
retirees, praised the Democrat’s focus on income inequality, in
its statement backing him. The union said in the statement that
de Blasio would halt outsourcing city work to contractors and
that, as mayor, he “will understand that a fairly compensated
municipal workforce is the foundation for a secure and thriving
taxpaying middle class.”  Mayor Michael Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, has said he won’t back
either candidate. The independent was barred by law from seeking
a fourth four-year term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  