-- Motlanthe Says S. Africa Miners Must Boost Productivity
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-18T09:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/motlanthe-says-s-africa-miners-must-boost-productivity.html
South Africa ’s gold-mining
employees’ demands for higher wages at companies including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  should be linked to improved productivity
to ensure the industry survives, Deputy President President
Kgalema Motlanthe said.  “High wages ought to be a function of high productivity
and profitability,” Motlanthe, a former  National Union of
Mineworkers  leader, said in an interview in London yesterday.
“It has to be a recognition of compensation for high
productivity.”  Productivity is falling in South  Africa ’s gold-mining
industry even as wages rise faster than the 6.4 percent 
inflation rate, according to the  Chamber of Mines , which 
represents most mining companies in the country. Motlanthe’s 
 African National Congress , in power since the end of apartheid 
in 1994, is in an alliance with the NUM, which this month won an 
above-inflation wage increase of 8 percent for gold employees, 
who number about 140,000.  “What’s the point of killing the goose that lays the
golden egg?” Motlanthe said. “You wouldn’t want to smother
these companies out of existence, it defeats the purpose.”  Average earnings per worker rose 78 percent to 155,037 rand
($16,000) a year in the five years to 2012, according to the
chamber. At the same time production costs at the South African
operations of  AngloGold Ashanti , the biggest South African gold
company, almost tripled to $1,166 an ounce.  Plunging Shares  The NUM settled for an 8 percent rise in monthly base pay
for entry-level underground gold employees to 5,400 rand earlier
this month after demanding an increase of 60 percent.  The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index has fallen
48 percent this year as the gold price dropped 22 percent and
labor disruptions in South Africa crimped production. The gauge
declined 0.8 percent to 1,184.64 points by 10:38 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  Motlanthe’s comments echo those of Mamphela Ramphele, who
in June started new political party Agang SA and is calling for
restructuring of the country’s mines. The industry is
unsustainable because it relies on “a 19th century business
model which depends on cheap labor, low-skilled labor and
therefore large numbers of workers,” the former  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  chairwoman said in an interview in October.  South Africa established its mining industries using poorly
paid, mainly black laborers during colonial and apartheid rule
after the discovery of gold and diamond deposits.  Deepest Mines  The country, which has the world’s largest gold reserves,
is the world’s sixth-biggest producer as rising costs have made
deep ore bodies uneconomical to mine. In addition to labor,
electricity costs have risen and the ore is getting
progressively deeper, making it more expensive to access.  South African  gold mines  need to seek new technology
because of the cost of extracting the ore from the world’s
deepest shafts, Motlanthe said.  “Some of the deepest mines are 4 kilometers (2.5 miles)
deep and you know traveling time from surface to rock face
compresses time spent in production,” Motlanthe said. “It’s a
feature we acknowledge, and agreed to try and do everything
possible to keep that gold sector profitable because it’s a
major earner of foreign currency for the economy of South
Africa.”  Gold production fell 34 percent to 5.4 million ounces in
the five years to 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  