-- Six Dead After Ottawa Bus Crashes Into Passenger Train
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-18T21:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ottawa-train-crash-with-bus-kills-at-least-five-cbc-says.html
Six people died after a double-decker bus in  Canada ’s capital city Ottawa crashed through a
railway crossing into a moving train moments after passengers
yelled at the bus driver to stop.  Five people died at the site of the  crash , which occurred
about 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) south of downtown at about 8:48
a.m. today, said Anthony Di Monte, chief of Ottawa’s paramedic
service. A sixth died in the hospital and 34 people were
injured, Di Monte said at a press conference, adding he didn’t
know how many of the 10 seriously injured passengers remained in
critical condition.  “From what I can tell, the bus driver did not notice that
these train track’s signal lights were on and the gates were
down,” Greg Mech, a passenger on the upper level of the bus,
said on CBC television. “People screamed on the bus shortly
before the crash because he was not stopping.”  The Transportation Safety Board, a government agency that
investigates crashes, doesn’t know if the gates were up or down,
said Glen Pilon, a lead investigator, at the media conference.  Politicians including Prime Minister Stephen Harper issued
 statements  of condolences. Jim Watson, Ottawa’s mayor, said at a
separate press conference the city’s police and coroner will
investigate the incident.  “Our focus as a city today is to care for those families
who have lost a loved one, as well as to ensure we provide the
best possible care for those who have been injured,” he said.  The VIA Rail passenger train was traveling southwest to
Toronto. None of the more than 100 passengers on the train was
injured, the rail company said in a statement, adding it will
cooperate with any investigation.  82 Seats  John Manconi, general manager of local transit authority OC
Transpo, said at a press conference he doesn’t how many people
were on the bus, which seats 82 passengers.  “We are deeply saddened by this collision,” Marc
Laliberte, Via Rail’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. Passengers heading between Ottawa and Toronto will be
taken by bus and significant delays are expected, the company
said in the statement.  The bus’s front was sheared off, revealing a mass of
twisted metal. The VIA Rail locomotive remained upright after
jumping the tracks.  “People started screaming, ’Stop! Stop!’ because they
could see the train coming down the track,” Tanner Trepanier, a
Carleton University student, who was also in the upper level of
the bus, told the Canadian Press news agency.  VIA Rail is responsible for maintaining railway crossings,
Ottawa city manager Kent Kirkpatrick said at the news
conference. The company contracts the work out to servicing
company RailTerm, he said.  Crossing Gate  According to its  website , Dorval, Quebec-based RailTerm
services 14 railways and 4,500 miles of track in North America.  When RailTerm’s team got to the site, they found the
crossing gate ripped off and lying on the ground, said Francois
Prenovost, a co-founder and partner at the company.  “The bus ran into the gate. Why? The investigation will
say,” Prenovost said by phone from  Montreal . Each crossing is
monitored and recorded, he said. The data appears to show the
gates were down, and RailTerm has given that information to VIA
Rail, he said.  RailTerm has monitored VIA’s crossings since 1999 and their
work is regulated and tested by Transport Canada, said
Prenovost.  Ottawa officials set up a meeting point for families at a
nearby recreation center, according to the municipal website.
Injured passengers were taken to six different city hospitals.  Dr. James Worthington, senior vice-president of medical
affairs at The Ottawa Hospital, said a “disaster code” was
implemented to mobilize resources to deal with the casualties.  “We had our plan fully mobilized within 30 minutes,”
Worthington told CTV News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  