-- Pakistan Rupee Falls to Record Low After Dollar Buying by Banks
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-09-18T11:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/pakistan-rupee-falls-to-record-low-after-dollar-buying-by-banks.html
The  Pakistan  rupee fell to a record
low on speculation purchases of dollars by local banks spurred
wider buying of the greenback.  The currency declined 0.6 percent to 105.7975 per dollar as
of 3:52 p.m. in Karachi, the most since June 28, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee touched 106.3 earlier, the
weakest level in data going back to 1988, and has dropped 8
percent this year.  “There is buying to cover some payments needed by banks,”
said Furqan Punjani, an economist at BMA Capital Management in
Karachi. “The rippling effect happened because there is a
shortage of U.S. currency in the country.”  The  International Monetary Fund  this month approved a $6.7
billion loan for Pakistan to be disbursed over three years to
help stabilize the nation’s economy and boost foreign-currency
currency reserves. Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s four-month-old
government is struggling to end a Taliban insurgency and ease
power shortages that have slowed growth.  “Sentiment is also weak since the IMF’s first tranche was
less than the $2 billion the market was expecting,” Sayem Ali,
an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Karachi, said in an e-mail. “The central bank’s hands are tied from intervening in
the market” as that’s a prerequisite for the IMF loan, he said.  Electricity interruptions and shortages of natural gas
sliced two percentage points off gross domestic product in the
year through 2012, according to Pakistan’s Planning Commission.
The economy has expanded by an annual average of 3 percent a
year since 2008, official data show. Reserves at the  State Bank 
of Pakistan stood at $5.2 billion as of Sept. 12, including the
first part of the IMF loan, enough to cover two months of
imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan, at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anil Varma at  