-- Pandora Wins Licensing Ruling Against Songwriters
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-09-18T20:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/pandora-wins-licensing-ruling-against-songwriters.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
Internet radio service, won a court order to stop a group
representing songwriters and music publishers from limiting the
number of songs that it licenses to Pandora.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan said in a
ruling yesterday that Pandora’s five-year license beginning Jan.
1, 2011, won’t be affected by withdrawals of new-media licensing
rights from the repertory of the  American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers . Cote granted Pandora’s request for
summary judgment, citing an earlier consent decree between Ascap
and the U.S.  “The language of the consent decree unambiguously requires
Ascap to provide Pandora with a license to perform all of the
works in its repertory,” Cote said in the ruling.  The issue in the case arose from decisions by large music
publishers including  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s EMI Music Publishing Ltd. and
Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC to withdraw new-media rights from
Ascap and negotiate license fees directly with Web radio
services. Pandora said that while its license renewal with Ascap
was pending, the organization shouldn’t allow the withdrawals,
which would reduce the number of songs covered by Ascap’s
licenses.  “We welcome the court’s decision,” Chris Harrison, an
assistant general counsel of Pandora, said in a statement. “We
hope this will put an end to the attempt by certain Ascap-member
publishers to unfairly and selectively withhold their catalogs
from Pandora.”  ‘Reasonable’ Fees  Pandora filed a lawsuit in November asking the court to set
“reasonable” fees for a licensing agreement with Ascap through
2015 that would cover all songs represented by the 470,000-member group. Pandora said the current fees made sustained
profitability impossible.  Ascap and Pandora reached an “experimental” fee agreement
in 2005 that lasted until 2010. The parties then were unable to
agree on licensing rates after more than a year of talks,
Pandora said in its complaint.  Under the terms of the federal consent decree that resulted
from a 1941 lawsuit against Ascap, the U.S. District Court in
 New York  has jurisdiction over rate-setting if the parties can’t
come to terms. Cote will preside over a trial to set the rates
in December.  ‘Fair Pay’  “The court’s decision to grant summary judgment on this
matter has no impact on our fundamental position in this case
that songwriters deserve fair pay for their hard work, an issue
that the court has not yet decided,” John Lofrumento, Ascap’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement.  “Ascap will demonstrate the true value of songwriters’ and
composers’ rights, a value that Pandora’s music streaming
competitors have recognized by negotiating rather than
litigating with creators of music,” Lofrumento said.  Pandora’s competitors include Spotify Ltd. and a new
service introduced by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , as well as the online stations
of traditional radio companies like  CBS Corp. (CBS)   In oral arguments before Cote on Sept. 11, Ascap said that
nothing in the federal consent decree prohibited publishing
companies from withdrawing rights.  Rights Withdrawals  Other large publishers, including Access Industries
Holdings Inc.’s Warner Chappell Music,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal
Music Publishing and Bertelsmann SE & Co.’s BMG Rights
Management, have also announced plans to withdraw new-media
licensing rights from Ascap.  Ascap represents the music of artists including Beyonce,
Alan Jackson, George Gershwin and Duke Ellington.  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , offers programming
to subscribers based on their musical preferences. The company
said this month it had 72.1 million active listeners at the end
of August, an increase of 28 percent from the same period a year
earlier.  Pandora rose 1.8 percent to $25.64 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
trading. The shares have more than doubled this year.  The case is In re Petition of Pandora Media Inc., 12-cv-08035, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  