-- Philippines Set to Reopen Zamboanga Airport as Fighting Recedes
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-18T08:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/philippines-set-to-reopen-zamboanga-airport-as-fighting-recedes.html
Flights to the  Philippines ’
southern city of Zamboanga are scheduled to resume tomorrow as
government troops continue to clear areas occupied by Muslim
rebels in a conflict that has killed more than 100 people.  About 75 Moro National Liberation Front fighters remain in
Zamboanga, where soldiers have recaptured 70 percent of seized
territory since the conflict began on Sept. 9, military
spokesman Brigadier General Domingo Tutaan said at a briefing in
 Manila  today. “It’s still a calibrated response,” he said,
adding that the firefight had receded.  The violence comes as President  Benigno Aquino  boosts
strategic ties with the U.S. and  Japan  amid a territorial spat
with  China  over areas in the  South China Sea . About 2,300
Filipino and U.S. soldiers will hold joint exercises for three
weeks starting today in the northern Philippines, while two
Japanese warships moored at the weekend in the port in Manila.  The U.S. and the Philippines next month will hold the
fourth and final round of talks on increasing the presence of
American troops and military equipment in the Philippines,
Defense Undersecretary Pio Lorenzo Batino said at a briefing
today. While the troop presence will be temporary, the U.S. will
be allowed to build structures in the country as long as they
benefit the Philippine military, Batino said.  Challenge to Aquino  Aquino is under pressure to end the standoff, which has
complicated efforts to conclude a peace deal with a separate
group of rebels after a four-decade insurgency on the island of
Mindanao. Presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said the
government is considering bringing charges against rebels who
led the siege, the biggest security threat to Aquino’s
administration since he took office in 2010.  “We’re closing in,” Tutaan said, adding that there are
still “pockets of resistance” from the remaining group of
rebels who are still holding an undetermined number of hostages.  Eighty-six fighters, along with 14 soldiers and policemen
and seven civilians have been killed, while 152 hostages have
been released or rescued, he said. More than 93,000 people have
fled their homes in the area, Adrian Fuego, an Office of Civil
Defense director, said by phone today.  “There will always be the aftermath of the clashes even if
you kill a lot of the MNLF forces,” Prospero de Vera, a public
administration professor at the University of the Philippines,
said by phone today. “This will always rear its ugly head down
the line.”  Flights Resume  With the violence easing, the  Civil Aviation Authority  of
the Philippines allowed Philippine Airlines Inc. and  Cebu Air
Inc. (CEB)  to resume flights. The two carriers will be permitted one
round-trip flight each to and from Zamboanga starting tomorrow,
Deputy Director John Andrews said in a mobile-phone message
today.  “The Zamboanga incident illustrates just how difficult it
is to restore peace in Mindanao,” Steven Rood, country
representative for the Asia Foundation, said by phone in Manila.
“There are so many different groupings that over the years have
had injustices visited upon them or grievances that haven’t been
addressed.”  Two days of talks between Aquino’s government and  Malaysia ,
which is facilitating peace negotiations with the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, ended on Sept. 14 in Manila, Malaysia’s
Foreign Ministry said in a statement yesterday. The two sides
“looked forward to a final peace agreement to be concluded in
the near future,” the ministry said in the statement.  Decades of violence between separatists and government
forces in Mindanao have left about 200,000 people dead and
stifled development on the island, where per capita gross
domestic product is about a quarter of the national average.  Still, “I don’t think the protracted situation there will
cause economic dislocation,” Budget Secretary Butch Abad said
in Manila yesterday. “It will not be substantial enough to dent
the economic climate.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index has risen 5.6 percent
since Sept. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  