-- Poloz Says Canada Nearing Investment ‘Tipping Point’
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-18T17:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/poloz-says-canada-nearing-investment-tipping-point-.html
Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said confidence about global demand is bringing a
“tipping point” where business investment takes over the lead
in output growth from “tired” consumers and erases slack in
the economy without rapid inflation.  Stronger exports will bolster confidence and foster new
capacity-building investment, reversing a trend of low capital
spending in industries outside of resources, Poloz, 57, said in
a speech today to the Vancouver Board of Trade.  “Evidence suggests we are now close to the tipping point
from improving confidence into expanding capacity,” said Poloz.
“The economy should be able to support stronger activity
without stoking inflation, as investment ticks upward,” he
said.  Investors are betting Poloz will extend a three-year pause,
the longest since the 1950s, by keeping his 1 percent benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged until the end of next year. Recent
reports have shown faster-than-expected gains in manufacturing
sales and employment, suggesting the economy may be starting to
pick up after slowing in the second quarter.  “The Governor presented his wish list for the Canadian
economy and explained how he saw those wishes being fulfilled,”
 Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National Bank Financial
in  Montreal , wrote in a research note. “We are a touch less
optimistic, concerned about the permanent loss of market share
by our exporters.”  Falling Investment  The Canadian dollar was little changed at C$1.0299 per  U.S.
dollar  at 1:41 p.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys 97.10 U.S.
cents.  Business fixed-capital investment fell at a 0.5 percent
pace in the second quarter after a 1.3 percent decline in the
prior three months,  Statistics Canada  reported Aug. 30. Part of
the drop stemmed from reduced work on non-residential buildings
during the Quebec strike, the agency said.  The central bank is projecting a “solid pace” of export
growth that will lead to a “broadly based” increase in
investment and provide incentives for new businesses to form,
Poloz said. Strong corporate balance sheets, cheap funding and
access to credit mean the “preconditions” are in place for
faster  capital spending , he said.  “With potential output higher and growing faster in
response to investment,” Poloz said, slack in the economy
“could close later than if investment and, ultimately,
potential did not respond to demand.”  Quick Reaction  Historically, there has been a six-month lag between an
improvement in  exports  and accelerated investment growth, Poloz
said.  “Once there is a shift in sentiment, research shows that
business decision-makers tend to react and move forward very
quickly with their investment plans,” Poloz said. “We are
optimistic that the gathering momentum in foreign demand,
especially in the  United States , should help lift the confidence
of  Canada ’s business leaders and exporters.”  Poloz said there are encouraging signs that process is
under way, citing declining financial market volatility and data
that show an increase in the number of firms operating in the
country.  Poloz said the global financial crisis had left a “7-year
crater” that policy makers have been filling with liquidity to
support the world economy.  Seven-Year Crater  “If it’s a seven year crater, then the implicit argument
is consistent with the Bank of Canada’s forecasts that the
output gap doesn’t close until mid-2015,”  Derek Holt , vice
president and economist at Scotiabank in Toronto, said in a note
to investors. “We think that is consistent with a prolonged
hold by the Bank of Canada until rate hikes commence around
mid-2015.”  Any decision by the  Federal Reserve  to slow monthly bond
buying is a “welcome sign that things are getting back to
natural growth,” Poloz said. The  U.S. economy  “is clearly
healing,” Poloz told the audience in a question-and-answer
session after the speech, adding that Canada’s monetary policy
would focus on the bank’s 2 percent inflation target and doesn’t
need to “mimic” the Fed.  Canada’s economy will eventually reach a more normal state
where growth will be “self-generating and self-sustaining,”
and not reliant on record-low interest rates, Poloz said. In
that state, inflation will be back to the central bank’s 2
percent target, policy rates will be above inflation and the
 unemployment rate  will be down to a more “natural level.”
Poloz did not say when the bank expects this.  Housing Market  Poloz said there are signs of a “soft landing” in the
country’s housing market even after the ratio of  consumer debt 
to disposable income reached a record 163.4 percent in the
second quarter. Consumers are “tired” after the rise in debt
levels, which he said will decline as incomes rise faster and
after policy makers tightened lending rules.  “I have said before and I will say again I don’t perceive
that there is a bubble in Canada’s housing market,” Poloz said
at a press conference after the speech in the city that policy
makers have singled out as a market that may have overheated.  At his last interest-rate decision on Sept. 4, Poloz said
that “a gradual normalization of policy  interest rates ” can be
expected as inflation returns to target and excess capacity in
the economy is used up.  Consumer  prices  advanced 1.3 percent in July, the 15th
straight month the rate was slower than the bank’s 2 percent
target.  Output growth slowed to a 1.7 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter, including a monthly  decline  of 0.5 percent
in June that was the biggest since the 2009 recession. Growth
slowed from 2.2 percent in the first quarter as business
investment and energy exports declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Vancouver at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  