-- Portugal’s Rating May Be Cut If Targets Are Missed, S&P Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-09-18T17:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/portugal-s-rating-may-be-cut-if-targets-are-missed-s-p-says.html
Portugal ’s BB long-term credit
rating may be cut if the government fails to meet its budget
deficit goals and implement reforms,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “We could lower the ratings in the next few months if
fiscal performance falls short, if reform plans falter, if
official support waivers, or if increased political tensions
lead to delays in 2014 budget or program reviews,” S&P said in
a statement today. It raised the risk of a downgrade on the
country by putting it on “creditwatch” with a negative
outlook.  On July 5, Portugal’s credit rating outlook was revised to
negative from stable by S&P, which cited “growing political
uncertainty” after a rift emerged in the ruling coalition.
Portugal’s debt is ranked below investment grade by  Fitch
Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and S&P. Investors often
ignore ratings decisions, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries
after the U.S. lost its top grade at Standard & Poor’s in 2011.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has to trim
spending by about 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in 2014 after
relying mainly on tax increases this year to meet budget targets
set in its aid program from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . The country’s Constitutional Court
on Aug. 29 blocked a proposal to end labor contracts of some
state workers that was part of a government plan to
“requalify” some public-sector employees.  Fiscal Challenges  “Risks include further challenges to fiscal and reform
measures by Portugal’s  Constitutional Court , weaker-than-expected  economic  performance, and a resurgence of political
tension leading to delays in 2014 budget or program reviews,”
S&P said.  Portugal’s borrowing costs increased to the highest since
November today at an auction of 750 million euros of 18-month
bills.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  