-- Pressure on Barrick Board Centers on Long-Time Directors
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-09-18T20:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/pressure-on-barrick-board-centers-on-long-time-directors.html
Investor pressure to change the
board at  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer of the
metal, is centering on long-serving directors, including former
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.  Canada’s biggest pension funds want new independent board
members and say the miner should consider replacing directors
who have been there longer than 20 years and are close to Co-chairman and founder  Peter Munk , according to two investors
briefed on the matter who asked not to be identified because the
information hasn’t been made public.  Barrick said yesterday it will add new independent
directors and strengthen its executive pay policies after
investors criticized governance at the company. The gold miner
took $8.7 billion of writedowns in the second quarter and cut
its dividend 75 percent after gold prices fell the most in three
decades.  “The tenure on the board is far too long and there are far
too many non-independent directors,” said Robert Gill, a
Toronto-based  fund manager  at  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF) , which
manages C$7.8 billion ($7.6 billion), including Barrick shares.
“It’s time to change the board and we need to bring in more
independence into the board,” he said by phone Sept. 11.  ‘No Disagreement’  Barrick plans to announce progress on the moves by the end
of the year,  Andy Lloyd , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Independent directors have been meeting with
shareholders since the company’s April annual general meeting to
discuss governance matters, including compensation, he said.  “Barrick takes matters of governance seriously and
feedback from our shareholders is important to us,” Lloyd said.
“There is no disagreement on this process at the board.”  Canada’s six biggest pension fund managers in April
criticized as excessive an $11.9 million signing bonus for Co-chairman  John Thornton .  Spokesmen for Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Caisse
de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan
Board, the Public Sector Pension Investment Board, Alberta
Investment Management Corp. and Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System didn’t immediately return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment today.  Calls to Mulroney’s Montreal office seeking comment weren’t
immediately returned.  Munk’s Departure  While Munk said in April he found a successor in Thornton,
a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. president who was named
Barrick co-chairman in June 2012, the gold miner hasn’t
announced a date for Munk’s departure. It’s “appropriate” that
the company considers a path to new leadership at a board level,
Munk wrote in Barrick’s annual report filed March 25.  Barrick, which rose 8.6 percent to C$20.50 at the close in
Toronto, has  dropped  50 percent in the past 12 months. In that
time the 49-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Global Gold Sector
Index has declined 44 percent.  Barrick has told institutional investors it’s looking for
two to three new independent directors, according to the two
investors who asked not to identified.  Three of the company’s 13 directors -- Munk, William Birchall and Howard Beck -- have been in place since Barrick was
created in 1984, according to a March 25 filing, while Mulroney
joined the board in 1993. Anthony Munk, the founder’s son and a
managing director at private-equity firm Onex Corp., was brought
on in 1996.  Anthony Munk didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment today. Birchall and Beck weren’t immediately
available to comment, Lloyd said today by phone.  European Funds  Munk should step down as part of efforts to revitalize the
miner’s board, according to Aston Hill and  ASA Gold and Precious
Metals Ltd ., which also holds Barrick stock.  “We’ve had concerns over the governance issues at Barrick
for quite some time, specifically the level of compensation, the
level of influence that the executive chairman has over the
board and management and in the selection of other board
members,” ASA CEO David Christensen said in a phone interview.
The  San Mateo , California-based company manages $300 million.
“Essentially we believe this board is in need of
restructuring.”  Dutch pension fund manager PGGM Vermogensbeheer BV is
leading a group of about 10 mainly Europe-based fund managers
preparing to send a letter to Barrick demanding faster boardroom
changes and a  succession plan  for Munk, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter.
Catherine Jackson, a corporate-governance adviser at PGGM, said
the fund wants Barrick to replace some of its long-serving
directors, the report said.  ‘Short Term’  Jackson isn’t available to comment, Maurice Wilbrink, a
PGGM spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  At least two new, independent highly qualified directors,
including at least one mining engineer and geologist, should be
elected to the board in the “short term,” Two Fish Management
LLC, a U.S. hedge fund, said in an August  presentation  posted on
its website.  “It will probably have to be at next year’s AGM but I
think it should be happening immediately,” Two Fish founder
 Mike Morris  said in a Sept. 16 phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  