-- Puerto Rico Yield Above Greece Fuels Longest Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/puerto-rico-yield-above-greece-fuels-longest-rally-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico  bonds are staging their
longest rally in two months after prices plummeted about 40
percent this year and yields soared above those on Greek debt.  Interest rates  on tax-exempt Puerto Rico general
obligations that mature in July 2041 and are rated one step
above junk climbed to a record 9.29 percent last week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with about 9 percent
on 30-year securities of  Greece , which is graded six levels
lower and has received billions of euros of rescue funds.  For Mikhail Foux at Citigroup Inc. and Alan Schankel at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, the yield surge wasn’t a result of
any new deterioration in the commonwealth’s credit. Governor
Alejandro Garcia Padilla is tackling recurring budget shortfalls
and has bolstered a pension system with a weaker funding level
than any U.S. state as he works to preserve the island’s
investment grade.  Puerto Rico securities were “unfairly punished over just
the last several weeks,” said Foux, a muni analyst in  New York .
If fund withdrawals wane, “you could effectively see people
looking at Puerto Rico as a value story,” he said.  Exemption Lure  Puerto Rican debt is tax-exempt in all U.S. states, making
it attractive to managers of national and state-specific mutual
funds. Losses on the island’s bonds outpaced declines in the
rest of the $3.7 trillion municipal market in the past few
months amid speculation that an expanding U.S. economy would
lead the  Federal Reserve  to decide as soon as this week to
reduce its monthly bond purchases.  In a reversal, Puerto Rico has gained the past  six  trading
sessions, the longest streak since July. The municipal market is
on pace to advance this month for the first time since April,
 Standard & Poor’s  data show.  The bonds due in 2041 plunged to a record low 57.6 cents on
the dollar Sept. 11, from 99.31 cents Feb. 4, a 42 percent drop,
according to Bloomberg data.  For investors in the top federal income bracket, last
week’s peak yield was equivalent to 15.4 percent on a taxable
basis, about 6 percentage points above Greek debt.  Even  hedge funds  and buyers who typically purchase
Treasuries and corporate debt have been buying commonwealth
securities, Schankel said.  Comparison Question  Greece is in the sixth year of a recession that has been
deepened by austerity measures linked to a 240 billion euro
($320 billion) bailout from the euro area and  International
Monetary Fund . Yields on 10-year Greek bonds eclipsed 20 percent
a year ago.  “While we continue to tackle our economic challenges, it
should be noted that Puerto Rico’s capacity to service its
public debt is being unfairly compared to Greece,” Puerto
Rico’s Government Development Bank, which handles the
commonwealth’s capital-market transactions, said in a statement.  The island’s economy shrank by 5 percent in July compared
with the same month in 2012, the steepest contraction since
2010, according to the  Development Bank . While Puerto Rico’s
13.5 percent July unemployment rate was down from 16.9 percent
in May 2010, the highest since at least 2003, it still exceeds
the level in any U.S. state.  This year’s Puerto Rico sell-off has hurt even the
commonwealth’s strongest credit, the Sales Tax Financing Corp.,
the issuer through which the island sells bonds backed by sales
taxes. The debt is rated three levels below benchmark munis.  Group Effect  Yields on senior-lien sales-tax bonds maturing in August
2040 reached an average 6.35 percent Sept. 11, the highest since
the debt was first sold in 2011, and up from the 2013 low of 3.6
percent in February. The bonds rebounded to trade with a 6.14
percent yield Sept. 16.  Puerto Rico credits “are all being grouped in together,”
said Daniel Solender, who helps manage $19.5 billion of munis at
Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “And if they’re
all getting caught up in the same movement, then there’s
definitely value in the different selections.”  Gary Pollack, who oversees $6 billion of munis as managing
director in Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit in New York,
has been buying some Puerto Rico debt this year after shunning
the securities.  “Just be discriminating in which credits you buy,” John Taft, chief executive officer of RBC Wealth Management USA, said
in an interview on  Bloomberg Surveillance . “There’s a huge
difference between the best bonds, like sales-tax bonds, and the
worst bonds that they issue.”  Revenue Watch  Investors are watching Puerto Rico’s revenue collections as
more than $1 billion of Garcia Padilla’s $9.77 billion budget
for the fiscal year beginning July 1 relies on new tax measures.
The island collected $495 million of net general-fund revenue in
July, $43 million more than budgeted, according to Treasury
Secretary Melba Acosta.  Meeting or surpassing revenue projections will help avert a
rating cut, said Schankel, head of fixed-income research at
Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. All three major credit-rating companies grade the commonwealth one level above junk,
with a negative outlook.  “They’re likely to make it through this calendar year,”
without a rating cut, Schankel said. “And then the chances in
early next year begin to rise depending on how their revenues
come in.”  Garcia Padilla, 42, a member of the Popular Democratic
Party who took office in January, has moved to strengthen Puerto
Rico’s finances. In one step, he pushed through laws to boost
the  retirement age  and require public workers to contribute more
to their pensions.  Fund Drive  Muni mutual funds may still be forced to sell Puerto Rico
debt this year if investors drain more cash from the portfolios,
Solender said. At the same time, investors face the prospect of
diminished supply of new debt from the island.  As yield climbed, the Development Bank said last week it
would reduce its financing plan for 2013, capping new issues
from Puerto Rico and its agencies at $1.2 billion through Dec.
31.  In this week’s nationwide local-debt market, localities are
set to sell about $4.1 billion in long-term debt at the lowest
interest rates in a month.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield  2.96 percent , compared with
 2.85 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The ratio of the
yields, a measure of relative value, is about  104 percent ,
compared with an average of 93 percent since 2001. The higher
the figure, the cheaper munis are in comparison.  Following is a pending sale:  The  University of California  Regents are set to sell about
$2.6 billion of revenue bonds as soon Sept. 25, according to
state Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  