-- Railroads Look Past U.S. Oil-Move Costs Helping Pipelines
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/railroads-look-past-u-s-oil-costs-that-help-pipelines-freight.html
As 57,000 miles of U.S. crude
pipelines threaten to lure business from railroads, Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  LLC and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  are sticking to
their bet on the nation’s energy boom.  Domestic oil that was significantly cheaper than imported
crude for the last two years allowed refiners to pay rail
service’s higher transportation costs rather than use slower,
less expensive pipelines. With the oil price difference now
narrowing, the share of crude shipped by rail from Williston
Basin region in and around North Dakota has decreased for three
consecutive months, the longest string of declines since 2011.  That hasn’t stopped railroads such as  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern and Union Pacific from planning more
capacity, a sign they’re optimistic the business will keep
boosting revenue even with the risk of stiffer regulations
following this year’s deadly train crash in  Quebec . Union
Pacific, the largest U.S. railroad, plans to invest $3.65
billion this year in its network and infrastructure.  “You’re witnessing the long-term perspective of railroads,
which invest capital on a 20- to 30-year basis, and the short-term myopic view of hedge funds, which invest on a two- to
three-minute basis,” said Matt Troy, an analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group in New York. “Spreads go up, spreads go down,
but just looking at the geography of oil production and refining
capacity, railroads will play a strategic role in moving crude
from the shale for years to come.”  Narrowing Spread  It generally costs an additional $12 to $15 to ship a
barrel of oil via rail versus slower pipelines, depending on
factors such as origin, destination and the type of oil being
moved, Troy said. Once the difference between domestic and
imported crude prices falls below that range, the immediate
economics aren’t as attractive.  Brent crude, the benchmark for U.S. imports, traded at a
premium to domestic West  Texas  Intermediate oil by as much as
almost $28 a barrel in October 2011. In March, the  spread  began
to narrow and is currently almost $3 a barrel.  The share of crude shipped by rail from  Williston Basin 
fell to 67 percent in July, the lowest level this year,
according to data from the North Dakota Pipeline Authority.  Even so, railroads are building up track capacity, a
primary way of investing in the crude boom, said Logan Purk, an
analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis. A lack of pipeline
capacity is giving rails an advantage as refiners look to move
oil quickly and efficiently.  ‘Screaming Choice’  While rising domestic crude prices are something railroads
should be mindful of, “if you’re looking for a place to deploy
capital, that seems to be the screaming choice,” he said.  That demand may help shield railroads from the effects of
tighter regulations stemming from a July 6 derailment and
subsequent explosion in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, that killed 47
people.  The U.S. Transportation Department’s Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration on Sept. 4 took the first step
in rulemaking for DOT-111 rail tank cars, the type that was
hauling crude in the crash. Transportation safety investigators
have criticized those as rupture-prone.  “Now is the time to make sure safety regulations are
robust enough for the increased hazmat movement on our rails,
roads and in our pipelines,” PHMSA Administrator Cynthia Quarterman said in an e-mailed statement.  A report from the administration showed recommendations for
enhanced tank head and shell puncture resistance systems for
those types of tank cars. Stiffer rules could raise the cost of
transporting crude.  Extra Diligent  Union Pacific will continue to “double-down” on safety
following the crash, chief financial officer Robert Knight said
at the RBC Capital Markets Global Industrials Conference in Las
Vegas on Sept. 10. “This just causes all of us and everybody in
the pipeline to be extra diligent. I don’t think it’s going to
change the production curve.”  The narrowing of the oil-price spread resulted in “some
lumpiness in our volumes” of crude shipments that will do
little to stop the momentum the Omaha, Nebraska-based railroad
will see from the domestic energy boom, Knight said. “In the
longer term, we still think it’s a very positive story for Union
Pacific.”  In addition to the billions it plans to spend this year,
Union Pacific invested about $18 billion in its network and
infrastructure from 2007 to 2012, spokesman Tom Lange said in an
e-mail. Because the expenditures benefit multiple industries and
commodities, it’s not practical to break out investments
specific to the crude oil business, he said.  Bakken Output  The Bakken oil formation, part of a larger geologic area
called the Williston Basin, turned North Dakota into America’s
 second-largest  crude producer after Texas. Output rose to
821,000 barrels a day in June, almost five times what it was in
2008, according to Energy Department data.  About 80 percent of the Bakken crude-by-rail loading
terminal capacity is on the rail lines of Fort Worth, Texas-based Burlington Northern, according to Troy. The share of
carloads carrying crude oil at the railroad, owned by Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., may reach 4.2 percent this year, up
from 3 percent in 2012, New York-based Wolfe Research estimates.  Burlington Northern has spent more than $1 billion this
year on maintenance and capacity expansion projects, with more
works to come, spokeswoman Roxanne Butler said in an e-mail
Sept. 9.  “Our investments clearly reflect our vision of bringing
flexibility and reliability to crude shippers in the long
term,” Butler said.  Reduced Supplies  The differences in crude prices were affected this summer
by short-term issues, including maintenance at the Syncrude oil-sands project in  Alberta  that reduced supplies of Canadian
synthetic light oil, Butler said. The railroad expects oil
production trends to remain strong.  WTI briefly traded above parity to Brent on July 19 for the
first time in almost three years as better pipeline networks and
the use of rail helped to unlock a supply glut at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York futures.  While rails seem to be largely ignoring the price
tightening, “they would certainly have to adjust” their fees
should the trend continue because crude business has become
important to them, Thomas O’Malley, chairman of PBF Energy Inc.,
a Parsippany, New Jersey-based independent refiner, said on an
Aug. 1 conference call. Still, “as best I can tell for the next
couple of years, anyhow, Bakken must move by rail,” he said.  Rising Shares  Investors agree. The Standard & Poor’s Railroads Index has
gained 12.6 percent even as the spread between WTI and Brent has
narrowed about 84 percent since the end of February through
yesterday.  New technology has made drilling faster, cheaper and better
at releasing oil from rock formations, called hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking. Many of those production areas still
aren’t adequately served by pipelines.  Railroad crude shipments in the second quarter more than
doubled from 2012, according to an Aug. 29  statement  from the
Association of American Railroads. While that growth may slow
and the segment is still a relatively small part of overall
traffic, railroads will see the benefits of the energy
renaissance and its effect on the U.S. manufacturing industry
for years to come, said Donald Broughton, an analyst at Avondale
Partners LLC in St. Louis.  “People that hyper-obsess about is the spread $2 or $6
miss the broader point, which is what it’s doing to industrial
America,” Broughton said. “A strong, robust industrial America
is going to benefit every part of their business. In the short-term, yeah the spreads are interesting. In the medium- to
longer-term, it becomes less and less relevant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  