-- Recession Not Health Law May Be Responsible for Cost Curb
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-19T14:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/recession-not-health-law-may-be-responsible-for-cost-curb.html
The four-year slowdown in U.S.
health-care spending will end next year, and there is no sign
the  Affordable Care Act  will significantly curb the acceleration
in costs, government actuaries said in a report.  President  Barack Obama  has said the 2010 health-system
overhaul helped curb national medical spending, which that year
rose 3.9 percent, or about half pre-recession levels. Actuaries
at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, who don’t
answer to the White House, said yesterday in the journal Health
Affairs that costs eased because of the economy, not Obamacare.  This report won’t be good news for those who have argued
that the Affordable Care Act would reduce costs. It provides
strong evidence that the slowdown in spending isn’t related to
the health law, said James Capretta, a policy analyst at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington who worked in the
administration of former President George W. Bush.  “It certainly adds one more piece to the puzzle for those
who say ’hey wait a second, this isn’t the final word on how to
reform American health care,’” he said in a phone interview.  The report also contradicts independent economists who had
attributed spending reductions more to the Affordable Care Act
and changes in the health system, such as shifts in employer
benefits. The CMS actuaries, who track medical spending by the
government, individuals and insurers, examined 50 years of data
and found no evidence of costs deviating much from the economy.  “Once the economy improves substantially we would expect
health spending to respond in kind,” Gigi Cuckler, an economist
who tracks actuarial information at CMS, told reporters. “We’re
not convinced that that relationship has been broken in the past
couple of years.”  Unpopular Law  The Affordable Care Act has never been popular. The bill
passed through a Democratic-controlled Congress with no support
from the Republican Party and only 37 percent of Americans
surveyed said they currently support it, according to an August
poll by the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation.  Since enactment, most Republican governors have refused to
cooperate with the law’s expansion of Medicaid and an effort by
some in Congress to defund the law is taking center stage in the
showdown over the federal government’s budget and debt ceiling.  The $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act seeks to extend
coverage to most of the nation’s 50 million uninsured by
expanding state Medicaid programs and creating government-run
insurance exchanges to buy subsidized medical plans. The law
also includes measures that cut drug costs for seniors, cover
children with pre-existing illnesses and let young adults stay
on their parents’ plans.  Economic Burner  Obama has claimed credit for helping to contain medical
spending, saying in his February  state of the union  speech that
“already, the Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth
of health-care costs.”  “The Affordable Care Act holds insurers accountable for
cost increases and encourages smarter care, two factors which
are contributing to the slowdown of growth in costs,” said
Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and
Human Services, in an e-mail. “Already consumers have saved
billions of dollars in premiums thanks to the rate review,
medical-loss ratio provisions, and policies to promote quality
and value in Medicare.”  Spending on hospital visits, medications and other care
rose 3.9 percent to $2.8 trillion in 2012, roughly matching
growth in the previous two years, the report shows. Growth is
projected to be 3.8 percent this year and 6.1 percent in 2014.  U.S. Expenditures  Total U.S. health-care expenditures will average 5.8
percent annually through 2022, the actuaries said, about 1
percentage point faster than projected gross domestic product.
Health spending will surpass $5 trillion then, accounting for
almost one-fifth of the economy, up from 18 percent this year.  The growth figures are well below the spending increase of
close to 8 percent before the U.S. entered an 18-month recession
in December 2007. Independent economists have tried to explain
the slowdown by linking it to the effects of the health law.  David Cutler, a Harvard economist and former Obama campaign
adviser, published a study in Health Affairs in May that
calculated the recession accounted for only 37 percent of the
slowdown in health costs from 2003 to 2011, with the majority of
the change being “unexplained.” And Ceci Connolly, the
managing director of PriceWaterhouseCoopers Health Research
Institute, said last year that the lower growth rates are a
“new normal” that can’t be attributed to the recession alone.  “We believe the slowdown is a combination of the recession
hangover, actions taken by employers and individual consumers
and some structural changes in the industry,” Connolly said
yesterday in an e-mail response to questions.  Company Cutbacks  There is evidence to support her argument.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,
Sears Holdings Corp. and  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  are choosing to
give employees a stipend to buy insurance from a private
exchange instead of the company providing coverage directly.
Trader Joe’s Co., the closely held grocery store chain, has said
it will move part-time workers at its 400 stores onto the
Obamacare exchanges, and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  decided to
drop health benefits for 15,000 of its workers’ spouses who can
get insurance through another company.  Other large employers, including International Business
Machines Corp. and Time Warner Inc. have this year moved their
retirees into private exchanges from company-picked plans.  Newly Insured  The overall impact of the Affordable Care Act won’t be
insignificant either. About 11 million uninsured Americans will
gain insurance coverage next year alone, when the core parts of
the health law kick in, the actuaries said.  “In our projections we have incorporated some modest
savings regarding delivery system reforms,” Cuckler, the CMS
economist, said. “At this time, it’s a little too early to tell
how substantial those savings will be in the longer term.’  Over the long term, health-care spending has grown about 2
percentage points faster than GDP, according to Stephen Heffler,
director of the National Health Statistics Group in the
actuary’s office. ‘‘There is a very tight relationship between
economic growth and health spending growth,” he said at the
briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  