-- Red Dog, In-N-Out, Cigna, Palin: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/red-dog-in-n-out-cigna-palin-intellectual-property.html
Red Dog Mobile Shelters LLC  of
Amarillo, Texas, filed patent lawsuits against two rival makers
of shelters used to protect drilling-rig crews from tornadoes
and prairie fires.  The patented technology employs the force of wind to
stabilize Red Dog’s Crewsafe Osage and Apache shelters, which
are used by Apache Corp., BP Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
other  oil companies , according to the complaints filed yesterday
in federal court in  Dallas .  Red Dog sued KAT Industries Inc., based in  Oklahoma City ,
and Rising S Co., based in Kemp, Texas. Red Dog said its
shelters meet or exceed government and industry requirements,
and that the defendants falsely claimed their products are
endorsed by the  Federal Emergency Management Agency .  Red Dog asked the court for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs and for court orders barring
further infringement of its patents. Red Dog also is seeking
extra damages to punish the two companies for their actions.  Neither Kat nor Rising S responded immediately to e-mailed
requests for comment on the lawsuits.  The cases are Red Dog Mobile Shelters LLC v. Kat Industries
Inc., 13-cv-03756, and Red Dog Mobile Shelters LLC v. Rising S
Co., 13-cv-03757, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Texas  (Dallas).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  In-N-Out Burger Objects Ethiopian Shop’s Name, Newspaper Says  In-N-Out Burger, a fast-food restaurant chain based in
 Irvine ,  California , is objecting to the In-N-Out chicken and
hamburger restaurant in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , the Addis Fortune
 reported .  The California company, which operates in five western U.S.
states, learned about the Ethiopian restaurant from U.S. tourist
complaints about their experiences there, according to the Addis
Fortune.  Saleamlak Andargie, the owner of the Ethiopian restaurant,
told the newspaper he had no idea what will happen in the
dispute with the U.S. chain, according to the newspaper.  In-N-Out has hired an Ethiopian lawyer who is urging
Andargie to change his restaurant’s name, according to the
Fortune.  ‘HIV Innocence Group’ Trademark Dispute Gets January Trial Date  A federal judge in  Fort Worth , Texas, set a Jan. 5 trial
date in a trademark dispute between a Los Angeles-based private
investigator and the alleged operator of a website that debunks
the investigator’s work related to AIDS.  Clark Baker and his  Office of Medical & Scientific Justice 
sued in July, accusing Jeffrey Todd Deshong of Fort Worth of
infringing the “HIV Innocence Group” trademark. Baker said he
registered the mark in June 2012.  He claims that in 2011, Deshong began using two domain
names that infringe the mark -- www.hivinnocencegrouptruth.com
and www.hivinnocenceprojecttruth.com -- to question the quality
of his organization’s work. In court papers, Baker said Deshong
calls the innocence group “a useless tool of AIDS denialist
propaganda.”  Baker, whose organization provides support to defendants
charged with criminal transmission of the virus that causes
AIDS, said the public is confused by the names of Deshong’s
websites. He asked the court for awards of money damages and for
court orders barring further infringement of his marks.  While the person posting on hivinnocencegrouptruth.com
doesn’t identify himself as Deshong, he did acknowledge in an
 Aug. 20 post  that he had been sued by Baker. He said there were
“untruths” in the complaint and that an arbitrator concluded
that his domain name fell within what is defined as fair use.  The case is Baker v. Deshong, 13-cv-00553, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Cigna Uses ‘Copyright You’ as Promotional Campaign on Facebook  Cigna Corp. (CI) , a health and life insurance company based in
Bloomfield,  Connecticut , is running a promotional campaign
inviting people to copyright themselves.  According to a company  statement , people are invited to go
to a page on Facebook Inc.’s social media website, upload photos
of themselves and add the copyright symbol: a letter C within a
circle. The page is called “Copyright You by Cigna Go You.”  Cigna said the project will celebrate individuality,
including “personality traits, quirks, or even flaws.”  On the Facebook page, Cigna acknowledged that people aren’t
getting real copyrights: “It’s just a reminder that each of us
has an inalienable right to be one of a kind. Exercise it.”  Sarah Palin Sued Over Use of 9/11 Firefighter Flag-Raising Photo  Former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin
was sued for copyright infringement by a New Jersey newspaper
publisher.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in  New York  on Sept.
13, accused Palin and her SarahPAC political action group of
using one of the publisher’s photos without permission.  The photo, shot on Sept. 11, 2011, shows three firefighters
raising a flag on the ruins of the  World Trade Center site .
North Jersey Media Group Inc. said the photo was shot by one of
its photographers for the Bergen Record, and that it’s the sole
owner of the copyright to the image. The image was  later used  on
a U.S. postage stamp commemorating those who lost their lives on
that day.  Palin and her political group are accused of posting a copy
of the photo both on  the www.sarahPAC.com  website and on Sarah
Palin’s page on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-media website.  The newspaper group asked the court for an order barring
further unauthorized use of its photo, and for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Palin and her organization didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment sent through her wwww.sarahPAC.com
website.  The case is North Jersey Media Group Inc. v. SarahPAC, 13-cv-06494, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Move  Harter Secrest Brings in Bausch & Lomb’s Chief Trademark Counsel  Harter Secrest & Emery LLP, the Rochester, New York-based
 law firm , hired Jon Webster for its IP practice group.  Webster was previously the chief trademark counsel for
Bausch & Lomb Inc., the maker of optical instruments, the law
firm said in a  statement .  Bausch & Lomb, also based in Rochester, was acquired in
August by  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)   Webster managed Bausch & Lomb’s trademark and copyright
portfolio, including licensing, enforcement and global anti-counterfeiting issues.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
Chicago  and a law degree from the State University of New York
Buffalo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  