-- Republicans Renew Benghazi Attack Criticism in U.S House
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-18T18:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/republicans-renew-benghazi-attack-criticism-in-u-s-house.html
The Republican chairman of the
House Foreign Affairs Committee said the State Department still
hasn’t held any employees at fault for security lapses before
the deadly attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  “The bottom line is that over one year later, no State
Department personnel have been held accountable for the
department’s failure to protect the Benghazi consulate and U.S.
personnel there, not one,” Representative Ed Royce of
 California , the panel’s chairman, said at a hearing today.  The session was the first of three hearings over two days
scheduled in the House as Republicans seek to renew attention on
what they portray as a failure by the Obama administration to
protect facilities in Benghazi despite warnings of terrorist
threats before the attack on Sept. 11, 2012, that killed U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  “It seems to me the president should be just as concerned
with Americans dying in Libya as Syrians dying in  Syria ,” said
Representative Ted Poe, a Republican from  Texas .  The year-old Benghazi attack remains a partisan political
flash point on  Capitol Hill  even as the federal government faces
a potential shutdown over  government spending  and the U.S.
military remains on alert for a possible strike against Syria if
Bashar al-Assad’s regime fails to turn over its chemical
weapons.  ‘Second-Guessing’ Cited  Democratic Representative Alan Grayson of Florida said
Republicans were engaging in “second-guessing” and “Monday-morning quarterbacking” over an attack that amounts to “the
scandal that never was.”  While four State Department employees were placed on paid
administrative leave, they were later reassigned to other posts.
That was sufficient, the department’s top administrative
official testified today.  “Four employees of the State Department were relieved of
their senior positions,”  Patrick Kennedy , undersecretary of
state for management, testified at today’s hearing.
“Accountability includes being relieved of your job and
assigned to other positions.”  Royce responded that “reassignment just doesn’t cut it in
terms of addressing that issue.”  The Accountability Review Board, an outside panel that
investigated the Benghazi attack, concluded there was no breach
of duty by State Department employees, although some employees
failed to show proactive leadership.  Impartiality Questioned  Royce questioned whether the review board was really
independent considering that then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  appointed four of its five members and some of the
board’s staff had ties to the State Department.  “These relationships can affect impartiality,” Royce
said.  Kennedy disputed that, saying the critical tone of the
report underscored the board’s independence.  Representative Steve Chabot, an  Ohio Republican , said the
review board’s failure to interview Clinton for its report “was
a gross oversight,” and Representative  Chris Smith , a New
Jersey Republican, said “the very people who should be held
accountable aren’t even interviewed.”  A report issued this week by Representative  Darrell Issa ,
the California Republican who heads the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said it’s unclear why Kennedy
wasn’t held accountable by the review board.  The panel proved “remarkably uncurious about the role of
decisions made by officials above the four” who were singled
out, according to Issa, who has scheduled a hearing with leaders
of the review board for tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  