-- Republican Online Sales Tax Goals Satisfy Both Sides
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-18T17:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/republican-online-sales-tax-goals-satisfy-both-sides.html
Advocates and opponents of letting
states require out-of-state retailers to collect sales taxes
praised a set of principles from  House Republicans .  Representative Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, today released seven principles that will
guide his approach to the issue. He wants legislation to be
simple so that an exemption for small businesses is unnecessary
and wants a measure to include a way for retailers to protest
tax rules set by states where they don’t have operations.  “Americans across the country are affected by the issue of
Internet sales tax whether they are consumers or business
owners,” the Virginia Republican said in his most substantive
comments since the Senate passed an online sales tax bill May 6.
“The aim of the principles is to provide a starting point for
discussion in the  House of Representatives . I greatly look
forward to hearing fresh approaches to this issue.”  The online sales tax issue has avoided the typical partisan
split in Congress. The Senate bill passed on a 69-27 vote with
Republicans almost evenly divided.  States lose an estimated $23 billion a year in revenue in
uncollected sales taxes.  The Senate bill exempted businesses with less than $1
million a year in out-of-state sales. States would be required
to join an interstate compact with streamlined rules or provide
software to retailers.  Among Goodlatte’s principles are avoiding a precedent for
other interstate taxes, encouragement of state tax competition
and protection of customer privacy.  ‘Broken’ System  Supporters include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
and most Democrats, who maintain that brick-and-mortar
businesses face unfair, untaxed competition.  “These principles make clear that the current system is
broken, and that the chairman is committed to closing the online
sales tax loophole once and for all,” said Bill Hughes, senior
vice president for government affairs at the Retail Industry
Leaders Association, whose members include  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
 Dollar General Corp. (DG)  “Those who have sought to preserve special
treatment in the  tax code  and have fought reform are fighting a
losing battle.”  Opponents include anti-tax groups, direct marketing
representatives from states without sales taxes and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
They warn about compliance costs and say customers would pay
more.  “EBay is very encouraged that the remote sales tax
principles released today by Chairman Goodlatte address concerns
that we have raised on behalf of our small business community,”
Brian Bieron, the company’s executive director of global public
policy, said in a statement. “The principles create a sensible
starting place.”  Goodlatte set no timeline for committee action.  The bills are S. 743 and H.R. 684.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  