-- Republicans’ Phony Obamacare Replacement
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-18T20:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/republicans-phony-obamacare-replacement.html
A mere  48 months  after the law was
introduced, only 42 months after it was signed, with just two
weeks until one of its main provisions takes effect, Republicans
today finally offered  their alternative  to the Affordable Care
Act.  Which would be cause for genuine (if belated)
congratulations, except for one thing: It’s not really an
alternative. Understanding why can help clarify the U.S.’s
seemingly endless debate about health care.  The  Republican bill  would give individuals tax deductions
to buy health insurance, expand tax-free health savings accounts
and limit insurance premiums for people with pre-existing
conditions. What it wouldn’t do is expand coverage to the same
number of uninsured Americans -- about 25 million, according to
the latest estimates -- as Obamacare.  That last point may seem like one among many, but it’s not.
The most important achievement of the Affordable Care Act is
that the law attains something like universal health care in the
U.S., closing an embarrassing and indefensible gap between it
and every other developed country.  That means any plan billed as an alternative has to meet
one definitional threshold, and only one: covering a similar
number of Americans as Obamacare. To go a step further and be a
better alternative, a proposal should cover a similar number of
Americans at a lower cost or with fewer unwanted consequences.
The documents Republicans released today are conspicuously
silent on how many additional Americans would be covered.  Until now, the Republican “repeal and replace” strategy
on Obamacare has been to pretend that an alternative to
Obamacare exists without saying what it is. Today’s proposal is
the logical culmination of that cynical strategy: calling
something an alternative, and hoping nobody notices that it’s
not.  Republicans are within their rights, of course, to oppose
the goal of publicly funded universal health care. They are also
free to ask how much money the U.S. should spend to reach that
goal and whether the country can afford it. But these are
essentially political questions.  Republicans now face at least three choices. They can
continue to argue that ensuring universal health care is not a
proper role for government, and try to persuade voters to agree
with them. Their obstacle here is that the Affordable Care Act
is already the law of the land and has been validated not only
by the U.S. Supreme Court but also by the re-election of the
president who signed it.  Alternatively, Republicans can come up with another way for
the government to provide universal health care. Or they can
concede that Obamacare is the best way to do so, and move on to
other debates.  What’s not helpful is to try to fool Americans with
semantic games. Republicans like to talk about the importance of
making hard choices. The hardest choice of all may be making
their position more explicit: that universal health care is not
a worthy goal for government. Today’s proposal shows they have
yet to find the courage of their convictions.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 