-- Panel Said to Vote on Prudential Challenge of Risk Tag
-- B y   I a n   K a t z ,   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-18T20:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/risk-panel-said-to-vote-on-prudential-challenge-of-system.html
The Financial Stability Oversight
Council is voting this week on  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s
challenge to a risk designation from federal regulators that
would impose increased oversight on the insurer, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The council, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and
including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , received
voting materials via e-mail today, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the matter hadn’t been made public.
The regulators are expected to submit their decisions by
tomorrow, one of the people said.  The panel also will vote whether to ratify actions related
to  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential while council member
 Richard Cordray  was a recess appointee as Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau director, the people said. Regulators on the
council have discussed whether Cordray’s actions as a recess
appointee could be challenged by companies designated
systemically important and subjected to scrutiny by the Fed.  President  Barack Obama  made Cordray a recess appointment,
bypassing Senate confirmation, in January 2012. Cordray was
confirmed by the Senate in July of this year and released a
“notice of ratification” on Aug. 27 saying he thinks the
actions he took as a recess appointee “were legally authorized
and entirely proper.”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Prudential, declined to
comment as did Suzanne Elio of the Treasury Department.
Prudential declined 1.7 percent to $80.24 at 4:01 p.m. in  New
York  as life insurers slumped amid a decline in bond yields.  Prudential’s Request  The FSOC, which has 10 voting members, proposed designating
Prudential as systemically important in June in a 7-2 vote.
Under FSOC rules, six votes wouldn’t be enough to sustain the
ruling of Prudential as a SIFI. The insurer requested a hearing
in July to explain why it shouldn’t get the risk label.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank law created the FSOC in an effort to
prevent a systemic crisis in the financial system and enabled
the council to designate companies that it determines could pose
a threat to U.S. financial stability if they were to fail.  Bernanke said today that “we want to design a regime that
is appropriate for the business model of the particular firm.”
He was responding to a question about the designation process at
a news conference after the central bank refrained from reducing
the $85 billion pace of monthly bond buying.  Capital, Leverage  If the council rejects Prudential’s challenge, the insurer
would join  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and General
Electric Co.’s finance unit as systemic non-bank bank financial
companies. The Fed can impose tighter capital, leverage and
liquidity rules on systemically important companies and demand
measures including stress-testing and wind-down plans.  Prudential could make an appeal in U.S. district court no
more than 30 days after the council’s final ruling.  The regulator hasn’t determined exactly how it will
regulate the biggest non-bank financial firms. Insurers have
traditionally been monitored by state regulators in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  