-- Russia May Raise State Company Dividends in 2016 to Help Budget
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-09-18T15:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/russia-may-raise-state-company-dividends-in-2016-to-help-budget.html
Russia ’s  Finance Ministry  is
calling for state-run companies to increase dividend payments
from 2016 to help boost budget revenues.  State-backed companies would have to pay at least 35
percent of profit under international accounting standards from
2016 under the proposal, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told a
parliamentary budget committee meeting today in Moscow. The
ministry’s press service confirmed the comments by phone.  The Economy Ministry is fighting the move. Payouts should
be kept at 25 percent of profit until state companies have been
consulted and moved to international-standard accounts, Olga
Dergunova, a deputy minister, told reporters at the State Duma.  President  Vladimir Putin  has targeted dividends in a drive
to raise budget revenue, lure foreign and domestic investors to
the local exchange and turn Moscow into an international
financial center. Russia began taking a “tougher stance on
companies’ dividend policy,” First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov , said in an interview on June 21.  “Even if the payout starts from 2016 as the Finance
Ministry is apprently proposing today, this would be a huge
driver for Gazprom, Rosneft, Transneft, Alrosa and the whole
market in general,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global
Trading UK Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.  The payouts will remain at the level of at least 25 percent
of net income in the next two years, Siluanov said. The jump to
35 percent of net income will bring as much as 106 billion
rubles ($3.29 billion) of additional inflows into the budget, he
said.  Trading Discount  OAO Gazprom, the state-run natural gas exporter, jumped as
much as 1.5 percent, before erasing gains at the end of the day
to closed down 1.5 percent in Moscow. The depository receipts
fell 0.8 percent in  London .  Russian stocks on average trade at a discount to emerging
market equities. Russia’s benchmark Micex Index trades at 4.28
times estimated twelve-month earnings, compared with 10.56 times
for the MSCI’s  Emerging Markets  Index. Gazprom is trading at
3.28 times.  The government and the president must approve the Finance
Ministry’s proposal for it to go into effect, Siluanov said.  “Our position is not to touch the 25 percent and make a
roadmap for each of the companies to move to IFRS by 2016,”
Dergunova said.  OAO Rosneft, the world’s biggest publicly traded oil
producer by output, will “easily” be able to make a higher
payout if required, Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said
Sept. 14 in Sochi.  Shuvalov said in June that state companies will need to get
the prime minister’s approval for exemptions from paying out the
equivalent of at least 25 percent of profit under international
accounting standards.  For Related News and Information:
Russia Tightening State Dividend Rules Before Asset Sales  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  