-- Russian Consumer Spending Slows More Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-18T13:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/russian-consumer-spending-slows-more-than-economists-estimated.html
     Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) --- Russian consumer spending slowed
more than economists estimated in August and investments fell
the most since 2010 as the world’s biggest energy exporter
remains in its steepest economic slowdown since 2009.  Retail sales grew 4 percent from a year earlier after a
revised 4.4 percent increase in July, the fastest in four
months, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in
an e-mailed statement. The median  estimate  of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was 4.2 percent. Fixed-capital investment
unexpectedly shrank 3.9 percent, compared with the median
estimate of a 1.6 percent increase in a separate poll.  The economy unexpectedly slowed in the second quarter, with
gross domestic product growing 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
the weakest expansion since growth resumed after a 2009
contraction. Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  reiterated a 2013
growth forecast of 1.8 percent in a speech to lawmakers today,
predicting an improvement in the second half.  “The central bank will need to do something because
economic growth has been below its potential for a few months,”
Juri Kren, an economist at IdeaGlobal in  London , said by phone.
He predicts policy makers will cut their new key policy rate by
50 basis points by the end of the year.  Bank Rossii on Sept. 13 introduced the one-week auction
rate for providing or absorbing liquidity as its key rate, now
at 5.5 percent, to become more transparent to the market as it
moves toward an inflation-targeting regime by 2015. Chairman
 Elvira Nabiullina , who took the helm in June, signaled in an
interview with Itar-Tass newswire last week the bank may start
“a gradual reduction” in borrowing costs as inflation slows.  Spending by households, which accounts for about half of
the economy, has remained a growth engine with the help of
rising consumer borrowing, while weak global demand has stifled
industrial output and investments.  Unemployment fell to 5.2 percent in August from 5.3 percent
in July, in line with forecasts and matching a five-month low
reached in May, the service said.  Real disposable incomes rose 2.1 percent in August from a
year earlier, exceeding the median estimate of seven economists
for a 2 percent gain.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  