-- S&P Cuts Western Australia Rating to AA+ on Growing Debt Burden
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-09-18T05:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/s-p-cuts-western-australia-rating-to-aa-on-growing-debt-burden.html
Western  Australia ’s long-term
issuer score was cut to AA+ from AAA by  Standard & Poor’s ,
leaving only two of Australia’s six state governments holding
the top credit grade from the ratings company.  “WA’s debt burden is now at the high end of the domestic
peer group, and in our view is likely to continue rising,” S&P
said in a statement today. “Upgrade potential in the coming two
years is not currently expected. It would likely require a
greater commitment to fiscal improvement than we expect.”  Western Australia Premier  Colin Barnett ’s government last
month forecast a  budget deficit  for the 12 months ending June
30, 2015, as a China-led mining investment boom wanes and
slowing growth curbs government revenue. The difficulties faced
by the state, which accounts for almost all of Australia’s iron-ore exports, mirror those confronting  Tony Abbott , sworn in
today as the nation’s 28th prime minister.  “The state government hasn’t shown a lot of signs of
adjusting its budget strategy as yet in terms of cutting back a
little more meaningfully on expenditures,” said Adam Donaldson,
the head of debt research at Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. “Following the WA budget which was quite
disappointing it’s certainly no surprise to see the downgrade
come through.”  The yield on WA’s 6 percent note maturing October 2023
jumped seven basis points, the most in more than a week, to 4.95
percent as of 3:09 p.m. in Sydney, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread over Australian federal government’s debt
of similar maturity was 85 basis points from 79 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Batchelor in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  