-- Seahawks Tie Record for Earliest 20-Point Favorite in NFL Season
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-18T12:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/seahawks-tie-record-for-earliest-20-point-favorite-in-nfl-season.html
The  Seattle Seahawks  are favored by
as many as 20 points in their Week 3 game against the
 Jacksonville Jaguars , tying the record for the earliest the
 National Football League  has had such an overwhelming pick.  Coming off a 29-3 home rout of the defending National
Football Conference-champion San Francisco 49ers, the 2-0
Seahawks are just the 11th NFL team to be favored by 20 or more
points in a game since 1978, according to the Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  “I’m not surprised,” Pregame.com founder RJ Bell said.
“Many in Vegas consider Seattle to be the best team in the NFL,
with the biggest home-field advantage, while many also consider
Jacksonville to be the worst team in the NFL.”  The 1992  Buffalo Bills , coming off two straight  Super Bowl 
appearances, were the only other team favored by 20 points
during the first three weeks of an NFL season, Bell said. The
Bills that season were listed by oddsmakers as -20 in their Week
3 home game against Indianapolis, and beat the Colts 38-0.  Only one other team has been favored by as many as 20
points during the first half of an NFL season. In 1987, the
49ers were 23 1/2-point favorites against the  Atlanta Falcons  in
a mid-October game. San Francisco won 25-17.  Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll  said his team doesn’t look past
any opponent. He also said Seattle isn’t in any danger of a
letdown after last weekend’s win against the division-rival
49ers, a matchup of two of the oddsmakers’ top three Super Bowl
favorites.  ‘Championship Opportunity’  “Every game is a championship opportunity for us,”
Carroll, whose team is seeking the sixth 3-0 start in franchise
history, told reporters this week. “The way you ensure that is
by the way you prepare. If you practice properly, with the same
intentions and standards every week, then you guarantee your
best chance to perform well.”  The point spread for the Seahawks’ game this week has
swelled from its opening line of 16 1/2 or 17 points as
 Seattle ’s No. 1-ranked defense faces the NFL’s worst offense.
Sportsbooks at the MGM Grand and Wynn in Las Vegas are among
those to push the Seahawks to 20-point favorites.  The Seahawks have outscored opponents 272-98 during a nine-game home winning streak and have allowed an NFL-low 10 points
this season. They lead the league in average yards allowed (230)
and average passing yards allowed (113).  The Jaguars have been held to 11 points -- the fewest among
the NFL’s 32 teams -- while getting outscored by a total of 36
points in their two losses. Jacksonville has Chad Henne as its
starting quarterback in place of Blaine Gabbert, who cut his
throwing hand in a season-opening loss to the  Kansas City
Chiefs , while  Pro Bowl  running back Maurice Jones-Drew’s
availability for this week is in question because of a strained
ankle tendon.  “It’s a great challenge for our guys,” Jaguars coach Gus Bradley, who spent the past four seasons as the Seahawks’
defensive coordinator, said of facing Seattle. “Any time you
have a chance to go up against a really good football team, it’s
a good thing. It’s time for us to continue to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  