-- SEC Passes Long-Stalled Rule for Municipal Advisory Businesses
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-09-18T17:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/sec-passes-long-stalled-rule-for-municipal-advisory-businesses.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission approved a rule designating which businesses will be
covered by new regulations for state and local government
financial advisers, a step pending for three years.  The SEC said the definition of municipal advisers, which
will be regulated for the first time as a result of the 2010
Dodd-Frank law, will exclude Wall Street underwriters, attorneys
and local-government officials who work on bond deals. Today’s
unanimous vote releases the rule for public comment.  The changes are a response to the Wall Street credit
crisis, when municipalities were stung by losses on bond and
derivative deals pitched by unregulated advisory firms. They
came after a U.S. criminal investigation revealed that advisers
hired by towns to broker investment deals received kickbacks
from banks in return for steering the business their way.  “The final rules that the Commission is considering today
set forth clear, workable requirements and guidance for
municipal advisers and other market participants, which will
provide needed protections for this market,” SEC Chairwoman
Mary Jo White said in a statement.  The SEC’s initial definition of adviser was revised
following criticism that it was overly broad. Bond underwriters,
which are already regulated, pressed to be excluded from the new
rules, saying it would impose requirements on them that were
incompatible with their dual role to investors and local-government clients when they arrange new bond deals.  The Dodd-Frank law required the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, which writes regulations for banks that work
in the $3.7 trillion state and local-government bond market, to
create similar rules for advisory firms. That process has been
on hold as the Alexandria, Virginia-based board waited for the
SEC to approve a definition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  