-- Sega Said to Win Auction to Buy Bankrupt Japan Gamemaker Index
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-09-18T02:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/sega-said-to-win-auction-to-buy-bankrupt-japan-gamemaker-index.html
Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  won an
auction to buy Index Corp., the bankrupt Japanese developer of
handheld games, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The acquisition may be valued at about 14 billion yen ($141
million), said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
before an announcement scheduled for as early as today. Index’s
bankruptcy advisers plan to complete a deal with Sega Corp., a
unit of Sega Sammy, in early November, they said.  Index develops software for  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s 3-D handheld
players and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation as well as smartphone
applications. The company was forced to file for bankruptcy
protection in part because of investment losses from earlier
acquisitions, Index said on June 27.  Kazumasa Otsuka, a lawyer at Nijubashi Partners
representing Index in bankruptcy, declined to comment, as did
Tetsuya Hasegawa, a spokesman for Sega Sammy.  Sega Sammy beat suitors including J Trust Co. for Index in
a deal that gives it access to game developers and titles for
both mobile devices and consoles. Japanese software makers are
trying to speed up development of digital games as consumers
shift to play them with smartphones and tablet computers.
Index’s titles include the “Shin Megami Tensei” role-playing
game for Nintendo’s 3DS handheld player and “Snowboard Kids
HD” for mobile devices.  Index drew interest from about 20 potential bidders
including Sega Sammy in the first round of the auction, people
familiar with the process said Aug. 2.  Founded in 1995, Index expanded by making acquisitions at
home and abroad, and raised funds through share sales to
domestic companies such as  Hakuhodo DY Holdings Inc. (2433) , Dentsu
Inc. and  NEC Corp. (6701) , according to its website.  Index, with debt totaling 24.5 billion yen as of May 31,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  with the Tokyo district court on
June 27, according to its statement that day. The company hired
 GCA Savvian Corp. (2174)  to advise it on the sale, it said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  