-- Senate Republicans Resisting Obama Lack Debt Cap Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-18T16:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/senate-republicans-resisting-obama-lack-debt-cap-plan.html
U.S. Senate Republicans want to
extract something from President  Barack Obama  in exchange for
raising the federal  debt  ceiling. They just don’t know what.  With at least five of their votes needed to pass
legislation in the Democratic-led Senate, Republicans are poised
to make demands shaping an agreement to raise the $16.7 trillion
federal debt ceiling. Interviews with about a dozen Republicans
yesterday yielded few details as lawmakers consider how to boost
the nation’s borrowing limit by mid-October, when the Treasury
says the ceiling could be reached.  “There’s not a unified Republican ask or a unified
Republican position,” Chris Krueger, Washington analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
very hard to see a scenario where you get a clean debt-ceiling
raise, but what that final sort of Frankenstein monster looks
like remains to be seen.”  Senate Democrats have coalesced around Obama’s call for a
measure that omits the spending cuts that were included in a
compromise enacted two years ago. On the opposite end of the
political spectrum, a faction of Tea Party-backed Republicans is
holding out for pairing a debt-ceiling increase with a delay in
parts of the president’s 2010 health-care law.  In the middle are Senate Republicans who while reluctant to
back Obama’s demand for no additional cuts, haven’t formed a
strategy for what they want in return for their votes.  ‘Not Negotiating’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday he doesn’t intend to make deals to court Republicans.  “I’ve said publicly what I say to them privately: We are
not negotiating on the debt ceiling,” he told reporters.  Still, many Republicans said they want to curb the growth
in entitlement programs and simplify the  tax code , general
talking points in recent fiscal fights on  Capitol Hill .  “I’d love to see us reduce spending; I’d like to see a lot
of things happen,” said  Arizona ’s  John McCain , one of 28 Senate
Republicans who backed the 2011 debt-limit increase.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
the debt ceiling should be attached to a “road map to turn
around the fortunes of the country.”  “We should raise the debt ceiling with a plan, slowly but
surely, to get out of debt,” Graham said.  Asked whether Senate Republicans had a coherent position to
address the debate, Graham said “No,” and laughed.  Senate’s Say  Although the Republican-controlled House probably will
initiate votes raising the federal borrowing cap, the Senate is
positioned to dictate the final contours of a deal.  “It’s an unreasonable position to say you’re not going to
negotiate,” South Dakota Senator  John Thune , the chamber’s
third-ranking Republican, said today as he left a closed-door
bipartisan Finance Committee meeting with Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew.  In 2011, a proposal by the Senate’s top Republican,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, ultimately formed the basis of the deal
that was enacted and sent to the House for an up-or-down vote.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, is
contending with a rebel faction that scuttled consideration last
week of a spending measure to keep the government running
through mid-December amid disagreement over how they should try
to derail the health-care law.  One-Year Delay  Members of that contingent have pointed to the debt limit
as another opportunity to try to dismantle the law, as have some
Tea-Party-backed senators, including  Ted Cruz  of Texas.  Following a closed-door meeting of the Republican
conference today, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia
said the chamber will have a plan to increase the debt limit
within the next week that would delay implementation of the
health-care law.  The debt-limit bill will include a one-year delay of the
health law, a “path forward” on a revision of the tax code and
the approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, Cantor
told reporters.  Republicans cite public support for more control over
Washington spending. Forty-four percent of Americans said they
opposed increasing the debt ceiling, while just 22 percent
supported it, according to an NBC News  poll  last week of 1,000
adults. The poll had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  “To get an increase in the debt ceiling, we’re going to
have to get some savings,” said Senator  John Hoeven , a North
Dakota Republican.  Spending Cuts  Illinois Senator  Mark Kirk  said his fellow Republicans
should point to Detroit to help win spending cuts in exchange
for a debt-ceiling increase. The former auto manufacturing giant
was the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on July 18, piling up
more than $18 billion in debt and an operating deficit of almost
$400 million.  “The financial implosion of one of our largest cities is
happening right before our eyes,” Kirk said in an interview.
“We have got to use the debt-limit debate to slow down
spending.”  McCain pointed to different polling -- surveys following
the 2011 debt-ceiling debate that showed Republicans bearing
disproportionate blame for the dispute, which prompted Standard
& Poor’s to strip the U.S. of its AAA top-credit rating.  McCain said “it’s a suicide note” to use the debt-ceiling
measure to try to hobble the health-care law.  “To think that somehow we are going to prevail in an
argument to defund Obamacare is just the height of
foolishness,” the Arizona senator said. “The advantage rests
with the president.”  Fiscal Discipline  Among Senate Republicans advocating spending reductions on
top of the more than $2 trillion in cuts that have taken place
since the 2011 debt-ceiling increase, Senator  Susan Collins  of
Maine said she hoped Congress could agree on more fiscal
discipline.  While it’s “really premature” to stake out a position,
Collins said, she favors “a long-term fiscal plan” to replace
the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration.  “I don’t want to see our country default on its debt and
its obligation, but on the other hand this often is an
opportunity for leverage in getting the Democrats to face up to
our unsustainable debt,” she said.  Senator  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia Republican, said it would
be a “shame” to give up the opportunity to attach fiscal-restraint measures to the must-pass debt bill.  Entitlement Reform  “I would hate to let a clean debt ceiling go by without
the opportunity to leverage the need for that vote to get some
improvement in discretionary spending, entitlement reform and
things like that,” Isakson said.  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, said Obama would
“have to give up something to get the debt-limit increase.”  McConnell, who faces a primary election challenge next
year, said yesterday that he’d be “stunned” if legislation to
raise the debt ceiling “didn’t do something about the debt.”
He declined to say what it would take to win his vote.  Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the top Republican on the
Budget Committee, noted that the debt ceiling has led to past
agreements, including the 2011 budget cuts.  “I don’t know what we can attach to it,” Sessions said.
“There are so many things I’d love to see part of a debt
ceiling debate.”  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat,
predicted “very strong” if not unanimous support among
Democrats for a clean debt-ceiling increase.  “I don’t know of any defectors today,” Durbin said,
adding that he’d had talked with caucus members.  “I hope there are enough Republicans in the Senate who --
after some test votes on Obamacare -- will be prepared to join
us for a bipartisan effort to enact the debt ceiling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  