-- Sharp Plans to Raise 166 Billion Yen From Share Sales
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-18T07:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/sharp-to-raise-1-5-billion-from-share-sales-after-losses.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , a supplier of screens
to Apple Inc., will raise as much as 166.4 billion yen ($1.7
billion) in share sales in an effort to rebuild its  balance
sheet  after record annual losses.  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays will sell
as much as 149 billion yen of shares to the public, the Osaka-based company said in a statement today. The company also will
make allotments to  Makita Corp. (6586) ,  Denso Corp. (6902)  and  Lixil Group
Corp. (5938) , with proceeds to be used for capital expenditure, it said.  Intensified competition in LCDs and flat-panel TVs drove
Sharp to  losses  totaling 921 billion yen during the past two
financial years. The supplier for Apple’s iPhone and iPad is
tapping into surging demand for new stock amid a Japanese rally
in shares after previously selling minority stakes to Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   “Sharp had no choice but to increase capital, and they
will breathe freely for a while,” said Tsunenori Ohmaki, an
analyst at Tachibana Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The business has
recovered more strongly than its plan, thanks to the
restructuring.”  Sharp also increased its first-half forecasts, with
operating income projected at 30 billion yen in the six months
ending Sept. 30 from 15 billion yen. Sales will be 1.31 trillion
yen, up from an earlier projection of 1.27 trillion yen. The
company’s net-loss forecast was halved to 10 billion yen.  Share Recovery  Domestic demand for its solar panels and better-than-expected sales of large LCD screens have helped restore earnings,
the company said.  The stock rose 1.6 percent to close at 376 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement. The shares have  climbed  24
percent so far this year, while Japan’s benchmark Topix index
has gained 39 percent.  Companies have raised more than $34 billion in share sales
in Japan this year, compared with $23 billion for all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year’s figure
doesn’t include Sharp’s transaction.  Dentsu Inc., the Japanese advertising company that bought
U.K.’s Aegis Group Plc. in March, raised $1.2 billion in a July
offering. Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. and  Olympus Corp. (7733)  are
also among the companies that raised funds through share sales
this year, the data show.  Solar Panels  Sharp last month reported a  net loss  of 18 billion yen in
the June quarter, narrower than the 138 billion-yen loss a year
earlier. Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold
and administrative expenses, totaled 3 billion yen for the
quarter, compared with a loss of 94 billion a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 33 percent to 608 billion yen.  The operating loss at  the LCD unit  narrowed to 9.5 billion
yen during the quarter, from a loss of 63.5 billion yen a year
earlier, according to the company.  Improved Japanese sales of solar cells follows the
introduction of an incentive program in July 2012 to encourage
investments in clean energy. Residential use and industrial-sized solar projects are spurring demand, Sharp has said.  Japan’s domestic shipments of solar cells and modules
surged almost fourfold in the fiscal first quarter, the Japan
Photovoltaic Energy Association said Sept. 12.  Operating profit at the electronics maker’s solar unit was
6.8 billion yen in the three months ended June 30, compared with
a 6.9 billion-yen loss for the same period last year, the
company said in an August filing.  Sharp has 200 billion yen of convertible  bonds maturing  at
the end of this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its debt is  rated  B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , which is four levels
below investment grade.  The maker of Aquos TVs is forecasting net income of 5
billion yen for the year to March 2014, its first annual profit
in three years, after job cuts. The company sold a stake in its
largest LCD plant to Taiwanese billionaire Terry Gou last year
to boost sales through his Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s
biggest contract manufacturer of electronics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  