-- Shooter With Clearance Post-Arrest Exposes Vetting Gaps
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-18T16:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/shooter-with-clearance-post-arrest-exposes-vetting-gaps.html
It’s the question that’s vexed
 Washington  for two days: How could a man with three arrests, a
military discharge for misconduct and a history of mental
illness get into the Washington Navy Yard and kill 12 people?  The answer: Aaron Alexis had a security clearance, at a
level known as “secret,” that made it easy for him to get the
common access card that allowed him on the Navy base.  How he got the security clearance from the U.S. Navy in
March 2008 -- and kept it until the day he was shot dead by
police -- is harder to answer.  The vetting doesn’t provide the same scrutiny that the
public might expect, security specialists familiar with the U.S.
clearance process said. Nor does the system have the ability to
regularly check on people with existing clearances to see if
they still are living up to the standards that got them the
clearance in the first place.  “There are certain things about these investigations that
are lacking in some regards,” said William Henderson, who
worked for the Defense Department and the Office of Personnel
Management for more than 20 years. “The government is only
willing to spend so much money to do these investigations and
process the clearances, and they’re always looking for cheaper
ways to do it. It’s a trade-off.”  In other words, someone like the 34-year-old Alexis can
slip through, his problems long undetected.  Snowden Leaks  The vetting process has been under scrutiny since Edward Snowden, a former contractor who worked for McLean, Virginia-based  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , leaked information on
U.S. electronic surveillance programs. He had held a top-secret
clearance.  President  Barack Obama  was briefed yesterday on the Navy
Yard attack in a meeting with U.S. officials including Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel, Attorney General Eric Holder and FBI
Director James Comey.  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence has
been reviewing security clearance policies for government
contractors since the exposure of the classified surveillance
programs by Snowden, who worked under contract for the National
Security Agency.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters
yesterday that the Office of Management and Budget, at Obama’s
direction, is scrutinizing the standards for contractors and
federal agency employees.  Inspector General  The Office of Personnel Management performed the background
investigation for Alexis in 2007, and the Defense Department
granted his clearance in 2008, Merton Miller, associate director
of the office’s Federal Investigative Services, said in a
statement.  “In general, background security clearance investigations
include information about an individual’s criminal history,
including criminal records, and that information would be passed
on to the adjudicating agency,” Miller said.  Senator Claire McCaskill today asked the personnel office’s
inspector general to determine who performed Alexis’s background
investigation and whether his arrest record was given proper
scrutiny. She also asked if the office used a contractor for the
vetting.  “While guilt ultimately lies with the perpetrator of this
terrible crime, those who lost loved ones and were injured in
this shooting deserve to know the answers to these questions,”
McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Tires Shot  After leaving the Navy in January 2011, Alexis retained the
clearance, which was good for 10 years and wasn’t subject to a
reinvestigation, according to a defense official who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly and asked not to be identified.  The personnel office is working with other U.S. officials
to “review the oversight, nature and implementation of security
and suitability standards for federal employees and
contractors,” Miller said.  Alexis’s 2004 arrest in  Seattle  for shooting tires on a
vehicle wouldn’t have automatically resulted in a clearance
denial, said Henderson, now president of Wilmington, North
Carolina-based Federal Clearance Assistance Service LLC, which
helps people with eligibility problems apply for clearances.  ‘Automatic Disqualifiers’  “There are very few automatic disqualifiers,” Henderson
said. “It would typically have to be a serious offense or
multiple lesser offenses.”  A security clearance can be revoked for a range of reasons
including alcohol or drug problems, misuse of technology, or
even a personal financial issue that could put a holder at risk
of bribery or coercion, said Brian Kaveney, a partner with
Armstrong Teasdale LLP in St. Louis who heads the firm’s
security and facility clearance team.  There’s little chance that negative information would
surface after a clearance has been granted, Kaveney said.  “The only way they’ll ever know most adverse information
that occurs after the clearance is if the person with a
clearance comes in and self-reports or someone else reports
something about them,” he said. “Cleared employees have a
responsibility to be vigilant about providing adverse
information about other cleared employees.”  Seattle Arrest  The litany of Alexis’s problems has raised questions about
how he was able to enter the base, located about a mile from the
U.S. Capitol.  In addition to his Seattle arrest in 2004, he was arrested
in August 2008, and again in September 2010. Charges in the
Seattle incident were never pursued for reasons that aren’t
clear to law enforcement authorities there.  Kimberly Mills, a spokeswoman for the Seattle city
attorney, said the police report -- which contained allegations
of property destruction and discharge of a firearm -- “did not
get to our office -- unknown why -- and thus it was not
considered for charges.”  Authorities dropped the charges in the 2010 case.  In January 2011, Alexis was discharged from the Navy after
a pattern of misconduct. Later, he was being treated for a
history of mental illness.  ‘Sending Vibrations’  In the last episode on Aug. 7, Alexis called police to his
Newport, Rhode Island, hotel room and told them that people were
“sending vibrations into his body.” Police contacted the
Newport Naval Station to warn them about Alexis’s behavior.  Through it all, he kept his security clearance.  Navy officials yesterday defended their handling of the
Alexis case, indicating that none of the disciplinary problems
they encountered during his almost four years of service would
have been enough to strip his security clearance.  “He wasn’t a stellar sailor,” Rear Admiral John Kirby, a
Navy spokesman, said on CNN. Disciplinary problems “were by and
large relatively minor,” such as dereliction of duty or failing
to show up for work on time.  None of his offenses “give you any indication that he was
capable of” the sort of “brutal” violence seen at the Navy
Yard, Kirby said.  About 4.9 million federal contractors and employees held
security clearances as of October 2012, according to data from
the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Most of
them are at the secret or confidential level.  Valid ID  Alexis entered the Navy Yard with a valid identification
card because of his work for a contractor. He worked for The
Experts, a Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based subcontractor to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , on a contract to upgrade equipment on the
Navy Marine Corps Intranet network, according to a statement by
Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based HP.  He had been employed with The Experts for about six months,
and the company confirmed in a statement that Alexis held a
secret clearance with the Defense Department. Two background
checks paid for by the company revealed no issues except a minor
traffic violation.  Alexis held a valid military ID card, called a common-access card, permitting entry into most facilities, the
 Washington Post (WPO)  reported, citing Experts Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Hoshko.  “If I can find this out just by doing a Google search,
that is sad,” Hoshko told the Post. “Anything that suggest
criminal problems or mental health issues, that would be a flag.
We would not have hired him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  