-- Singapore Police Arrest 14 Over Possible Match-Fixing
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-09-19T01:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/singapore-police-arrest-14-over-possible-fixing-of-sports-events.html
Singapore  police arrested 12 men
and two women suspected of being part of a criminal gang
involved in fixing sports events.  Officers raided several locations in Singapore on Sept. 17,
the city’s police and anti-corruption agency said in a statement
yesterday. Police said the suspected gang leader was detained as
well as people being investigated in other countries in relation
to match-fixing.  Prosecutors and police around the world are conducting
probes to protect the integrity of soccer, the world’s most
popular sport. The European Union’s law enforcement agency is
investigating attempts to rig more than 380 games, and in
February, FIFA, soccer’s governing body, suspended people in
 Italy , South Korea and  China  as part of its probe.  The 14 people in Singapore are being investigated for
corruption offenses related to match-fixing and their
involvement in organized crime activities, according to the
statement.  “Singaporean authorities have taken an important step in
cracking down on an international match-fixing syndicate by
arresting the main suspects in the case,” Interpol Secretary
General Ronald K. Noble said in a separate statement.  The Football Association of Singapore said it takes a
 “serious view”  of any corrupt practice and will work with the
relevant agencies to combat match-fixing.  Sexual Favors  Three Lebanese soccer officials were convicted of
corruption in June after pleading guilty in a Singapore case
involving the trading of sexual favors to fix games. A
Singaporean businessman has been charged with providing women
for the scam, and faces as many as five years in jail if
convicted.  Australian police this week charged six men in connection
with alleged fixing of soccer matches in the state of Victoria
that netted an international ring more than A$2 million ($1.9
million) in winnings from bets.  The Singapore police force is working with Interpol’s
Global Anti-Match Fixing Taskforce to eradicate sports crime,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  