-- Slow and Steady Wins the Race Says Lundin CEO Conibear
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/slow-and-steady-wins-the-race-says-lundin-ceo-conibear.html
Lundin Mining Corp., the best
performer among Canadian base-metal companies, is betting that a
cast-off from the world’s second-biggest miner will help double
output.  Lundin agreed to buy the Eagle nickel and copper mine from
Rio Tinto Group for $315 million in June and plans to bring it
into production by the end of next year, Chief Executive Officer
Paul Conibear said. Eagle is the company’s first new mine after
emerging from two aborted takeovers in 2011. Conibear said he
wants to boost companywide annual output to about 500,000 metric
tons within five years.  “We’re back to basics to re-grow our company,” he said
Sept. 13 in a telephone interview. “We’re looking at trying to
increase our cash flow through producing facilities.”  Lundin plans to expand while mining companies including Rio
and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest, sell assets and
reduce spending amid lower prices. Copper has slumped 11 percent
this year, nickel dropped 19 percent and zinc is down 11 percent
on the London Metal Exchange after growth slowed in  China , the
world’s largest consumer of metals.  Lundin has declined 9.2 percent this year, the smallest
drop among four Canadian base-metals producers bigger than $1
billion, which have fallen an average of 15 percent amid
copper’s decline. The Swedish billionaire Lundin family is the
largest holder of the company’s stock, and Lukas Lundin, the
family’s investment manager, is chairman.  ‘Cash-Flowing Project’  The company is one of the few miners able to afford new
assets, said Ian Parkinson, a Toronto-based analyst at GMP
Securities LP. “I don’t know how many willing buyers are left
to be totally honest,” he said. Now Lundin needs to show
investors it can build and start up Eagle successfully, he said.  “Eagle is an imminent cash-flowing project, it’s in its
final stages of construction,” Parkinson said by phone last
week. “They need to execute and get that cash flow moving.”  That means selling ore. Lundin recently started talking to
buyers, Conibear said. “There’s at least four nickel parties
that are keenly interested and probably half a dozen on the
copper side, so we’re expecting a reasonable amount of
competition,” he said.  Analysts (LUN)  have 17 buy, one sell and six hold recommendations
on Lundin’s shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Lundin has the potential to rise 19 percent in 12 months,
according to the average price target of 20 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Boosting Output  Lundin, which also has assets in Europe and  Africa , expects
production at Eagle to begin late next year. The mine in
northern  Michigan  may produce about 23,000 tons of nickel and
20,000 tons of copper annually in its first three years,
according to Lundin, boosting the company’s total metals
 production  by as much as 16 percent from its 2013 forecast and
35 percent more than last year. Lundin also produces lead and
zinc.  The company is hosting a tour of Eagle next week, when
analysts will be looking to see the potential for discoveries at
Eagle, said Kerry Smith, a Toronto-based analyst at Haywood
Securities Inc.  “I’ll be curious to see what the geologists think is
different from what Rio Tinto did,” Kerry said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Renewed Focus’  Rio discovered the Eagle deposit in 2002, decided to
proceed with building a mine in 2010 and was about halfway
through construction at the time of the sale, Lundin said June
12 when announcing the acquisition.  “The sale of Eagle demonstrates our renewed focus and
discipline in the way we allocate capital,” Rio Chief Financial
Officer Chris Lynch said in a statement on the same day. “We
are making good progress on a number of other potential
divestments as part of our goal to achieve substantial proceeds
from divesting non-core assets.”  The mine is a better fit for Lundin than it was for a large
company such as Rio, Conibear said.  “They were there because the geology of the area’s quite
interesting and they were looking for another Voisey’s Bay I
suppose,” he said, referring to the eastern Canadian nickel
deposit now owned by Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA.  “Ultimately they didn’t find that scale,” Conibear said.
“It’s a mine that’s ideal for our size as a company.”  $400 Million  Illtud Harri, a London-based spokesman for Rio, declined to
comment on Eagle mine.  Lundin will invest $400 million to finish construction by
next year, including $150 million for a mill and $50 million for
road work, Conibear said.  To help pay for the acquisition and the final year of
construction at Eagle, Lundin is extending the maturity of a
$350 million revolving credit facility and has secured a new
$250 million term loan, the company said in a Sept. 16
statement. Lundin said it had about $135 million of cash on
hand.  Conibear said Lundin also expects $130 million to $150
million in income this year from its 24 percent stake in Tenke
Fungurume, a mine operated by  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  While investing in the Congo involves a high level of
political risk, Tenke is “one of the best copper mines in the
world,” Smith said in a Sept. 11 note.  The Congo accounted for  57 percent  of Lundin’s net income
in the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conibear is keeping his options open on future
acquisitions. When the company starts shopping again, Lundin is
open to buying metal explorers, ready-to-build mines or getting
involved in joint ventures, he said.  “It’d be pretty much the same as the criteria we set a
couple years ago, which is staying in simple base metals, with
copper preferred,” Conibear said.  “We’re not looking to get more assets in a post-conflict
kind of country,” he said. “We want stable operations and
getting things that are ready to build.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  