-- Smiths Group Advances on Special Dividend Payment: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-09-18T10:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/smiths-group-advances-on-special-dividend-payment-london-mover.html
Smiths Group Plc (SMIN)  had the biggest
gain among stocks on the FTSE 100 index today after the British
maker of security scanners announced a special dividend and more
plans to reduce costs.  The company will pay a special dividend of 30 pence a
share, London-based Smiths said in a statement today. Sales
climbed 2.6 percent to 3.11 billion pounds ($4.97 billion) in
the fiscal year ended July 31, it said. The stock rose as much
as 4.7 percent.  “The full-year 2013 results appear broadly in line with
expectations, but there is a special dividend of 30 pence that
is likely to be well-received,” Sandy Morris, an analyst at
Jefferies, said in a note today . “Smiths Group continues to
put its house in order” and the outlook for the current year is
“robust,” he said. Morris recommends buying the shares.  Smiths will make savings of 50 million pounds a year
through measures including the streamlining of manufacturing and
reducing the number of management layers, according to today’s
statement. The new savings measures will cost 100 million pounds
to implement over three years. Smiths will continue to consider
approaches for its business units, Chief Executive Officer
Philip Bowman said on a conference call today.  The shares climbed as much as 65 pence to 1,441 pence, the
biggest intraday jump since May 31. The stock was up 3.3 percent
at 1,421 pence as of 11:38 a.m., taking the advance this year to
19 percent and giving the company a market value of 5.6 billion
pounds.  Acquisition Opportunities  “Smiths has the operational scope to enhance margins and
strong cash generation should support both R&D and acquisition
opportunities,” Scott Cagehin, an analyst at Numis Securities,
said in a note today. “The shares should find support at these
levels given that it remains a break-up story and trades at a
sector discount.”  Smiths, founded as a family watchmaking business in the
19th century, said on Aug. 2 that a preliminary approach for the
medical unit fell through because the two parties could not
agree on terms.  Smiths hasn’t received any more approaches for the unit,
Bowman said on the call. The division makes critical care and
surgical products for hospitals, and had full-year sales of 850
million pounds.  Bowman said discussions regarding the sale were leaked “at
a very early stage,” making it more difficult to reach an
agreement. “We continue to look at the portfolio to satisfy
ourselves that we are the best owner for the businesses.”  Smiths is paying the special dividend after disappointment
in not making any acquisitions during the year, Bowman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  