-- SPD Faces Hurdle on Prospect of Joining Merkel Coalition
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-19T08:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/spd-faces-hurdle-on-prospect-of-joining-merkel-coalition.html
Elections in three days augur a
second campaign for  Germany ’s Social Democratic leaders:
persuading their rank and file to join as  Angela Merkel ’s junior
coalition partners.  The SPD has scheduled a meeting of 200 party members on
Sept. 27 to decide how to proceed with coalition talks with its
traditional rivals that would ensue if Merkel and her current
allies, the Free Democrats, fail to win a majority.  “There are many within the SPD who oppose the idea of
going into a grand coalition” with Merkel’s bloc, Manfred Guellner, managing director of pollster Forsa, said by phone. He
identified those who most fervently reject a partnership with
Merkel as “party functionaries” who need to be convinced of
the benefits of entering another government with the chancellor.  The potential roadblocks are both political and substantive
for the SPD. As a junior partner, the party would effectively be
putting its fate in its opponent’s hands. And it would have to
reconcile policy differences on issues such as taxes, health
care and the  European debt crisis .  Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , downgraded the chances of a repeat of Merkel’s coalition
with the FDP to 40 percent compared with 45 percent for a grand
coalition, according to a note yesterday.  He sees a 10 percent risk that the SPD declines to join
Merkel to team with the Greens and the anti-capitalist Left
Party to oust Merkel, a scenario that the SPD leadership has
repeatedly rejected. “This could cause a serious upset for
markets,” Schmieding said. “But it is just a tail risk.”  Poll Signs  Polls suggest  the SPD, led by  Peer Steinbrueck , and
Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc may be forced into the
same coalition configuration that they shared between 2005 and
2009 during her first term. Their partnerhip ended with the
SPD’s worst post-World War II result at 23 percent of the vote,
a tally many in the party blame on the grand coalition.  The rise of the anti-euro AfD party, taking votes from the
coalition predominantly, may spur an alliance of the SPD and the
CDU. An INSA poll for today’s Bild newspaper put the AfD at 5
percent, enough to enter parliament for the first time.  The AfD’s entry to the lower house would leave a grand
coalition “as the only real option,” said  Dirk Schumacher , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Frankfurt . While AfD
seats in the Bundestag “would have no immediate impact on
Germany’s approach to  Europe , it could slowly but steadily
change the dynamics of German politics over time,” he said.  SPD Triumverate  The SPD’s leadership under Steinbrueck and Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  has insisted that its only objective is to form a
government with the  Green Party , even though the party has
stopped short of ruling out a grand coalition. Steinbrueck has
said repeatedly that he’ll only serve in a government led by
himself with the Greens as junior partner. Steinbrueck, Gabriel
and Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign minister in Merkel’s
first term, will all address an SPD rally in Berlin from 6 p.m.  Merkel has also dismissed a grand coalition option.  “Nobody wants that,” Merkel said in an Aug. 18 interview
with broadcaster ZDF. “I hear that from all sides.”  Still, most polls show Merkel may have little choice. Her
CDU-led bloc and the FDP together had a combined 44 percent in
today’s INSA poll, a result that may give them fewer than half
the seats in the Bundestag. Support for the SPD-Greens bloc was
36 percent, far short of a majority. The Left had 9 percent. The
survey of 2,502 voters between Sept. 10 and Sept. 16. published
no margin of error.  Last Time  The first grand coalition, in which Steinbrueck served as
Merkel’s finance minister, resulted from an inconclusive vote.
Merkel, the top vote-getter then, the government after former
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  surrendered his claim to the job.  Together, Merkel’s faction and the SPD under Schroeder ally
Franz Muentefering as vice-chancellor undertook overhauls such
as raising the  retirement age  to 67 from 65. That alienated the
SPD’s union and activist base, which had already decried
Schroeder’s reduction of  unemployment benefits  and loosening of
rules governing hiring and firing.  In September 2009, the SPD was cast into opposition after
11 years in government following a defeat that then-SPD
candidate Frank-Walter Steinmeier called a “bitter day.”  Compromises today may be equally tough to swallow. While
the SPD has pledged to raise taxes on top earners, Merkel has
opposed such increases as “poison to economic growth.”  On the debt crisis, the SPD has said some form of joint
euro debt liability is inevitable. Merkel has stood against such
risk sharing throughout the crisis, saying that would remove the
incentive for indebted states to balance their books.  Party Congress  The SPD has a party congress scheduled for Nov. 11-14 in
Leipzig. Should it enter into talks with Merkel, an agreement
could be ratified then, meaning that a new government wouldn’t
be sworn in for almost two months. In 2005, Merkel didn’t take
office until more than two months after the election.  In any case, the SPD won’t be entering a prospective union
with Merkel with the same bravado it did after the September
2005 vote, when the then-chancellor came from far behind in the
polls and fell just short of defeating the CDU leader.  “Do you seriously believe that my party would take up an
offer of talks by Mrs. Merkel on this point with her saying that
she wants to be chancellor?” Schroeder said on live television
the night of the defeat. “Excuse me, let’s not get carried away
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  