-- Starbucks Asks Customers to Leave Guns Home in Reversal
-- B y   P a u l   B a r r e t t   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-18T14:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/starbucks-asks-customers-to-leave-guns-home-in-reversal.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  is asking gun
owners to leave their weapons at home or in their cars, 
reversing its stance after being caught in the political 
debate over gun rights in the U.S.  Beginning today, Starbucks coffee shops “respectfully
request” that patrons stop bringing their guns in the stores,
Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz said in an interview with
Bloomberg Businessweek. “We’re not pro-gun or anti-gun,” he
said. The Seattle-based company simply wants no part of the
escalating debate over the Second Amendment and the place of
firearms in American society.  Starbucks, which unlike many restaurant chains and
retailers until now tolerated guns inside its coffee shops, had
been embraced by gun-rights activists as a champion of their
cause. The new policy took shape over a period of months,
Schultz said, and wasn’t related to this week’s Washington Navy
Yard shooting rampage, which prompted Democrats in Congress to
renew their campaign for tougher gun-control laws.  “Pro-gun activists have used our stores as a political
stage for media events misleadingly called ‘Starbucks
Appreciation Days’ that disingenuously portray Starbucks as a
champion of ‘open carry,’” Schultz wrote in an  open letter 
released today. “To be clear: we do not want these events in
our stores.”  Starbucks won’t ban firearms outright, however, because it
would “put employees in a very uncomfortable position of
confronting somebody with a gun,” Schultz said.  New Scrutiny  Scrutiny regarding an individual’s right to carry a
concealed weapon has increased recently. Weak concealed-gun-carry laws in 25 states add to the dangers from laws that allow
people to use lethal force in self-defense, according to a
report yesterday from the Center for American Progress in
Washington, a research group aligned with Democrats. The study
was released a day after the deadly mass shooting at the U.S.
Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters in  Washington .  All states now allow concealed carry, with varying permit
and regulatory requirements.  While Starbucks’s new policy is a step in the right
direction, it won’t deter customers from bringing firearms into
cafes, Ladd Everitt, a spokesman for the Washington-based
Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.  “Starbucks needs to work out a real solution,” Everitt
said in a phone interview. “If this is about the safety of
employees and customers, Starbucks needs to decide whether to
allow guns into the store or not.”  ‘Uncivil’ Debate  Schultz said the debate over carrying a gun in public if
it’s in full view, the so-called open carry, has become
“increasingly uncivil, and in some cases even threatening.”  “We want to give responsible gun owners a chance to
respect our request,” he wrote. “The presence of a weapon in
our stores is unsettling and upsetting for many of our
customers.”  Since 2010, gun owners in  California  and other states have
shown up en masse and armed for Starbucks Appreciation Days
meant to promote the open carrying of firearms in the majority
of states where the practice is legal.  Acrimony over the  guns-and-coffee  demonstrations peaked in
August in Newtown, the Connecticut community that was the site
of a December 2012 elementary school massacre, where substitute
teacher and part-time Starbucks barista Lauren Rousseau was
killed. Some residents of the town were so upset by the prospect
of a pro-gun rally that Starbucks closed the Newtown store early
on the afternoon of Aug. 9. About two dozen people still showed
up at the closed cafe.  Unwilling Participants  “We felt our partners at our stores were being thrust
unwillingly into this political debate,” Jim Olson, a Starbucks
spokesman, said in an interview.  Now the question is whether some of the same gun owners who
celebrated Starbucks’s previous hospitality will make the chain
a target of hostile protests.  “I empathize with both sides,” Schultz said. “Starbucks
is not a policymaker.” He declined to say whether he personally
owns a firearm, adding: “I don’t think it’s relevant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Barrett in  New York  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  