-- States Income-Tax Revenue Reaches Post-Recession Peak
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/states-get-highest-income-tax-collections-since-recession.html
U.S. state income-tax collections
rose the most since the recession in the three months ending in
June, the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government said.  A tax increase in California spurred much of the growth,
which would have been 15 percent without the Golden State, the
 Albany , New York-based public-policy research unit of the State
University of  New York  said yesterday in a report. It also cited
taxpayers shifting income to 2012 to avoid 2013’s higher rates.  “The ‘bubble’ in income-tax receipts most definitely would
be short-lived, and in fact should lead to slower growth later
in the year,” according to the report. “Therefore, state
officials should be cautious about using any unanticipated
revenue for ongoing spending increases or revenue reductions.”  The 18-month recession that began in December 2007 led to
declines in income- and sales-tax revenue among U.S. states,
forcing cuts in government programs and services. After five
straight quarters of declining revenue starting at the end of
2008, growth resumed at the beginning of 2010, the report shows.  State personal income-tax collections grew about 20 percent
compared with 6 percent in the same quarter a year ago,
according to the report, which cited preliminary data from 46
states. It was the strongest quarterly growth since at least the
first three months of 2007.  Revenue from income and sales taxes surged 11 percent, the
second-biggest quarterly increase since the recession and
trailing only an 11.3 percent spurt in the April to June period
of 2011, the report shows.  In  California , income-tax collections jumped by almost $7.1
billion, or 41 percent, in the second quarter after Governor
Jerry Brown persuaded voters in November to approve higher rates
to end persistent deficits. State voters in November raised the
top rate to 13.3 percent from 10.3 percent for those earning
more than $1 million, starting this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  