-- Stiritz Sides With Icahn for 22% Surge in Herbalife Bet: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-09-18T21:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/stiritz-sides-with-icahn-for-22-surge-in-herbalife-bet-retail.html
Bill Stiritz paid scant attention
to  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  until a televised smackdown in January between
billionaire hedge-fund activists  Carl Icahn  and  Bill Ackman , who
claims the nutrition company is a pyramid scheme. Icahn’s
rebuttal convinced Stiritz to take a closer look.  Stiritz, chief executive officer of Raisin Bran maker  Post
Holdings Inc. (POST) , began buying Herbalife shares and researching the
company. He even signed up as a distributor of protein shakes
and supplements, paying $55 to get access to contracts and sales
materials. Before long, he was Herbalife’s fourth-largest
shareholder with a more than 5.2 percent stake, financed with
about $250 million of his own money. Since Sept. 3, the day
Stiritz disclosed his holdings, Herbalife has jumped 22 percent.  A private man with a 54-year history in the food industry,
Stiritz, 79, said he dove in once he decided Herbalife was a
“national treasure” and that Ackman was trying to destroy it.
Since his disclosure, Stiritz has added to his stake and plans
to buy more shares, he said today.  “I’ve never heard someone come in and say, ‘This company
ought to go away,’” he said in an interview last week at his
red brick mansion in suburban St. Louis. “That is a thesis that
really bothers you. How could you possibly say this is not a
real business? It blows your mind.”  Besides an aversion to Ackman’s style of activism, Stiritz
said he has faith in Herbalife’s management and has long seen
protein shakes -- one of the company’s signature products -- as
a low-cost way to curb obesity.  Pyramid Scheme  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP sold
short at least 20 million Herbalife shares, has accused it of
swindling unsophisticated consumers with false get-rich promises
using overpriced products that hide a pyramid scheme. He has
urged U.S. regulators, elected officials and community activists
to help shut it down.  Operators of pyramid schemes typically seek to make money
by recruiting new members who pay fees to existing members
rather than relying on just the sale of goods and services. The
Federal Trade Commission has said modern pyramid schemes can use
products to hide their true intent.  Ackman’s most recent salvo came in a 52-page letter on Aug.
29 to Herbalife’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in which
he urged PwC to pay attention to “serious accounting and
disclosure issues.” Nine days earlier, Ackman reported to his
investors that Pershing had made “material progress in
attracting Federal, State and international regulatory interest
in Herbalife” without elaborating.  Investigation Request  Elected officials and groups including the Latina
organization MANA have written to Federal Trade Commission
Chairwoman Edith Ramirez asking it to investigate Herbalife.  “There have been far too many troubling claims about
Herbalife this year and with more conflicting issues continuing
to come up, we strongly encourage the Commission to carry out a
full investigation and thoroughly examine this company’s
practices as soon as possible,” MANA President Alma Morales
Riojas said in an Aug. 29 letter.  “When an investor with the track record of Bill Stiritz
invests in a pyramid scheme, unfortunately it will only be the
reputation of the pyramid scheme that remains intact,” Ackman
said in a telephone interview.  In response, Stiritz said: “I haven’t invested in a
pyramid scheme. It’s my money versus his investors’ money. May
the best analyst win.”  Denied Claims  Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s claims. In a sign
investors are largely unpersuaded by the allegations, the shares
have more than doubled this year to $73.29 as of yesterday, an
all-time high, and had increased 72 percent since the day before
Ackman disclosed his short on Dec. 19. The stock was little
changed today in  New York  trading.  “The company believes Mr. Stiritz’s views reflect the
inherent value of Herbalife’s products, operations, and future
prospects,” Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “He conducted his own research on Herbalife
and our business before making his investment which we believe
recognizes our ability to increase revenues and returns for our
shareholders.”  Herbalife’s balance sheet, strong cash flow and promising
sales momentum, even in the face of attack, are proof Herbalife
is a sustainable business, Stiritz said. Discussions with
management, a medical doctor and equities analysts helped
convince Stiritz the company won’t be taken down as a fraud.  Share Repurchase  Herbalife has said it may repurchase a significant number
of shares and receive a clean bill of health from its new
auditors by year’s end, Stiritz said. Both are signals that the
company’s share price will soar, as uncertainty over Ackman’s
assault dissipates amid Chief Executive Officer Michael Johnson’s strong defense of the company, he said.  Stiritz also talked to Anne Coughlan, a marketing professor
at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, who
Herbalife hired to investigate its business. Coughlan told
analysts in a January presentation that Herbalife gave her
freedom to roam and she found no signs of a pyramid scheme.
Stiritz said he found Coughlan “highly credible.”  “This is a gem of a company,” he said. “We’re entering
the end-game phase.”  Ackman said today that if Stiritz is willing to meet, “we
can help him understand why Herbalife is a pyramid scheme.”  “The mistake that Mr. Stiritz made was to rely on a
marketing professor paid by the company as well as bullish
analysts in his determination that Herbalife is not a pyramid
scheme,” Ackman also said today in a telephone interview.  Sniff Test  “My opinion isn’t for sale,” Coughlan said in a telephone
interview. “I made an honest analysis and assessment of this
company, having done such assessments for several other
companies. Herbalife more than passes the sniff test. There
isn’t any sign that I see from top management down to the
nutrition clubs that this is a pyramid scheme.”  Stiritz’s track record as a food industry executive may be
putting some investors at ease, said Tim Ramey, an analyst at
D.A. Davidson & Co. in Lake Oswego,  Oregon .  “Mr. Stiritz has a record that is long and full and quite
successful,” he said in an interview. “Stiritz is outside the
hedge-fund war zone. He’s not involved because of Ackman, he’s
involved because he sees a value in the stock.”  Ramey, who criticized Ackman’s pyramid case, recommends
buying the shares and said they’ll reach $92 within the next 12
to 18 months.  Pet Food  Stiritz was named CEO of pet food maker Ralston Purina Co.
in 1981 after presenting the board with a radical strategic plan
to focus the company on consumer products. He spent the next two
decades carving off units such as the Jack-in-the-Box hamburger
chain and the St. Louis Blues hockey team. He added companies
like Energizer batteries.  Stiritz pioneered the use of Nielsen data to measure the
effect of promotions on market share and advanced the use of
share buybacks and spinoffs to boost shareholder value,
according to William Thorndike, founder of Boston-based private
equity firm Housatonic Partners, who profiled Stiritz for his
2012 book, “The Outsiders.”  In 2001, Stiritz sold Ralston Purina to  Nestle SA (NESN)  for a
record $10.4 billion, which was 14 times its cash flow. A dollar
invested in Stiritz’s tenure as CEO was worth $57 at the end,
according to Thorndike.  As head of Ralcorp Holdings Inc. in 2011, Stiritz rebuffed
a $94-a-share takeover offer from  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , deciding
instead to spin off Post Holdings Inc. and take control of the
new company. The new management of Ralcorp sold the company to
ConAgra more than a year later for $90 a share. Stiritz
considers the deal his “finest piece of shareholder value
creation.”  Board Work  When someone suggested Herbalife as an investment several
years ago, Stiritz passed. This time he was swayed to look
harder after Icahn took a 16 percent stake. The two have crossed
paths in negotiations over the years related to Stiritz’s
extensive corporate board work.  Stiritz’s interest in Herbalife dovetails with his career
in the food business, where he had a front-row seat on America’s
obesity epidemic. He helped develop technology to isolate soy
proteins, a key ingredient in Herbalife’s largest product,
Formula 1 meal-replacement shakes.  Stiritz said the company’s nutrition clubs -- shopfronts
where customers can drop by to sample products and exchange
weight-loss tips -- are a simple, cost-effective counter to a
culture barraged with easy calories. He said he fantasizes about
government officials pushing nutrition clubs into schools.  Addictive Behavior  “We all want to belong to something,” he said. “You’re
changing addictive behavior and that has societal benefits.”  Ackman has panned the clubs, where members pay a fee to
sample key products, as a tool to recruit more distributors
rather than sell product at retail.  Katherine Zeratsky, a registered dietician at the Mayo
Clinic in  Minnesota , said protein powders can be effective for
short-term weight loss. Maintaining weight loss, however,
requires new eating habits, including the addition of fresh
fruits and vegetables, she said.  “If you’re looking for it to be the magic bullet, it’s
not,” Zeratsky said. “If you’re looking for it to be a bullet
in your arsenal, it can be good.”  Stiritz, a slender man, drinks Formula 1 shakes as many as
three times a day, blending them in his atrium-like kitchen with
strawberries or bananas and a splash of orange juice and ice. He
has used other protein powders for years.  Stiritz’s faith in the products doesn’t stop with
Herbalife. Just last month, his Post Holdings acquired Premier
Nutrition, a fitness supplement maker. Herbalife CEO Johnson
shouldn’t worry, though. Stiritz said Premier is sold in stores,
so the two companies won’t compete directly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  