-- Stone Point Said to Seek $4.5 Billion for Financials Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-09-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/stone-point-said-to-seek-4-5-billion-for-financials-fund.html
Stone Point Capital LLC, a private-equity firm that specializes in financial companies, is seeking
$4.5 billion for its latest buyout fund, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  It is the first fund Stone Point is trying to raise since
selling a passive stake in itself to Wafra Investment Advisory
Group Inc., a U.S.-based asset manager owned by an agency
controlled by the State of  Kuwait , said the people, asking not
to be identified because the fund is private. The previous fund
closed at $3.5 billion in January 2011.  Stone Point, manager of the Trident Funds, is entering a
competitive fundraising market where investors are paring down
their relationships. London-based research provider Preqin Ltd.
said 1,958 private-equity funds were seeking a total of $770
billion as of July 1.  David Wermuth, a senior principal and general counsel at
the firm, didn’t return a phone call and e-mailed request for
comment.  The firm, which has offices in Greenwich,  Connecticut , and
 New York , typically makes equity investments of $50 million to
$350 million, according to its website. It takes controlling
stakes or substantial minority positions in companies.  Stone Point invests across various sectors of the
financial-services industry including banks and  depository
institutions , mortgage services, asset management, insurance
underwriting and specialty lending.  Last year, Stone Point partnered with KKR & Co. to form
MerchCap Solutions LLC, which provides capital markets services
to mid-market companies. CPPIB Credit Investments Inc. later
became a joint venture partner, investing $50 million in the
company.  CVC Capital Partners  in September of last year led a
recapitalization of Stone Point portfolio company Cunningham
Lindsey Group Ltd., a loss-adjusting and claims-management firm.  Stone Point’s chief executive officer is Charles Davis, who
previously worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for 23 years.
 Stephen Friedman , who is a retired chairman of Goldman Sachs, is
chairman of Stone Point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  