-- Swedish Riksbank Held Rates Amid Debt Concerns, Minutes Show
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-18T07:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/swedish-riksbank-held-rates-amid-debt-concerns-minutes-show.html
Swedish policy makers held
benchmark rates unchanged amid concerns another reduction could
stoke debt growth and risk economic developments, the central
bank said in the minutes of its last meeting.  They majority of the board “noted that although a lower
repo-rate path could lead to inflation attaining the target
slightly sooner, it could also increase indebtedness and thus
the risks to economic development in the longer run,” the bank
said in a statement today. “The majority considered that the
current repo-rate path will stimulate economic developments and
contribute to inflation rising toward 2 percent, at the same
time as taking into account the risks linked to high household
indebtedness.”  Sweden ’s central bank on Sept. 4 decided to keep its  main
lending rate  at a two-year low of 1 percent for at least another
year to support the export-reliant economy, which has been
suffering from weak demand from Europe.  Two of six board members, including Karolina Ekholm and
newly elected Martin Floden, pushed for a cut to 0.75 percent to
boost growth and reduce unemployment.  Swedish companies including Ericsson AB, the world’s
largest maker of wireless networks, have cut jobs because of
falling demand from abroad. Sweden  exports  about half of its
$540 billion output, of which about 70 percent goes to Europe.  The Riksbank this month forecast  consumer prices  will rise
0.1 percent this year and said that it won’t reach its 2 percent
target until early 2015 as the  economy grows  1.2 percent this
year and 2.7 percent next year. Household debt will rise to 177
percent in 2015 after having almost doubled since the mid-1990s
mainly because of rising house prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  