-- Swiss Set to Keep Army as Abolitionists Head for Defeat
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s   a n d   J a m e s   K r a u s
-- 2013-09-23T13:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/swiss-set-to-keep-army-as-abolitionists-head-for-defeat.html
(Corrects job title of Ivo Furrer in eighth paragraph in
story published Sept. 19.)  Switzerland’s 165-year-old draft is
set to withstand a third abolition attempt in two decades as
voters in a Sunday referendum are seen backing a military
tradition that has shaped generations of business executives.  Sixty-three percent of voters are ready to reject an
initiative on Sept. 22 that would replace the current universal
militia service with volunteers, while 31 percent are in favor,
the latest survey by  gfs.bern  conducted for SRG SSR showed.
While challengers are seeking to cut an annual tax bill of about
4.7 billion Swiss francs ($5.1 billion) for troops, opponents
have argued it would leave the nation of 8 million at risk.  “The armed forces are like a fire brigade,” said Philippe Hertig, an executive-search consultant at  Egon Zehnder  in
Zurich, who has risen to the rank of captain in the Swiss air
force during a career spanning almost three decades. “You never
know if it will be used but without it, you don’t feel secure.”  Swiss voters rejected  attempts  to abolish draft laws in
1989 and 2001. While the government plans to cut troops by
80,000 to about 100,000, those in favor of the initiative have
argued the trimmed-down army would still cost an annual 4
billion francs in lost work days.  Wuffli, Ackermann  Some 6 percent of voters were undecided whether to back the
initiative, according to the gfs.bern survey conducted Aug. 30
to Sept. 7 among 1,406 people. The margin of error was about 2.7
percentage points. The share of Swiss opposed to the proposal
increased 6 percentage points from an August survey.  Swiss voters are able to force a nationwide vote by
collecting 100,000 signatures within 18 months.  Service in the army, known for iconic pocketknives and
Papal guards, is compulsory for physically fit men from age 19.
They must complete 300 days, or opt for civilian community
service on ethical grounds, which lasts about 150 days longer.
Women are able to join the armed forces on a voluntary basis.  Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer Peter Wuffli, Ivo Furrer,  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) ’s CEO for Switzerland, and
billionaire entrepreneur Christoph Blocher are among leaders
that served in the army. Josef Ackermann, former CEO of Deutsche
Bank AG, Europe’s largest investment bank by revenue, rose to
the rank of colonel.  The country has upheld its neutrality policy since 1815,
when Swiss soldiers were last engaged in a battle on foreign
soil under Napoleon Bonaparte. Troops have been used in
peacekeeping missions in countries including  Afghanistan  and the
protection of events such as the annual gathering of global
leaders at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  ‘Sitting Around’  Neighboring  Germany ,  Italy  and  France  have all abolished
the draft, as has the U.S. Austrian voters earlier this year
rejected an abolition in a  nationwide referendum.  In Switzerland, Lorenz Stalder, 25, a law student, said
“every day was the same” during his time in the military.  “It’s all paid for by taxes, but the guys are sitting
around doing nothing,” said Stalder, who is required to attend
an annual rifle training. “It’s tough to force young men to
hang around in the army when there’s no military threat.”  Roger Federer, the 32-year-old tennis player who has won 17
Grand Slam  titles , was ruled unsuitable for military service
because of an unspecified reason, Blick newspaper reported. He
served as a sports instructor for the civilian community
service. Tony Godsick, a spokesman for Federer, could not be
reached for comment.  ‘Almost Irrelevant’  Riet Cadonau, CEO of  Kaba Holding AG (KABN) , a Swiss maker of
electronic locks, says military training is “almost
irrelevant” to get ahead in the executive world these days.  “Ten or 20 years ago, you served together with bankers,
people from the industry, politicians,” said Cadonau, a retired
air force officer, who still keeps his army-issue Colt pistol at
home. “It’s no longer common to be CEO of a global company and
have an active military career in parallel.”  Switzerland, which steered clear of armed conflict during
both world wars, still had about 800,000 men under the age of 50
serving in the armed forces, five years after the Cold War ended
in 1989. That’s about 10 percent of its population.  The Swiss have been unwilling to alter the shape of the
armed forces dating back to 1848. While voters in 2003 approved
a parliamentary plan to organize troops into smaller, more
flexible units, they later rejected a proposal that would have
ended the country’s custom of allowing soldiers to keep their
army-issued pistols and assault rifles at home.  Armed Citizenry  An armed citizenry has been a cornerstone of Switzerland’s
defense since the nation’s founding in 1291. Service weapons are
kept at home to speed up mobilization in case the country, with
a population smaller than  New York  City, is invaded.  To Mathieu Nahe Haenni, 22, who plans to pursue a military
career while taking over his family business, the army gives a
“feeling of security.” Jeremy Ruettgers, a 19-year-old from
Geneva who earns about 10,000 francs for about four months of
service as sergeant, agrees.  “My father and grandfather served -- it’s something I’m
proud of,” said Ruettgers, who gets time off base once or twice
a week. “It’s good for the experience you get, the
responsibilities you assume -- you learn how to manage people,
follow a plan. It’s part of the Swiss mindset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net ;
James Kraus in Geneva at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  