-- Swiss Investor Confidence Rises to Five-Month High: ZEW
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-09-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/swiss-investor-confidence-rises-to-five-month-high-zew.html
Swiss  investor confidence  increased
in September after the euro area, its biggest trading partner,
emerged from a record-long recession in the second quarter.  An index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
16.3 points September from 7.2 in August, the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim, Germany, and Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said in a statement today. That is
the highest level since April.  Switzerland’s “progress comes in tandem with slightly more
optimistic expectations for economic growth in the euro zone,”
Credit Suisse’s Maxime Botteron and Lena Jaroszek of the ZEW
said. “While the analysts remain predominantly cautious, their
assessment of the current economic situation in the  euro zone 
has improved markedly.”  German investor confidence rose to the highest level in
more than three years, ZEW said yesterday, signaling optimism
that Europe’s largest economy will continue to grow amid a
global recovery.  To shield the economy from the turmoil in the 17-nation
currency bloc the  Swiss National Bank  set a limit of 1.20 per
euro on the franc in September 2011 to reduce the risk of
deflation and recession. The SNB expects the Swiss economy to
expand as much as 1.5 percent this year. It will update that
forecast at its monetary policy review, held in Zurich at 9:30
a.m. tomorrow.  The Swiss survey of 43 analysts, conducted from Aug. 30 to
Sept. 13, also showed that participants expect the euro-franc
 exchange rate  to “remain broadly stable over the next six
months,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  