-- U.K. Seen Fighting EU Benchmarks Plan in Next Financial Clash
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-k-seen-fighting-eu-benchmarks-plan-in-next-financial-clash.html
U.K. officials, emboldened by a
series of victories on financial regulation, are set to
challenge European Union plans to toughen rules for benchmarks
underpinning markets from  interest rates  to  oil prices  over
concerns the proposals will unfairly burden banks.  The U.K. will seek improvements to the proposals made
yesterday by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
to ensure they are sensible, proportionate and internationally
coherent, according to a British official who isn’t allowed to
be cited by name, in line with government policy.  The EU plans, designed to restore trust amid rate-rigging
scandals, include requiring banks and other companies that
submit benchmark data to sign up to legally binding codes of
conduct. The Brussels-based European Commission would also win
powers to decide if benchmarks set outside the EU can be used.  The commission plans are “impulsive and premature,” Syed Kamall, a U.K. Conservative lawmaker representing London in the
European Parliament said in an e-mail. EU Commissioners “should
wait for evidence before jumping into action and should allow
markets to operate freely unless and until there is a very
compelling reason to step in.”  The U.K. concerns over the benchmark proposals follow three
victories for the nation last week in tussles with the EU over
financial regulation. Plans for an 11-nation financial
transaction tax and enhanced powers to ban short-selling, both
opposed by the U.K., were criticized by EU lawyers and a senior
official at the  European Court  of Justice. The EU executive arm
also scrapped a proposal in the draft benchmark rules to hand
oversight of London’s interbank offered rate to a Paris-based
regulator.  Too Wide  The U.K. is concerned that Barnier’s plans cover too wide a
range of benchmarks and that rules on using rates set outside
the EU could restrict the activities of firms operating in
Britain, according to another person who asked not to be named
because negotiations are private.  Barnier’s spokeswoman,  Chantal Hughes , said she didn’t have
an immediate comment on the U.K.’s position.  Under Barnier’s proposals banks and other companies within
the EU would only be allowed to base a financial instrument on a
benchmark that is administered in the EU or in another country
that has rules judged as “equivalent” to those in the 28-nation bloc.  The commission would be in charge of the equivalence
decisions and would “in particular” assess whether nations
comply with principles drawn up by the International
Organization of Securities Commissions.  Bank Fines  Authorities have fined UBS AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  about $2.5 billion for distorting the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and other interbank
rates. Other firms are under investigation around the world.  Yesterday’s EU proposals would apply to “all published
benchmarks that are used to reference a financial instrument
traded or admitted to trading on a regulated venue,” as well as
those that underpin financial contracts such as mortgages and
those that measure the performance of an investment fund,
according to the commission. An exemption would apply for rates
set by EU central banks.  “To suggest that all benchmarks and indices are faulty and
in need of regulating on the basis of the Libor experience is
absurd,” Kamall said. “It shows no logic and no concept of
limited intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  