-- Russia Supports Assad Denial in Chemical-Attack Dispute
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-18T15:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-s-faults-russia-for-backing-assad-s-chemical-denials.html
Russia  echoed Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s denial that his forces used chemical weapons
last month, in comments coming a day after United Nations
inspectors presented evidence that Western governments and
human-rights advocates said pointed to the regime in Damascus.  Syria  today gave Russia what it said was additional
evidence supporting its case, according to Russian state
broadcaster RT. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  called
yesterday for a further inquiry, saying his country has
“serious grounds” for thinking that the Aug. 21 attack was a
rebel “provocation,” as Assad claims.  The comments underscored the conflicting interests as the
UN Security Council attempts to negotiate a resolution mandating
that Syria give up its chemical weapons under a U.S.-Russia
accord reached in Geneva on Sept. 14. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday that he hopes the council will vote on a
resolution early next week.  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  said the information
gathered at the scene of the attack by UN chemical-weapons
inspectors, who confirmed the use of the nerve agent sarin,
implicates the Assad regime. The inspectors were barred by their
UN mandate from placing blame.  ‘Unhappy’ Russia  “When you look at the details, the evidence they present,
it is inconceivable that anybody other than the regime” used
the sarin, Obama said in an interview yesterday with the
Spanish-language TV network Telemundo.  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said during
a visit to Damascus today that Russia is “unhappy” about the
UN investigation, according to RT.  “We think that report was distorted, it was one-sided, the
basis of information upon which it is built is not sufficient,
and in any case we would need to learn and know more on what
happened beyond and above that incident of Aug. 21,” Ryabkov
told RT.  The U.S. considers Russia’s actions more important than its
words, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  “What matters is what the Russians do to ensure that Syria
upholds its commitments, and that Russia upholds its commitment
to see this agreement through, which calls for an aggressive
timetable in accounting for and securing Assad’s chemical
weapons inventory,” Carney said.  Oil Prices  With the threat of military action receding, West Texas
Intermediate crude fell yesterday to the lowest level in almost
four weeks before advancing today on declining inventories. WTI
crude for October delivery increased 30 cents to $105.72 a
barrel at 10:26 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The U.S., Russia and the other veto-wielding members of the
UN Security Council --  France , the U.K, and  China  -- are
attempting to draft a resolution compelling Syria’s
implementation of the accord reached in Geneva between Kerry and
Lavrov that averted U.S. military strikes.  Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told Lavrov in a phone
call yesterday that China hopes the Syrian disarmament accord
can be implemented quickly, according to the official Xinhua
news agency.  Placing Blame  Among the questions that complicate drafting the resolution
are whether to threaten the use of force under Chapter 7 of the
UN Charter if Assad violates the plan to turn over his chemical
arsenal.  The five permanent Security Council members discussed a
Syria resolution in private yesterday at the U.S. Mission in  New
York  and planned to meet again today.  In addition to confirming the use of sarin, the UN
inspectors presented technical details of the attack, including
the types of rockets used, their markings, and their
trajectories. That evidence clearly pinned the blame on Assad’s
regime, according to  Human Rights Watch .  “When mapping these trajectories, the presumed flight
paths of the rockets converge on a well-known military base of
the Republican Guard 104th Brigade, situated only a few
kilometers north of downtown Damascus and within firing range of
the neighborhoods attacked by chemical weapons,” the New York-based group said in an  analysis  posted yesterday on its website.  Worst Atrocity  Firas Abi Ali, London-based senior manager for  Middle East 
and North Africa country risk at research firm IHS, said in a
note to clients that “there is no evidence that the opposition
has the capability to launch multiple, simultaneous chemical
weapons attacks in both the east and west of Damascus as
described by the UN inspectors’ report.”  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said before briefing the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee yesterday that the details
make clear “it really was the Assad regime that committed this
attack,” which the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people in
what may be the worst atrocity of the 2 1/2 year Syrian civil
war.  Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who heads
the committee, said Russia has now committed itself to getting
Assad to live up to the deal negotiated with the U.S.  “If there are meaningful violations of the agreement, I
think that puts the Russians in a tough position,” he said.  ‘Good Questions’  Any failure by Russia to help enforce the agreement is
likely to prompt Congress to take up an authorization for the
use of U.S. military force against Syria, Menendez said.  “There were a lot of good questions” from senators in the
room with Kerry, said Senator Christopher Murphy, a Democrat
from  Connecticut  who voted against the committee’s approval
Sept. 4 of a resolution authorizing force. “But I think the
administration brought back a pretty good package” from the
Geneva negotiations with Russia.  Obama had requested the authorization of force, which faced
substantial opposition in Congress, only to put it aside when
the Russians proposed the plan to put Assad’s chemical weapons
under international control  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in Moscow
yesterday that he has “no doubts” the Assad regime was behind
the Aug. 21 assault. He called Syria’s willingness to give up
chemical weapons a “major change,” made possible only because
force was threatened.  Lavrov yielded no ground, saying “some of our partners
said dictatorially that only the regime could use such weapons,
but the truth must be established” through further
investigation.  Russian officials have said they suspect the Syrian
opposition staged the attack to provoke Western military
intervention in the civil war, in which more than 100,000 people
have been killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  