-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Reach 4-Month Low; Verizon Bonds Soar
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-18T21:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-s-corporate-risk-reaches-4-month-low-as-fed-delays-tapering.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
plunged to the lowest level since May after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from cutting back monetary stimulus.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  bond prices surged.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 3.6
basis points to a mid-price of 69.6 basis points at 5:25 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest intraday level since May 22, when Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank might begin to
reduce the monthly pace of bond buying in the next few meetings
if it could be confident of sustained gains in the economy. The
bond purchases have bolstered credit markets.  Bonds rallied after the Fed announced that it would
maintain its $85 billion pace of monthly debt buying after signs
of slow economic improvement. Benchmark  10-year Treasury yields 
fell 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 2.69 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “Risk markets have been addicted to monetary stimulus and
that’s the general backdrop, which is why stocks rallied and
swaps tightened with no tapering and increasingly dovish
comments in the Fed statement,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The swaps measure typically declines as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Verizon Bonds  Verizon’s $15 billion of 6.55 percent, 30-year debentures
rose 2.1 cents to 111.6 cents on the dollar to yield 5.74
percent as of 4:35 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The securities have climbed from an issue price of
99.88 cents on Sept. 11.  Bonds of the New-York based company were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 10.1 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, Trace data show.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the largest U.S. casino owner,
plans to issue $1.35 billion in second-lien notes and $500
million in first-lien debentures, the Las Vegas-based company
said today in a regulatory filing.  Caesars Offering  Proceeds from the sale will be used to refinance commercial
mortgage-backed securities and a $450 million senior-secured
facility, according to the filing.  Caesars owed $23.5 billion in long-term  borrowings  as of
June 30, according to an Aug. 9 filing. Apollo Global Management
LLC and TPG Capital acquired Caesars in 2008 for $30.1 billion
and still hold a 70 percent stake.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, decreased 13 basis points to 340.7, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 2.9 basis points to 135.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  