-- GM Share Sale Leaves U.S. Room to Exit Automaker in 2013
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-18T20:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-s-treasury-reduces-holding-in-general-motors-to-7-3-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department has
reduced its stake in  General Motors Co. (GM)  to 7.3 percent as part
of a program to sell all of its shares as soon as this year.  The Treasury’s stake is down from 32 percent in December
when the government announced it was selling $5.5 billion of its
stock back to GM and planning to sell the rest on the market
within 15 months. The U.S. said  last week  in a report it had
recovered $35.4 billion of $51 billion invested in GM. With the
remaining stake worth about $3.8 billion, the U.S. would
probably lose about $11.8 billion.  “We remain on track to complete our exit from GM by early
next year at a cost far less than originally projected,” Tim Massad, the department’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, said in an e-mail today. The sales could be completed
as soon as this year, the automaker’s top executive has said.
The U.S. held a majority of GM’s stock when the Detroit-based
automaker emerged from a government-backed bankruptcy in 2009.  The government is exiting GM as investor confidence has
risen while the company introduces 18 new or redesigned vehicles
in the U.S., transforming its lineup into one of the freshest in
the industry from the one of the oldest. GM gained  2.4 percent 
to $37.58 at the close in New York. The restructured company
held its initial public offering in 2010 was $33 a share.  GM, armed with some of its best vehicles in a generation,
has benefited as U.S. industry sales of new cars and light
trucks totaled 1.5 million in August, the most in one month
since May 2007. The seasonally adjusted annualized selling pace
exceeded 16 million for the first time since October 2007,
signaling robust demand.  Light-vehicle sales in the U.S., where GM is the market
leader, will probably rise to 16.1 million next year, the
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Obama Centerpiece  The U.S. investment in GM was the biggest piece of an
industry bailout that became a centerpiece of President  Barack Obama ’s first term.  The government may complete selling its GM stake before the
year is over, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said.  “We hope the government will have sold their shares
hopefully in the next probably three to six months, maybe a
little longer,” he told Bloomberg Radio in August.  Canada is also looking to exit its ownership in GM. The
Canadian and Ontario governments earlier this month agreed to
sell 30 million GM shares worth about $1.1 billion to Bank of
America Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada in a block trade,
reducing their stake by 21 percent to 110 million shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  