-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Sept. 13 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-09-18T17:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-sept-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 16.1 million
barrels per day during the week ending September 13, 2013, up by
over 200 thousand barrels per day from the previous week’s
average. Refineries operated at 92.5 percent of their operable
capacity last week. Gasoline production rose from the previous
week, averaging 9.3 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel
production was up slightly last week, averaging about 5.1
million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 7.6 million barrels per
day last week, down by 439 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged over 8.1 million barrels per day. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 492 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 90 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 4.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 355.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are nearing the average range for this time of year.
Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 1.6 million
barrels last week and are in the upper half of the average
range. Finished gasoline inventories and blending components
inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel inventories
decreased by 1.1 million barrels last week and remain near the
lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.1 million barrels
last week and are in the middle of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 6.1 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.1 million barrels per day, up by 2.9 percent from the same
period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged about 8.9 million barrels per day.
Distillate fuel product supplied averaged 3.8 million barrels
per day over the last four weeks, up by 10.8 percent from the
same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied averaged 1.5
million barrels per over the last four weeks, up 4.4 percent
compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  