-- U.S. Raises Prospect That Syria Will Miss Disclosure Date
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-18T20:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/u-s-raises-prospect-that-syria-will-miss-disclosure-date.html
The U.S. raised the prospect that
Syria will miss the first test of its compliance with an
agreement to give up its chemical weapons.  While Secretary of State  John Kerry  has said that Syria
“must submit” a full disclosure of its chemical weapons by
Sept. 21, as called for in the U.S.-Russia accord, State
Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said today that the U.S. was
prepared for some delay. She said the date -- one week after the
accord was reached in Geneva that averted U.S. military strikes
-- was more a “timeline” than “a hard and fast deadline.”  The comments may indicate that the U.S. anticipates Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad is unwilling or unable to meet the
first goal set out in the agreement and that the U.S. doesn’t
want that date to become a make-or-break condition. Harf told
reporters in  Washington  that what counts is seeing “forward
momentum, understanding that it’s complicated and that these
are targets on a calendar.”  The accord negotiated by Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  says that their countries “expect Syria to
submit, within a week, a comprehensive listing, including names,
types, and quantities of its chemical weapons agents, types of
munitions, and location and form of storage, production, and
research and development facilities.”  Kerry was more emphatic at a Sept. 14 news conference with
Lavrov in Geneva, where he said “we agreed that Syria must
submit, within a week -- not in 30 days, but in one week -- a
comprehensive listing.”  Deadlines Met  Members of Congress briefed by Kerry this week also said
they got the impression that the Sept. 21 date was more than
just an aspiration.  “We’re hopeful that these deadlines will be met,”
Democratic Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois said after Kerry
discussed the accord with the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. “And we’re going to hold the Syrians to them.”  Syria today gave  Russia  what it said was additional
evidence supporting its case that rebels, not the regime, were
responsible for a Aug. 21 chemical-weapons attack near Damascus.  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said during
a visit to Damascus today that Russia is “unhappy” about the
findings of a UN investigation, according to Russian state
broadcaster RT. While the UN didn’t say who was to blame for the
attack, Western nations and human-rights groups said the
evidence it provided made clear the Assad regime was behind it.  Russia Differs  “We think that report was distorted, it was one-sided, the
basis of information upon which it is built is not sufficient,
and in any case we would need to learn and know more on what
happened beyond and above that incident of Aug. 21,” Ryabkov
told RT.  Lavrov called yesterday for a further inquiry, saying his
country has “serious grounds” for thinking that the attack
last month was a rebel “provocation,” as Assad claims.  The comments underscored the conflicting interests as the
UN Security Council attempts to negotiate a resolution mandating
that Syria give up its chemical weapons under the U.S.-Russia
accord.  The U.S., Russia and the other veto-wielding members of the
UN Security Council --  France , the U.K, and  China  -- are
attempting to draft a resolution compelling Syria’s
implementation of the accord reached by Kerry and Lavrov. UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday that he hopes the
council will vote on a resolution early next week.  Placing Blame  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  said the information
gathered at the scene of the attack by the UN inspectors, who
confirmed the use of the nerve agent sarin, implicates the Assad
regime.  “When you look at the details, the evidence they present,
it is inconceivable that anybody other than the regime” used
the sarin, Obama said in an interview yesterday with the
Spanish-language TV network Telemundo.  The U.S. considers Russia’s actions more important than its
words, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  “What matters is what the Russians do to ensure that Syria
upholds its commitments, and that Russia upholds its commitment
to see this agreement through, which calls for an aggressive
timetable in accounting for and securing Assad’s chemical
weapons inventory,” Carney said.  With the threat of military action receding, West Texas
Intermediate crude fell yesterday to the lowest level in almost
four weeks before advancing today. WTI crude for October
delivery rose $2.65 to settle at $108.07 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange after the  Federal Reserve  said it will
maintain monthly bond purchases to stimulate growth.  Attack Details  In addition to confirming the use of sarin, the UN
inspectors presented technical details of the attack, including
the types of rockets used, their markings, and their
trajectories. That evidence clearly pinned the blame on Assad’s
regime, according to  Human Rights Watch .  “When mapping these trajectories, the presumed flight
paths of the rockets converge on a well-known military base of
the Republican Guard 104th Brigade, situated only a few
kilometers north of downtown Damascus and within firing range of
the neighborhoods attacked by chemical weapons,” the New York-based group said in an  analysis  posted yesterday on its website.  Kerry, speaking to reporters before briefing the Senate
committee yesterday, said that the details make clear “it
really was the Assad regime that committed this attack,” which
the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people in what may be the
worst atrocity of the 2 1/2 year Syrian civil war.  ‘No Doubts’  At the State Department today, Harf said that the U.S. is
confident of its conclusions and hasn’t seen evidence supporting
the contention of Russia and the Syrian regime.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in Moscow
yesterday that he has “no doubts” the Assad regime was behind
the Aug. 21 assault. He called  Syria ’s willingness to give up
chemical weapons a “major change,” made possible only because
force was threatened.  Obama had requested the authorization of force, which faced
substantial opposition in Congress, only to put it aside when
the Russians proposed the plan to put Assad’s chemical weapons
under international control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  