-- UBS Securities Japan Must Pay $100 Million in Libor Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-18T22:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/ubs-securities-japan-set-to-be-sentenced-in-libor-case.html
A Japanese unit of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, was ordered to pay a $100 million
fine as part of a global resolution of allegations that it
manipulated benchmark  interest rates .  UBS Securities Japan pleaded guilty in December in federal
court in Hartford,  Connecticut , to one count of  wire fraud  and
agreed to pay the fine, according to court filings. U.S.
District Judge Robert N. Chatigny accepted the plea agreement
today, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement.  The agreement is part of a global resolution of criminal,
civil and regulatory actions brought by prosecutors against
Zurich-based UBS in connection with alleged rate manipulation,
according to a joint sentencing memorandum.  “This action, and the resulting sentence, prove that no
individual or firm is above the law -- no matter what,” U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said in the statement. “The
 Department of Justice  will continue to stand vigilant against
corporations or individuals who threaten the integrity of our
financial markets, undermine the stability of our economy, or
jeopardize the well-being of our citizens.”  December Agreement  UBS entered into a non-prosecution agreement in December
with the  Justice Department  covering itself and all its
subsidiaries and affiliates, except for UBS Securities Japan.
Fines by U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators against UBS total about
$1.5 billion, including $700 million to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, $259.2 million to the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority and $64.3 million to the Swiss Financial market
Supervisory Authority, the Justice Department said.  UBS agreed to pay a $400 million penalty as part of the
non-prosecution agreement, to admit and accept responsibility
for misconduct and to continue cooperating with the probe, the
Justice Department said in today’s statement.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, to profit from bets
on interest-rate derivatives or make the lenders’ finances
appear healthier than they were.  Libor is published by the London-based British Bankers’
Association and is calculated based on submissions from banks
around the world based on the rates the lenders believed would
be charged for borrowing, according to the Justice Department.
The rate is calculated for 10 currencies at 15 borrowing periods
ranging from overnight to as much as a year.  ‘Systematic Scheme’  According to the Justice Department, UBS Securities  Japan 
and a senior trader in  Tokyo  planned a “sustained, wide-ranging
and systematic scheme” to move the yen Libor in a direction
benefiting the trader’s positions, defrauding UBS counterparties
and “harming others with financial products referencing yen
Libor who were unaware of the manipulation.”  For almost three years starting in November 2006, the
trader or a colleague manipulated the yen Libor on at least 335
of 738 trading days and sometimes daily, the Justice Department
said. Two former UBS traders have been charged by U.S.
prosecutors in connection with the alleged manipulation.  “Because of the large size of the senior trader’s
positions, even slight moves of a fraction of a percent in yen
Libor could generate large profits,” the department said in
today’s statement. “For example, the senior trader once
estimated that a 0.01 percent movement in the final yen Libor
fixing on a specific date could result in a $2 million profit
for UBS.”  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS in  New York , declined
to comment on the sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. UBS Securities Japan Co. Ltd., 3:12-cr-00268, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  