-- Lucian Freud’s Assistant Dawson Steps From Shadow
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/lucian-freud-s-assistant-dawson-steps-from-shadow.html
David Dawson rose to fame as the
world’s most prominent artist’s assistant. He saw  Lucian Freud 
virtually every day for two decades.  Now Dawson and I are musing on life after our friend, who
died in July 2011. Dawson is stepping out of his master’s shadow
to hold an exhibition of his own work.  We agree that Freud had the power not just to make you
laugh when he said something funny, but also to carry on
laughing for the rest of your life. (Martin Amis, I recall, said
something similar about his father Kingsley.)  It is not so much that since Freud died we continue to
chuckle at things he said, though he could be very funny. Freud
said things that make you think for the rest of your life.  How about this, for example, on interior design: “In the
end, nothing goes with anything. It’s your taste that puts
things together.” Or this, on a fellow painter (who shall
remain anonymous): “He has a quality that only the very best
people and the very worst have: He’s absolutely shameless.”  From 1992 onward, Dawson organized the practical details of
Freud’s life, sitting for seven pictures, taking a series of
magnificent photographs of Freud at work, and usually ending the
day by eating dinner with the painter at the Wolseley.  For the final two years of Freud’s life, Dawson posed naked
virtually every morning on a mattress with his pet, a whippet
named Eli, for the painter’s last unfinished picture, “Portrait
of the Hound 2011.”  Emin Contemporary  Though Dawson, born 1960, is a painter by training -- he
was at the Royal College of Art at the same time as Tracey Emin
-- this schedule left limited time for him to work on his own
pictures.  Even posthumously, Freud’s career makes demands.  Dawson was co-curator of the retrospective last year at the
 National Portrait Gallery  in  London  and in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .
Another big Freud show opens at the  Kunsthistorisches Museum  in
Vienna, on Oct. 8.  An exhibition of Dawson’s own pictures has opened at
Marlborough Contemporary, London W1. The first thing to say
about his work is it doesn’t look much like the art of Lucian
Freud.  “One thing I learned from Lucian is that you have to find
your own language,” he says. “Maybe it was a bit difficult for
me to do that while Lucian was still around, because my job was
to make sure he was functioning.”  Painting People  Freud was above all a painter of people. Lucian, as Dawson
put it, “was fascinated by people, and enjoyed the company of
certain individuals.” Conversely, he fled the presence of
others whom he labeled “ghastly.”  An  art dealer  recalls that one day Freud told him he liked
his gallery, the reason being nothing to do with the work on
show, but “because it has two exits.”  Dawson’s work, in contrast, turns out to be almost entirely
based on landscape. The work in the exhibition comes from three
locations, one of them a farm in Montgomeryshire, a quiet rural
area of Wales. Of these hills, Dawson says, “No one’s ever
painted this part of the world before. I feel it’s mine.”  There are also pictures of Kensal Rise, an almost equally
unknown part of northwest London (artistically speaking), and
 New York  viewed from a terrace above  Central Park . The canvases
are large, his brushwork bold and free.  If you had to guess an influence, it might be Willem de Kooning, but certainly not Freud. For Dawson, he reflects,
“this feels like the beginning of something.”  “David Dawson: London, Wales, New York” is at Marlborough
Fine Art, 6 Albemarle Street, W1S 4BY until Oct. 5. Information:
+44-20-7629-5161 or  http://www.marlboroughfineart.com   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 