-- Hungary Prepares U.S. Bond Sale With $5 Billion Registration
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-18T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/hungary-preparing-u-s-bond-sale-with-5-billion-registration.html
Hungary  filed to issue as much as
$5 billion of bonds in the U.S. as the European Union’s most-indebted eastern nation prepares to follow other emerging-market
issuers seeking international funding.  The yield on Hungary’s dollar bonds due 2023 jumped 15
basis points to 6.17 percent by 3:47 p.m. in Budapest, climbing
from a one-month low of 6.02 percent two days ago. The “shelf”
registration allows Hungary to sell the securities in one or
more offerings, according to a document published by the
Securities and Exchange Commission in New York yesterday.  Developing nations from  Romania  to  Russia  and  South Africa 
sold international bonds last week before the  Federal Reserve ’s
meeting. The Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing the $85
billion pace of monthly bond buying today, saying it needs to
see more signs of lasting improvement in the economy. Hungary,
which raised $3.25 billion in February in its first sale of
foreign bonds in 21 months, may sell more to prefinance for
notes maturing in 2014, the  Economy Ministry  said in an online
briefing on Aug. 22.  “With the application for SEC registration, the foreign-currency sale the government has hinted at is getting ever
closer,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, Budapest-based analysts
at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report
today. “There are no details or timing available yet and the $5
billion limit can be exhausted in more than one issuance.”  Regional Outperformer  Hungary’s dollar debt has gained 1.6 percent this quarter,
the biggest advance in eastern  Europe  and compared with a 0.2
percent decline in the Bloomberg Emerging Market Sovereign-Debt
 Index. (BEMS)  The cost to insure Hungary’s dollar notes against non-payment using credit-default swaps declined to 288 basis points
today, the lowest level on a closing basis since July 17.  The SEC registration prepares the regulatory ground for an
offering without any obligation that a sale should go ahead.  Hungary’s Debt Management Agency didn’t immediately respond
to questions requesting further comment on bond sale plans sent
by e-mail and a telephone call to the office of Laszlo Andras Borbely, the organization’s deputy chief executive officer.  The government “would almost certainly want to come to the
market” before a 1 billion euro ($1.3 billion) note matures on
Jan. 29, 2014, said Abbas Ameli-Renani, a London-based emerging-markets analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The debt
agency will “likely” issue less than the $3.25 billion in
February, Ameli-Renani said in an e-mail today.  The registration for a potential sale is “positive” for
the forint and local-currency debt and “negative” for existing
foreign-currency notes, Ameli-Renani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  