-- Universal Music Must Face Lawsuit Over Bob Marley Remixes
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-18T18:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/universal-music-must-face-lawsuit-over-bob-marley-remixes.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group
Inc. must face claims that it tried to block a music production
company from distributing its remixes of early Bob Marley songs,
a federal appeals court in  California  ruled.  Universal won dismissal of the claims brought by Rock River
Communications Inc. after arguing to a lower court that the
distributor had to prove it was legally authorized to use the
music on its album. Universal couldn’t have interfered if the
album violated copyright laws, the company said. Universal is
only half right, a three-judge appeals panel ruled today.  “UMG cannot obtain summary judgment based on the holes in
Rock River’s claim to a valid license when the validity of UMG’s
own licensing rights is equally spotty,” the court ruled.  The case involves licensing rights for early musical
recordings by  Bob Marley and the Wailers . Rock River sued in
2008 accusing Universal of strong-arming its plans to release an
album called “Roots, Rock, Remixed” that included 12 versions
of popular Marley songs including “Lively Up Yourself.”
Universal claimed to have purchased exclusive rights to the
music in 2003 from a company called JAD Records, according to
court documents.  Rock River’s obtained its license to sample 16 musical
recordings by the group from San Juan Music Group Ltd., which
had licensed music since 1980 through an agreement with former
Marley producer Lee Perry, according to court documents.  Marketplace ‘Confusion’  “When the music was initially recorded in Jamaica in the
1960s, record keeping was not a primary concern,” the appeals
court said in its ruling. “The absence of legal documentation
has led to confusion in the marketplace as to which entities own
licensing rights for these recordings.”  UMG’s transmission of cease-and-desist letters in 2007, an
action that prompted Rock River’s suit, could be viewed by a
reasonable jury as the company’s attempt to enforce its claim to
exclusive licensing rights through a “threat of litigation”
rather than actual litigation, the appeals court said in its
ruling. The court noted that despite San Juan’s long history
“openly licensing” Marley recordings, neither Universal or JAD
ever sued that company for infringement.  Marley and the Wailers catapulted  Jamaica ’s reggae music to
the international stage in the 1973 with their album “Catch A
Fire.” The same year, “Burnin’” was released, which included
“Get Up Stand Up” and “I Shot the Sheriff.” The song
“Lively Up Yourself” is featured on their 1974 album “Natty
Dread.” Marley died of cancer in 1981 at age 36.  Officials at Universal Music weren’t immediately available
for comment.  The case is Rock River Communications Inc. Universal Music
Group Inc., 11-57168, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit (Pasadena).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  