-- Verdict in Bo Xilai Graft Trial to Be Announced on Sept. 22
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T09:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/verdict-in-bo-xilai-s-graft-trial-may-come-sept-22-scmp-says.html
A Chinese court will announce the
verdict in the corruption trial of ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai on Sept. 22.  The decision will be made public at 10 a.m., the Jinan
Intermediate People’s Court said on its official microblog
account today. Bo’s five-day trial on charges of bribery, abuse
of power and embezzlement ended Aug. 26.  Bo’s verdict and sentence will put a capstone on a case
that roiled the Communist Party in the prelude to its once-a-decade leadership transition last year. Chinese state media have
said that the trial demonstrated the party’s determination to
crack down on corruption at the highest level.  Bo will probably appeal his verdict, the South  China 
Morning Post reported today, citing a person with direct
knowledge of the matter. Bo will get a jail term of less than 15
years, it said, citing two people with close ties to family
associates of Bo and his wife, Gu Kailai.  The court didn’t say when Bo’s sentence would be announced.
In the case of Bo’s wife, the court handed down the sentence at
the same time that it disclosed the verdict.  The trial broke with Chinese precedent of conducting such
politically significant trials in secret because the Jinan court
released edited transcripts of Bo defending himself.  During the trial, Bo accused his former police chief, Wang
Lijun, of being in love with Gu and denied he was guilty of the
charges against him. The bribery claim was something “even the
lousiest TV drama scriptwriter wouldn’t create,” he said,
according to trial transcripts.  Public’s Confidence  “It is believed that Bo’s trial will wipe out rumors and
speculation, promoting the public’s confidence in China’s rule
of law,” the state-run Global Times said in an editorial on
Aug. 27, the day after Bo’s trial ended.  Bo, formerly party secretary of the southern municipality
of Chongqing, was accused of taking more than 21 million  yuan 
($3.4 million) in bribes, embezzling 5 million yuan and abusing
his power in the case of murdered British businessman Neil
Heywood. Gu, Bo’s wife, was convicted last year of murdering
Heywood and given a suspended death sentence.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  