-- Verizon Pays $5.1 Billion in Extra Interest: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/verizon-pays-5-1-billion-in-extra-interest-corporate-finance.html
The rally in  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s bonds after its record $49 billion offering shows the
phone company will pay as much as $5.1 billion more in interest
for the certainty of completing the deal a week before the
 Federal Reserve  may curtail its record stimulus.  Yields on the securities have plummeted since the Sept. 11
offering, with the $15 billion of 6.55 percent bonds due in
September 2043, the largest piece of the eight-part deal,
trading at 109.5 cents on the dollar yesterday, 9.6 cents more
than the issue price. That reduced the yield to 5.88 percent,
suggesting the company will pay about $101 million of extra
interest a year on those notes than if it sold them at current
market rates.  “I don’t think they had much of a choice than to offer a
deal that was cheap,” Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in
 San Diego  with LPL Financial Corp., which oversees $350 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s hard to fault them with
all the uncertainty ahead of the Fed meeting and a weak  bond
market .”  Fed Decision  Verizon, which is buying  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  out of their
U.S. wireless partnership in the biggest purchase in more than a
decade, offered bond buyers above-market rates to lock in
financing before a Fed decision today on whether to start
scaling back stimulus measures that have suppressed borrowing
costs. With  interest rates  rising and investment-grade corporate
bonds facing their first annual loss since 2008, the company
tapped the market at a time when yields remain almost a
percentage point below the average of the past five years.  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
the interest costs.  Societe Generale SA analysts said before the sale that the
company might initially issue $20 billion to $30 billion, mostly
dominated in dollars, while also including euros, British pounds
and possibly Japanese yen, according to a  report  dated Sept. 8.
Verizon decided not to market euro-denominated bonds as had been
planned for Sept. 12 and 13, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who asked not to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  The company intended to use $40 billion to $50 billion of
bonds to help fund the $130 billion purchase of Vodafone’s stake
in  Verizon Wireless , a person briefed on its plans who asked not
to be identified, citing lack of authorization to speak publicly
on the matter, said before the U.S. sale.  Termination Fees  Verizon faces a $10 billion fee should the deal be
terminated because it can’t line up financing, the New York-based company said in a filing. The penalty was greater than a
breakup fee of $4.65 billion should its board change its
recommendation on the share issuance and of $1.55 billion should
it fail to garner enough shareholder support.  The company issued $45 billion of fixed-rate bonds with
maturities ranging from three to 30 years that will pay about
$45.3 billion in interest over their lives, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It also sold $4 billion of floating-rate
notes in two parts.  The decline in yields on the fixed-rate securities implies
the company will pay $327 million in extra interest over the
next 12 months, Bloomberg data show. The amount of extra
interest Verizon will pay over the bonds’ lifetimes is more than
the average $4.7 billion it earned each year over the past
decade.  ‘Elephant-Size Deal’  “Verizon stakeholders would like the company to capitalize
on lowering its cost of capital as efficiently and effectively
as possible,”  Todd Lowenstein , a stock portfolio manager with
Highmark Capital in  Los Angeles , who doesn’t own Verizon or
Vodafone shares, said by e-mail. “Given this was an elephant-size deal there were multiple considerations involved,” he
said. “I wouldn’t penalize them too much for not getting the
absolute cheapest rate.”  The 10 largest buyers obtained $22.1 billion, or 45 percent
of the offering, with the top five buying $16.25 billion,
according to a person familiar with the sale, who asked not to
be identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, purchased $8 billion of the debt while
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the No. 1 shareholder of Verizon, was awarded
about $5 billion, according to people familiar with the sale.  Michael Reid, a Pimco spokesman, and Farrell Denby, a
BlackRock spokesman, declined to comment.  Rising Yields  Verizon’s $11 billion of 5.15 percent, 10-year securities
climbed to 105 cents from 99.7 cents at issuance, with the yield
dropping to 4.51 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That implies the company could have saved $70.8 million per year
in interest on that debt.  “Verizon was prudent to move quickly on the bond
offering,” said Kevin Roe, an analyst with Roe Equity Research
based in Dorset,  Vermont . “The very fact that rates are so
uncertain and volatile is reason enough to secure the proceeds
for the Vodafone deal sooner rather than later.”  While yields on dollar-denominated bonds sold by
investment-grade companies have climbed to 3.53 percent from a
record low 2.65 percent in May, they are still below the 4.4
percent average of the past five years, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The debt is down 3.85 percent
this year after gaining 10.4 percent in 2012, the first decline
since a 6.82 percent loss in 2008, the data show.  Stimulus Withdrawal  The Fed’s stimulus measures, which have included holding
its target interest rate at  almost zero  for more than four years
and $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, have helped push down
yields from an average of 5.17 percent from 2004 to 2006, before
the financial crisis and an average of 8.24 percent in December
2008, when the central bank announced its first bond-buying
program.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield has  risen  0.8
percentage point to 2.85 percent since May 22, when Chairman
Ben. S. Bernanke said the central bank could start curtailing
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases sometime this year if
there was “real and sustainable progress in the labor market
outlook.”  The Fed will scale back its bond purchases to $80 billion
following the two-day meeting that ends today, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central
bank will keep purchases of mortgage-backed securities at the
current monthly pace of $40 billion, while cutting Treasury bond
purchases to $40 billion from $45 billion.  “They were really eager to get a deal done because there
are uncertainties and it was a huge amount of debt,” Ping Zhao,
an analyst at bond researcher CreditSights Inc. in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “We’ve never seen $49 billion
from one company in one day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  