-- Vinashin Cuts Jobs as Vietnam Overhauls State Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T08:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/vinashin-cuts-jobs-as-vietnam-overhauls-state-companies.html
Vietnam  Shipbuilding Industry
Group, the state company whose near-bankruptcy contributed to
credit downgrades and banking system concerns, said it will fire
14,000 employees, or more than half of its workforce.  The company, known as Vinashin, plans to initially
eliminate 8,000 employees who have no work and carry out further
job cuts later, according to a Sept. 16  posting  on the company’s
website.  Vinashin’s job cuts may offer a clue to how the government
of the Southeast Asian country, whose economy last year grew at
the slowest pace since at least 2005, restructures the state
sector. State-owned companies are a key source of economic
vulnerability, the International Monetary Fund said last month.  “If they handle this well and limit the social impact and
are able to compensate workers and perhaps retrain them, it
might smooth the process,” said Dominic Mellor, a Hanoi-based
economist at the Asian Development Bank. That would avoid
“strengthening the case of vested interests who want to slow
the restructuring process down.”  ‘Almost Impossible’  The company’s units have found it “almost impossible” to
raise funds for production, Vinashin said in the posting. The
shipbuilder said it plans to retain about 8,000 positions at the
end of its restructuring from 26,242 employees as of the end of
July. The company did not say what it will do with more than
4,000 current workers unaccounted for or when the restructuring
will be completed.  Vinashin’s acting Chief Executive Officer Vu Anh Tuan
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg news today on
his phone. Minister of Transport Dinh La Thang wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Job cuts will “not be simple” because of a lack of
available funds to pay outstanding salaries and social, health
and unemployment benefits, according to Vinashin’s posting. The
company had more than 70,000 employees as of mid-2010 and has
been forced to merge, sell or dissolve units as part of its
restructuring, according to government reports.  Vinashin, which the government had wanted to turn into a
flagship industrial exporter, defaulted on an internationally
syndicated $600 million loan in 2010. The default cast doubt
over the financial health of other state companies as the
deterioration of the quality of their assets poses a risk to
banking system stability, Moody’s Investors Service said last
year.  Limited Progress  Vinashin was the recipient of the $750 million proceeds
from Vietnam’s first dollar-denominated bond sale in 2005. By
2010, the company had built up debts of about 86 trillion dong
($4.1 billion), according to the government.  More than two years after the Vietnamese government set out
to reform its state-owned enterprise sector, progress has been
“limited,” the World Bank  said  in July, citing a low number of
share sales of government companies.  State-owned companies dominate key industries in Vietnam,
accounting for an estimated one-sixth of employment and half of
corporate income tax revenue, the International Monetary Fund
 said  last month.  “I’m not sure that the extent of job cuts at Vinashin can
be replicated at other SOEs where there is continuity of
management and where the managers are used to thinking of
employment generation as a kind of performance indicator,” said
Mellor. “Vinashin is a special case because they’ve really got
their back to the wall and they’ve got new management.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  