-- VIX Squeeze Seen by SocGen as Short Bets Rise to Record
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2013-09-18T13:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/vix-squeeze-seen-by-socgen-as-short-bets-rise-to-record.html
The next drop in U.S. equities may
spur a bigger jump in the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index as investors rush to cover their  record bets 
against the gauge, according to  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   Hedge funds and other large speculators have more than
doubled short positions on VIX futures to 189,020 contracts
since the end of June, according to data compiled by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The wagers reached a
record last month. The current figure implies those investors
may lose  $99.5 million  with every 1 point increase in the
volatility gauge, CFTC data show.  This year’s rally in U.S. stocks has led to a 19 percent
plunge in the VIX, creating profitable strategies to bet against
volatility futures. A decline in equities and subsequent
increase in share-price swings would bring losses for VIX short
sellers, which may drive them to cover the trades, according to
Ramon Verastegui of  Societe Generale . Increased demand for the
contracts will push volatility higher and may exacerbate the
stock-market selloff, he said.  “The concentrated short in the VIX futures is like a red
point if you look at a map of the market, signaling potential
risk,” Verastegui, head of engineering and strategy at the
French bank, said in a Sept. 13 interview from New York. “A
short squeeze in the VIX will have an impact on the volatility
market and that can spill over into other markets, accelerating
a move down in the S&P 500.”  VIX Futures  The last time investors were  close  to being this short VIX
futures was in February, CFTC data show. The VIX, tracking
options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,  surged  34 percent on
Feb. 25, the most since August 2011, after U.S. lawmakers
struggled to reach an agreement to avoid spending cuts and
Italian elections were inconclusive. Investors reduced short
holdings on the VIX contracts through the next four months,
according to the CFTC measure.  The number of short VIX positions initiated by  hedge funds 
reached almost 222,000 futures in August, an all-time high, CFTC
data show. The benchmark of stock-market volatility added 1
percent to 14.53 yesterday. It  closed  2.4 percent below its
average for the past year. The mean since 1990 is 20.26.  Volatility Strategies  Bets against volatility have risen as investors take
advantage of a market in  contango , where prices increase into
the future. In the strategy, investors buy longer-dated futures
and sell nearer-month futures. Just before expiration of the
short future, the investor covers the position by buying it back
and selling a new short-dated future at a higher price.  The trade is profitable in low volatility environments when
the contango remains steep.  Two-month futures  trade at 16.32, 5.4 percent more than
those expiring in a month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growing speculation about the  Federal Reserve ’s tightening
of economic stimulus has whipsawed stocks since May, when
officials first indicated reductions could start this year. The
S&P 500  tumbled  5.8 percent from a record on May 21 through June
24. It rebounded 8.7 percent to close at its latest all-time
high before slumping as much as 4.6 percent from that level.  Analysts are divided on the amount by which the  Federal
Open Market Committee  will reduce its monthly bond buying today.
Of 64 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , 33 predicted that
the Fed will lower its  purchases of Treasuries  by $5 billion or
less, while 31 forecast a cut of $10 billion or more. Some 57
percent of investors predicted that the markets would not change
suddenly if the central bank starts to taper, according to a
poll of 900 fund managers, traders and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers on Sept. 10.  ‘Incredibly Resilient’  “The equity market remains incredibly resilient,” Gary Flam, a portfolio manager at Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in
 Los Angeles , said in a Sept. 16 phone interview. His firm
oversees about $7 billion. “Shorter-term managers were
cautiously positioned coming into September as you had a laundry
list of concerns, but as we move through the month these fears
are either being checked off or reduced.”  Tensions over  Syria  have eased after the U.S. reached an
agreement with Russia to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons.
Under the accord, reached in Geneva, President Bashar al-Assad
has a week to submit a list of his inventory of toxic arms.  The VIX, which moves in opposite direction to the  S&P 500 
about 80 percent of the time, tends to fall in September in
years when volatility is below its current historical average at
the start of the month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures Trading  The volatility benchmark fell 0.8 percent to 14.42 at 9:49
a.m. in New York today. In  Europe , the VStoxx Index, which
tracks the cost of options on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, closed at
18.99 yesterday, 2.3 percent below its one-year average. It
slipped 0.4 percent to 18.91 today.  Trading of  VIX futures  has averaged about 160,500 contracts
per day this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
most ever and 69 percent more than the volume in 2012. There are
about 416,000 futures outstanding, according to the data.  “A short-term move down in the S&P 500 could be
exacerbated by short-covering in VIX futures,” Trevor Mottl,
Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP’s New York-based head of
derivatives strategy, said Sept. 16 by phone. “A lot of people
think the world is fine, and they’re selling VIX futures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  