-- Walgreen Joins in Exodus of Workers to Private Exchanges
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-18T20:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/walgreen-joins-in-exodus-of-workers-to-private-exchanges.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S.
drugstore chain, will move its workers into a private health
insurance exchange to buy company-subsidized coverage, the
latest sign of how the debate over  Obamacare  is accelerating a
historic shift in corporate health-care coverage.  About 160,000 Walgreen employees now have to choose which
coverage plan suits them best at a time of rising complexity in
the health-care system. While Walgreen said it will provide
funding in 2014 equal to what workers get now, the move curtails
uncertainty on future outlays, and there’s no guarantee the
company’s contribution will rise if premiums do.  Walgreen joins  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  Darden Restaurants
Inc. (DRI)  in a private exchange run by  Aon Plc (AON)  that includes 18
companies and 600,000 people, Aon said. While the private effort
isn’t directly linked to Obamacare, the growing use of private
exchange similar to the law’s public ones adds new fodder to the
debate over the law’s influence.  “For a while, large employers have been moving in this
direction,” said Thomas Buchmueller, a professor at the
 University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor ,
by telephone. “After the legislation was passed, they looked at
the exchanges and said, ‘This is something we can do.’”  Michael Polzin, a spokesman for Deerfield, Illinois-based
Walgreen, denied that his company’s move was driven by the
Affordable Care Act’s 2010 passage and provisions, saying,
“It’s something we’ve been looking at very closely in the last
couple years.”  ‘Hard to Link’  “It’s hard to link the two,” Polzin said in a telephone
interview. “We want to continue to be very innovative in the
health care we’re providing employees, just as we’re innovative
as a health-care provider.”  Walgreen rose 1.3 percent to $55.63 at the close in New
York. The shares have  jumped 56 percent  in the last 12 months.  The options offered by the private exchange offer similar
levels of coverage to those in the Affordable Care Act’s public
exchanges, though workers will get their subsidies from their
companies instead of the government, said Ken Sperling of Aon.  Other large employers, including  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Time Warner Inc. have this year moved their
retirees into private exchanges from company-picked plans.
Trader Joe’s Co., the closely held grocery store chain, has said
it will move part-time workers at its 400 stores onto the
Obamacare exchanges, and United Parcel Service Inc. decided to
drop health benefits for 15,000 of its workers’ spouses who can
get insurance through another company.  ‘Tired of Volatility’  Companies are “tired of the volatility, the complexity and
the cost” tied to traditional health plans, said Sperling, the
national health exchange strategy leader at Aon. “Volatility,
complexity and cost -- those are the things that run through
health care right now.”  Disappearing are the days of the company owning their
workers’ welfare, said Linda Barrington, the executive director
of Cornell University’s Institute for Compensation Studies.  Retirement plans such as “401(k) and the like require more
of employees than did the traditional pension, albeit they also
offer more ’choice,’” Barrington said in an e-mail. “Choice
can be good. But making the right choice requires educating
oneself and discernment in the decision -- both which are
responsibilities that take time, and maybe some talent.”  The move to put workers into private exchanges will
probably gather steam, said Paul Fronstin, director of health
care research at the Employee Benefit Research Institute.  Not ’Overnight’  “I expect it too, though I also expect it won’t happen
overnight,” Fronstin said in an e-mail. “Most major trends in
benefits have taken decades to take off.”  Walgreen’s financial contribution to workers’ health plans
will be “very comparable to what we currently pay for their
premiums,” said the Walgreen spokesman, Polzin.  Aon, based in  London , will help lower growing employer
costs, which can be $10,000 per worker, Sperling said. Consumers
in turn will get more choice, and experience in the private
exchanges suggests that they’ll opt for less coverage, rather
than richer, more comprehensive plans, he said, in a telephone
interview.  Walgreen has 8,117 stores in the U.S. The company will give
employees the same amount of subsidy next year as it now pays
for their premiums, Polzin said. Its health-care costs will be
little changed in 2014 from this year, he said, as opposed to
what would otherwise be an increase.  More Choice  Previously, Walgreen had two insurers each offering two
plans, for four total options, Polzin said. The Aon exchange has
five insurers each offering five different plans. Under the
private exchange system, companies give workers a subsidy, and
the employee will make up any difference in cost for more
complex coverage.  In Aon’s private exchange, which last year had about
100,000 workers in it, 42 percent of people chose health
insurance with less coverage and lower cost, than they had
previously through their employer. And 26 percent of people
chose richer benefits.  “Most people don’t need a whole lot of health-care
coverage,” Sperling said. A small fraction of people, less than
10 percent, drive the bulk of health-care costs, he said.  Most large employers are self-insured, meaning that they
take on the financial risk of their employees’ health costs.
While an insurer typically administers the plan, if health costs
go up in a given year because a lot of people get sick, the
company pays. Under a subsidy model in the exchanges, a
company’s costs are more predictable and controlled, and the
insurer takes the financial risk.  Not Specialized  Aon’s Sperling said it is part of companies getting away
from things they don’t specialize in, like providing benefits,
and letting them focus on running their businesses.  IBM said this month it will shift about 110,000 Medicare-eligible retirees to Towers Watson’s Extend Health, the largest
private Medicare exchange.  Former workers will find more options than the business
could provide through its own plan, IBM, the third-largest U.S.
employer according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said in a
statement e-mailed Sept. 7. Caterpillar Inc. and DuPont Co. also
have moved Medicare-age retirees onto the Extend exchange.  IBM said at the time that it had capped retiree health
insurance subsidies in the 1990s, and the move wasn’t about
cutting costs, rather it was to give workers more choice of
plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  