-- Westports Investors Said to Seek as Much as $626 Million in IPO
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-09-18T02:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/westports-investors-said-to-seek-as-much-as-626-million-in-ipo.html
The initial public offering of
 Westports Malaysia Sdn. , the main terminal operator at one of
the country’s biggest ports, is poised to raise as much as 2.03
billion ringgit ($626 million), said two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Shareholders including billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s Hutchison
Port Holdings Ltd. are expected to sell 813.2 million shares for
2.30 ringgit to 2.50 ringgit apiece, the people said, asking not
to be named as the process is private.  The IPO will be  Malaysia ’s biggest this year, surpassing
the $324 million sale of long-haul budget carrier AirAsia X Bhd.
in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. First-time
offers have raised $1.1 billion this year in Kuala Lumpur,
down from $5.3 billion in the same period in 2012, the data show.  Westports Executive Chairman G. Gnanalingam couldn’t be
immediately reached when phoned at his office for comment today.
Malaysia’s Star newspaper reported the price range earlier today,
citing an unidentified person.  Westports, with almost 4,000 employees, has a 69 percent
share of container volume at Port Klang, with six terminals and
the potential to build another three, according to its  website .
Led by Chief Executive Officer Ruben Emir Gnanalingam, it
handled container throughput of 6.9 million 20-foot equivalent
units (TEUs) last year, the company said.  Malayan Banking Bhd., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG are among banks arranging the IPO. Prime
Minister Najib Razak will attend the release of Westports’
listing prospectus tomorrow, according to an e-mailed media
invitation yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net 
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  