-- Crude Rises Most in 3 Weeks After Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-18T19:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/wti-crude-rises-for-first-time-in-four-days.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
the most in three weeks after the  Federal Reserve  said it will
maintain monthly bond purchases to stimulate economic growth.  Future surged 2.5 percent as the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said it will continue buying $85 million in Treasuries
each month. Prices climbed earlier as a government report showed
that U.S. crude stockpiles fell to the lowest level since March
2012 and supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
WTI, dropped an 11th week.  “The Fed move is going to boost commodity prices,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The market had built in a
significant decline in bond purchases. There is now going to be
more money available to prop up oil and other markets.”  WTI crude for October delivery rose $2.65 to settle at
$108.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest advance since Aug. 27. Prices are up 18 percent this
year. The volume of all futures traded was 19 percent higher
than the 100-day average at 3:41 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $2.41, or 2.2
percent, to end the session at $110.60 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was also the biggest gain
since Aug. 27. Volume was 26 percent above the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI slipped to
$3.32 a barrel, the narrowest gap since Aug. 19 based on
settlement prices, as some supplies returned in  Libya  and
concern that a U.S.-led attack on  Syria  would affect Middle East
exports waned.  The monetary policy makers ended a two-day meeting today in
 Washington  and released a policy statement at 2 p.m.  Treasury Yields  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues refrained from
paring record accommodation as rising borrowing costs show signs
of slowing the four-year expansion. Treasury yields have jumped
since May, when Bernanke first outlined a possible timetable for
a reduction in the asset purchases that have swelled the Fed’s
balance sheet to $3.66 trillion.  There’s “no fixed calendar schedule” for tapering,
Bernanke said at a press conference in Washington after the FOMC
meeting. The Fed “could move” later this year, he said.  The dollar fell against the euro after the outlook,
bolstering the appeal of commodities denominated in the U.S.
currency as an investment. The dollar slipped as much as 1.1
percent against the common currency to $1.3512, the lowest level
since Feb. 13. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials gained as much 1.8 percent to 647.44.  The  S&P 500 Index  climbed 1.2 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose 0.9 percent.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories slid 4.37 million barrels to 355.6
million last week, the biggest decline since the week ended July
12, according to the Energy Information Administration.  Cushing supplies  slipped 861,000 barrels to 33.3 million.
Inventories at the hub have decreased as improved pipeline
networks and shipments by rail eased a North American supply
glut created by rising oil production from shale formations. The
new pipeline capacity caused WTI to shift into backwardation in
June and July, a market structure in which oil for immediate
delivery is more expensive than crude for future shipment.  U.S.  crude production  rose 1.1 percent to 7.83 million
barrels a day, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit. Output has surged to the highest level since
1989 as the combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale
formations in the central part of the country.  ‘Remarkable Uptrend’  “We are in the midst of a remarkable uptrend in U.S. oil
production,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “The rise in output takes a bit of the
sting out of the inventory drop. If we are producing more here,
we might need somewhat less on hand.”  Refineries operated  at 92.5 percent of capacity, unchanged
from the prior week. Utilization rates usually peak during the
summer months when U.S. gasoline demand rises and decline after
the Labor Day holiday in early September when consumption
usually falls. Units are often idled in September and October
for maintenance programs.  The amount of crude  processed  by refineries climbed 1.3
percent to 16.1 million barrels a day, the highest level for
this time of year since at least 2003.  “It’s surprising to see that refinery runs have held up so
strongly,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based director of
Energy Analytics Group LLC. “I expected to see refinery
operations drop as they moved into maintenance.”  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles decreased 1.63 million barrels to 216
million, the report showed. Supplies of  distillate fuel , a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, declined 1.08
million barrels to 131.1 million.  Total  fuel consumption  increased 1.46 million barrels a day
to 19.8 million last week, the most since June, the EIA said.
Gasoline demand rose 423,000 barrels a day to 9.03 million.  “There was a sharp upward spike in gasoline demand last
week, which is surprising for the post-Labor Day period,”
Finlon said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.3 percent, little changed from yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 666,530
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. It totaled 760,447 contracts
yesterday, 20 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.93 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  