-- Yellen as Labor Favorite Seen Pressing Fed Focus on Stimulus
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-18T17:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-18/yellen-as-labor-favorite-seen-pressing-fed-emphasis-on-stimulus.html
Janet Yellen , the top candidate to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of the Federal Reserve, has
won praise from labor leaders, and with good reason: she has put
the battle against unemployment front and center at the Fed.  Last month, AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said Yellen,
the Fed vice chairman, would be a “better choice” than former
Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers , who dropped out of contention
this week.  Yellen fought for more than a decade to put combating
joblessness on equal ground with controlling inflation at the
core of Fed policy. Now, her confidence in government’s ability
to smooth over the ruts of market economies has become the
prevailing view at the Fed under Bernanke, the most activist
U.S. central bank chief in its 100-year history.  “Yellen has elevated the importance of the labor market as
the pulse of the economy and focus of policy discussion in the
post-crisis period,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies LLC in  New York  and a former Richmond Fed
economist. “She has extended Bernanke’s view that policy needs
to be accommodative for a long period of time in a post-crisis
environment.”  Asset Purchases  Yellen has backed Bernanke’s efforts to boost the economy
through three rounds of asset purchases that have swelled the
Fed’s  balance sheet  to $3.66 trillion.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed as
high as 2.999 percent Sept. 5 from 1.93 percent on May 21, the
day before Bernanke said the central bank could “take a step
down in our pace of purchases” in the “next few meetings.”  Ten-year yields fell three basis points this week to 2.85
percent yesterday on speculation that the Fed under a Yellen
chairmanship would likely hold short-term rates lower for longer
than it would have under Summers.  Yellen, a 67-year-old former professor at the  University of
California , Berkeley, is President  Barack Obama ’s top candidate
to lead the central bank after Summers, Obama’s former economic
adviser, removed his name from consideration, according to
people familiar with the process.  Schumer Endorsement  Yellen, who would be the first woman to lead the U.S.
central bank, received a key endorsement today from New York
Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer.  “Now that Summers has pulled out, I think the president
should choose Yellen,” Schumer told reporters in  Washington ,
praising her economic forecasting abilities.  “She seems to be a better candidate,” AFL-CIO’s Trumka,
leader of the nation’s biggest labor federation, said in an Aug.
29 interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital”
with  Al Hunt .  Trumka said he stressed to Obama his preference for a Fed
chairman who emphasizes  job creation .  “Fed chiefs in the past that have only looked to their
inflation-fighting mandate to the exclusion of their full-employment mandate, have cost this country and cost American
workers,” Trumka said.  In a Feb. 11 speech at a conference sponsored by the  AFL-CIO , the federation of 57 labor unions with 12 million members,
Yellen spoke of the hardships endured by people out of work for
extended periods or whose wages have failed to keep pace with
the cost of living. She also said creating jobs should be
“center stage” as the Fed begins to wind down its policies to
stimulate the economy.  Government’s Role  Yellen’s writings and speeches show confidence in
government’s ability to offset calamities, especially in labor
markets. In 2004, as president of the San Francisco Fed, she
argued in a paper written with her Nobel Prize-winning husband,
 George Akerlof , that central bankers couldn’t ignore the costs
of long-term joblessness.  “Policy makers should be compelled to take action given
the serious costs of long-term unemployment when overall
unemployment is already high,” they wrote. “A week of
unemployment is worse when it is experienced as part of a longer
spell.”  The proportion of the unemployed who have been out of
workforce  27 weeks  or longer was 37.9 percent of the total last
month, compared with a record 45.3 percent in March 2011 and
17.4 percent when the recession began in December 2007.  Research Papers  Yellen and her husband together wrote around a dozen papers
on the labor market. Their most-cited work, according to the
website  Research Papers in Economics  that tracks citations,
demonstrated that whether workers believe they are paid fairly
influences their efforts on the job and even helps explain the
national  unemployment (USURTOT)  rate.  “There was a rip-roaring debate during the time we were at
Berkeley -- in a way it continues to this day -- about the
nature of unemployment and what can be done to address it,”
Yellen said in an interview in September 2012.  She became president of the San Francisco Fed in June 2004
and vice chairman of the Washington-based Board of Governors in
October 2010.  “Yellen has been influential in raising the focus on
unemployment on the FOMC,” said Jonathan Wright, an economics
professor at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore who worked at
the Fed’s division of monetary affairs from 2004 until 2008. “I
could see a Yellen chairmanship being particularly attuned to
the risk that having high cyclical unemployment lasting for too
long will eventually become structural.”  Unemployment Threshold  Policy makers have pledged they won’t consider raising the
federal funds  rate , now near zero, as long as unemployment is
6.5 percent or higher and the outlook for inflation doesn’t top
2.5 percent, half a percentage point above the Fed’s 2 percent
inflation target. In July, they discussed lowering the
unemployment threshold before any decision on raising borrowing
costs, according to minutes of the meeting.  The impact of Yellen’s work is reflected in those
thresholds, said Tim Duy, an economist at the University of
Oregon in Eugene who formerly worked at the  U.S. Treasury .  Almost two decades ago, Yellen said that policy makers
should allow inflation to overshoot the target during periods of
high unemployment. “When the goals conflict and it comes to
calling for tough trade-offs, to me, a wise and humane policy is
occasionally to let inflation rise even when inflation is
running above target,” she said during a debate on inflation
targeting in 1995.  Inflation Deviations  The inflation threshold “makes clear that the Fed is
willing to tolerate inflation temporarily above the long-term
target as part of a policy that accelerates improvement in the
labor market,” Duy said. “Essentially, small deviations in
inflation from target are less costly than large deviations in
unemployment.”  Unemployment fell to 7.3 percent in August as workers left
the  labor force  and payrolls in the U.S. climbed less than
forecast. The share of working-age people in the labor force
declined to 63.2 percent, the lowest  participation  rate since
1978, from 63.4 percent.  Yellen said April 16 in her most recent speech on monetary
policy that she favors holding the benchmark  interest rate 
“lower for longer” and that “a major challenge for the
 Federal Reserve  and many other central banks has been how to
address persistently high unemployment when the policy rate is
at or near the effective lower bound.” The Fed has held its
benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008.  “She has signaled she is particularly dissatisfied --
rightly so -- and sees the labor market as an urgent problem,”
said Jesse Rothstein, a former chief economist at the Labor
Department who now teaches at Berkeley and whose research has
been cited by Yellen. “There are big costs to waiting” to take
action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  