-- 
‘Arab Spring’ Aid Pledges Almost Double to $38 Billion, With Focus on Jobs

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-09-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/-arab-spring-aid-pledges-almost-double-to-38-billion-with-focus-on-jobs.html
Western and Middle Eastern
governments pledged to help Egypt,  Tunisia , Morocco and Jordan
make the transition to democracy, mobilizing $38 billion of
financing, mostly through international lending organizations.  The four countries presented national action plans to
develop their economies at a meeting yesterday in Marseille,
 France . Libya sent representatives to the gathering, hoping
eventually to join the so-called Deauville Partnership.  The aid is intended to support economies and create jobs as
the countries undertake the delicate process of opening up their
political systems and holding free elections. The political
changes have hurt tourism and investment, at the same time
unleashing expectations of better lives.  “We are facing an historical transformational moment, and
while there are downsides, there’s enormous enthusiasm,”
International Monetary Fund head  Christine Lagarde  said after
the meeting. “It has to be focused on  job creation , especially
for the young people.”  Lagarde said the fund now recognizes the National
Transitional Council as holding Libya’s IMF seat, and she’ll
soon send a team to the North African country.  The amount mobilized is up from the $20 billion that was
promised at a May meeting of Group of Eight government heads in
Deauville, France, which gave its name to the partnership.  More Partners  Morocco and Jordan have joined initial members Tunisia and
Egypt since the initiative was launched at the Normandy resort.
Representatives from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait,  Turkey  and the
 United Arab Emirates , as well as nine international lenders,
including the  World Bank , the IMF and the African Development
Bank, joined yesterday’s meeting.  “What’s the novelty is that there are many more partners
around the table,” Lagarde said. “We have donors from
international and regional institutions that are engaged in the
region.”  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  didn’t give details
of the national action plans, and no Arab leaders spoke after
the meeting.  The plans “demonstrate a clear and shared commitment to
enhanced prosperity for their people supported by the objectives
set out in the Deauville declaration: to strengthen governance,
foster economic and social inclusion, create jobs and support
private sector-led growth,” the final G-8 declaration said.  Increased Funding  Libya  was an observer at the Marseille meeting. French
officials say the new Libyan administration must be in full
control of their country and fully recognized as the legal
government before it’s inducted into the partnership.  British Finance Minister  George Osborne  said member states
would increase the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development’s lending power to boost its financing in the
southern rim of the Mediterranean.  “We want to get some money to the EBRD so it can get going
without formal notification, and also a significant bringing
together of the resources from all the other development
banks,” he said. International lenders could mobilize “tens of
billions of dollars” for Arab Spring nations, he said.  Osborne also said he wants expanded trade in the  Middle
East  and for the EBRD “to play a similar role in supporting
this region today as it did in the former Soviet bloc countries
following the fall of the Berlin wall a quarter of a century
ago.”  Funding Breakdown  The  European Investment Bank  said in a statement that it
will lend $7.5 billion to the four member countries through
2013, with $3 billion to  Egypt  alone. It said it will focus on
projects that will create jobs, including microfinance,
transport infrastructure and social housing.  The World Bank said it would finance $10.7 billion of
projects, the ADB $7.6 billion and the Islamic Development Bank
$5 billion. Baroin said French assistance would amount to $2.7
billion.  Tunisia is seeking $25 billion in assistance from abroad in
the next five years to support its economy and tackle
unemployment, Finance Minister Jaloul Ayed said in an interview
on Sept. 7.  Tunisia and Egypt have yet to receive more than a fraction
of the aid pledged by western and Arab governments to support
their transition to democracy, the Financial Times reported on
Sept. 9, citing the two nations’ finance chiefs.  Egyptian Finance Minister Hazem el Beblawi said the country
had received just $500 million of $7 billion promised by the
U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , though discussions on the remaining
funds were ongoing and he expects an agreement by the end of the
year, the FT said.  The kings of Jordan and Morocco have announced steps to
allow more democratic representation. In Libya, dictators
 Muammar Qaddafi  was overthrown after a six-month conflict in
which North Atlantic Treaty Organization fighter jets backed
rebel forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Marseille, France, at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  