-- 
Venice Rewards ‘Faust,’ Leaves Polanski, Clooney With Nothing

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-10T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/aleksander-sokurov-s-faust-wins-top-venice-prize-fassbender-best-actor.html
“Faust” by the Russian director
Aleksandr Sokurov was the surprise winner of the top Golden Lion
prize at the  Venice Film Festival  last night.  Directors Roman Polanski, David Cronenberg and  George Clooney  won nothing.  China ’s Shangjun Cai took the best-director trophy for a
last-minute entry, “Ren Shan Ren Hai,” the story of a man who
returns to his mountain village to avenge his younger brother’s
killing. Another Chinese movie, “A Simple Life” by Ann Hui --
about a housekeeper who retires to an old people’s home after
decades serving one family -- was rewarded with the best-actress
award going to Deannie Yip.  “Shame,” artist Steve McQueen’s explicit movie about a
solitary sex addict on the rampage in  New York , saw actor
 Michael Fassbender  collect the best-actor trophy.  The winning movie, “Faust,” is a loose adaptation of the
Goethe tragedy. It’s the fourth in a series of movies on the
theme of political power that earlier portrayed Hitler, Lenin,
and  Japan ’s late Emperor Hirohito.  Choosing the winners were jury head Darren Aronofsky, whose
“Black Swan” had opened last year’s festival, and six other
judges that included musician David Byrne.  Italy came away with a special jury prize for
“Terraferma” by Emanuele Crialese, the story of a Sicilian
fishing village coping with an influx of African migrants.  Three Losers  Polanski was the biggest surprise loser. The Polish-born
director had impressed the critics with “Carnage,” adapted
from a play by Yasmina Reza, that showed two sets of parents
meeting after their respective sons’ involvement in a nasty fist
fight. The movie was filmed entirely in an apartment interior,
and featured standout performances from  Jodie Foster , John C. Reilly and Kate Winslet.  Clooney was competing with “The Ides of March,” a
pitiless portrayal of U.S. politics, with himself in the role of
a smooth senator.  Cronenberg’s entry, “A Dangerous Method,” also stars
Fassbender as well as Keira Knightley, and focuses on
psychiatrist Carl Jung’s entanglement with a young Russian
patient.  Much as the closing-night ceremony was short on big-name
stars, the festival this year started out with plenty of them.
Madonna sparked a frenzy on Lido island (where the festival
takes place), presenting her movie “W.E.” -- about an abused
Manhattan wife who becomes obsessed with the story of Edward
VIII’s abdication and marriage to the American divorcee Wallis Simpson.  Wilde Pacino  Al Pacino  showed off his mastery of “double-talk” Italian
-- the only kind he speaks -- as he presented his documentary-
like homage to Oscar Wilde, featuring Jessica Chastain: “Wilde
Salome.”  Gwyneth Paltrow  and  Matt Damon  stopped by to promote
“Contagion,” the story of a fearsome global pandemic, directed
by Steven Soderbergh. Paltrow made headlines around the world
when she was asked whether the deadly virus could be viewed as
punishment for her character’s adultery in the film.  “If death by virus was the punishment for extramarital
affairs, there would be about three dudes left in this room
right now,” said the actress -- wife of rock band Coldplay’s
 Chris Martin  -- to much laughter. “Maybe less because we’re in
 Italy .”  Also roaming the festival’s elegant venues were designer
Valentino, in a leathery tan and blue suede shoes that matched
his shirt. Hovering nearby in the hope of attracting press
attention was a Luciano Pavarotti lookalike.  Festival-goers on  Venice ’s Lido island this year found
construction work stalled on the new convention building.
Digging led to the discovery of toxic asbestos, and existing
plans had to be ripped up, paving the way for a new and less
ambitious project that will complement the existing building,
built by dictator Benito Mussolini.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 