-- 
Alibaba Vows ‘Sleepless Nights’ for Baidu in Search Market

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-12T05:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/alibaba-s-ma-says-he-wants-to-cause-sleepless-nights-for-baidu.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. started
its search-engine service last year to “cause sleepless
nights” for Baidu Inc., the industry leader in  China , Chief
Executive Officer Jack Ma said.  “Making life difficult for companies with established
positions is what we most want to do,” Ma said Sept. 10 at a
conference in Hangzhou, eastern China, where Alibaba is based.
He didn’t elaborate on the remarks about Baidu.  Alibaba, China’s biggest electronic-commerce company,
started its eTao search engine last year and expanded in mobile-
phone operating systems this year, seeking new revenue sources.
Baidu fields more than 80 percent of China’s search-engine
traffic after overcoming competition from U.S. rival  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
the world’s largest search service operator.  “If Alibaba wants to compete on search, bring it,” said
Kaiser Kuo, a Baidu spokesman. “Baidu doesn’t obsess about what
the competition is doing. We obsess about what our users want.”  Ma is also overseeing changes at Hong Kong-listed flagship
 Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , whose website is used by companies including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to find suppliers.  Alibaba.com, which said in February that some buyers were
defrauded by vendors on its site, is now offering product
inspection and escrow payment services to help boost protection
for buyers, Director of International Marketing Linda Kozlowski
said last week. All Chinese exporters that pay Alibaba.com to
market their products will be audited, she said.  ‘Proactive Cleanup’  Customers on the China Gold Supplier program declined as
Alibaba.com started a “proactive cleanup,” Kozlowski said. The
increased monitoring of customers was “a good thing,” she said.  Subscribers for its China Gold Supplier program for
exporters fell by more than 4,200 in the quarter ended June to
about 112,000, Alibaba said last month. In the previous three
months, the company lost more than 4,800 Gold Supplier members.  More than 2,300 vendors used Alibaba.com’s website to
defraud buyers, and about 100 employees were responsible for
letting sellers create bogus storefronts, the company said in
February.  Alibaba.com, which has lost 44 percent of its market value
this year, fell 4 percent to HK$7.87 as of 1:54 p.m. in  Hong
Kong  trading.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second quarter and 75.8 percent in the
previous three months, according to research company Analysys
International. Google’s share dropped to 18.9 percent from 19.2
percent, the researcher said.  Alibaba Group aims to increase transactions on Taobao, its
consumer-oriented arm, to 1 trillion yuan ($156 billion) next
year, Ma said. Taobao generated 396 billion yuan of transactions
last year, according to estimates by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Taobao, Alipay  In June, closely held Alibaba reorganized Taobao, China’s
biggest online shopping operator, creating separate divisions
that serve bigger retail brands and smaller wholesalers.  Alipay, the online payment business at the center of a
dispute earlier this year between Alibaba Group and biggest
shareholder Yahoo! Inc., is making Chinese banks “worried”
because it’s lowering transaction fees, Ma said.  Yahoo, owner of the most-visited U.S. Web portal, said in
May that Alibaba Group spun off Alipay to a private company
controlled by Ma without consulting shareholders. Ma said that
month the reorganization was necessary to facilitate an
application for an online payment license in China, and was
discussed by Alibaba’s board for three years.  In July, Alibaba reached an agreement with Yahoo and
 Softbank Corp. (9984) , another shareholder, over compensation for the
Alipay spinoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  