-- 
Manchester Rivals Continue Perfect Starts in English Soccer Premier League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-10T18:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/manchester-city-stays-perfect-in-premier-league-arsenal-wins.html
Rivals  Manchester United  and
Manchester City maintained their perfect starts to the season in
English soccer’s Premier League with easy victories.  Wayne Rooney  scored his second consecutive hat trick as
United won 5-0 at Bolton, while  Sergio Aguero  scored all the
goals in City’s 3-0 victory against Wigan. Both have the maximum
12 points after four games, with United atop the standings on
goal difference.  “We always know Bolton is a difficult place to come,”
Rooney, who leads the league with eight goals, more than every
other team except Manchester City, told ESPN. “We got the early
goal and it kicked off the game.”  Arsenal beat promoted Swansea 1-0 and Tottenham won 2-0 at
Wolverhampton, giving both their first wins. Chelsea was a 2-1
winner at Sunderland, Stoke beat Liverpool 1-0 and  Aston Villa 
rallied for a 2-2 draw at Everton.  United followed up its 8-2 rout of Arsenal two weeks ago
with another impressive display.  Javier Hernandez  opened the scoring in the fifth minute and
Rooney struck in the 20th and 25th minutes to make it 3-0.
Hernandez added his second goal in the 59th minute and Rooney
completed his seventh career hat trick seven minutes later.  United has scored 18 goals and allowed three, while City
has scored 15 times and given up three goals.  Aguero opened the scoring for City in the 13th minute and
scored twice in a six-minute span of the second half to push his
season tally to six, matching teammate Edin Dzeko for second in
the league behind Rooney.  “Sergio is a fantastic striker, he’s an incredible
player,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told  Sky Sports .  First Start  Carlos Tevez  made his first start of the season after being
linked all summer with a move away from City and had a penalty
kick saved by Wigan goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi.  Arsenal capitalized on an error by Swansea goalkeeper
Michel Vorm to rebound from its rout at Manchester United.  Vorm’s attempted roll-out pass five minutes before halftime
hit the foot of defender Angel Rangel and went to Andrey Arshavin, who slid the ball into the empty net from an angle.  Swansea’s Scott Sinclair and Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie 
both hit the post in the second half. Swansea pressured the
Arsenal goal in the final minutes with Danny Graham shooting
over the bar from six yards out in injury time.  Swansea was without manager Brendan Rodgers, who missed the
game following the death of his father, Malachy.  Goals from Emmanuel Adebayor and Jermain Defoe gave
Tottenham the away win. Adebayor was playing his first game for
Spurs since his loan move from  Manchester City .  John Terry and  Daniel Sturridge  scored the goals as Chelsea
won its seventh straight match at Sunderland, which got a goal
in injury time from Ji Dong-Wong.  Penalty Kick  Jon Walters scored with a penalty kick in the 20th minute
as Stoke beat Liverpool. The Reds have yet to win in four visits
to the Britannia Stadium since the Potters earned promotion to
the Premier League in 2008.  Gabriel Agbonlahor’s goal with seven minutes left earned
Aston Villa the away draw with Everton. Stiliyan Petrov also
scored for Villa, while Leon Osman and Leighton Baines had the
Everton goals.  Norwich hosts West Brom and Blackburn is at Fulham
tomorrow, with Newcastle visiting Queens Park Rangers in two
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  