-- 
Barnett Flags Changes to Oakajee Ore Project, Australian Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-10T02:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/barnett-flags-changes-to-oakajee-ore-project-australian-says.html
Western Australia State Premier
 Colin Barnett  said an announcement detailing an overhaul of the
A$5.9 billion ($6.2 billion) Oakajee iron ore port and rail
development is “weeks away,” The Australian reported.  Negotiations that would allow for major changes to the
project’s ownership structure, which may involve bringing in
Chinese parties as investors in the infrastructure, had been
continuing for some time, Barnett  told the newspaper .  The talks include a proposed staged development of Oakajee
rather than the “big bang” project initially envisioned by
Perth-based miner  Murchison Metals Ltd. (MMX)  and Japan’s  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058) , The Australian said.  The Oakajee project is designed to underpin the development
of several iron ore mines in Western Australia’s Midwest region,
allowing a rapid increase in exports through a new deepwater
port north of Geraldton, The Australian said. A series of delays
and cost blowouts in building the infrastructure have threatened
to scuttle the project, it said.  Oakajee Port & Rail Pty, jointly owned by Mitsubishi and
Murchison, was in March given an extra nine months by the state
government to decide whether to fund and build the development,
extending the deadline to Dec. 31.  The terminal project near Geraldton, 430 kilometers (267
miles) north of the Western Australia capital, Perth, would have
the capacity to export 45 million metric tons of iron ore a year.  Oakajee Port & Rail in August 2010 signed initial
agreements with potential customers of the project including
Karara Mining Ltd., a venture between  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG)  and
China’s Anshan Iron & Steel Group and Sinosteel Midwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  