-- 
Biggest French Banks Said Poised to Be Downgraded by Moody’s

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-11T06:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/bnp-paribas-societe-generale-credit-agricole-said-to-face-cut-by-moody-s.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Societe Generale SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s largest banks by market value,
may have their credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service
as soon as this week because of their Greek holdings, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Moody’s placed the three banks’ ratings on review in June
to examine “the potential for inconsistency between the impact
of a possible Greek default or restructuring and current rating
levels,” the rating company said at the time. Cuts are likely
as the review period concludes, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the matter is confidential.  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy slowing economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis
roiled financial markets and threatened a global recession.
Renewed fears that European policy makers are failing to prevent
a Greek default and contain their debt woes prompted investors
to sell stocks and push the euro to a six-month low against the
dollar. European bank and sovereign credit risk reached all-time
highs as 10-year Treasury and German bund yields fell to record
lows on demand for a haven.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” G-7
finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement
released during talks in Marseille, France.  Moody’s currently rates BNP Paribas’ long-term debt at Aa2,
the third-highest investment grade.  Credit Agricole  is rated
Aa1, the second highest, while  Societe Generale (GLE)  is Aa2.  Stocks Decline  Credit Agricole spokeswoman Anne-Sophie Gentil declined to
comment late yesterday, as did BNP Paribas spokesman Antoine
Sire. Societe Generale spokeswoman Laetitia Maurel said she
couldn’t immediately comment. Voicemail messages left on the
mobile and office lines of Moody’s chief European spokesman
Daniel Piels yesterday, outside of working hours, weren’t
immediately answered.  Societe Generale has dropped 55 percent in Paris trading
since June 15, while Credit Agricole tumbled 45 percent and BNP
Paribas has declined 42 percent. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index of 46 companies has fallen 30 percent
in the period.  The reviews of Credit Agricole and BNP Paribas are unlikely
to lead to downgrades of more than one level, Moody’s said when
it put the banks under review. Societe Generale’s debt and
deposit ratings may be cut as much as two grades because of the
“uplift it receives from systemic support, which is currently
higher than average for the French banking system,” the rating
company said at the time.  Credit Agricole’s main risk arises from its Greek
subsidiary Emporiki Bank of  Greece  SA, Moody’s said in June.
Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by market value,
faces risks from its stake in General Bank of Greece. Credit
Agricole is France’s third-largest bank. BNP Paribas doesn’t
have a local unit in Greece and is instead at risk from direct
holdings of Greek government debt, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 