-- 
Brown: California Senate Blocks New Tax Calculation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-10T07:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/brown-says-california-senate-blocks-new-business-tax-computation.html
     Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) -- California’s Senate rejected
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to calculate business taxes solely
on in-state sales, intended to yield $1 billion a year.  The measure fell short of the two-thirds majority needed
for approval. While Democrats control the chamber, they lack
enough members for more than a simple majority. The Democratic
governor had struck a deal with Republicans in the Assembly to
win passage there a day earlier.  “It’s unbelievable that so many politicians in Sacramento
would choose to protect cigarette makers and out-of-state
corporations to the detriment of California jobs,” Brown said
late yesterday in a statement.  The measure would have applied the single-sales factor
calculation to all companies, with the additional revenue
earmarked as tax relief for small businesses, manufacturers and
taxpayers. Brown had said the measure was aimed at reducing
 California ’s jobless rate, which climbed to 12 percent in July,
the second-highest in the U.S. after  Nevada . The national rate
that month was 9.1 percent.  “This eliminates a toxic loophole that favors people who
move jobs out of California and penalizes people who try to put
jobs in the state,” Brown had said at a Sacramento news
conference Sept. 8.  Under current law, businesses engaged in agriculture,
mining and banking must base their corporate taxes equally on
payroll, property and sales in California, according to the
state Finance Department. Other companies may  choose  between a
formula in which 50 percent of taxes are based on California
sales and 25 percent are based on property and 25 percent on
other sales, and one in which 100 percent is based on sales.
Brown’s proposal would have ended that option.  Compromise in Assembly  As part of the compromise with Assembly Republicans, Brown
proposed cutting the amount of sales taxes start-up companies
pay on the purchases of manufacturing equipment by 4 percent,
while lowering the levy by 1 percent for existing companies,
according to the governor’s office.  “What we are trying to do is put the money into the hands
of people who will spend it,” Assemblyman Nathan Fletcher, a
Republican, said at the news conference with Brown.  To aid small businesses, Brown’s plan would have cut the
 tax rate  by half of a percentage point for the first $50,000 in
taxable income for most corporations, to 8.34 percent from 8.84
percent and provide a 10 percent exemption for the first $50,000
in business income for personal income-tax payers. It also would
have increased the standard deduction by $1,000 for individuals
and $2,000 for couples.  Senate Republican leader Bob Dutton sent a letter to Brown
on Sept. 8, urging him to put the issue before a special session
of the Legislature.  “There is nothing more complex than  tax reform , and trying
to jam through proposal on the last day of session without
transparency or input from the public and tax experts is
irresponsible,” Dutton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  