-- 
Calif. Approves Amazon Sales Tax Deal

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-10T06:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/california-lawmakers-approve-amazon-sales-tax-compromise-1-.html
California lawmakers approved a
deal giving  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  a year before it must collect sales
taxes from customers, in return for abandoning its campaign to
overturn the levies in a referendum.  The bill, sent to Governor  Jerry Brown  late yesterday,
calls for California and Amazon to work together to get a
uniform federal standard for taxing Internet sales. The world’s
largest online retailer is to begin turning over taxes on
California transactions Sept. 15, 2012, if no national standard
is in place by then.  Amazon spent at least $5.25 million on the referendum to
throw out the sales-tax law passed in June. California, with the
lowest state credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , had projected
the law would bring $200 million in revenue this year.  “This compromise is all about fairness,” Assembly Speaker
John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, said in a statement. “It
moves  California  forward in closing a loophole that gives out-
of-state online retailers an unfair advantage over stores in
California, and it also gives retailers time to achieve a
federal solution.”  An Amazon spokesman called the bill’s passage a “win-
win.”  The agreement “will allow Amazon to bring thousands of
jobs and hundreds of millions of investment dollars to
California, and welcome back to work tens of thousands of
California-based advertising affiliates,” Paul Misener, an
Amazon vice president, said in a statement.  Future Tax ‘Certainty’  “Even though we have to find a way to get the $200 million
that we’re going to have to forgo as a result of this, we’re
going to have certainty that we’re going to be able to collect
this tax in the future,” said Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Sacramento Democrat.  Amazon fought attempts by  New York ,  Texas ,  Rhode Island  and
 North Carolina  to force it to collect the same sales taxes as
brick-and-mortar stores. The company cited a 1992 U.S. Supreme
Court decision that exempted businesses from such a requirement
unless they had a “nexus,”  or physical presence, in the
state.  Amazon has California-based subsidiaries that provide
search technologies to its website, design its Kindle e-reader
and catalog popular entertainment, according to an  analysis  of
the bill.  Amazon fell $5.87, or 2.7 percent, to $211.39 yesterday on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed 17 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  