-- 
Canadian Dollar Weakens Most in a Month as Investor Appetite for Risk Ebbs

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/canadian-dollar-weakens-most-in-a-month-as-investor-appetite-for-risk-ebbs.html
Canada ’s dollar had the biggest
weekly decline in a month against its U.S. counterpart, almost
reaching parity, as the nation unexpectedly lost jobs and risk
appetite dropped on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  The currency fell for a second week as the Bank of Canada
kept  interest rates  unchanged. The U.S. dollar rose against all
of its 16 most-traded peers as investors sought haven amid
concern Greece might default, and Canadian government bonds
climbed. Reports next week may show industrial production and
retail sales slowed in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “The sole driver of the Canadian dollar at the moment
seems to be risk appetite, and when risk appetite is weak, the
Canadian dollar tends to underperform,” said  Shaun Osborne ,
chief foreign-exchange strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. “All of this concern around the  euro
zone  and the speculation regarding  Greece  doesn’t help risk
assets.”  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 1.1 percent to
99.67 cents per U.S. dollar in Toronto yesterday, from 98.53
cents on Sept. 2. It was the biggest drop since the five days
ended Aug. 5. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0033. The loonie last
traded on a one-for-one basis with the greenback on Aug. 9.  Canada’s dollar fell 2.3 percent in August against the U.S.
currency its first monthly decline since May. The loonie
weakened 4.3 percent over the past six months, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback declined 1.2 percent.  Biggest Threat  The  U.S. dollar  gained to a six-month high versus the euro
on concern that European policy makers are failing to fix the
region’s debt crisis, the biggest threat to global growth since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Stocks fell, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining 1.7 percent and the
MSCI World Index dropping 3.5 percent.  “People have been piling into U.S. dollar assets, and
pretty much everything else has been sideswiped, including the
loonie,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “Everyone is grabbing
safe-haven assets. It’s a sour note to end the week on.”  Yields on Canadian government debt dropped to record lows
as the securities climbed. Thirty-year bond yields fell 15 basis
points on the week, or 0.15 percentage point, and reached 2.80
percent, the lowest level in Bloomberg records dating to 1990.  Ten-year note yields dropped 19 basis points and touched
2.095 percent, the lowest since at least 1989. Two-year yields
slid to a record low 0.768 percent. Canadian  government bonds 
returned 7.8 percent this year through yesterday, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Payrolls Decline  Payrolls in Canada fell by a net 5,500 jobs in August after
an addition of 7,100 jobs in the previous month,  Statistics
Canada  reported yesterday. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a gain of 21,500. Full-time employment rose
by 25,700, and part-time jobs fell 31,200, the data showed. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 7.3 percent, from 7.2 percent in July.  “It’s not as consistent with a third-quarter rebound as we
would like to have seen,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets, said
by phone from Toronto. “If the U.S. dollar keeps going like it
is, I don’t see why we shouldn’t get down to parity.”  The  Bank of Canada  on Sept. 7 kept its target rate for
overnight lending between commercial banks at 1 percent, where
it’s been for a year. Policy makers said there’s less need for a
rate increase as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slow U.S.
economic rebound hobble the global recovery.  Growth to Resume  The central bank reiterated that it expects economic growth
to resume in the second half of this year, led by business
investment and  consumer spending .  Canada’s gross domestic product fell at a 0.4 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, the nation’s statistics
agency reported Aug. 31. Canada was the only G-7 country besides
 Japan  to contract from April through June.  Employers in the U.S. added zero jobs last month, the Labor
Department said two days later in  Washington . It was the weakest
reading of the data since September 2010.  U.S. retail sales growth slowed in August, increasing 0.2
percent after a 0.5 percent gain the previous month, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast before a report due Sept. 14. The
nation’s industrial production rose 0.1 percent last month,
after gaining 0.9 percent in July, according to another survey
before data being released Sept. 15.  ‘Right Away’  President  Barack Obama  outlined to Congress on Sept. 8 a
$447 billion plan to boost hiring. He urged lawmakers to act
“right away” on the program.  Canada’s dollar extended losses earlier that day as stocks
dropped when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke failed to
offer any specific new plans to bolster growth in the U.S. He
said in a speech in Minneapolis that policy makers will discuss
at their meeting Sept. 20-21 the tools they could use to boost
the recovery and stand ready to employ them if necessary.  “When you combine the tone of these speeches with the news
coming out of  Europe , it contributes to an overwhelming bid for
the U.S. dollar,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto.
“All of the moving parts are directionally biased in favor of
U.S. dollar bids for safe-haven flows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  