-- 
China Trade Surplus Narrows More Than Estimated as Imports Climb to Record

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-11T04:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/china-s-trade-surplus-in-august-reaches-17-76-billion-exports-rise-24-5-.html
China ’s imports climbed to a record
and exports grew more than expected last month, indicating
resilience in the world’s second-biggest economy as the U.S. and
European recoveries falter.  Inbound shipments jumped 30.2 percent from a year earlier
to $155.6 billion, the customs bureau said on its website
yesterday. That pace exceeded the estimates of all 29 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Exports climbed a more-than-expected
24.5 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $17.76 billion.  The data suggest the world’s biggest exporter is weathering
Europe’s debt crisis and weakening U.S. consumer sentiment.
Group of Seven finance chiefs yesterday vowed to buoy slowing
economic growth after global stocks slumped on concern that
 Greece  may default and the risk that Congress may block
President  Barack Obama ’s measures to create jobs.  China’s trade data were “better than expected considering
the debt crisis and market turbulence,” Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-
based economist with Credit Suisse AG, said after the
announcement. “It seems that the real economy is doing better
than the financial world.”  The strength in imports provides further evidence that
Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to cool inflation without choking
off growth is taking effect. A government report on Sept. 9
showed consumer-price gains eased in August from a three-year
high. Investment in roads, factories and real-estate rose by a
quarter in the first eight months of the year, holding above 25
percent for the sixth month.  Higher Lending  New local-currency loans rose in August to 548.5 billion
yuan, rebounding from a 2011 low the previous month, and 545.2
billion yuan in the same period last year, People’s Bank of
China data released today show. The figure was higher than 22 of
the 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply  expanded 13.5
percent last month, the slowest pace in almost seven years, and
compared with the 14.2 percent median estimate in a separate
poll of 27 analysts.  Economists at  Capital Economics  and  Standard Chartered  say
growth in the money supply is being distorted as savers shift
funds out of deposit accounts into wealth management products
that aren’t included in the data. Movements in fiscal deposits
by the  finance ministry  are also affecting the data, they say.  New local-currency deposits totaled 696.2 billion yuan in
August, 373.6 billion yuan less than the same period last year
and compared with a decline of 668.7 billion yuan in July,
central bank data show.  Higher Than Expected  August’s imports grew the most since January and compared
with a median estimate of 21 percent in a Bloomberg survey. The
gain in exports was higher than 27 out of 29 estimates in a
separate poll. The value of outbound shipments was the second-
highest on record, just shy of the $175 billion in July, customs
data show.  The  trade surplus  was lower than every estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 28 economists. The median forecast was for
$24.6 billion after a gap of $31.5 billion in July that was the
highest in more than two years.  The data “suggest the economy is staying on track despite
the global slowdown,” said Liu Li-gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Accelerating imports indicates domestic demand is maintaining
strong momentum and that the risks of a hard landing have
decreased significantly.”  Slower Growth  China is the world’s biggest exporter and the largest
contributor to global growth. Citigroup Inc. estimates that the
nation’s expansion will slow to 8.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from 9.6 percent in the first half. The bank forecasts
the economy will expand 9 percent for the full year, five times
the pace of the U.S. and euro area.  Imports from  Japan  rose 16.5 percent from a year earlier to
$17.5 billion, the highest in five months, customs data showed,
as shipments recovered after the earthquake and tsunami in March.
Exports to the nation climbed 30 percent from a year earlier,
the most since March.  Purchases from the European Union, China’s biggest trading
partner, jumped 31.4 percent from a year earlier to $19.4
billion, the most since May, while exports to the bloc climbed
22.3 percent to $34 billion.  Shipments to the U.S., the second-largest export
destination, climbed 12.5 percent from a year earlier to $30
billion, the biggest jump since April, while imports rose 16.6
percent to $10 billion. The trade surplus with the U.S. last
month narrowed to $20 billion, the first decline in six months,
according to Chinese data.  Recession Risks  Imports of crude oil rose in August to a three-month high,
copper climbed to the highest since January and iron-ore
purchases were the largest since March, customs data show.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its growth forecasts for the U.S. and Japan on Sept. 8, and
estimated the German economy will shrink in the fourth quarter,
highlighting the risks of a renewed global recession. Four
central banks in  Asia  held off raising  interest rates  on Sept. 8
as their focus switched to sustaining economic expansion from
cooling inflation.  ‘With the uncertainties in the global economy and financial
markets, we see a rising risk of further slowdowns in both
domestic and external demand for China,” Daiwa Capital Markets
said in an Aug. 23 note. Daiwa cut an estimate for the nation’s
export growth next year to 10 percent from a previous forecast
of 15 percent.  In a sign that global demand is waning, commerce on the
Asia-to- Europe  container-shipping route, the world’s second
busiest, rose the least since 2009 in the second quarter,
according to Container Trade Statistics Ltd., a company based in
Woking,  England .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its recommendation on China
Merchants Holdings (International) Co., which owns stakes in
Chinese ports, to “underweight” from “neutral” on Aug. 30,
on the risk that global trade will slow.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Chua Baizhen
and Huang Zhe in Beijing,  Helen Sun , Jing Jin and Bonnie Cao in
 Shanghai  and Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  