-- 
Djokovic Beats Federer, to U.S. Open Final

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-11T03:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/djokovic-rallies-from-two-sets-down-to-beat-federer-in-u-s-open-semifinal.html
Top seed Novak Djokovic recovered
from a two-set deficit and fought off two match points to beat
five-time champion  Roger Federer  and reach the U.S. Open men’s
final against defending champion  Rafael Nadal .  Nadal, the second seed from  Spain , set up a repeat of the
2010 championship match by defeating  Andy Murray , the fourth
seed from Britain, 6-4, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 to join Djokovic in the
Sept. 12 final.  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and Samantha Stosur of
 Australia  advanced to tomorrow’s women’s final with semifinal
wins at the National Tennis Center in New York. Williams, a
three-time champion, beat top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of
Denmark 6-2, 6-4, while ninth-seeded Stosur got past unseeded
German Angelique Kerber in three sets.  Djokovic, 24, a Serb who is attempting to become the sixth
man to win three of tennis’s four Grand Slam tournaments in one
year, improved his 2011 record to 63-2 with a 6-7 (7-9), 4-6, 6-
3, 6-2, 7-5 win.  “I was down two sets and Roger was in control,” Djokovic
said in a televised interview before dancing on court to
celebrate his win. “I switched gears and managed to play much
better the last three sets.”  Just as in last year’s  U.S. Open  semifinal win against
Federer, Djokovic overcame two match points. This time, he
blasted a crosscourt service return winner on Federer’s first
match point.  ‘I Was Lucky’  “If it comes in, it comes in, it’s a risk,” Djokovic said
of that shot. “I was gambling. If it’s out, you’ve lost. I was
lucky today.”  Federer, who had been 178-0 in Grand Slams when winning the
first two sets before losing two of his last six such matches,
said he couldn’t understand how Djokovic attempted the shot
while facing match point.  “He was mentally out of it, already, and just gets the
lucky shot,” Federer said in a news conference. “Snaps one
shot, and then the whole thing changes.”  The victory avenges Djokovic’s semifinal loss to Federer at
the  French Open , the only Grand Slam title Djokovic has failed
to win so far this year.  Federer, playing in his first major tournament since
turning 30 on Aug. 8, has now lost four of five meetings with
Djokovic this year.  “I should have won here, it was just one of those matches,
I set it all up perfect but I couldn’t finish it,” he said.
“The sport, it’s very cruel and tough sometimes.”  Stosur to Final  Williams, who won U.S. Open titles in 1999, 2002 and 2008,
remains the only player yet to drop a set at this year’s
tournament after improving to 3-0 against Wozniacki. She also
won in 2002 and 2008 without losing a set.  Stosur, who will be playing in her second Grand Slam final
after finishing as runner-up at the 2010 French Open, won 6-3,
2-6, 6-2 against Kerber. She moved one win away from becoming
the first Australian woman to earn a U.S. Open title since
Margaret Court captured the last of her record 24 singles titles
in  New York  in 1973.  The loss by Federer, who has a men’s record 16 Grand Slam
singles titles, means he failed to win any of the tennis
season’s major tournaments -- Wimbledon and the Australian,
French and U.S. opens -- for the first time since 2002. Federer
won the U.S. Open title every year from 2004 to 2008.  Federer, who was seeded third at the U.S. Open, won his
last Grand Slam title at the 2010 Australian Open. Since then,
he has made just one final at a major -- losing the French Open
championship match this June to Nadal.  Djokovic’s Season  Djokovic won his second Australian Open this year, beating
Murray in straight sets. He captured Wimbledon with a four-set
win against Nadal. Djokovic became the world’s top-ranked player
following the Wimbledon win.  Djokovic began a run of 43 straight victories when he led
Serbia to its first Davis Cup title in December. The streak
ended with a semifinal loss to Federer at the French Open,
leaving him one win shy of tying the record of 41 wins to start
a season, set by  John McEnroe  in 1984.  The other defeat came against Murray last month in
Cincinnati, when Djokovic retired because of a shoulder injury
while trailing 6-4, 3-0. He has said during the U.S. Open that
the injury hasn’t affected his play.  Djokovic became first player to win five ATP World Tour
Masters tennis titles in one season when he won the Rogers Cup
in  Montreal  last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center in New York,
at   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  