-- 
Egyptian Inflation Slowed to 8.5% in August as Food-Price Increases Eased

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-09-10T07:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/egyptian-inflation-slowed-to-8-5-in-august-as-food-price-increases-eased.html
Egypt ’s inflation rate declined in
August as food prices, one of the causes of the unrest that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , rose at a slower pace.  The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the
gauge that the central bank monitors, fell to 8.5 percent from
10.4 percent in July, according to data posted on the website of
the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics today.  Food and beverage costs, the biggest component in the
 consumer price index , increased an annual 12.2 percent, from
16.7 percent a month earlier. In the month, consumer prices rose
1.1 percent.  “Food prices are continuing to decelerate because we don’t
have the same problems with poultry and meat that we had last
year,” Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by telephone. “The
central bank is likely to maintain the  interest rates  because
the economy is still weak.”  Eighteen days of protests, sparked by falling living
standards, high unemployment and a lack of democratic rights,
led to Mubarak’s ouster on Feb. 11.  Egypt’s economy grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year that
ended June 30, its weakest performance in at least 10 years,
Fayza Aboulnaga, minister of planning and international
cooperation, told reporters on Sept. 8. The economy contracted
4.2 percent from January to March amid the worst political
crisis to hit the country in three decades as revenue from
industries such as tourism plummeted and consumption declined.  Egypt’s balance of payments in the last fiscal year
recorded a $9.8 billion deficit after a surplus of $3.4 billion
a year ago, the central bank said.  The bank on Aug. 25 left its overnight deposit rate
unchanged at 8.25 percent, the lowest level in almost five
years, and the overnight lending rate at 9.75 percent to support
economic growth. It has kept its benchmark deposit rate on hold
since September 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  