-- 
Euro Falls Most in a Year on Greek Financial Distress, ECB; Dollar Surges

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/euro-falls-most-in-a-year-on-greek-financial-distress-ecb-dollar-surges.html
The euro had its biggest loss
against the dollar in more than a year on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will cut interest rates amid record Greek
bond yields and the region’s deepening debt crisis.  The franc posted the largest weekly decline against the
euro since the shared currency was introduced in 1999 after the
 Swiss National Bank  imposed a 1.20 ceiling on the currency. The
Dollar Index rallied to its strongest weekly result in 13 months
as investors sought safety, pushing yields on the 10-year note
to a record low before the  Federal Reserve  holds a policy
meeting Sept. 20 and 21.  “The momentum on the weaker euro trend is set to
accelerate,” said Ken Dickson, investment director of
currencies at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, with more
than $250 billion under management. “The solutions coming out
of  Europe  are not working and not helping the periphery or the
bond markets to stabilize.”  The euro fell 3.9 percent to $1.3656, from $1.4205 on Sept.
2, the biggest weekly drop since July 12, 2010. The shared
currency fell 2.9 percent versus the yen to 105.99 from 109.11.  Dickson said he expects the euro to fall to $1.34 during
the next few weeks with potential to slump to $1.30 by the end
of the year.  The dollar rose for the third week against the Japanese
currency, strengthening 1.1 percent to 77.61, from 76.80.  Tumbling Franc  The franc had the biggest intraday loss ever against the
euro on Sept. 6, falling as much as 8.7 percent after the
nation’s central bank said it would defend the 1.20 ceiling with
the “utmost determination.”  The Swiss currency is still the best performer this year
among a basket of the currencies of 10 developed markets,
appreciating 3.1 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar was the worst performing
currency, losing 3.2 percent.  “In circumstances of a continued crisis in the euro zone,
we believe that the SNB may be required to purchase foreign
currency of between $500 billion and $1 trillion,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Misubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , wrote to clients.  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal in  Chicago , estimated the central bank may absorb 200
billion euros ($273 billion) in two months to defend the peg,
during a conference call to clients.  Dollar Gains  The dollar rose against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts after President Barack Obama detailed his $447
billion plan to boost hiring in a Sept. 8 address to Congress.
The  U.S. economy  slowed to 1 percent annual growth rate in the
second quarter and the unemployment remains at 9.1 percent in
August.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, rose 3.3 percent to
77.199 from 74.756, the biggest weekly gain since October 2008.  The yen strengthened against most of its major peers as
Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers met today
and yesterday in Marseille,  France .  “We’re very concerned about excessive yen gains and I want
to clearly state that we are watching speculative movements with
great interest”,  Japan ’s Finance Minister Jun Azumi told
reporters in  Tokyo  Sept. 6.  Japan Policy  The Bank of Japan kept monetary policy unchanged Sept.7 and
said it would gauge the effects of adding 10 trillion yen ($130
billion) stimulus last month on the yen near a postwar high.  Norway’s krone reached an eight-year high against the euro
and the Swedish krona advanced as investors sought alternatives
to the franc.  “In light of the move of the SNB to intervene against
Swiss, the number of available safe havens has diminished, and
that is a negative for the euro against other currencies,” said
 Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist in  New York  at Barclays
Plc in New York. “Investors will be looking to sell the euro
against the dollar and the more stable European currencies such
as the Norwegian krone and Swedish krona.”  Riksbank only “slightly” cut its guidance for future
increases in  interest rates  on Sept. 7 while signaling it may
raise the benchmark next quarter.  The krone rose 1.2 percent to 7.5743 per euro, from 7.6676.
It touched 7.4887 on Sept. 7, the strongest since May 2003.
Sweden’s krona jumped 1.6 percent to 8.9316 against the euro
from 9.0736.  ECB Update  The euro had its biggest intraday loss in a month against
the dollar on Sept. 8, tumbling 1.6 percent, after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said “downside
risks” to the region’s economy have intensified.  The ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent and cut its
2011 and 2012 growth forecasts at the Sept. 8 policy meeting in
 Frankfurt . The implied yield on Euribor futures for June slid
four basis points to 0.98 percent on Sept. 9, showing traders
were adding to wagers for lower borrowing costs.  “The direction of  euro-zone  risks on the cyclical and
financial stability fronts mean it is only a matter of time
before the ECB is forced to ease policy, which is likely to
happen via an expanded balance sheet and a lower deposit rate
over the coming months,” said Lena Komileva, global head of G-
10 strategy in London at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Euro Sales  Axel Merk, president and chief investment officer at Merk
Investments LLC, said his firm sold $90 million of euros
yesterday after European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet took a “more dovish tone.” Merk Investments manages
more than $700 million in assets and runs the Merk Hard Currency
Fund. Merk disclosed the sale in a note Sept. 9.  The euro traded at less than its 200-day moving average on
Sept. 8, falling below $1.37 for the first time since Feb. 23
yesterday, as credit-default swaps showing a more than 90
percent probability that Greece won’t meet its debt commitments.  Two-year German yields fell to a record 0.385 percent and
Greek debt yields reached record highs yesterday.  Greece is relying on a sixth payment of 8 billion euros in
international bailout loans that had been scheduled to be paid
this month. European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Sept. 7 he expects a decision by the
EU and the IMF on the next quarterly tranche in coming weeks and
“trusts” Greece will meet the necessary budget austerity
conditions.  ‘Periphery Concern’  “Whenever there are things like ‘Greece is not doing
enough’ is said, that is when people get the most scared because
of a possibility they may not get the next tranche of aid,”
said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut,
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Periphery concern has
continued to be the overarching theme.”  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 36,443 on Sept.
6, compared with net shorts of 384 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  