-- 
Tanzania Ferry Sinks; 240 Dead, 607 Saved

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-09-10T16:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/ferry-carrying-500-people-sinks-off-coast-of-tanzania-250-people-rescued.html
At least 240 people died when a
ferry sank off the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar, a police
official said. An additional 607 people who were on the vessel
have been rescued.  The boat sank at about midnight while en route to Pemba
Island from Zanzibar, Police Commissioner Musa Ali Musa said in
a phone interview from Zanzibar City, the capital of the Indian
Ocean island nation. The vessel may have sunk because it was
overloaded, the Nairobi office of Ecoterra International, a
maritime environmental advocacy group, said in a statement.  “We are concentrating on seeking survivors and perhaps
tomorrow we can begin investigating the cause of the accident,”
Musa said. “We have not got any information about foreigners.
All survivors and the dead are local people from Tanzania.”  Zanzibar, an archipelago that includes the main islands of
Unguja and Pemba and at least 51 other islets, is situated about
30 kilometers (19 miles) off the coast of Tanzania. The semi-
autonomous Indian Ocean island nation is in a political union
with Tanzania. In May 2009, a passenger ferry carrying 50 people
capsized after taking water on board as it was traveling from
Zanzibar’s port at Stone Town to Pemba. At least 20 people died
in the accident.  Tanzania President Jakaya Kikwete cancelled a planned visit
to  Canada  next week, where he was scheduled to hold talks with
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , and declared three days of
national mourning.  Cargo Carrier  The vessel involved in last night’s accident was used to
bring cargo from  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania’s commercial capital,
to Unguja before ferrying people to Pemba Island, Musa said.  While Tanzania and Kenya have Maritime Rescue Co-ordination
Centres, their ability to deal with maritime disasters is
hampered by a lack of proper equipment and technology, Ecoterra
said in an e-mailed response to questions. Last month, Kenya’s
navy upgraded its capabilities with the return of two
refurbished naval vessels, it said.  “The response mechanisms along the East African coast for
such disasters like vessels in distress and oil spills are still
under-developed,” Ecoterra said. “In terms of development aid
and international assistance, this is a sector where donor
governments of the international community could help countries
like  Kenya  and Tanzania improve the situation.”  Tanzania’s worst maritime disaster occurred in 1996 when
the MV Bukoba sank on Lake Victoria. While the passenger list
showed 443 people were on board the vessel, at least 800 people
may have died, according to the  www.wrecksite.eu  website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
440 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 