-- 
G-7 Ends Without Objection to Yen Action

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-09-10T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/g-7-ends-without-objection-to-yen-action.html
Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi
ended his first Group of Seven meeting without his counterparts
objecting to his pledge to take “bold actions” to stem yen
gains, paving the way for a fresh intervention if he deems it
necessary.  “We will continue to closely monitor developments and we
will take bold actions, especially against speculative
trading,” Azumi said after G-7 finance chiefs met in Marseille,
 France . “No one was opposed to my explanation. I think I gained
an understanding of our stance on foreign-exchange rates.”  Concern the currency gain is hurting economic recovery by
crimping exports may be mounting after a report showed the
world’s third-largest economy contracted more than the
government initially estimated in the second quarter. Azumi
attended the G-7 talks about a week after becoming Japan’s
eighth finance minister since the start of 2008.  “We expect Japan’s authorities will act again
unilaterally” if the yen tests its post-war high, said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, UBS AG’s global head of currency strategy in
 Singapore . “Investors should instead keep favoring the dollar
now when they seek safe-haven currencies.”  Azumi asked U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to
understand the challenges caused by the strength of the yen when
they met yesterday, a Japanese finance ministry official said on
the condition of anonymity, citing government policy.  ‘Consult Closely’  The G-7 policy makers said in a statement that they will
“consult closely in regard to actions in exchange markets and
will cooperate as appropriate.” While they said they prefer
markets to set currencies, they reiterated their long-held view
that volatility and disorderly movements threaten stability.  “As this falls short of any commitment to undertake
coordinated action in  currency markets , investors are likely to
react with disappointment when trading resumes on Monday,”
UBS’s Mohi-uddin said.  The yen touched a 10-year high against euro last week as
investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
after German officials said they are considering plans to shore
up their banks if Greece defaults.  “The root cause of the strong yen is global investors’
preference for safe assets,”  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters during the G-7 meeting. “I told them
Japan expects them to firmly address the fiscal issues,” he
said, referring to his G-7 counterparts.  ‘Considerably High’  The yen has retreated after rising to a post-war high of
75.95 against the dollar, closing last week at 77.61 in  New
York . The  exchange rate  is nevertheless ’’considerably high,’’
Economy Policy Minister Motohisa Furukawa said last week. The
nation’s largest manufacturers including Toyota Motor Corp. and
Sony Corp. based their business plans for this fiscal year at an
average of 82.59 per dollar, according to the central bank’s
quarterly survey in July.  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 2.1 percent
rate in the three months ended June 30, more than the 1.3
percent contraction reported last month, the Cabinet Office said
yesterday.  Rintaro Tamaki, Japan’s former top currency official who
orchestrated interventions last September and March, said the
language in the G-7 statement indicates countries want Japan to
build a consensus before intervening, indicating the nation may
face disagreement over yen sales in the future.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said before the G-7
meeting he was concerned about moves by the Japanese and Swiss
to stem gains in their currencies after the Swiss central bank
said last week it will keep the euro above 1.20 francs and will
defend that line with “utmost determination.”  No Signal  While the lack of objection to Japan’s currency stance
doesn’t signal approval for unilateral intervention, the
country’s authorities aren’t ruling out selling the yen to curb
excessive moves, another finance ministry official said, also on
condition of anonymity.  Japan intervened on Aug. 4 and sold 4.51 trillion yen ($58
billion) of its currency last month, the biggest monthly sales
since 2004. The G-7 economies jointly intervened in March for
the first time in more than a decade after a soaring yen
threatened  Japan ’s recovery from an earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear disaster.  Former Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who is now the
premier, conducted three rounds of interventions in the past 12
months. Azumi has said he will inherit Noda’s stance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  