-- 
G-7 Finance Chiefs Vow to Support Banks as Euro-Zone Crisis Roils Markets

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-11T05:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/g-7-finance-chiefs-vow-to-support-banks-as-euro-zone-crisis-roils-markets.html
Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed
to support banks and buoy slowing economic growth as  Europe ’s
debt crisis roiled financial markets and threatened a global
recession.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” G-7
finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement
released during weekend talks in Marseille, France. “Concerns
over the pace and future of the recovery underscore the need for
a concerted effort at a global level in support of strong,
sustainable and balanced growth.”  Renewed fears that European policy makers are failing to
prevent a Greek default and contain their debt woes last week
prompted investors to sell stocks and push the euro to a six-
month low against the dollar. European bank and sovereign credit
risk reached all-time highs as 10-year Treasury and German bund
yields fell to record lows on demand for a haven.  Germany moved toward insulating its banks against the
fallout of a possible Greek default and Juergen Stark’s
resignation from the  European Central Bank  exposed the policy
rifts aggravating the debt turmoil. BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale SA and  Credit Agricole , France’s largest banks by
market value, may have their credit ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service as soon as this week because of their Greek
holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Lehman Anniversary  Such shifts highlight the biggest risk to international
expansion and financial market stability since the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  three years ago this month.  The sense of disarray drew fire from G-7 officials with U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  lobbying his European
counterparts to get their act together. Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  even suggested Greece may need to quit the
euro.  “It’s not going to be an easy time in Europe for the next
while, but certainly I’m satisfied that there is a resolve to
deal with the problem,” Flaherty said in an interview yesterday.  European authorities “need to do whatever they can do to
calm these pressures,” Geithner told Bloomberg Television.
“They have to demonstrate they have enough political will.”  U.S. Slowdown  Europe isn’t the only threat to the world economy with U.S.
unemployment above 9 percent and  Japan  struggling with the
effects of a strong yen. The G-7 officials detailed no new
policies. Undermining their ability to revive expansion are
benchmark  interest rates  already around record lows and public
debts at unprecedented highs.  Dogged by voter unrest and ideological splits, Europe’s
leaders have reignited investor unease less than two months
since they outlined their latest remedy for a crisis nearing its
second anniversary. Finland is demanding collateral from Greece
in return for fresh aid and German lawmakers want veto power.  “We need Europe to have its moment of truth, to recognize
that the current course isn’t sustainable,” Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. “They need to opt for one of two options: either
full fiscal union, or a smaller, stronger euro zone.”  Central banks will “maintain  price stability  and continue
to support economic recovery” and provide liquidity “as
required” to lenders, while governments will pursue “growth-
friendly” budget cuts, they said in their statement.  Yen ‘Actions’  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi ended his first G-7
meeting without his counterparts objecting to his pledge to take
“bold actions” to stem yen gains, paving the way for a fresh
intervention if he deems it necessary. The G-7 said while it
prefers markets to set currency values, disorderly and excessive
movements can undermine stability.  Evidence of another split at the heart of European policy
making was highlighted by Stark’s unexpected announcement two
days ago that he will quit the ECB’s Executive Board. Stark made
the decision after privately protesting the bank’s program of
purchasing stressed  government bonds , which was widened last
month to include those of Spain and  Italy , a euro-area central
bank official said.  The bond buying, which has totaled 129 billion euros ($177
billion) since it began in May 2010, was the ECB’s effort to
soothe markets as governments sought longer-term solutions. It
opened the Frankfurt-based central bank to criticism even from
within its ranks that it blurs the line between monetary and
fiscal policy and risks bloating its balance sheet.  Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday said  Germany 
will nominate his deputy,  Joerg Asmussen , to replace Stark.  Plan B  Reflecting mounting concern Greece may default and that the
debt crisis is morphing into a banking crisis, German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s government is preparing plans to shore up its
nation’s financial sector. The measures involve aiding lenders
and insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek
bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said
three coalition officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private.  The existence of a “Plan B” comes as German lawmakers
intensify their criticism of Greece, threatening to withhold aid
unless it meets the terms of its austerity package, after an
international mission to  Athens  suspended its report on the
country’s progress.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said late yesterday
that his government’s top priority is “to save the country from
bankruptcy” and he’ll fight to keep  Greece  in the euro even if
that means more “difficult decisions.” Credit-default swaps on
Greek debt have climbed to a record, signaling a more-than 90
percent chance the nation will fail to meet debt commitments.  Greece is relying on a sixth payment of 8 billion euros in
international loans. The payment comes under the terms of the
May 2010 bailout as European Union leaders struggle to put
together a second rescue package, which combines a voluntary
debt swap and state asset sales.  Separately in Marseille, French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday the Group of Eight countries will increase
to $38 billion aid for  Egypt , Tunisia, Morocco and Jordan
following political turmoil earlier this year. International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the
lender now recognizes the National Transitional Council as
holding Libya’s IMF seat, and she’ll soon send a team to the
North African country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Marseille,  France , at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  