-- 
Obama Says Al-Qaeda in Retreat, America Stronger Before 9/11 Anniversary

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-10T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/obama-says-al-qaeda-is-in-retreat-ahead-of-the-9-11-anniversary.html
President  Barack Obama  said that
while al-Qaeda will “keep trying to hit us again” the U.S. is
better prepared for a terrorist attack ten years after the Sept.
11 anniversary than ever before.  “Ten years ago, ordinary Americans showed us the true
meaning of courage when they rushed up those stairwells, into
those flames, into that cockpit,” Obama said in his weekly
radio and Internet address. “In the decade since, a new
generation has stepped forward to serve and keep us safe.”  The president said the U.S. will “remain vigilant” and
“no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will
carry on.”  Security has been stepped up in New York and Washington
after officials received credible information that terrorists
may be plotting an attack in one of the cities around the Sept.
11 anniversary.  The threat concerns a possible al-Qaeda-sponsored attack
targeting  New York  or Washington on or near the anniversary,
said a U.S. official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly. The official said the intelligence concerns a
possible vehicle-borne attack, perhaps on a transportation hub
or bottleneck, and cautioned that the options may be broader
than a car or truck bombing.  Path to Defeat  Thanks to the work of U.S. military personnel, intelligence
and law enforcement officers, “America is stronger and al-Qaeda
is on the path to defeat,” Obama said.  The president said that since he’s taken office “more
senior al-Qaeda leaders have been eliminated than at any time
since 9/11” and he pointed to the May killing of al-Qaeda chief
Osama bin Laden as a victory in the fight against Islamic
extremism.  Obama said that the U.S. has “taken the fight to al-Qaeda
like never before” in the decade since the Sept. 11 attacks,
which killed almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center, the
Pentagon, and aboard Flight 93 that crashed into a field in
rural  Pennsylvania . Obama is marking the 10th anniversary
tomorrow with visits to all three sites.  “A decade after 9/11, it’s clear for all the world to see
-- the terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no
match for the character of our people, the resilience of our
nation, or the endurance of our values,” Obama said in the
address.  The president said that he is ending the war in Iraq and
drawing down troops on Afghanistan “even as we put relentless
pressure on al-Qaeda.”  Decade of War  “After a hard decade of war, it is time for nation
building here at home,” he said.  Obama said on June 22 that the surge of military forces he
ordered to  Afghanistan  in 2009 has accomplished its objectives
and he announced his decision to pull the 33,000 extra troops
from the country by the summer of 2012. About 10,000 troops
would be withdrawn by the end of this year and the remainder
would return home by September 2012.  All 46,000 U.S. combat troops in the Iraq are scheduled to
leave by the end of the year unless Iraq and the U.S. reach a
new agreement and the  Iraqi parliament  ratifies it by a two-
thirds vote.  Former New York Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , who was mayor on
Sept. 11, said in the Republicans’  weekly address  that U.S.
troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan should not be put on
“timetables.”  “We must not allow impatience to prevent our military from
achieving its objective in  Iraq  and Afghanistan and the
objective is the elimination of the threat to our nation,” he
said.  Terrorists ‘Failed’  Giuliani said that the terrorists on Sept. 11 “failed” at
their goal of breaking America’s spirit.  “The country was not broken, but rather, it was more
united in the days after September 11 than at any time in my
lifetime,” he said.  Giuliani, who ran for the Republican nomination in the 2008
presidential campaign, said that, while efforts to stamp out
Islamic extremism in Iraq and Afghanistan, stepped up security
measures at airports, and improved methods of intelligence
gathering have helped make the U.S. safer, it’s still not safe
enough.  He said port security hasn’t been “significantly
improved” and some state and local governments remain
unprepared for an attack. He cited the failed attempt to blow up
a Northwest Airlines flight on Christmas Day 2009 by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab as one of several “massive breakdowns in
security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  