-- 
Papandreou OKs Taxes, Cuts to Dodge Default

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-09-11T15:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/papandreou-pledges-to-avoid-default-as-resistance-to-more-aid-intensifies.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ,
who vowed yesterday to avoid a default and keep Greece in the
euro, approved new emergency measures to plug a yawning budget
gap as resistance builds to extending more aid to the European
Union’s most-indebted nation.  The Cabinet plans to cut one month’s wages from all elected
officials and impose an annual charge on all property for two
years, to be levied through electricity bills to ensure rapid
collection, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters
in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki today.  The measures will help the country meet deficit targets of
17.1 billion euros ($23.6 billion) in 2011 and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012, covering a 2 billion-euro shortfall for this year
that has been exacerbated by a deepening recession, he said.  The latest round of cuts and taxes come after the euro
slumped to a six-month low and the yield on Greek two-year notes
surged to a record 57 percent on concern the country is sliding
closer to default. Divisions among EU leaders threaten to
scupper a second bailout plan approved in July, and German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday repeated a threat
to withhold the next payment from the original rescue unless
 Greece  shows it can meet fiscal targets agreed with the EU.  Papandreou said yesterday the government’s top priority is
“to save the country from bankruptcy” and warned he would do
whatever’s necessary to meet targets.  Tear Gas, Eggs  “We have made the decision to fight to avoid a catastrophe
for our country and its citizens: bankruptcy,” he said in a
speech in Thessaloniki. “We will remain in the euro, and this
meant and means difficult decisions.”  Guests attending Papandreou’s speech were pelted with eggs
as they ran a gauntlet of protesters to reach the venue. Police
used teargas on demonstrators in Thessaloniki and in Athens,
where Greeks marched against the austerity measures that have
cut incomes and driven unemployment to a record.  A total of 4,500 police officers were deployed in
Thessaloniki as 15,000 people protested, including students
marching against education reforms and taxi drivers opposed to
new licensing rules. Police detained 94 and arrested two.  The government now expects the economy to shrink 5 percent
this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent from the
EU and International Monetary Fund, and a deeper contraction
than in the past two years. The forecast damps hopes that Greece
will meet its pledge to lower its  budget deficit  to 7.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2011, with the government blaming
the slump for a budget gap that widened 25 percent in the first
seven months of the year.  ‘Hellish’ Months Ahead  Venizelos, who on Sept. 6 promised to speed austerity
measures pledged in return for the emergency loans, said today
the situation was “critical” and that the next two months
would be “hellish.”  The government must draft a credible 2012 budget, proceed
with state asset sales and complete a voluntary debt swap by the
end of October while EU leaders work on the final touches to the
European Financial Stability Facility, he said.  Speculation of a Greek default is aimed at the euro and it
must be countered if the region is to stop the spread of the
debt crisis, Venizelos said yesterday.  Lack of Institutions  Today he said the lack of institutions in the euro area
underpinned the volatility in global markets in recent days.  “Greece is too small to be a catalyst for the future of
the euro area,” he said. “It accounts for 2 percent of the GDP
of the euro area and less than 3 percent of the area’s debt. We
can’t let our country become a pretext for divisions that aren’t
about us.”  European leaders came in for criticism for their handling
of the region’s debt crisis at a meeting of Group of Seven
finance ministers in Marseille,  France , that ended yesterday.  “They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have to
demonstrate to the world they have enough political will,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Marseille, where he attended the G-7.
“This is not a question of financial or economic capacity.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Sept. 9 Greece
may have to leave the euro if it fails to press ahead with its
budget-cutting plans. The comments echoed remarks by Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  this week that countries breaking the
region’s budget rules should face expulsion.  Germany’s Schaeuble reiterated that Greece must fulfill the
conditions laid down in its adjustment program to get the next
tranche of international aid due this month.  “There can be no doubt” that the two are linked,
Schaeuble told reporters in Marseille. “Everybody must stand by
the agreements.”  German Banks  Germany  is preparing a plan to shore up the nation’s banks
in the event that Greece fails to meet the terms of its aid
package and misses a payment on its debt, three members of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition said Sept. 9.  Fears have deepened since a scheduled quarterly review of
Greece’s progress by the EU and IMF was unexpectedly suspended
for 10 days last week. The cost of insuring Greek debt against
default jumped 212 basis points Sept. 9 to a record 3,238,
according to CMA. The five-year contracts signal there’s a 92
percent probability the country won’t meet its debt commitments.  Mostly Dissatisfied  Greece’s economy shrank 7.3 percent from a year earlier
after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in the first
quarter, the Athens-based  Hellenic Statistical Authority  said in
an e-mailed statement on Sept. 8. The figure, based on constant
prices and available non-seasonally adjusted data, is higher
than an Aug. 12 preliminary estimate for a 6.9 percent
contraction. A seasonally adjusted figure wasn’t provided.  Nine in 10 Greeks are dissatisfied with the government and
opposition’s handling of the crisis, according to a poll of
1,216 Greeks by researcher Public Issue published in Kathimerini
newspaper today.  Opposition New Democracy party’s lead over the governing
Pasok party is now four percentage points, with the poll showing
neither party would win an outright majority in parliament if
elections were held now. The poll was conducted Sept. 2 to Sept.
7 and the margin of error is 2.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  