-- 
Papandreou Defends Greek Austerity

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-09-10T19:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/papandreou-defends-greek-austerity.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
said he’ll fight to keep Greece in the euro and avoid a default,
as resistance builds to providing more aid to the European
Union’s most-indebted nation.  The government’s top priority is “to save the country from
bankruptcy,” Papandreou said in a speech in the northern Greek
city of Thessaloniki today. “We have taken the decision to
fight to avoid a catastrophe for our country and its citizens:
bankruptcy. We will remain in the euro. And this meant and means
difficult decisions.”  Greek bond yields this week surged to records amid threats
by European officials to withhold the loans the country needs to
pay wages, pensions and bond redemptions. Police battled
protesters with tear gas in Thessaloniki today as demonstrators
marched against austerity measures that have cut incomes and
driven unemployment to a record. Police in  Athens  used tear gas
to disperse protesters near the Parliament building.  Papandreou spoke a day after the euro slumped to a six-
month low and the yield on Greek two-year notes surged to a
record 57 percent on concern the country is sliding closer to
default. Divisions among EU leaders threaten to scupper a second
Greek bailout plan approved in July, and German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble today reiterated a threat to withhold the
next payment from the original rescue unless Greece shows it can
meet the fiscal targets agreed with the EU.  Meeting Targets  “If this year the recession is markedly greater than the
estimates of international organisations on which the medium-
term fiscal plan was based, despite that,  Greece  will make its
fiscal targets, doing all that’s needed in this direction,”
Papandreou said.  The austerity measures have deepened the three-year
recession and provoked a widespread public backlash. A total of
4,500 police officers were deployed in the city to keep order as
15,000 people protested including students marching against
education reforms and taxi drivers opposed new licensing rules.
Police detained 94 and arrested two. Guests ran the gauntlet of
protesters to reach the venue and were pelted with eggs.  The government now expects the economy to shrink 5 percent
this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent from the
EU and International Monetary Fund, and a deeper contraction
than in the past two years. The forecast damps hopes that Greece
will meet its pledge to lower its  budget deficit  to 7.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2011, with the government blaming
the slump for a budget gap that widened 25 percent in the first
seven months of the year.  Situation ‘Critical’  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, who on Sept. 6
promised to speed austerity measures pledged in return for the
emergency loans, said today the situation was “critical” and
that the next two months would be “decisive for our
existence.”  The government must draft a credible 2012 budget, proceed
with state asset sales and complete a voluntary debt swap by the
end of October, he said.  Speculation of a Greek default is aimed at the euro and it
must be countered if the region is to stop the spread of the
debt crisis, Venizelos said today in Thessaloniki. “If the euro
zone can’t solve the Greek problem, it will show that it can’t
solve its own.”  G-7 Meeting  European leaders came in for criticism for their handling
of the region’s debt crisis at a meeting of Group of Seven
finance minister in Marseille,  France  that ended today.  “They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have to
demonstrate to the world they have enough political will,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview “This is not a question of financial or
economic capacity.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday
Greece may have to leave the euro if it fails to press ahead
with its budget-cutting plans. The comments echoed remarks by
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  this week that countries
breaking the region’s budget rules should face expulsion.  Germany’s Schaeuble reiterated that Greece must fulfil the
conditions laid down in its adjustment program to get the next
tranche of international aid due this month.  “There can be no doubt” that the two are linked,
Schaeuble told reporters in Marseille, France. “Everybody must
stand by the agreements.”  German Banks  Germany  is preparing a plan to shore up the nation’s banks
in the event that Greece fails to meet the terms of its aid
package and misses a payment on its debt, three members of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition said yesterday.  Fears have deepened since a scheduled quarterly review of
Greece’s progress by the EU and IMF was unexpectedly suspended
for 10 days last week. The cost of insuring Greek debt against
default jumped 212 basis points yesterday to a record 3,238,
according to CMA. The five-year contracts signal there’s a 92
percent probability the country won’t meet its debt commitments.  Greece’s economy shrank 7.3 percent from a year earlier
after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in the first
quarter, the Athens-based  Hellenic Statistical Authority  said in
an e-mailed statement on Sept. 8. The figure, based on constant
prices and available non-seasonally adjusted data, is higher
than an Aug. 12 preliminary estimate for a 6.9 percent
contraction. A seasonally adjusted figure wasn’t provided.  Nine in 10 Greeks are dissatisfied with the way the
government has handled the country’s economic crisis, according
to a poll by researcher  VPRC  for  Epikaira  magazine on Sept. 8.
Greek opposition New Democracy party’s lead over the governing
Pasok party is widening, while a majority of voters don’t want
early elections, according to opinion polls published last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  