-- 
Pound Declines Most in Nine Months Versus Dollar on Rates; Gilts Gain

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-10T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/pound-falls-most-in-9-months-versus-dollar-on-rates-gilts-gain.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
decline in nine months against the dollar as investors added to
bets the  Bank of England  will keep  interest rates  near record
lows to support growth.  Gilts rose for a second week as U.K. reports added to
evidence the economic recovery is losing momentum. Policy makers
kept rates unchanged on Sept. 8 and maintained bond purchases at
200 billion pounds ($319 billion). The pound rose the most on
record against the franc this week after  Switzerland ’s central
bank set a cap on the Swiss currency to curb its strength.  “We have an underlying bearish view on the pound because of
the economic backdrop,” said  Beat Siegenthaler , currency
strategist at UBS AG in Zurich. “The Bank of England is not
exactly an inflation hawk.”  The pound declined 2.2 percent this week to $1.5866, the
biggest drop since the period ended May 6. Sterling depreciated
1.6 percent against the yen. It rose 9.8 percent versus the
franc, and 1.8 percent against the euro.  Options traders bet the pound will decline against the
dollar, the yen and the franc in the next three month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gilts rose, pushing 10-year yields down 18 basis points
this week to 2.26 percent, the biggest decline since the period
ended Nov. 26. They fell to a record 2.237 percent on Aug. 18.
Two-year yields dropped three basis points to 0.55 percent.  U.K. government bonds have handed investors a 9.5 percent
return so far this year, compared with 7.4 percent from German
debt and 8.3 percent from Treasuries, according to the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Growth Slows  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the three
months through August, from 0.6 percent in the three months
through July, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said Sept. 7. The inflation rate was at 4.4 percent in
July, more than twice the central bank’s target.  Sales at British stores open at least 12 months, measured
by value, fell 0.6 percent from a year earlier, the  British
Retail Consortium  said Sept 6.  The pound has depreciated 6.1 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine major peers, the second-worst performer
after the dollar, which fell 8.9 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  