-- 
Treasuries Rise, 10-Year Yields Fall to Record on Greece Financial Turmoil

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/treasuries-rise-10-year-yields-fall-to-record-on-greece-financial-turmoil.html
Treasuries rose for a second
straight week, pushing 10-year note yields to a record low, as
Germany prepared plans to shore up its banks in the event of a
Greek default, bolstering demand for a refuge.  The extra yield investors get to hold 30-year bonds instead
of two-year notes was the smallest in more than a year on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may decide at its meeting later
this month to replace some of its shorter-maturity U.S.
securities with longer-term debt to lower borrowing costs.
 Greece  rejected talk of a default as “organized speculation,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the finance ministry.  “Europe is crumbling,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at in
 New York  at Societe Generale SA, one of the 20 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “If you have this global recession
ahead of us and all sorts of problems over there, the flight-to-
quality bid is definitely around.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.92 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities
maturing in August 2021 gained 19/32, or $5.94 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 27/32. The yields fell yesterday to 1.8942
percent, the lowest level in Fed data going back to 1953.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.7 percent. Gold
futures rose to a record $1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6.  Treasury Returns  Treasuries have returned 8.5 percent in 2011 in what would
be their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  President  Barack Obama  presented to Congress on Sept. 8 a
$447 billion jobs plan that would include infrastructure
spending, subsidies to local governments to stem teacher layoffs
and cutting in half payroll taxes paid by workers and small-
business owners. Tax cuts account for more than half the plan’s
dollar value.  “For the first time, the administration recognizes how
deep our economic challenges are and is trying to get ahead of
them,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. The  Newport Beach ,  California , firm manages the
biggest bond fund.  The government will sell $66 billion in notes and bonds
next week. The U.S. is to offer $32 billion of three-year debt,
$21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds in three daily auctions beginning Sept. 12.  Treasuries also gained as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Sept. 8 in a Minneapolis speech that policy makers will discuss
what they may need to do to boost the recovery at a two-day
meeting that begins Sept. 20.  Bernanke’s View  Policy makers are prepared to use the tools they have “as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the
context of  price stability ,” Bernanke said. He said in previous
remarks the options include lengthening the average duration of
securities in the Fed’s $1.65 trillion Treasury portfolio and
buying more government bonds.  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek sovereign bonds jumped
212 basis points to a record 3,238, according to CMA. The five-
year contracts signal there’s a 92 percent probability the
country won’t meet its debt commitments.  An emergency plan in  Germany  involves measures to help
banks and insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their
Greek bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld,
said three people who spoke yesterday on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are being held in private.  Buttressing Banks  The successor to the government’s bank-rescue fund
introduced in 2008 may be enrolled to help recapitalize the
banks, one of the people said.  “Fear is driving everything right now,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading in New York at Bank of Nova
Scotia. “That’s why you’re getting this kind of jump in the
market.”  Greece is committed to “full implementation” of its
bailout agreement, the  finance ministry  said in its e-mailed
statement. The next government bond will mature Dec. 19 and is
worth 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), according to Bloomberg
data. Until then, Greece faces redemptions on Treasury bills,
which are typically rolled over by a group of primary dealers.  Adding to European sovereign-debt turmoil, Juergen Stark
resigned yesterday from the European Central Bank’s Executive
Board. During a Sept. 4 conference call, Stark expressed
opposition to a bond-purchase program, which was expanded last
month when the ECB started buying Italian and Spanish debt, said
a euro-area bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because discussions are confidential.  “The growth outlook looks sour, there is no guarantee that
anything else comes from the Fed, there is little willingness
for more fiscal stimulus from  Washington , and  Europe  is a mess,
which make owning Treasuries a good idea, despite these
yields,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in
New York at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  