-- 
Tropical Storm Nate Nears Mexico Coast

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-09-10T17:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/tropical-storm-nate-approaches-mexico-s-gulf-coast-testing-hurricane-force.html
Tropical Storm Nate may near
hurricane strength as it approaches the Mexican coast tomorrow.
U.S. energy operations in the  Gulf of Mexico  will see few
effects from the system.  Nate, with top winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
is moving west at 6 mph, according to a U.S. National Hurricane
Center advisory at 11 a.m. New York time. It’s forecast for
“some slow” strengthening during the next day or two. Mexico
has issued a  hurricane watch  from Tampico to Veracruz. Nate is
about 140 miles east-northeast of Veracruz, the center said.  The storm has prompted  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s
largest oil producer, to “defer” 178,700 barrels of crude
output from offshore facilities and close two ports and evacuate
five offshore platforms.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. Four production platforms are
shut, or 0.7 percent of the 617 crewed structures, the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  said
yesterday.  Nate is expected to produce as much as 6 inches (15
centimeters) of rainfall over  Mexico ’s Veracruz and Tabasco
states as it nears the coast tomorrow, the  hurricane center 
said. Isolated areas may see as much as 12 inches, and Nate
could produce a storm surge of as much as 3 feet (0.9 meters)
above normal as the center nears landfall.  A tropical storm warning has been issued for Mexico from
Tampico to Punta el Lagarto, the agency said.  Separately, Maria is about 25 miles northeast of Antigua
and moving northwest at 15 mph. All tropical storm warnings
issued for Maria have been dropped, the hurricane center said.  North of Maria, Katia is no longer a tropical cyclone over
the North Atlantic as it moves east-northeast at 53 mph. It may
bring strong winds to the U.K. on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  