-- 
San Diego Bartender Defies Power Blackout

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/san-diego-bartender-defies-power-blackout.html
Rodney Daylamy, manager of the
Thirst on Fourth bar, turned  San Diego ’s 12-hour blackout into a
bonanza, using a portable generator to keep the lights on and
drinks flowing while competitors closed.  Daylamy, 32, raced to find a portable generator and
siphoned gas from his car to keep it running after a
transmission-line failure cut power to 1.46 million homes in
Southern California and  Arizona  on Sept. 8.  “I wouldn’t mind if the power went out once a week,”
Daylamy said yesterday in an interview. Business “was like a
good Saturday night” after the first few customers phoned and
tweeted friends that the bar was open.  The blackout, the worst in the history of  Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s
San Diego Gas & Electric, snarled traffic across the region and
trapped passengers at San Diego International Airport. Some
businesses prospered or at least avoided loss thanks to backup
generators and, in the case of Albertson’s market, a natural-gas
powered fuel cell.  “When you drive down the neighborhood and the only thing
lit is Albertson’s, it attracts people,” said Rick Crandall,
Southern California director of sustainability for the grocery
chain’s parent,  SuperValu Inc. (SVU)  “We had a very busy day.”  The fuel cells from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  have their
origins in the U.S. manned space program, dating back to Apollo,
and are used to run everything from buses to buildings. The
Hartford, Connecticut-based company doesn’t break out the unit’s
results.  Power returned to affected areas of Southern California at
3:25 a.m. local time yesterday, almost 12 hours after the loss
of a line that brings electricity from Arizona, Sempra said.  Cause Investigated  The failure of a 500-kilovolt electric transmission line
near Yuma, Arizona, triggered the blackout.  Pinnacle West
Capital Corp. (PNW) ’s Arizona Public Service, one of the line’s
owners, is investigating why safeguards failed to isolate the
problem. The blackout affected 56,000 customers in Arizona.  The  power failure  pre-empted a promising night for Gaslamp
Quarter sports bars in downtown San Diego. The Navy guided-
missile destroyer  USS Higgins  had returned a day earlier from an
eight-month deployment, and customers were arriving to watch the
 National Football League ’s season-opening game between the Green
Bay Packers and New Orleans Saints.  “We had to turn many customers away,” said Hooters
manager Gino Gonzalez, who gave disappointed customers coupons
for their next visit. “People were just coming in.”  Rob Smith’s Southwest Airlines flight from San Antonio had
just landed when the lights failed. Smith, 53, from Reno,
expected a one-hour layover. Instead, he ended up sleeping on
the airport floor.  “It was kind of like being homeless,” Smith said in an
interview as he waited for an afternoon flight home. “I
probably jinxed the flight. Just my luck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  