-- 
England Comes From Behind to Beat Argentina in Rugby; Scotland, France Win

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-10T13:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/scotland-defeats-romania-34-24-in-opening-pool-b-match-at-rugby-world-cup.html
England  came from behind to defeat
 Argentina  13-9 in its opening match at the  Rugby World Cup .
Scotland needed two late tries to beat Romania, while  France  and
Fiji also won after pulling away from lower-ranked opponents.  Replacement scrum-half Ben Youngs darted over for the only
try in the 67th minute last night and Jonny Wilkinson converted
to put England 10-9 up in Dunedin, New Zealand. Wilkinson, who
missed five of his eight kicks at goal, added a penalty with
five minutes left to take his team four points clear. Argentina
missed six penalties.  “We knew all about what Argentina can bring,” England
captain  Mike Tindall  told reporters. “When they had the ball
they controlled it well. Luckily for us today none of the
kickers could kick.”  England trailed 9-3 in the Pool B match when wing  Chris
Ashton  was illegally upended. The 2003 world champion kicked a
penalty to touch, won possession from the resulting lineout and
Youngs darted through a gap between two defenders to give
England the lead for the first time.  Scotland  leads England by one point atop  Pool B  after
rallying from 24-21 down to beat Romania 34-24 in the first
of today’s four games. France defeated  Japan  47-21 to join
tournament host New Zealand atop Pool A, while Fiji topped
 Namibia  49-25 in Pool D. The top-ranked All Blacks opened the
48-game event yesterday with a 41-10 win over Tonga.  Defending champion  South Africa  gets its World Cup campaign
underway against  Wales  in today’s final game in Wellington.
 Australia  meets  Italy  in Auckland in the day’s first match,
followed by Ireland taking on the U.S. in New Plymouth.  Two Tries  Scotland wingerSimon Danielli went over twice in the last
five minutes to break a 24-24 tie in Invercargill. Tries from
Mihaita Lazar and Daniel Carpo had helped put  17th-ranked 
 Romania  within reach of its first win against a top-tier nation
at the sport’s four-yearly showpiece.  “We had to come back, we were in a tough situation with
about 10, 15 minutes to go and we dug it out,” Scotland captain
Alastair Kellock said in a televised interview. “We made a lot
of errors that we need to cut out if we’re going to win games in
this tournament.”  France, which is in Pool A alongside the All Blacks and is
the highest-ranked northern hemisphere team at No. 4, pulled
away with 22 points in the last 13 minutes in Auckland after
13th-ranked Japan got within four points.  Lock Lionel Nallet and replacements Pascal Pape and Morgan
Parra scored tries in the final 10 minutes to follow first-half
scores from Julien Pierre, Francois Trinh-Duc and Vincent Clerc.
Scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili kicked the other 17 points.  “We came back at the end of the game,” France assistant
coach Emile Ntamack said in a televised interview. “We were
under pressure.”  Japan’s New Zealand-born fly-half James Arlidge was named
the man of the match after scoring all his team’s points,
including a try in each half.  Five Points  France and  New Zealand  have five points atop their group.
The top two teams from each of the four pools advance to the
quarterfinals.  Fiji, which reached the last eight four years ago,
outscored Namibia by six tries to two in the opening  Pool D  game
at Rotorua International Stadium.  Right winger Goneva got a first-half hat trick to become
the first Fijian to score three tries in a World Cup game and
went over again after the break. Fellow wing Naipolioni Nalaga
and second-rower Leone Nakarawa scored Fiji’s other tries, while
center Seremaia Bai booted 19 points.  “I missed out last time, and it was my dream to make the
team for this  World Cup ,” Goneva said in comments distributed
by tournament organizers. “It is my time.”  Heinz Koll and Chrysander Botha touched down for Namibia,
which had got within two scores with 25 minutes left at 39-25.
Fly-half Theuns Kotze kicked three drop goals and two penalties
for a Namibian record 15 points in a World Cup game.  Romania, which was the last team to qualify for the 20-
nation tournament, led seventh-ranked Scotland 24-21 with 13
minutes remaining after No. 8 Carpo crashed over following a
scrum surge for a converted try.  Bonus Point  Full-back Chris Paterson kicked a penalty to make it 24-24
before Danielli finished off two attacks to give Scotland the
win and a bonus-point for scoring at least four tries.  Scrum-half Mike Blair and center Joe Ansbro got first-half
tries for Scotland, which led 18-11 at the interval. Paterson
kicked 14 points to lift his career tally in Tests to 800.  “The match goes for 80 minutes which is what you have got
to play for,” Scotland coach Andy Robinson said at a news
conference. “They pulled themselves out of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  