-- 
Minnesota Extends Peterson’s NFL Contract; Polamalu Re-Signs With Steelers

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-10T20:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-10/vikings-adrian-peterson-agree-to-extension-steelers-re-sign-troy-polamalu.html
All-Pro running back  Adrian Peterson  and the  Minnesota Vikings  agreed to a contract
extension that may be worth $100 million, one day before the
team’s  National Football League  season-opening game.  The Pittsburgh Steelers and Troy Polamalu also agreed on a
new contract today that may keep the All-Pro safety with the
franchise for the rest of his career.  Peterson, 26, was the Vikings’ first-round draft pick in
2007 and has rushed for more than 1,200 yards in each of his
first four seasons while making the  Pro Bowl  each year. As a
rookie, Peterson set the NFL single-game record of 296 yards
rushing against  San Diego , the team the Vikings visit tomorrow
to open their regular-season schedule.  “Adrian’s performances on the field have given fans so
much excitement since he first joined us as a rookie,” Vikings
owner Zygi Wilf said in a statement. “His talent and
determination are remarkable and we are proud to have him be a
part of the family for years to come.”  Peterson’s new deal is worth up to $100 million over seven
years and includes $36 million guaranteed,  ESPN reported , citing
an unidentified NFL official. The Vikings didn’t disclose terms
of the extension.  Peterson has 5,782 yards rushing and 52 touchdowns in his
four seasons in  Minnesota . He led the NFL with 1,760 rushing
yards during his second season in 2008 and two years ago topped
the league with 18 touchdowns rushing.  The Steelers signed Polamalu, the NFL’s 2010 Defensive
Player of the Year, to a contract extension at the Pittsburgh
International Airport before flying to Baltimore for tomorrow’s
season-opener against the rival Ravens. The team didn’t disclose
terms of the deal.  ESPN said  it’s a four-year extension through
the 2014 season.  Polamalu, 30, said on his  Twitter feed  that he’s “happy to
say I will retire a Pittsburgh Steeler!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  