-- ‘Despicable Me 2’ Edges Out Sandler Comedy, ‘Pacific Rim’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-15T21:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/-despicable-me-sequel-edges-out-grown-ups-2-giant-lizards.html
“Despicable Me 2” fought off two
new releases, including science-fiction film “Pacific Rim,” to
finish first at the box office in U.S. and Canadian theaters for
a second straight weekend with $43.9 million in sales.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s comedy “Grown Ups 2,” starring  Adam Sandler ,
was second at $41.5 million, while “Pacific Rim,” director
Guillermo del Toro’s action feature from Legendary Entertainment
LLC and distributor  Warner Bros ., was third with $37.3 million,
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in a statement. Both new
films fell short of BoxOffice.com estimates.  “Pacific Rim,” made for $180 million, is the first big
solo production from  Legendary , which is seeking to develop its
own library of characters and stories. With the high cost,
“Pacific Rim” will need to do well overseas to avoid a loss,
analysts have said. The weekend’s other new release, “Grown Ups
2” produced the second-best opening for Sandler.  Given the challenges of drawing audiences for a big-budget
film with an original storyline and characters, “Pacific Rim”
had a “solid opening weekend” and has a good chance for a
sequel, said to Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer of
Boxofficeguru.com.  “It’s going to make the bulk of its money overseas, anyway
-- this is a global film,” he said. Sandler, meanwhile, proved
he can still pull in moviegoers, according to Pandya.  Family Man  “‘Grown Ups 2’ will be Sandler’s 14th $100 million film,”
Pandya said. “There are very few stars who are that consistent
over time.”  The film is a follow-up to 2010’s “Grown Ups,” also from
Sony. In the sequel, Sandler plays a family man who returns to
his hometown only to re-visit the travails and insecurities of
his youth. The movie, made for an estimated $80 million, also
features  Kevin James ,  Chris Rock ,  Salma Hayek  and  David Spade .  While the film missed Boxoffice.com’s forecast of $47
million, it still represented a big opening for Sandler. His
biggest, “The Longest Yard,” opened on Memorial Day weekend in
2005 with $47.6 million, according to Hollywood.com.  For “Pacific Rim,” solid reviews and social-media buzz,
including praise from musician  Kanye West , added momentum in the
weeks before the opening, prompting  Boxoffice.com , to raise its
forecast to $41 million from $35 million. Earlier estimates had
called for opening weekend sales in the low- to mid-$30 million
range.  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in
 New York , had estimated $32.2 million.  Sea Invaders  Legendary, the studio behind the film, said last week it
will leave Warner in January for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures  in a deal encompassing film, television and theme
parks.  “Pacific Rim,” directed by the Oscar-nominated del Toro,
features humans piloting skyscraper-sized robots to battle
lizard-like invaders from the sea. The film stars Idris Elba,
Charlie Hunnam and Ron Perlman.  “Though ‘Pacific Rim’ grows battle weary, the elaborate
visual effects by John Knoll and James E. Price reflect tireless
imagination,” wrote Bloomberg News critic  Greg Evans .  Rottentomatoes.com , a website that aggregates reviews, gave
it a 72 percent positive rating.  “Despicable Me 2,” from Universal Pictures and
Illumination Entertainment, is the fourth No. 1 opening for
Universal this year, following “Fast & Furious 6,” “Identity
Thief” and “Oblivion.”  Made for $76 million, “Despicable Me 2” set box-office
records in its debut over the July 4 holiday weekend and has
generated $228.4 million at domestic theaters so far.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 22 percent to
$187.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance and revenue year to date are both down less than 1
percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on actual ticket sales for July 12 through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  