-- Mad Elektra Plots Revenge, Chereau Gets Ovation at Aix
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-07-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/mad-elektra-plots-revenge-chereau-gets-ovation-at-aix.html
Even in Europe, it’s still possible
to stage an opera in a way that the composer would recognize.  Patrice Chereau, the French director, is reminding us of
that half-forgotten truth. His “Elektra” at the Festival d’Aix-en-Provence was greeted with a standing ovation. Chereau has
taken small liberties, not enough to turn the story upside down.  Klytamnestra, Elektra’s adulterous mother, is portrayed as
a melancholy recluse, not a half-crazed monster. When she learns
that her son Orest is dead, she doesn’t burst into the
triumphant laughter required by the libretto.  Nor does Elektra die after her frenetic victory dance. She
falls into a stupor while Orest, leaving his sisters without
saying goodbye, walks off into an uncertain future.  Richard Peduzzi’s atmospheric set, more Oriental than
Greek, and Caroline de Vivaise’s modern costumes create the
perfect framework for a story that is mythic and timeless.  “Elektra” stands and falls with the singer of the title
role who is virtually on stage for the entire opera. Evelyn
Herlitzius is simply magnificent, riding the waves of Richard Strauss’s mammoth orchestra with inexhaustible stamina.  Adrianne Pieczonka as her sister Chrysothemis is no less
powerful, if a bit bland. Waltraud Meier’s Klytamnestra can’t
quite cope with her daughters, no wonder at this advanced stage
of her career. Mikhail Petrenko is a sturdy though stiff Orest.  Esa-Pekka Salonen, who conducts the Orchestre de Paris,
pulls off the not negligible feat of bringing out all the colors
of the score without drowning out the singers.  Much of the text is intelligible -- a rare occurrence in an
opera that often sounds like a symphonic poem with some singers
in the background desperately trying to cut though the
pandemonium created by 100 musicians in the pit. Rating: ****.  Verdi Homage  With “Rigoletto,” the festival’s homage to Giuseppe Verdi’s
bicentennial, we’re back to the usual excesses of what the
Germans call “Regietheater,” or director’s theater.  The courtyard of the Archbishop’s Palace is a notoriously
difficult venue. Scene changes are virtually impossible.  Director Robert Carsen and set designer Radu Boruzescu
chose to amalgamate Verdi’s four scenes into one, a circus ring.  During the prelude, Rigoletto appears in front of the
curtain as a whiteface clown, like Tonio in “I Pagliacci.” Yet
instead of singing a prologue, he drags a bag with a lifesize
doll behind him -- an omen of the finale when he finds his
murdered daughter in the bag.  Ducal Throne  The ducal palace is suggested by a throne in the director’s
box. Rigoletto’s house is a trailer, Sparafucile’s tavern a
curious mesh of ropes and nets. Someone who has never seen the
opera will find it difficult to understand what’s going on.  George Gagnidze, though lacking the bite of a true Verdi
baritone, is a solid Rigoletto. Irina Lungu is a lovely Gilda
with a somewhat tentative coloratura.  The weak link is Arturo Chacon-Cruz’s bleating Duke. His
best attributes are the cute buttocks he bares --another of the
director’s ideas -- before raping Gilda in his bedroom.  The hero of the evening is the London Symphony Orchestra
conducted by Gianandrea Noseda. They are precise and stylish,
though perhaps not the last word in Italianita. Rating: **.  Surreal Novelty  Last year, George Benjamin’s new opera “Written on Skin”
had a sensational success at the festival. This year’s novelty,
a 50-minute chamber opera by the young Portuguese composer Vasco
Mendonca, who studied with Benjamin, is not on the same level.  “The House Taken Over´´ is based on a surrealist short
story by the Argentinian writer Julio Cortazar.  The siblings Hector and Rosa live in the house of their
parents, busying themselves with trivial chores. Although a baby
is nowhere in sight, Rosa tirelessly knits babywear.  The idyll is interrupted by strange noises which force the
siblings to avoid an increasing number of rooms. In the end,
they flee the haunted house.  Mendonca’s music, written for two singers and 13
instrumentalists, is mildly atonal and mostly on the soft side.
The singer’s tone is conversational.  Oliver Dunn and Kitty Whately are perfect as the odd
couple, and the Asko-Schonberg Ensemble from Amsterdam,
conducted by Etienne Siebens, sounds impeccable.  Katie Mitchell, the director, and Alex Eales, the set
designer, have created an innocently realistic ambience which
makes the events all the more surreal.  It was not the fault of the performers that the work was
coolly received when I saw it. Unlike, say, Benjamin Britten’s
“The Turn of the Screw,” another ghost story, “The House Taken
Over” is too thin and too vague to spark our imagination.  What works in a short story doesn’t necessarily work on the
stage. Rating: ***  The Festival d’Aix-en-Provence runs through July 27.
Information:  http://www.festival-aix.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on French culture,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Robert Heller  on
music and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Aix-en-Provence, France, at
 uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 