-- Don’t Believe the Banks’ Warnings About Capital
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/markets-call-bull-on-banks-warnings-about-capital.html
Would a safer financial system be
bad for the economy? Big banks say it would, because tougher
banking rules will squeeze their lending and hold back
investment. Markets don’t seem to agree.  The relationship between banking and economic dynamism will
be a crucial topic in coming weeks, as U.S. regulators collect
comments on new capital rules aimed at making the country’s
largest banks more resilient. A  proposal  published earlier this
week would require bank holding companies to fund each $100 in
assets with at least $5 in capital -- equity from shareholders
and other forms of financing that, as opposed to borrowed money,
can absorb losses and prevent insolvency in times of crisis.
Some officials have suggested going farther and setting the
requirement at $10, and we’ve said we  agree . The global minimum
is $3, a level at which a net loss equal to only 3 percent of
assets would be enough to render a bank insolvent.  Banks warn that a higher capital requirement could be
disastrous. They say they will have a hard time raising the
necessary equity from investors on desirable terms. Instead,
they will reduce the capital ratio’s denominator -- assets -- to
meet the requirements, or charge more for loans. The result will
be less credit for companies looking to expand and for people
looking to buy houses; the slow recovery might stall altogether.  If financial markets thought this prediction was likely,
they would react negatively to announcements of higher capital
requirements. Stock prices should fall on concerns that
companies would face a credit crunch. Bond prices should rise on
expectations that the  Federal Reserve  would be forced to keep
 interest rates  low to support the recovery.  Largely Unmoved  That’s not what has happened. On July 9, the day regulators
published their proposal, the S&P 500  Index (SPX)  rose 11 points and
the price of the 10-year U.S. Treasury note held steady. The two
were also largely unmoved on July 2, when Federal Reserve
Governor  Daniel Tarullo  announced regulators’ intention to boost
capital requirements. On June 21, when Bloomberg reported that
regulators were considering the new capital rules, the S&P rose
four points and the 10-year Treasury fell.  Why so little concern? Perhaps because the proposed
increase in capital is less onerous than the banks have been
claiming; perhaps because the proposals are still just
proposals, and could get milder before they are put into force.
But it’s also possible investors recognize that requiring banks
to raise more capital presents no threat the economy.  As it stands, banks have an incentive to be big and
dangerous: The more damage their failure would do, the more
certain they and their creditors can be that the government will
rescue them in an emergency. In effect, this is a subsidy that
distorts markets and encourages the creation of credit bubbles.  Higher capital requirements would reduce the subsidy by
making banks less likely to fail and by making sure
shareholders, not taxpayers, pay the price for bank executives’
mistakes. Big banks’ funding costs might rise, but this would
level the playing field for smaller banks and other financial
institutions, which could pick up the slack in lending. What’s
more, the added capital would improve the banks’ capacity to
keep credit flowing during economic downturns -- a benefit
demonstrated in recent  research  published by the  International
Monetary Fund .  It isn’t even a foregone conclusion that tougher capital
rules would be bad for the banks’ own shareholders. True, the
rules would reduce the implicit subsidy; on the other hand, most
of the biggest banks currently have so little capital that
investors can’t be sure they’re solvent. For some, raising more
capital would boost confidence and share prices. When Deutsche
Bank AG sold 2.96 billion euros of new stock in April, its share
price  surged .  Markets don’t seem to be buying the idea that there’s a
trade-off between safer banking and a stronger economy.
Regulators should press on and bring capital requirements in
line with what prudence would dictate.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 