-- Flaherty Remains at Finance in Canada Cabinet Shuffle
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-15T17:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/harper-said-to-announce-canada-cabinet-changes-tomorrow.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is seeking to rejuvenate his government’s fortunes with
one of the largest cabinet shuffles since taking power in 2006,
as he battles slumping poll ratings and an economy struggling to
build steam.  Harper added eight new cabinet ministers, including four
women, to his cabinet in changes announced on the social media
site Twitter. Harper’s main economic line-up remains intact with
the exception of  James Moore , previously heritage minister,
replacing Christian Paradis as industry minister. Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , Trade Minister Ed Fast and Natural
Resources Minister Joe Oliver remain in their posts.  Harper’s government is facing its lowest popularity in four
years, with his party surpassed by the Liberals in public
opinion polls, as the Conservatives struggle with the fallout of
an expenses scandal that has implicated the Prime Minister’s
former chief of staff, Nigel Wright, and two of his senators.
Tepid growth also threatens Harper’s reputation as strong
handler of the economy.  “It’s easy to take credit when you’re doing better than
your neighbor to the south, but if there’s a perception that the
 U.S. economy  is starting to pull away, Canadians will start to
ask questions,” said  Nik Nanos , a pollster for Ottawa-based
Nanos Research. “I can’t see the Conservatives focusing on
anything else other than the economy.”  Large Shuffle  Today’s shuffle comes at the midpoint of the government’s
mandate, with elections scheduled for 2015. Lisa Raitt, a
Toronto lawmaker, moves to the transport department from the
labor ministry. Harper appointed  Alberta ’s Michelle Rempel as
minister for western economic development and Kevin Sorenson, a
lawmaker from the same province, as junior finance minister.  Manitoba lawmaker Shelly Glover becomes Heritage Minister.
Chris Alexander, an Ontario lawmaker, becomes the new
immigration minister, replacing  Jason Kenney , who moves to the
ministry of employment and social development.  Peter MacKay becomes justice minister, trading spots with
Rob Nicholson, who moves to defense.  Speaking to reporters, Harper said he will “prorogue” the
legislature, an act that ends the current parliamentary session,
in order to outline a new agenda for his government later this
year.  “Our new agenda will have new faces to bring it forward,”
Harper said following the swearing-in ceremony. The shuffle
brings “generational change” to his government, Harper said.  Flaherty, who has been suffering from a rare skin disease,
had said he wanted to remain as finance minister until the
country eliminates its deficit, which he forecast will happen in
the fiscal year beginning April 2015.  Long Serving  Flaherty has been Harper’s only finance minister, making
him the longest serving Conservative at the post in a century.
If he stays through 2015, he would become  Canada ’s second-longest serving finance minister since the country was created
in 1867.  Keeping him at the job may mean a “quiet sigh of relief”
for financial markets because of all the changes at key Canadian
economic institutions, Bank of Montreal’s  Doug Porter  said. He
cited the departure of  Mark Carney  from the  Bank of Canada  last
month and Julie Dickson’s planned retirement from the Office of
the Superintendent of Financial Institutions.  “It’s probably more welcome than usual to have consistency
at finance,” Porter, chief economist at the Toronto-based
lender, said by e-mail.  Flaherty’s last budget plan -- delivered March 21 -- seeks
to limit spending growth over the next five years to the rate of
inflation. If successful, it would be the slowest pace since the
country last eliminated the deficit in the 1990s.  Stocks Underperform  At 1.7 percent, Canada’s growth this year will be one of
the slowest among the Group of 20 countries outside  Europe ,
according to International Monetary Fund forecasts released last
week. Canada’s benchmark stock  index  is under-performing U.S.
equities for a third year after seven years of stronger gains.  According to poll aggregator  threehundredeight.com , the
Conservatives have averaged support of 28.9 percent in surveys
taken last month, compared with 34.4 percent for the Liberals
and 23.8 percent support for the main opposition  New Democratic
Party . That’s a drop of 4.9 percentage points for the
Conservatives from the end of last year, and a 10.5 percentage
gain for the Liberals, who elected Justin Trudeau as their new
leader in April.  Since March, Harper has been dogged by scandal. Wright
resigned from his post after the disclosure he paid about
C$90,000 ($86,300) to Senator Mike Duffy to help with repayment
of ineligible expenses Duffy has claimed, prompting an
investigation from the the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police .  Senate Scandal  Another senate lawmaker, Pamela Wallin, also left Harper’s
caucus amid investigation of her expenses. Harper’s former
minister of intergovernmental affairs, Peter Penashue, lost his
seat in a special vote after he was found by the country’s
independent voting agency to have received ineligible campaign
contributions in the 2011 general election.  Wright, a managing director at Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,
Canada’s largest private-equity firm, before becoming Harper’s
third chief of staff more than two years ago, helped the
government focus on structural issues such as increasing
exposure in Asian markets and boosting labor mobility,
transitioning away from stimulus measures to boost domestic
demand.  Harper’s government last week also lost another key
government adviser on economic issues when Sean Speer,
Flaherty’s director of policy and a one-time aide to Harper,
announced July 12 he is leaving the government for a research
position.  In addition to Rempel, Alexander, Glover and Sorenson, the
new additions to the cabinet include Kellie Leitch as labor
minister,  Candice Bergen  as junior social development minister,
Pierre Poilievre as minister of state for democratic reform and
Greg Rickford as minister of state for science and technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  