-- Asiana Death Toll Rises to Three as Girl Dies in Hospital
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-14T06:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/asiana-death-toll-rises-to-three-as-girl-dies-in-hospital.html
A third fatal victim of the  Asiana
Airlines Inc. (020560)  plane crash in  San Francisco  was identified as Liu
Yipeng, a Chinese student on her way to attend a summer camp in
the U.S.  Chinese state media released Liu’s name and said she was a
student at the school in Jiangshan, China, attended by the other
two victims. Separately,  South Korea ’s transport ministry said
today it will probe four Asiana pilots involved in the accident.  Ye Meng  Yuan  and Wang Lin Jia of China, 16-year-olds on
their way to a summer camp in the U.S., died at the crash site.
More than 300 people survived the wreck at San Francisco
International Airport, the first fatal airline accident in the
U.S. since 2009. It was Seoul-based Asiana’s first crash since a
Boeing 747 cargo plane went down at sea in July 2011.  Asiana Chief Executive Officer Yoon Young Doo apologized
for the loss of the third victim in a statement yesterday. Liu
had been hospitalized in critical condition since the accident.  South Korea’s government probe will focus on compliance
with flight procedures and whether training was appropriate,
according to today’s statement.  The third death occurred as investigators with the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board completed their field work
and left San Francisco to return to  Washington .  While the agency normally doesn’t declare a probable cause
for an accident for 12 to 18 months after its investigators
conclude the on-scene work, Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said she
wants to issue a report in a year or less.  The Asiana Boeing Co. 777 crashed as it struck a seawall
short of a runway, slammed to the ground and spun off the
tarmac.  The safety board is looking into why the plane slowed to
almost 40 miles (64 kilometers) an hour below its target speed
before striking the seawall, Hersman has said. A cockpit warning
of an impending aerodynamic stall, the point at which a plane
loses the lift needed to stay in the air, sounded four seconds
before the crash.  There were two calls by pilots to abort the landing -- the
first made three seconds before the plane hit the barrier and
the other 1.5 seconds later.  Asiana published a letter of apology in  China ’s official
People’s Daily newspaper.  The airline said it would make every effort to win back the
trust of the Chinese people. Of the 291 passengers on the
flight, 141 were Chinese, Asiana has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  