-- AT&T Scours Europe for Discount Deal Targets: Real M&A
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-15T20:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/at-t-scours-europe-for-discount-deal-targets-real-m-a.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  can see diamonds in Europe’s rough.  Stephenson and his top lieutenants are drawing up a
takeover wish list of wireless carriers in Europe, from giants
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s assets to U.K. mobile-phone venture EE, according to people familiar with the
company’s plans, betting AT&T can win customers and increase
profits by rolling out faster, fourth-generation networks.  Plagued by profit-crimping price wars and regulations that
threaten to further erode margins, European carriers also offer
some of the world’s best takeover values. Telecommunications
carriers on the continent are trading at a 36 percent discount
to U.S. rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Europe is stagnant and ripe for someone to look at it
from a different perspective,”  Roger Entner , an industry
strategist with Recon Analytics LLC in Dedham, Massachusetts,
said in a phone interview. “AT&T would look at this and
rightfully say, ‘We can do this better by bringing our playbook
from the U.S.’”  Last week, AT&T agreed to buy San Diego-based  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP) , gaining more airwaves and a larger piece of
the pay-as-you-go market. AT&T is paying $15 a share, valuing
the U.S. carrier at almost $4 billion including net debt.
Shareholders also will get the right to proceeds from a possible
spectrum sale.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, fell 0.7
percent to $35.55 today, giving it a  market value  of $191
billion.  Europe’s Lag  Larry Solomon, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on the company’s European plans.  Ben Padovan , a spokesman for Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, and Chloe Graf, a spokeswoman for EE, declined to
comment on a potential deal with AT&T.  While Europe took the lead in third-generation wireless
networks several years ago, moving from 3G to faster 4G long-term evolution technology has taken much longer than it has in
the U.S., Entner said. The lag has been due to a weaker European
economy, an inconsistent airwave licensing policy by various
regulators and carriers’ punitive pricing on roaming costs and
data that discourages use, he said.  “European carriers are timid about jumping into LTE after
they landed on their faces in 3G,” Entner said.  Discounted Value  Telecom carriers in Europe with market values higher than
$1 billion are trading at a median of 12.9 times this year’s
estimated earnings, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a median price-earnings ratio of
20.1 for comparable companies in the U.S., the data show.  AT&T could take advantage of those discounted valuations
and its financial resources to weave together several carriers
in Europe under an LTE network, Entner said.  “As a pan-European carrier, with coverage in multiple
countries, they could treat every location as part of the same
calling circle,” Entner said. “This would get around Europe’s
high roaming rates. They would be the darling of EU
regulators.”  AT&T’s Stephenson emphasized Europe’s lagging uptake of
mobile Internet use in a June 12 speech hosted by the Brookings
Institute, a Washington-based research group that analyzes
public policy.  “I’ve been spending a lot of time in Europe, and in
Europe, you’re not seeing mobile Internet technology take off
the way you have in the United States,” Stephenson said.
“Europe today in the developed world is unfortunately probably
among the bottom in terms of developing technologies.”  Vodafone Interest  One of the companies with the greatest presence in Europe’s
phone markets is Vodafone, which has a market value of 94
billion pounds ($142 billion). Vodafone also owns 45 percent of
 Verizon Wireless , the biggest U.S. mobile-phone service
provider. It’s a joint venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
which has said it wants to buy out Vodafone’s stake.  In April, Verizon said it wasn’t going to bid for all of
Vodafone, denying a report that it was in talks to split
Vodafone’s assets with AT&T. Still, AT&T continues to be
interested in assets owned by Vodafone, people familiar with the
situation said last month.  “There are a handful of deals that could make sense, but
the one that makes the most sense is for AT&T to buy Vodafone’s
non-U.S. assets,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst with New
Street Research LLP in New York. “This would give them
significant scale and a strong presence in many of Europe’s
largest markets.”  Telefonica Stake  Vodafone’s subscriber rolls are bigger than the population
of the U.S., making it the biggest wireless company outside of
China.  Earlier this year, AT&T explored buying a stake in Madrid-based Telefonica or acquiring its U.K. or Latin American
businesses, people familiar with the matter said last month.
Spanish authorities told AT&T that a proposal to buy a stake in
Telefonica wouldn’t be welcome, one of the people said.  As of last week, Telefonica, the biggest carrier in Spain,
was trading at 9.2 times this year’s estimated earnings, lower
than 73 percent of European peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It’s also cheaper than AT&T’s ratio of 14.  “The current multiple of AT&T is so high in proportion to
Telefonica’s multiple, and to the historic Telefonica valuation,
that AT&T makes this move now or never,” said Fabrizio Cerina,
chairman of Swiss financial firm Credit des Alpes. “It makes a
lot of sense.”  ‘Gutsy’ Move  Marisa Navas, a Telefonica spokeswoman, said in an
interview last month that the company didn’t receive an approach
or any written or verbal indication of interest from AT&T.
Telefonica has a market value of 45 billion euros ($59 billion).  A deal for all of Vodafone or another large carrier on the
continent would be a “gutsy, bold move,” said Steven Hartley,
a London-based principal analyst at Ovum.  “There’s a reason why they’re cheap,” Hartley said in an
interview. “Buying one of the big, European groups would be one
hell of a deal, and I’m not sure I’d like to be an AT&T
shareholder. I don’t quite know whether or not you would realize
too many benefits.”  Alternatively, AT&T may consider acquiring  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) , with a market value of 9.2 billion euros, if the asset
comes at a cheap enough price tag, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst  Robin Bienenstock  said in a note today.  Regulatory Hurdles  Today, Telefonica rose 0.4 percent to 9.93 euros in Madrid,
and Vodafone added 0.9 percent to 195.50 pence in London.  Orange (ORA)  SA climbed 1.6 percent in Paris, while  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  fell 0.3 percent on the Frankfurt exchange. The
carriers each own 50 percent of EE.  The regulatory hurdles surrounding a large purchase may
persuade Stephenson to also look for smaller carriers to gain a
foothold on the continent, said the people familiar with AT&T’s
plans, who asked not to be identified discussing a private
matter. AT&T isn’t interested in fixed-line assets, they said.  In addition to more than two dozen local regulators across
the continent, companies must also submit major deals to the
European Commission for approval.  Last month, AT&T’s Stephenson visited European Commission
Vice President  Neelie Kroes , who’s in charge of devising new
rules for phone companies across Europe. Kroes has said she
plans to create a more united telecommunications landscape. So
far, that’s meant plans to eradicate roaming charges and enforce
net neutrality, yet not rules that would make deals easier.  EE IPO?  Orange, formerly known as  France Telecom , and Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom are reviewing what to do with their U.K. asset
EE. EE is the most popular mobile service in the country and was
first to roll out 4G, which makes downloading videos and
uploading documents to the Web faster.  The parent companies have said they’re considering selling
shares in EE in an initial public offering as early as the
fourth quarter, and haven’t ruled out a sale.  While EE isn’t publicly traded, Orange’s  price-earnings 
ratio is cheaper than 96 percent of European peers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors taking advantage of cheap valuations in Europe’s
telecommunications market may not necessarily make money.
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, which bought stakes
in Dutch operator  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  last year,
has seen the value of those investments plummet.  ‘Satin Pillow’  AT&T should think twice about entering a more competitive
market where price wars are shrinking profit margins, said Tero Kuittinen, New York-based head of sales and marketing for
Alekstra Oy, a mobile-diagnostics company. In the U.S., AT&T and
Verizon Wireless control two-thirds of the monthly contract
subscriber market.  “AT&T has very little experience with true price
competition,” Kuittinen said in a phone interview. “It is
living in luxury in America, lolling on a satin pillow and
lapping up fat profit margins.”  Still, AT&T has an opportunity to invest significantly in
upgrading European networks for fast mobile Internet while all
other carriers are underinvesting, Chaplin said.  “If they can do this with the right asset, they can become
a dominant force in Europe,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  