-- Stocks Gain on Earnings as Treasuries Rise on Retail Data
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-07-15T20:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/aussie-gains-before-china-gdp-as-futures-mixed-oil-falls.html
U.S. stocks rose as better-than-forecast results at Citigroup Inc. fueled optimism in the
earnings season. Ten-year Treasuries climbed for the fifth time
in six sessions following slower-than-forecast growth in retail
sales, while commodity indexes were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a record for a
third straight day, adding 0.1 percent to 1,682.51 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed 0.4 percent
higher. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields declined four basis points
to 2.54 percent, reversing an earlier increase of five basis
points. The dollar advanced 0.6 percent against  Japan ’s currency
while the S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities was little changed as
aluminum and nickel lost at least 2 percent, while coffee and
cattle rallied.  Citigroup’s 42 percent jump in profit bolstered confidence
in earnings at the start of a week when 76 members of the  S&P
500  are scheduled to release results. In  China , the government
reported economic growth that matched estimates, while  Fitch
Ratings  stripped Europe’s temporary rescue facility of its AAA
rating after markets closed on the continent.  “We have our focus on earnings,” James Gaul, a portfolio
manager at Boston Advisors LLC, which oversees about $2.6
billion in assets, said by phone. “Citigroup had a good report
this morning and the question is whether earnings will be strong
enough to push us higher. That’s where the short-term focus will
be, save for one of the larger economic reports.”  Stocks Moving  Less than 4.9 billion shares  changed hands  in the U.S.
today, the slowest full-day session of the year. The Nasdaq 100
Index increased for a 14th straight day, its longest rally since
1990.  Among U.S. stocks moving today,  Leap Wireless International
Inc. (LEAP)  jumped a record 112 percent after AT&T Inc., the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, agreed to buy the company for
$1.2 billion. Boeing Co. climbed 3.7 percent as a U.K. agency
said last week’s fire on a 787 aircraft is unrelated to battery
blazes that grounded the fleet earlier this year.  Citigroup rose 2 percent after the third-biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets posted net income of $4.18 billion, or $1.25 a share
excluding an accounting adjustment, as stock-trading revenue
surged and losses on unwanted assets declined.  Earnings for companies in the S&P 500 are forecast to have
grown 2 percent in the period, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding financial firms, per-share
profits dropped 1.4 percent, the estimates show.  Wagers that U.S. stock volatility will decline have reached
their highest level in almost two years as the Federal Reserve
pledges to preserve stimulus and data from jobs to home sales
show economic growth. Put trading on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index exceeded calls by 73 percent on July
11, the most since October 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  VIX Plunge  The VIX, a gauge of S&P 500 option prices, has fallen 16
percent to 13.79 in the past eight days, the longest streak of
consecutive losses in 21 months.  Treasuries have been whipsawed in recent weeks as investors
parsed economic reports and comments from Fed officials for
clues to the central bank’s bond-buying plans. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  will deliver his semi-annual monetary-policy report
to Congress on July 17-18. The Fed’s unprecedented stimulus sent
yields to record lows a year ago and helped send the S&P 500 up
149 percent from its bear-market low in 2009.  The 10-year yield fell 16 basis points  last week , the
biggest five- day drop since the period ended June 1, 2012.
Treasuries declined 2.5 percent in the first half of the year,
the most since 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. They advanced 0.6 percent last week.  Economic Data  Treasuries gained today after retail sales rose less than
projected in June as demand cooled at building materials outlets
and restaurants, underscoring a second-quarter slowdown in the
 U.S. economy . The 0.4 percent gain reported by the Commerce
Department missed the median forecast of 82 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg for a 0.8 percent advance. Economic growth in the
second quarter slowed to 1.6 percent from 2.2 percent for all of
2012, according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The primary market influence is the retail-sales data and
the implications for second-quarter GDP, which is clearly toward
a bias for a slightly lower forecast,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Another report today showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months as
the area’s factory activity stabilized amid a slowdown in
growth. The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index
climbed to 9.5, the highest since February, from 7.8 last month.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut. The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey of 50 economists called for a
reading of 5.  European Markets  European stocks  climbed, following their largest weekly
gain in more than two months, as banks and retailers rose.
Commerzbank AG added 4.7 percent. Focus magazine reported that
 Germany ’s finance minister has discussed selling the state’s
holding in the lender to UBS AG.  Kuehne & Nagel International AG, the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder, gained 2 percent. Second-quarter profit rose
6.3 percent as the market for shipments by sea expanded and a
reorganization helped the company reduce costs.  The yen weakened 0.6 percent to 99.81 per dollar and
slipped 0.6 percent to 130.40 per euro.  Europe ’s common currency
was little changed at $1.3065.  Portugal’s 10-year  bond yield  fell 21 basis points to 7.30
percent after surging 78 basis points in the three days through
July 12. Greek rates of similar maturity sank 25 basis points to
10.54 percent. The yield on benchmark German bunds was up two
basis points at 1.58 percent.  Bailout Fund  The European Financial Stability Facility was downgraded by
one level to AA+, Fitch said in a statement in  London  today. The
company attributed the decision as a consequence to its July 12
cut to the rating of Europe’s second-largest economy.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
dropped, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies declining 3.3 basis
point to 105.3, the lowest level in more than a month.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1 percent, the most
since June 11 on a closing basis. Stocks in  Turkey  and  Argentina 
jumped more than 3 percent to lead gains.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
jumped 2.7 percent, the most since March.  ‘Fashionable’ Bears  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 1 percent. China’s
gross domestic product grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter,
matching the median estimate of 45 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its 2013 GDP growth estimate to
7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  “It’s very fashionable to be bearish on China nowadays,”
Marino Valensise, who oversees about $60 billion as chief
investment officer at Baring Asset Management Ltd., told
Francine Lacqua in an interview on Bloomberg Television in
London. “The reality is 7.5 percent is in line with an earlier
target and the five-year plan says 7 percent. This is an economy
which is maturing, so it’s natural and obvious that the rate of
growth will slow down.”  Aluminum, nickel and wheat lost at least 1.7 percent to
lead declines in the S&P GSCI Index of commodities, while coffee
jumped 3.2 percent and feed cattle added 1.6 percent. West Texas
Intermediate added 0.4 percent to $106.32 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in Chicago at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  