-- Australia Stock Futures Rise as Investors Await China GDP Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-14T23:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/australia-stock-futures-rise-as-investors-await-china-gdp-data.html
Australian stocks futures rose after
better-than-estimated U.S. bank earnings and as investors await
a report that is forecast to show  China’s economy  slowed in the
second quarter.  American Depositary Receipts  of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, gained 0.3 percent from the
closing price in Sydney. ADRs of Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,
Australia’s second-biggest energy producer, advanced 0.4
percent. Those of  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the world’s
largest cargo and freight carrier, sank 1.2 percent from the
close in  Hong Kong .  Futures Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.3 percent
and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed. Futures on
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained less than 0.1 percent and
contracts on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index were little changed.
Japanese equity markets are closed for a holiday.  “The U.S. reporting season has taken on a particular
importance as companies attempt to prove that their recent rise
in share prices is backed by earnings fundamentals,” Matthew Sherwood, head of investment market research at Perpetual Ltd.,
which oversees $25 billion in Sydney, said by e-mail. “Concerns
continue to mount about the growth outlook for China. U.S.
growth remains modest and with China slowing and European
problems resurfacing, there is likely to be sizable headwinds
for investors in the second half of this year.”  Regional Index  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index advanced 2.8
percent last week, paring this year’s loss to 5.8 percent, as
China’s money-market rates surged to a record and after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers may start
reducing stimulus if the U.S. economy shows sustained
improvement.  That left the gauge trading at 11.9 times average estimated
earnings compared with 15.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.1
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1.4 percent in New York on
July 12.  China’s economy, the world’s second-largest, probably
expanded 7.5 percent in the three months to June 30, according
to the median of 45 estimates surveyed before data due today,
after growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the first quarter. The
Shanghai Composite Index of mainland-listed companies has
dropped 10 percent this year.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to a record 1,680.19 at the
close July 12. Financial stocks rose the most of the 10 industry
groups on the S&P 500 after  Wells Fargo & Co . reported earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  