-- Belfast Protest Leaders Criticized by Minister on Unrest
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-14T13:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/belfast-protest-leaders-criticized-by-minister-on-unrest.html
The organizers of protests against
restrictions on marches in Belfast on July 12 were warned they
might provoke unrest,  Northern Ireland  Secretary Theresa Villiers said, after a second night of violence in Belfast left
seven police officers injured.  Officers in Belfast were attacked with petrol bombs,
missiles and fireworks yesterday, the  Police Service of Northern
Ireland  said in a statement. Thirty-two officers had already
been hurt as police sought to enforce restrictions on parades
held by the Orange Order, a Protestant organization, that passed
Catholic areas. The order suspended protests on July 12 after
violence erupted.  “They were warned that bringing thousands of people onto
the streets to protest was high-risk,” said Villiers, who has
responsibility for the British government’s policies in the
province, in comments aired by Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
today. “They always said they wanted peaceful protest, but in
an atmosphere of very high tension it’s almost inevitable if
you’re bringing thousands of people to protest that these kind
of violent problems occur.”  A parade by the Orange Order was banned from passing
Ardoyne on July 12, a Catholic area of north  Belfast , by a
commission that said in past years the march had led to
violence. The Orange Order called for protests against the
decision and hundreds of Protestants gathered close to Ardoyne
late on July 12.  Police used water cannon and 10 plastic bullet rounds were
fired by officers to restore calm overnight, according to
today’s statement by the PSNI. Trouble began shortly after 8:30
p.m. and continued for several hours in an area of north Belfast
until calm was restored by 1:30 a.m. Eleven people were
arrested.  Marching Season  July 12 is the high point of the Orange Order’s marching
season, which stretches from April until late August, and
celebrates a 17th-century Protestant victory over Catholics in
Ireland. In recent years the parades have sparked riots.  Police put over 4,000 officers on the streets of Northern
Ireland on July 12, and another 400 officers were set to arrive
from  England ,  Wales  and  Scotland  yesterday, the PSNI said in
another statement.  While bombings, kneecappings and shootings in the province
largely ended in 1998 with a peace agreement, tension between
the two communities persists. Dissident republican terrorists
continue to target police officers and last Christmas loyalists
protested against restrictions on the flying of the British
flag, paralyzing parts of the region.  The  Good Friday Agreement  in April 1998 largely ended three
decades of bombs and shootings between mainly Catholic
republicans seeking a united Ireland and Protestant unionists
loyal to the U.K. About 3,500 people died during the years of
violence known locally as the “Troubles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  