-- Billionaire Ma’s Alibaba Gets Nod to Stir Up Loans: China Credit
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-15T04:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/billionaire-ma-s-alibaba-gets-nod-to-stir-up-loans-china-credit.html
China has authorized billionaire
Jack Ma’s Alibaba Group to expand funding for its online loans
business, designed to shake up an industry divided into heavily
regulated state banks and shady financing schemes.  The  Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission  approved the
sale of up to 5 billion  yuan  ($815 million) of notes backed by
loans from Alibaba, according to a July 8  filing . Since starting
its microloans business three years ago, Alibaba has extended
more than 100 billion yuan of financing to over 320,000 small
online businesses and entrepreneurs, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  Alibaba’s Ma said an outsider was  needed  to “stir things
up” after restrictions on bank credit spurred property
developers and entrepreneurs to seek funds from curbside
lenders. Chinese regulators have sought to reduce risks taken in
so-called shadow banking, which has assets of 36 trillion yuan
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates, by forcing more
products to be publicly traded and squeezing access to funding
with a record cash crunch.  “The government wants something that is more effective,”
said Victor Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. “The loans that Alibaba offers are all for small and micro
enterprises, which is something that the government wants.
Traditional banks usually cater to state-owned enterprises.”  Small Loans  Alibaba operates China’s largest e-commerce company. It
runs platforms including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com that
connect retail brands with consumers, a cross between  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  The transaction history of smaller companies
on its sites could help gauge their credit history, said Richard Ji, former Morgan Stanley analyst who is now raising his own
fund, All-Stars Investment Ltd. to focus on Internet companies.  “It’s very hard to service small- and medium-sized
enterprises,” Ji said. “There are too many of them and the
loans that they take are too small.”  The average size of Alibaba’s loans is 40,000 yuan, and the
non-performing loan ratio was 0.87 percent as of the second
quarter of this year, the company said. That’s less than the
 0.96 percent  average for commercial banks as of March 31.  Alibaba’s push into finance comes as borrowing costs for
Chinese banks surged the most in at least six years last month
on concern a record cash crunch threatened to swell bad loans.
Premier  Li Keqiang  has tried to rein in debt expansion after the
government’s broadest measure of credit rose to a record 6.16
trillion yuan in the first quarter, even as economic growth has
slowed. Gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in April-to-June
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today, down from 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  Shadow Banking  New yuan loans in China fell to  860.5 billion yuan  last
month from 919.8 billion yuan a year ago, data July 12 showed.
Bad loans at banks including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. (601398)  have increased for six straight quarters through
March 31, the longest streak in at least nine years.  So-called shadow lending has grown as an estimated 97
percent of the nation’s 42 million small businesses can’t get
bank loans, according to Citic Securities Co. The industry may
be 69 percent as large as China’s annual economic output,
JPMorgan estimated in May.  Debt Risk  Concerns that some companies may not be able to meet debt
payments amid the slowing growth have pushed five-year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign notes against non-payment up 30 basis points since May 31 to 116.6 basis points.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on the country’s benchmark 10-year government
bond has climbed 16 basis points in the same period to 3.6
percent.  The yuan closed at 6.1375 per dollar in  Shanghai  on July
12. The currency’s appreciation has stalled in the past month,
limiting this year’s advance to 1.5 percent.  Orient Securities Co., based in Shanghai, received approval
to sell the products backed by the Alibaba loans, according to
the July 8 filing to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The notes will
be divided into three classes, with 75 percent of the money
raised coming from securities backed by prime assets, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  Whale Potential  Alibaba charges borrowers an average annualized interest
rate of 6.7 percent, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
That’s near the central bank’s 6 percent benchmark one-year
lending rate. By comparison, interest charged by a microcredit
firm in Guangzhou run by Joe Zhang, former deputy head of  China 
investment banking at UBS AG, is about 24 percent.  The CSRC approval allows Alibaba to boost its loans by as
much as the maximum 5 billion yuan it can sell of the notes.
Currently it can lend out at least 2.4 billion yuan, financed
mainly with shareholder equity and bank loans, according to Chai
Liang, a company spokeswoman.  China had 6,080 microlenders licensed by the People’s Bank
of China as of the end of last year, with outstanding loans of
592 billion yuan, according to the central bank. That means that
the average microlender’s outstanding lending is only 97.4
million yuan.  Alibaba’s financial business is stirring things up like “a
catfish” and has the potential to become “a whale,”
Macquarie’s Wang said. “Its big data and experience in IT gives
it great advantages compared with traditional financial
services.”  The group’s financial affiliate, Alibaba Small and Micro
Financial Services Group, contains two loan companies. Its
Paypal-like third party payment system Alipay.com Co Ltd, which
has more than 800 million registered accounts, is also part of
this group.  “Finance is the missing piece in Alibaba’s business
operations,” said All-Stars Investment’s Ji. “In the future
the most scalable and profitable part of Alibaba’s business
could be its financial platform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  