-- China Protest Forcing Nuclear Retreat Shows People Power
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T09:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/china-protest-forcing-nuclear-retreat-shows-people-power.html
Protests in a southern Chinese city
last week that forced local authorities to abandon plans for a
uranium-processing facility highlight the growing willingness of
ordinary people to challenge the state on environmental issues.  The proposed Longwan Industrial Park project won’t be
approved “in order to fully respect the opinion of the
masses,” the government of Heshan,  Guangdong province , said in
a  statement  on its website on July 13. A “social-stability risk
assessment” of the proposal that was released for public
awareness generated “much opposition,” it said.  Heshan is the latest local authority to back down in the
face of pressure from a public increasingly empowered by its
ability to sway officials who fear social unrest. Governments in
cities across the country have canceled or delayed plans for
industrial projects over the past year after confrontations with
residents concerned about safety and pollution.  “Chinese civil society is getting stronger,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of  Hong Kong . “People now realize if their numbers
are big enough, if they are united and stand their ground, the
government will back down,” he said.  Opposition to the uranium facility underscores growing
concern among China’s expanding middle class that industrial
plants damage the environment and people’s health. Pollution has
replaced land grabs as the primary cause of social unrest with
many of the protests erupting in more prosperous coastal cities
such as  Shanghai  and Ningbo where residents have deployed smart-phones and used social media to organize their campaigns.  Party’s Survival  President  Xi Jinping , who is also head of the ruling
Communist Party of China, said last month that “winning or
losing public support is an issue that concerns the CPC’s
survival or extinction,” according to a June 18 report by the
official Xinhua News Agency. Xi spoke at a conference about a
yearlong campaign starting in the second half of this year to
improve ties between the party and the people, Xinhua said.  Heshan authorities backed down over the 37 billion  yuan  ($6
billion) uranium-processing project a day after more than 1,000
demonstrators rallied outside government offices in Jiangmen
city, which administers Heshan. China National Nuclear Corp. and
China General Nuclear Power Group had planned to build the 229-hectare (566-acre) plant to enrich uranium and fabricate fuel,
according to an earlier statement on the Jiangmen government’s
website.  Improve Communication  Officials initially pledged to  extend  a consultation period
to 20 days from 10 and improve communication with the public
before announcing on July 13 that they had scrapped the project.  Pan Jianming, a Beijing-based spokesman for state-owned
China National Nuclear, didn’t respond to calls and faxes
seeking comment on Monday. Calls to the offices of China General
Nuclear and the Jiangmen government also went unanswered.  “The current central government has requested economic
development must be pursued with environmental protection and at
the same time social stability is a line that can’t be
crossed,” said  Ma Jun , a Beijing-based environmentalist and
founder of the  Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs .
“It’s evident that in this case the local government largely
acted to keep social stability.”  Resume Approvals  Protests in Shanghai in May forced battery maker Shanghai
Guoxuan New Energy Co. to abandon plans for a factory on the
outskirts of the city. Demonstrations in the southwestern city
of Kunming took place the same month to oppose plans for a
petrochemical plant planned by China National Petroleum Corp.  China’s State Council said in October it would resume
approvals of nuclear-power plants after a suspension imposed in
the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  in March 2011. The world’s
largest energy consumer intends to more than triple its nuclear-power capacity by 2015, according to a government white paper
released that month.  The country currently has 17 nuclear reactors in operation
and another 28 being built, according to the  World Nuclear
Association . An additional 38 have been planned and are
preparing to start construction, according to the association.  China plans to increase nuclear power to as much as 6
percent of its energy mix by 2020, up from less than 2 percent
currently, according to a presentation given by Zhu Xuhui,
adviser to China National Nuclear, at the Vienna Center for
Disarmament and Non-Proliferation in January.  Coastal Regions  The Heshan facility would have been the first nuclear-fuel-processing plant on the southeast coast and would have supplied
the power plants of Dayawan, Taishan and Yangjiang, according to
a July 13 report from Xinhua. China has built a majority of its
processing facilities in the west of the country and most of its
generating plants in eastern coastal regions, the report said.  “In future, especially in coastal developed regions, these
kinds of public demonstrations may be the norm as we’ve seen in
the West, where such projects face growing ‘not in my backyard’
sort of opposition,” said Ma. “In the future, large projects
in  China  will need a longer and longer time to get approved like
they do in the West.”  At the same time, the Heshan plant may have been expendable
because of its economics.  “This project was still in the phase of doing feasibility
studies and could have just gotten canceled because of low power
demand in addition to resistance from local residents,” Patrick
Dai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by
phone today. “This won’t cause a material change to the nuclear
policy of China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  