-- Coffey Haunts GLG’s Investors as Sibanthracite Pulls IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-07-15T07:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/coffey-legacy-haunts-glg-investors-as-sibanthracite-pulls-ipo.html
GLG Partners Inc.’s attempt to
mitigate losses from former hedge-fund manager Greg Coffey’s bet
on a Siberian coal mining company was dealt a blow after
Sibanthracite Plc pulled its initial public offering.  The GLG  Emerging Markets  Growth Fund, a pool created to run
down assets acquired by Coffey, had sought to raise as much as
$214 million by selling its 25 percent stake in the IPO. The
fund, now part of London-based  Man Group Plc (EMG) , will try to find
an industrial buyer for the holding, its biggest asset, two
people with knowledge of the matter said on July 12.  The investment was one of Coffey’s last before he resigned
from GLG in April 2008 following a run of gains that made the
Australian one of the world’s best-paid hedge-fund managers.
Investors were left with the stake in the  coal mine  after GLG
moved the fund’s hardest-to-sell assets into a segregated fund
and initially barred redemptions as Coffey resigned. The firm
tried to take Sibanthracite public as growing concern that
 China ’s economic growth is slowing sent coal prices tumbling.  “GLG bought Sibanthracite’s stake under previous
management and at a quite high valuation,” said  George Buzhenitsa , a metals and mining analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Moscow. Declining coal prices will make it tougher to sell the
stake, Buzhenitsa said.  Russian businessman Dmitry Bosov’s Alltech Investments Ltd.
controls Novosibirsk, Russia-based Sibanthracite and hadn’t
filed to sell shares in the IPO. A spokesman for Sibanthracite
declined to comment. Coffey didn’t return an e-mail.  ‘Positive Feedback’  Sibanthracite said on July 12 that “market conditions and
investor sentiment towards the global mining sector” prompted
the IPO to be scrapped, even amid “significant interest and
positive feedback.”  GLG allowed investors to get their money back in 2011
through an auction in which they could sell their stakes in the
fund that held the mine, investors told  Bloomberg News  at the
time. The price offered would have resulted in clients losing
about 80 percent of their initial investment, they said.  “GLG was trying to sell the stake on the market as it
probably had no options to sell it to anyone directly,” said
Kirill Chuyko, the Moscow-based head of equity research at BCS
Financial Group. Finding a buyer will be difficult given Bosov
would retain control of the coal miner, he said.  Man Group, the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, acquired GLG in 2010 for $1.6 billion.  Its shares  fell
1.5 percent to 90.60 pence as of 8:33 a.m. in  London .  Moore Capital  “The IPO was not designed solely as a way for GLG to
exit,” Sibanthracite said in a statement. “Sibanthracite’s
shareholders had always planned to take the company public and
market-oriented. An IPO is not the only opportunity for the fund
to exit this investment. Further decisions regarding GLG’s
investment in Sibanthracite will be made jointly by the
shareholders based on their mutual interests and the interests
of the company.”  Coffey, 42, who last year left the hedge-fund industry
after losing money for two years, had his net worth estimated at
260 million pounds ($393 million) by the Sunday Times Rich List
in April.  When Coffey quit to join  Louis Bacon ’s Moore Capital
Management LLC, GLG shares tumbled. He had been GLG’s top
performer, managing $7 billion and winning industry awards after
his main fund climbed 51 percent in 2007 and 60 percent in 2006
amid a rally in emerging markets. His expertise was macro
investing, in which hedge-fund managers try to profit from large
economic trends by trading  interest rates , bonds and stocks.  Side Pocket  GLG told investors in 2008 that it would limit redemptions
from one of the funds Coffey had managed and side-pocket, or
segregate, illiquid assets. The fund was valued at $550 million
when GLG first segregated the assets five years ago, a person
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News in May 2011.  Clients have to wait until managers sell assets in side
pockets before they can get their money back. Another option is
selling an illiquid hedge-fund stake on the secondary market to
a new investor.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Raiffeisen Bank
International and Sberbank CIB managed Sibanthracite’s IPO. It
would have been the first Russian company to tap U.K. stock
investors this year after railroad-freight carrier NTS Holding
Plc postponed a London IPO of up to $500 million in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
   jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  