-- Australian Dollar Climbs After China Growth Matches Forecasts
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-07-15T07:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/dollar-remains-higher-versus-yen-before-u-s-retail-sales-report.html
Australia’s dollar strengthened
after a report showed China’s economy grew 7.5 percent in the
second quarter, matching economists’ estimates.  The  U.S. dollar  extended gains against the yen and euro
from the end of last week before data on retail sales today that
may add to the case for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce monetary
stimulus. The Bloomberg Dollar Index last week posted its first
drop in a month after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who is
scheduled to testify on monetary policy this week, signaled that
bond buying won’t be dialed back soon. Financial markets in
Japan are closed today for a national holiday.  “At the margin, the Chinese GDP data is supportive for the
Aussie given the exaggerated growth fears,” said  Sue Trinh , a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong .
“Hence, the Aussie dollar is holding small gains.”  The Aussie jumped 0.4 percent to 90.89 U.S. cents at 8:01
a.m. London time. It advanced against all of 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, strengthening most versus the Singapore
dollar and Swiss franc.  The dollar added 0.2 percent to 99.37 yen following a 0.3
percent gain on July 12. It strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.3048
per euro after rising 0.2 percent at the end of last week. The
euro was little changed at 129.68 yen.  The Australian currency dropped last week after Chinese
Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said this year’s expected growth rate
is 7 percent and China can reach that. The official Xinhua News
Agency later corrected its English-language report on Lou to say
there’s no doubt that China can achieve this year’s growth
target of 7.5 percent.  Chinese Growth  China’s gross domestic product grew 7.5 percent in the
April-June period, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today, matching the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg poll. It expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  Futures traders raised bets that the dollar will strengthen
against the yen, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. Wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a gain in the greenback outnumbered those
on a decline by 80,305 on July 9, the most since June 4. That
compared with so-called net longs of 70,736 a week earlier.  The U.S. Commerce Department will say today that retail
sales rose 0.8 percent in June, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . It would be the
fastest gain since February.  ‘Recovering Trend’  “The  U.S. economy  looks to be on a recovering trend,”
said  Mike Jones , a Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. “The trend, we think, is for a stronger
U.S. dollar given our expectation that tapering will come in
this year.”  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its quantitative-easing program to cap
borrowing costs. Bernanke on July 10 damped speculation that the
Fed would slow its bond-buying program.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the U.S. economy,” he said that day.
Bernanke will deliver a semi-annual monetary policy report to
Congress July 17-18.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, was little changed at
1,038.30. It lost 1.6 percent last week, the biggest slide since
June 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  