-- Dubai Stocks Post Longest Winning Streak in 2 Months on Stimulus
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-14T12:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/dubai-stocks-post-longest-winning-streak-in-2-months-on-stimulus.html
Dubai stocks climbed for a seventh
day, the longest winning streak in two months, tracking a global
rally amid optimism central banks will continue their monetary
stimulus measures.  The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , the world’s third-best
performer this year among 94 gauges tracked by Bloomberg, gained
2 percent at the close in Dubai to the highest close since
November 2008. Abu Dhabi’s measure increased 0.9 percent.  Emerging-market stocks rose, extending a weekly rally, as
the European Central Bank executive board member Vitor Constancio said the euro area’s slow recovery implies that
policy has to stay “accommodative for a longer period of
time”. U.S. stocks also rose for a third week, sending
benchmark indexes to all-time highs, as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  pledged sustained monetary stimulus.  “Dubai is likely up on the back of U.S. markets hitting
record highs on Friday after the Fed reassured investors that it
would continue to keep the floodgates of cheap money open,”
said Gus Chehayeb, the Dubai-based research director for the
Middle East at investment bank Exotix Ltd. “It seems the Fed is
backing down after the capital markets rioted over the past two
months.”  Bernanke said on July 10 that the U.S. economy will
continue to need stimulus measures because of low inflation and
high unemployment. China’s Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5
percent growth rate wouldn’t be a “big problem.”  Egypt Falls  The MSCI Emerging Markets  Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.3 percent to 945.36,
taking its weekly gain to 3 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  slumped as much as 5.8 percent after Bernanke signaled on
May 22 that the Fed could start scaling back bond purchases as
soon as September. Stocks have since recovered all those losses
as data on hiring and housing bolstered confidence in the
economic recovery.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC)  jumped 7.1 percent to the highest
since November 2008.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the
world’s tallest tower, climbed 1.9 percent.  In Egypt, Commercial International Bank Ltd., the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, rose 1.5 percent, helping boost
the benchmark EGX 30 Index at the close. The Egyptian public
prosecutor’s office started an investigation of deposed Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi as thousands of supporters vowed to keep
up their protests until he is reinstated.  Elsewhere in the  Middle East , Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All
Share Index rose 0.6 percent. Oman’s MSM30 Index and Kuwait’s
gauge climbed 0.4 percent each. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
increased 0.6 percent. The yield on the nation’s benchmark 4.25
percent bonds maturing in March 2023 was unchanged at 3.78
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  