-- Egypt’s Brotherhood Plans Rally as Cabinet Takes Shape
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-07-15T01:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/egypt-s-prosecutor-probes-mursi-as-cairo-protests-persist.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood called
for a mass rally today to demand the reinstatement of deposed
President Mohamed Mursi as Prime Minister-designate Hazem El-Beblawi prepared his Cabinet.  The rally is to maintain the Muslim Brotherhood’s campaign
to reverse the ouster of Islamist Mursi, whom the army deposed
on July 3 and detained after protests against him by tens of
thousands of Egyptians. Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi
defended the military’s action yesterday, saying it was “in the
service of the people.”  The Cabinet took shape, with former ambassador to the U.S.
Nabil Fahmy saying yesterday he would be foreign minister, and
Ahmed Galal, an ex-World Bank official, accepting the post of
Finance Minister. Ziad Bahaa-Eldin, a former regulator of
financial markets, said he will become deputy premier and
international cooperation minister. Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, previously the United Nations nuclear watchdog chief,
took office as vice president for international relations.  “What’s taking place in Egypt’s political scene is a farce
that must and will come to an end,” Hamza Zawba, a spokesman
for the Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom and Justice
Party, said by phone yesterday. “Egyptians will take to the
streets of Cairo to defend their legitimate president.”  Demonstrations last week turned violent, with more than 50
of Mursi’s supporters killed in a clash with the army that each
side blames on the other.  Clashes, Attack  Mursi supporters and opponents clashed in the Nile delta
town of Mahalla yesterday with three people wounded, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. The violence closed roads
in the city, it said. Ahram Gate reported that 20 Mursi
supporters were wounded in the delta province of Kafr El-Sheikh.  In the northern Sinai peninsula, at least three people were
killed and 17 wounded early today when rocket-propelled grenades
were used to attack a bus carrying workers employed at a cement
factory near al-Arish International Airport, according to Ahram
Gate. The state-run news service described the attackers as
suspected militants.  International Pressure  Al-Seesi’s defense of the army’s action reflected mounting
international pressure on the military leadership since it
deposed Mursi, Egypt’s first democratically elected civilian
president.  “If circumstances forced the armed forces to approach the
political process, it did so because the people summoned it for
that mission,” he said at a meeting with armed forces officers
and commanders in comments published on the military spokesman’s
Facebook page.  The U.S. sent Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns to Egypt
to meet with members of the interim government and civilian and
business leaders in a visit that will last until tomorrow,
according to the State Department. The U.S. and  Germany  have
called for Mursi’s release from army custody.  Burns will emphasize the Obama administration’s support
“for an inclusive democratic process where all political
streams and sectors of society are represented, the need to
transition to a democratically elected government as soon as
possible, and the immediate need for all political leaders to
work to prevent violence and incitement,” State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  While Psaki said Burns will meet with “political party
representatives” and “religious leaders,” she didn’t specify
whether he will attempt to see representatives of the Muslim
Brotherhood.  Policy Change  The interim Cabinet will steer the country until a vote for
parliament and the president expected to be held by early next
year. It will seek to revive the economy while leaving
“significant policy changes” to an elected government, Bahaa-Eldin said.  “Its job is to put the country back on the democratic path
and prepare for elections,” he said by phone. The Cabinet will
work to restore “some measure of security, some measure of
political consensus, revive the stagnant economy and seek to
make gains in social justice.”  The economy is stuck in its worst slowdown in two decades.
Unemployment is at a record high and foreign reserves are less
than half their levels in December 2010, two months before  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted.  Gulf Arab countries have offered billions of dollars to aid
Egypt since Mursi’s ouster. Kuwait extended a $4 billion aid
package on July 10, adding to the $8 billion promised by Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
5308.85, the highest value since July 10, at the close in Cairo
yesterday.  Oil Minister  Mohamed Shoeib, former head of Egyptian Natural Gas Holding
Co., will be appointed Oil Minister, state-run Ahram Gate
reported yesterday. Minister of Tourism Hisham Zaazou will
remain in the same post he held under Mursi, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported.  Ines Abdel Dayem, whose dismissal as head of the Cairo
Opera house in May by the Mursi government sparked protests by
artists and intellectuals, was named Culture Minister, Ahram
Gate said.  Since Mursi’s ouster, attacks against Egyptian troops have
increased in the northern Sinai peninsula, where government
forces killed five militants June 13, MENA reported.  Israel  yesterday boosted its forces near the Sinai border
after an incident in Egypt, an army spokeswoman said, speaking
anonymously in accordance with military regulations and without
giving further details.  Sinai Alert  The  Ynet news website  reported earlier, without saying
where it got the information, that Israel raised its alert level
in the area following an outbreak of gunfire on the Egyptian
side of the border.  The military and interim-President Adly Mansour have
stressed that national reconciliation is the priority. Al-Seesi
repeated the idea, saying that “all forces of the nation don’t
want confrontations or violence.”  The Salafist Nour party, which supported Mursi’s removal,
won’t take part in the Cabinet after the closing of Islamist
satellite channels and what it sees as the crackdown on
Brotherhood members and Islamists, the party’s assistant
secretary-general, Shaaban Abdel Alim, said by phone yesterday.  “The current road map failed to unite different political
groups and has increased polarization,” he said. “Our
participation was meant to appease a divided street. With the
bloodshed and polarization, there’s no point to take part in
cabinet talks now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  