-- Merkel Rebuffs Accusation She Is Putting Off Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/merkel-rebuffs-putting-off-crisis-accusation-as-election-looms.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  dismissed
suggestions that her government is waiting to disclose the cost
of resolving the debt crisis until after the German election as
fresh turmoil emerged in some indebted euro states.  Merkel, who is seeking a third term, was asked on  ARD
television  whether  Germany  would “get the bill” for crisis
resolution only after the election.  Spain , Portugal and probably
Greece need credit programs, she said.  “We’re not leaving anybody in the dark on what has to be
done, and we’ll keep doing it along these lines,” Merkel said
yesterday in an annual summer interview with the broadcaster.  Even with political turbulence in Spain and Portugal and
risk of further unrest in  Greece  over planned firings of
government workers, the German election still looms over
decision-making in the euro region. With 10 weeks to go before
the vote, polls  over the weekend  showed an increased likelihood
that Merkel will secure a third term as chancellor when German
voters go to the polls Sept. 22.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc has 40 percent
support, with its Free Democratic coalition allies polling at
6.5 percent, according to an Allensbach survey. That would be
enough to win a majority in the lower house, the Bundestag.  In the ARD interview, Merkel exhorted voters to once again
back the almost four-year-old coalition. She said she was
confident that the pro-business FDP would exceed the 5 percent
threshold required to win seats in the German parliament.  German Coalition  “I’m concentrating on my goal -- I want the Christian-liberal coalition to continue,” Merkel told ARD.  Elsewhere in the euro area, aid-recipient nations
threatened to tip back into crisis as European leaders continued
to struggle to set up a banking union.  Portugal ’s  10-year bond yield  jumped 61 basis points on
July 12 to 7.51 percent -- up from 5.23 percent on May 21 -- as
President Anibal Cavaco Silva called on the country’s two ruling
parties and main opposition group to reach an agreement on
“national salvation.” The factions are maneuvering to reach an
agreement to complete Portugal’s aid program through June 2014
and then hold early elections.  Talks “should be concluded in a very short period of
time,” Silva’s office said in a July 12 statement. Political
uncertainty threatened to roil markets a year after the  European
Central Bank  doused investor panic with its pledge to buy
unlimited sovereign debt if the need arose.  Rajoy Allegations  In Spain, the largest nation in the 17-member single
currency to have sought financial aid, the government faced
increased pressure over allegations that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  received illegal payments.  Rajoy’s ruling  People’s Party  on July 11 blocked an
opposition request for the premier to address parliament over a
report that he secured side payments while serving as a minister
between 1997 and 1999. Rajoy, who denied similar allegations
made by El Pais newspaper in January, has not commented on the
latest report.  In  Athens , Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government this
week plans to push through a plan to fire 15,000 state employees
and put another 25,000 on notice for possible dismissal in the
revamped administration’s first parliamentary test. Civil
servants held rallies around the country last week while unions
have called a 24-hour walkout on July 16.  Samaras’s coalition was shaken last month after the
departure of the Democratic Left Party following the closure of
state broadcaster ERT. Samaras’s New Democracy party must now
rely on its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party. The two
control 155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  