-- Ethiopia Plans to Make WTO Offer on Services by September
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-07-15T06:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/ethiopian-government-to-make-wto-offer-on-services-by-september.html
Ethiopia will submit an offer to the
 World Trade Organization  on access to services such as banking
and telecommunications before the next meeting of a decade-long
accession process in September, a Trade Ministry official said.  Last year, Ethiopia submitted suggested tariffs on goods to
the 159 member countries of the Geneva-based body for
negotiation, Geremew Ayalew, head of the trade relation and
negotiation directorate at the Trade Ministry, said in an
interview in the capital, Addis Ababa. The Horn of Africa nation
is now working on offers for 160 service industries, some of
which are controlled by the state.  “That is the challenging part,” Geremew said by phone on
July 11. “We have to decide which ones are open and which ones
are not open.”  Ethiopia’s gross domestic product has grown an average of
9.1 percent over the past 10 years, ranking it as  Africa ’s
second-fastest growing economy, after  Angola , and sixth
globally, according to World Bank data. The country plans to
complete accession to the WTO by mid-2015, as set out in a five-year growth plan unveiled in 2010, Geremew said.  Government-owned enterprises monopolize telecommunications,
power distribution and commercial aviation, while state banks
dominate a financial industry that bars foreign companies. At
the same, foreign and domestic private investment in
manufacturing and agriculture is encouraged.  Vital Industries  A decision on whether to liberalize service industries will
be based on government policy and through negotiations with WTO
member nations, Geremew said. The state has previously said that
the opening of vital industries won’t occur until the government
is effectively able to regulate them and domestic businesses can
compete with foreign companies.  Ethiopia is at “mid-point” in its bid to join the global
trade body, Chiedu Osakwe, director of the WTO’s accessions
division, said in a phone interview from Geneva.  “We have certainly not turned the corner to drive it
toward an end-game status,” he said. “There is considerable
work to be done to change gears and begin to turn this accession
machine around.”  Ethiopia has yet to answer questions on its foreign trade
regime submitted by WTO members in March 2012, he said. The
process that concludes with Ethiopia making specific commitments
on trade-related laws “goes on for years,” Osakwe said.  Least Developed  The government expects to accede to the WTO as a Least
Developed Country, while retaining control of industries
considered strategic, Getachew Reda, spokesman for Prime
Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, said in an interview on July 12.  “There will be some wiggle room for LDC countries to
retain policy autonomy in a number of areas, which of course
will include the sectors we’ve so far not liberalized,”
Getachew said. “There definitely will be a compromise, but the
compromise will not affect our control over the strategic
sectors.”  The WTO said last year the world’s poorest countries won’t
be forced into making commitments on market access to services
sectors that “do not correspond to their individual
development, financial and trade needs.”  There will have to be “degrees of opening” equivalent
with changes made by other recently acceded poor nations such as
Cambodia and Cape Verde, Osakwe said.  After initial resistance, Cambodia’s government decided to
“fully open” its telecommunications market during negotiations
with the WTO, according to a book written by Sok Siphana,
Cambodia’s chief negotiator, published on the Asian Development
Bank Institute’s website. It “saw the merit of foreign
participation” on the price and quality of services and overall
economic development, Sok said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 