-- Texas Abortion Law Critics Wrong on Closings, Perry Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-14T15:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/texas-abortion-law-critics-wrong-on-clinic-closings-perry-says.html
An abortion bill passed by the Texas
legislature won’t close as many of the state’s clinics that
offer the procedure as critics of the legislation say, Governor
 Rick Perry  said today.  The legislation bans abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy
and requires the state’s 42 abortion clinics to meet standards
similar to those for outpatient surgical centers. The measure
might leave only five of those 42 clinics able to offer the
procedure, state Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, and
other abortion-rights supporters have said.  “I don’t agree with her premise or her numbers,”
Republican Perry, who supports the measure, said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” program today. “History will prove she’s
wrong by asserting that.”  Texas is the largest and most-populous state to pass such
rules, part of a widening thrust by abortion opponents and
Republican lawmakers nationwide to enact requirements that
opponents say are too expensive or logistically impossible to
meet. In recent years, similar laws have been blamed for clinic
closings in  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania .  The bill is awaiting Perry’s signature after Democrats
failed to block a Republican-led state Senate vote last week. It
has also passed the Texas House of Representatives.  The Texas bill also would require abortion doctors to
obtain admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (50
kilometers) of the clinic. Most clinics would have to alter
facilities to meet the surgical-center standards, which
abortion-rights advocates say they can’t afford. Doctors at
other clinics may struggle to win admitting privileges.  The measure is consistent with the beliefs of “most
people” who think that “six months is too late to be deciding
whether or not these babies should be aborted or not, and we put
the limit at five months in this bill,” Perry said on the CNN
program.  Abortion-rights advocates said the rules were an effort to
shut down the state’s abortion clinics and curb abortion in
 Texas . Supporters described the new requirements as improving
health care.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  