-- Frenkel’s Bank of Israel Bid Hits Bump Over Old Incident
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-15T12:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/frenkel-s-bank-of-israel-bid-hits-bump-over-old-incident.html
The nomination of former  Bank of
Israel  Governor  Jacob Frenkel  to his old job may have hit a bump
following media reports he was briefly detained seven years ago
leaving a Hong Kong shop with cologne he didn’t pay for.  Frenkel denied any wrongdoing, calling it an “unfortunate
misunderstanding,” according to a July 12 statement. A
committee that vets civil service appointments met yesterday to
discuss his candidacy and “examine various queries submitted to
it in recent days,” according to a statement from the panel.  Frenkel was suspected in 2006 of trying to leave an airport
duty free shop with unpurchased cologne, detained for 24 hours,
then released without charge, the Haaretz newspaper said July
12. The incident was dismissed by local authorities who
“expressed appreciation that I didn’t sue them,” Frenkel said
in an e-mailed response to the Haaretz report. Even so, a
failure to have disclosed it to the vetting panel, as reported
by Haaretz, may be reviewed.  “There are two things that should be examined: one is the
incident itself, and the other is the reporting of it,” Shmuel
Hollander, a former civil service head, told  Army Radio 
yesterday. “Failure to report can be problematic in certain
circumstances.”  Cabinet Approval  Frenkel’s appointment to replace  Stanley Fischer , who
stepped down June 30, also requires Cabinet approval. In the
meantime, Deputy Governor Karnit Flug is filling in. The
nomination was made by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and
Finance Minister Yair Lapid, who have not commented on reports.  The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  was little changed today, rising
less than 0.1 percent to 1,221.32 at 2:47 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The
shekel was little changed, trading at 3.5999 shekels to the
dollar.  Frenkel, 70, was supposed to be a shoo-in, a two-term
former governor turned international businessman with the global
contacts so useful to a small country. His career trajectory has
taken him from the  University of Chicago  to the  International
Monetary Fund  to the boardrooms of Merrill Lynch & Co. and
 JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co., where he now is chairman of the
international division.  Supporters lauded him for taming  Israel ’s chronic inflation
and liberalizing financial markets during his 1991-2000 tenure
as governor. Economist Dan Ben-David, executive director of the
Jerusalem-based Taub Center for Social Policy Studies, called
the appointment “one of the best choices that could have been
made.”  Tamed Inflation  “He dragged the entire country kicking and screaming to
normal inflation rates, when no one thought it was possible,”
Ben-David said. Fischer credited him with helping Israel to
weather the global financial crisis as well as it did.  “The fact that we could operate the way we did during the
recession is due to changes that he brought about,” Fischer
said last month.  From the outset, those credentials weren’t enough to shield
Frenkel from barbs and challenges. Critics said his hawkish
approach to inflation had hurt the economy with high  interest
rates  that restrained growth. Others questioned his professional
judgment, pointing out he was vice-chairman of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  when the insurance giant was forced to
take a U.S. federal government bailout to survive.  Performance at AIG  The Israeli public should be asking about Frenkel’s role at
AIG, a company that took “tens of billions of dollars from
American taxpayers,” instead of worrying about a bottle of
cologne, columnist Nahum Barnea wrote in the Yedioth Ahronoth
newspaper today.  The legality of Frenkel’s nomination has also been called
into question. A 2010 amendment to the Bank of Israel Law limits
governors to two terms. Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein says
that applies only to governors who serve after the legislation
was enacted. The Movement for Quality Government in Israel, a
good governance group, disputes that interpretation and has
asked the vetting panel and President  Shimon Peres , who makes
the formal appointment, to block it.  “The new testimony that has been uncovered over the
weekend adds to the cloud of questions regarding the suitability
of this appointment,” the group said in an e-mail today.  Some critics of the appointment also dug up a 2002 state
comptroller’s report that accused Frenkel of putting in for tens
of thousands of dollars of compensation he didn’t deserve while
governor.  Frenkel returned the money, Fischer said, when asked about
the report at a June 25 press conference.  In his e-mailed statement, Frenkel expressed confidence
that he would return to Israel to lead the Bank of Israel in
early October. “I see it as a national mission for the benefit
of the economy and the state,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  