-- Froome Needs Oxygen Mask After Tour Stage Win on Mont Ventoux
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-14T22:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/froome-wins-tour-de-france-stage-to-ventoux-extends-advantage.html
Chris Froome won the longest stage
of the Tour de  France ’s centenary edition after beating his
rivals on a climb to the top of Mont Ventoux to extend his lead
to more than four minutes.  Team Sky’s Froome was administered oxygen for about five
minutes at the 1,912-meter (6,273-foot) finish yesterday after
outpacing Nairo Quintana of Movistar at the end of the  151-mile
(243-kilometer) stage . Euskaltel’s Mikel Nieve was third.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton, increased his advantage to 4
minutes, 14 seconds over Bauke Mollema of the Netherlands
through 15 of 21 stages. Spain’s two-time champion Alberto Contador is 11 seconds further back in third  “It was my goal to take some time in the classification,
but I didn’t think I’d win the stage,” Froome, 28, said in a
televised interview. “This is the biggest victory of my life --
this is a historic mountain.”  Mont Ventoux, known as the “Giant of Provence,” is one of
the Tour de France’s most storied climbs. The road to an
isolated weather station passes a rocky landscape with no
vegetation. British rider Tom Simpson died on the ascent in 1967
and Eddy Merckx of  Belgium  was administered oxygen after winning
a 1970 stage there.  Froome was given extra oxygen via a mask before the podium
ceremony following a ride of almost six hours.  “I was feeling quite faint and short of breath,” Froome
told reporters. “I hope that’s quite normal given it was a
full-gas effort.”  ‘All My Strength’  Quintana, a 23-year-old Colombian, said he had felt unwell
at one point, though hadn’t needed oxygen.  “I had to use all my strength,” Quintana said.  Crowds thronged the route on Bastille Day, a national
holiday in France, in 32 degrees Centigrade (90 degrees
Fahrenheit) heat. France’s Sylvain Chavanel attacked near the
foot of Mont Ventoux before being caught by Quintana after five
miles of the climb. None of the host nation’s riders have
managed a stage win at this edition.  Australia ’s Richie Porte managed to lead Froome up most of
the 13-mile ascent of Mont Ventoux after their five other Team
Sky teammates wilted.  Froome accelerated away from a small group of riders
including Contador with 4.5 miles left, and then caught
Quintana. Froome said he encouraged the Colombian as they rode
at the front of the field.  “I was trying to motivate him, saying, ‘Come on, man,’”
Froome said. “The last two kilometers I don’t think I even
attacked, he just couldn’t hold the wheel anymore.”  Froome raised his hand to celebrate the win before being
taken into a cabin to recuperate.  ‘It’s Over’  Team Saxo-Tinkoff’s Contador finished 1 minute, 40 seconds
behind Froome in sixth place and Mollema of Belkin was six
seconds further back in eighth.  Cadel Evans , the 2011 champion, was almost 9 minutes behind
in 31st place.  Andy Schleck , who inherited the 2010 title when
Contador failed a doping test, veered to the side of the road as
he struggled his way up Mont Ventoux and finished more than 10
minutes off the pace.  Greg LeMond , a three-time winner from the U.S., said Froome
is almost assured of winning the race because of his form.  “It’s over,” LeMond told France Television on Mont
Ventoux. “You can always have a bad day, but once you’re good,
you’re good.”  Froome said there are still some of the hardest stages to
come. Today is the final rest day before the 2,116 mile-Tour
heads toward the Alps. The race ends July 21 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Vaison-La-Romaine, France at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  