-- Granny’s Gold Bars Are Key to Vietnam Push to Boost Dong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T09:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/granny-s-gold-bars-are-key-to-vietnam-push-to-boost-dong.html
The target of  Vietnam ’s campaign to
stabilize its currency is in the locked bedroom wardrobe of
retired civil servant Vu Thi Huong: gold bars.  “It’s been my habit for ages, buying gold whenever I can
save up some money,” said Huong, 57, who watches the financial
news every day to monitor the price of the precious metal.
“With gold, I can save my fortune and later on have something
valuable to pass down to my children and grandchildren.”  Huong is among millions of Vietnamese who hold an estimated
300 tons to 400 tons of bullion to store their wealth -- valued
at as much as $19 billion at domestic prices and equal to
official U.K. holdings -- a legacy of more than a century of
war, revolution and economic turbulence. The central bank wants
to convert the hoard, much of it smuggled in, into dong deposits
to strengthen the currency, which has slid 21 percent against
the dollar in five years.  Private gold holdings “reflect both the Vietnamese
cultural values as well as the lack of confidence in the dong,”
said  Trinh Nguyen , Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc. “High inflation and depreciation of the dong in the past
have caused people to keep their savings in gold.”  Demand for bullion prompts importers and smugglers to sell
dong for dollars to buy gold from abroad, depressing the local
currency, Michael Kokalari and Hang Vu, analysts at Maybank Kim
Eng Securities in Ho Chi Minh City, wrote in a note July 3.  Storing Gold  To reduce contraband and persuade people to sell their
bullion, the central bank made itself the sole importer and
Saigon Jewelry Co. the only legal producer of gold bars. To
discourage people from holding the precious metal, it banned
banks from paying interest on gold deposits from June 30. Banks
now have to charge customers a fee for storing it instead.  The central bank has held gold auctions since March,
selling 1.17 million taels, or about 44 tons, according to bank
data. Nguyen Quang Huy, head of the central bank’s foreign-currency management department, said in a posting on the bank’s
website in April that banks would prioritize the purchase of
gold from auctions to close their positions by the June
deadline.  State Bank  of Vietnam will reduce the volume and frequency
of auctions because banks have bought enough gold to return gold
deposits, the Tien Phong newspaper reported last week, citing an
unidentified central bank official.  Gold Policy  “The gold policy really is to help stabilize the dong
because if people hold less gold, they don’t try to move away
from the dong,” said Alan Pham, chief economist at VinaCapital
Group in Ho Chi Minh City. “The side effect of that policy is
increasing the amount of capital. That’s like hitting two birds
with one stone.”  Monetizing private gold holdings isn’t the only measure the
State Bank of Vietnam is pursuing to shore up the dong and
increase cash deposits with lenders. The central bank said it
will set up an asset-management company this month to buy non-performing loans from banks “to resolve bad debts and boost
credit growth to a reasonable level to support the economy.”  Extensive use of gold and dollars is hampering the central
bank’s ability to manage monetary policy, HSBC’s Nguyen said.
“The holding of gold does not generate productive investment.”  While the central bank devalued the dong last month for the
first time since 2011 as the dollar strengthened, it cut the
interest-rate cap on dollar deposits to discourage people from
holding U.S. currency and help boost foreign-exchange reserves.  Indian Efforts  Other countries with large private gold holdings are also
trying to wean citizens off bullion.  India , the biggest gold
consumer, has increased  import duties  and a trade group called
for suspension of sales of coins and bars to retail investors to
help narrow a record current-account deficit that pushed the
rupee to an all-time low. During the Great Depression in 1933,
President F.D. Roosevelt banned U.S. citizens from  hoarding
gold , forcing them to sell to the  Federal Reserve .  “The State Bank of Vietnam can buy gold to pump out dong
to serve as funds for socioeconomic development,” Huy of the
central bank said on state television July 4. The central bank
didn’t respond to written questions from Bloomberg News about
its gold policy.  Vietnam’s central bank wants to convince savers that it’s
more lucrative to hold assets other than gold, which means
boosting their confidence in the dong, said an SBV official who
asked not to be identified as the plans are still being
discussed.  Record Premium  That argument has been helped in the past nine months by a
27 percent slump in the world gold price, compared with a 1.8
percent drop in the dong against the dollar in the same period.
Before the metal began to decline in October, its price more
than quadrupled in a decade, while the dong slid 27 percent.
Vietnam’s currency traded at 21,228 per dollar at 11:30 a.m.
local time today.  Gold deposits at Vietnam’s banks dropped 75 percent as of
the end of May from the end of 2012, according to a June 12
statement on the government’s website.  Still, Vietnam’s affinity for gold, combined with the
central bank’s rules restricting imports, meant Vietnamese
buyers paid a record premium of more than 6 million dong per
tael ($235 an ounce) over the world price in April when the
precious metal tumbled into a  bear market . Saigon Jewelry gold
bars sold for 37.58 million dong a tael at 4:45 p.m. local time,
according to data from the company. A tael is about 1.2 ounces.  ‘Deeply Ingrained’  The differential between world and domestic prices
encourages smuggling. About 50 tons to 60 tons of gold were
legally imported to produce bars each year in Vietnam prior to
2012, while some 50 tons to 70 tons were smuggled in, according
to a central bank report this year.  Vietnam bought 77 tons of gold last year, both legal and
smuggled, down 24 percent from 2011, the producer-funded World
Gold Council said in a report in February. The U.K.’s official
holdings in July were 310.3 tons, the  World Gold Council  said.  “These habits are deeply ingrained,” said Jonathan Pincus, an economist with the Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam
Program in  Ho Chi Minh City . “It’s going to take a long time.”  The central bank’s bullion rules combined with price swings
in the gold market are starting to affect people’s attitude
toward the metal, particularly in larger transactions such as
property deals, said Nguyen Van Doanh, 39, a real estate broker
in  Hanoi  since 2005.  “In the past,  gold prices  were pretty stable, everything
with a large value such as houses, land, cars were priced in
gold,” Doanh said. “Given the changes in gold prices, together
with the government restrictions in gold-bar trading, it’s no
longer safe and convenient to use.”  Nguyen Thuy Huong, 64, is marketing her five-story house in
downtown Hanoi for 7 billion dong ($330,000). She bought the
house seven years ago for 190 taels of gold.  “I can’t price it in gold since nobody would want to pay
in gold these days,” said Huong, pointing at the advertisement
of her home in a local newspaper.  “If someone wants to pay me
in gold, I’m not going to take it either.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  