-- Lincecum Pitches No-Hitter in Giants’ 9-0 Win Over Padres
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-14T06:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/lincecum-pitches-no-hitter-in-giants-9-0-victory-over-padres.html
Tim Lincecum of the San Francisco
Giants threw 148 pitches to earn his first no-hitter and the
second this season in Major League Baseball, a 9-0 victory
against the San Diego Padres.  Lincecum (5-9) struck out 13 batters and walked four at
Petco Park in San Diego, getting support from three runs scored
by battery mate Buster Posey and hitting and defense by
outfielder Hunter Pence.  “I wanted to stick to my game plan,” Lincecum said in a
televised interview. “Buster and I did a great job of staying
on the same page.”  Lincecum, a two-time Cy Young winner, almost lost the no-hitter in the eighth inning when Alexi Amarista hit a sinking
line drive that was caught on a dive by Pence.  “I thought for sure it was a hit,” Lincecum said. “You
see Hunter flying out of nowhere making the flying grab. That
was really impressive -- a big play for us.”  Lincecum said he never felt as if fatigue would interfere
with his pitching. “I was a little sweaty, but I felt great,”
he said. “It felt good to get something going for the team.”  The 148 pitches are the most the right-hander has ever
thrown in MLB, topping a previous high of 142.  “I wasn’t really thinking about my pitch count,” he said.
“I was thinking about getting the job done.”  Losing Side  Lincecum took the loss in the first no-hitter of the 2013
season, thrown July 2 by Homer Bailey of the Cincinnati Reds,
who allowed only one walk in a 3-0 win against the visiting
Giants. Bailey also threw the last of 2012’s seven no-hitters,
on Sept. 28 against the Pittsburgh Pirates.  The Giants improved to 43-50 to hold fourth place in the
National League West, 6 ½ games behind the  Arizona  Diamondbacks
and three games ahead of the last place Padres (41-54).  It’s the 15th no-hitter for the franchise and the first
since Matt Cain threw a perfect game in a 10-0 Giants win over
the Houston Astros on June 13, 2012.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters.  The Padres are the only major league team that’s never
recorded a no-hitter against an opponent.  Pablo Sandoval doubled in the first to drive in Posey for a
1-0 lead. Posey scored again in the fourth on Pence’s ground-out
and Brandon Belt hit a two-run homer to push the scored to 4-0
in the fourth inning.  Pence’s triple in the fifth sent home Lincecum, Posey and
Sandoval, followed by Belt’s run-scoring single for an 8-0 lead.
Pence finished the scoring in the eighth with his 14th home run
of the season.  Edinson Volquez (6-8) allowed eight runs on nine hits in
five innings while striking out six for the Padres.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  