-- Israel Bank Regulator Says Lenders Must Cut Costs to Spur Growth
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-14T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/israel-bank-regulator-says-lenders-must-cut-costs-to-spur-growth.html
Israeli banks, whose shares have
underperformed the benchmark index this year, need to reduce
costs to cope with lower  interest rates  and tougher competition,
Supervisor of Banks David Zaken said.  “It’s unrealistic to know there’s a problem and not deal
with it,” Zaken said in an interview at his Bank of  Israel 
office in  Jerusalem  on July 9. “Israeli banks need to improve
efficiency. Their expenses are relatively high and this is
reflected mainly in salary costs.”  The nation’s lenders have struggled to spur profit growth
as the central bank cut its base lending rate by two percentage
points since 2011 to 1.25 percent to support economic growth,
which slowed to an annualized 2.7 percent in the first quarter
from 2.9 percent a year earlier. The five-member Tel Aviv
Banking Index has gained 1.1 percent this year, trailing the
benchmark TA-25 Index’s 2.4 percent climb, after earnings at
three of the lenders fell in 2012.  About 60 percent of operational expenses at Israeli banks
stem from salaries, the most of any country in the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development after Denmark and
compared with an average of 47 percent,  Bank of Israel  data
show. The efficiency ratio of Israeli banks, which measures the
effect of operational expenses on revenue, is about 70 percent,
the data show. The OECD average is 62 percent.  Banks “have the tools” to improve their efficiency, Zaken
said. “I don’t think there will be a major shakeup,” in the
industry, he said.  Tougher Rules  The Bank of Israel stipulated last month that lenders must
offer clients a single price for all basic services involved in
managing current accounts to help customers better compare
between offerings and improve competition.  The move comes after tougher  capital requirements  last year
deterred banks from paying dividends as they sought to comply
with new regulations to raise Tier 1 capital ratios to 9 percent
by Jan. 1, 2015. The two biggest banks,  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI)  and
Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., must achieve a ratio of 10 percent by
2017, according to a draft guideline published by the central
bank in March 2012.  First International Bank of Israel Ltd . paid last month its
first dividend since September 2010 after raising its Tier-1
capital ratio to 9.2 percent in the first quarter from 8.8
percent a year earlier. The stock is down 2.2 percent this year.  “A bank that has reached or has the possibility to reach
these targets with the possibility to grow and also has a buffer
for unforeseen events will be able to distribute a dividend,”
Zaken said.  Paying Dividends  Bank Hapoalim said July 11 it got regulatory approval to
reintroduce quarterly cash dividend payments, triggering a 3.4
percent rally in the shares, the most since October, and
bringing this year’s gain to 7.8 percent. The lender’s Tier 1
capital ratio increased to 9.87 percent at the end of March from
9 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bank Hapoalim last paid a dividend in July 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zaken said the regulator would publish a directive on
liquidity levels in the next couple of months that would comply
with international Basel III capital rules. Banks in most
developed countries will phase in Basel III rules, which require
lenders to hold more capital to back loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  