-- Sprinters Gay and Powell Test Positive for Banned Substances
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/jamaican-sprinter-powell-tests-positive-for-banned-stimulant.html
Tyson Gay and Asafa Powell,
respectively the fastest and third-fastest men in the world this
year, won’t run in next month’s track and field world
championships after testing positive for banned substances.  Gay, who has the fastest 100-meter time of 2013 at  9.75
seconds , told the Associated Press yesterday that one of his
samples from an out-of-competition test in May came back
positive for an undisclosed substance. Powell, the former world
record-holder at the distance, said in a statement that he’s
started an investigation to determine why he tested positive for
a banned stimulant during last month’s Jamaican championships.  The United States Anti-Doping Agency said in an e-mailed
statement that Gay’s secondary sample will be processed shortly
and applauded his choice to “voluntarily remove himself from
competition while the full facts surrounding his test are
evaluated.” The world championships in Moscow run Aug. 10-18.  The 30-year-old Gay, the American 100-meter record holder,
said he was let down after putting his trust in an unnamed
person, according to the AP.  “I don’t have a sabotage story,” Gay was cited as saying
by the AP. “I don’t have any lies. I don’t have anything to say
to make this seem like it was a mistake or it was on USADA’s
hands, someone playing games.”  Gay won the 100-meter and 200-meter titles at the U.S.
National Outdoor Championships last month and was set to
challenge world record-holder and two-time Olympic champion
Usain Bolt in Moscow.  ‘Completely Devastated’  Powell, the last man to hold the individual 100-meter
record before fellow Jamaican Bolt broke it, said that a sample
he gave at the national trials returned “adverse findings,”
though he said he’s never knowingly taken any illegal
supplements or substances. Powell said his team is cooperating
with relevant sports agencies and law enforcement authorities to
discover how the substance got in his system.  “This result has left me completely devastated in many
respects,” Powell said in the statement. “My fault here
however is not cheating but instead not being more vigilant. I
want to reiterate that in my entire career as an athlete I have
never sought to enhance my performance with any substance. It is
not a part of who I am or what I believe in.”  Powell, 30, added that he accepts the consequences of the
finding, which includes missing the world championships.  Powell most recently held the 100-meter world record in
2008, when he won an Olympic gold medal with  Jamaica ’s 400-meter
relay team. He suffered a groin injury during the 100-meter
final at the 2012 London Games.  Provisional Ban  Fellow Jamaican sprinter Sherone Simpson also said
yesterday she tested positive for oxilofrine, the same stimulant
as Powell, at last month’s national championships. Simpson, who
won an Olympic silver medal in the women’s 400-meter relay last
year, said in a statement that she wouldn’t intentionally take
an illegal substance.  “My team and I will try to do everything we can to get
this issue dealt with as best as we can,” Simpson said.  Jamaica’s Veronica Campbell-Brown, a two-time Olympic 200-meter champion, last month accepted a provisional suspension
from competition following a positive test for a banned
diuretic. Campbell-Brown’s management company said the
accusation she’d committed a doping offense was a “shock to
her” and that she’ll fight to clear her name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  