-- Tnuva Said to Meet Banks as Largest Israel IPO in 3 Years
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-07-14T14:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/tnuva-said-to-meet-banks-as-largest-israel-ipo-in-3-years-mulled.html
Tnuva Food Industries Ltd .,
controlled by private equity fund Apax Partners LLP, is
considering an initial public offering that would value the
company at 8 billion shekels ($2.2 billion), according to a
person familiar with the plans.  The producer of dairy products that began as a cooperative
of Israeli kibbutz farms, has met with investment banks,
including Clal Finance Underwriters Ltd., and is seeking a
listing on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange by the first quarter of
2014, according to the person, who asked not to be named because
the discussions are private. Apax may also consider an outright
sale of the company, according to the person.  “Tnuva’s shareholders are examining various options to
enhance the company and its  capital structure , one of which is a
listing,” company spokeswoman Alona Arieli wrote in a text
message. Spokesmen for Clal and Apax declined to comment.
Kibbutz and other collective farms own about 23 percent of the
company, according to Apax’s  website .  A share sale at the valuation being discussed would nearly
double Apax’s investment after it bought a 51 percent stake of
Tnuva at a $1.03 billion valuation in 2007. The issuance would
be the largest listing in Israel since  Azrieli Group (AZRG)  raised 2.5
billion shekels in June 2010 to expand its real estate holdings.  A listing at that valuation would probably put Tnuva in the
benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  with competitors  Osem Investments Ltd. (OSEM)  and
 Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal might be opposed by Yitzhak Bader, chief executive
officer of Granot, a purchasing organization of kibbutzim,
Haaretz reported in March, when it first reported Apax’s listing
consideration. While Apax does not need the consent of minority
shareholders, their opposition will make it difficult to move
ahead quickly, Haaretz said.  Tnuva, which Apax says accounts for over 14 percent of
shelf space in Israeli supermarkets, was targeted by consumer
protests in 2011 after it increased the price of cottage cheese,
a staple in local households. Billionaire Haim Saban, chief
executive officer of Saban Capital Group Inc., has been in talks
to buy a controlling bid of Tnuva, Calcalist reported in March
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  