-- OGX Holder Seeks Support for Fiscal Council to Monitor Company
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-14T03:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/ogx-holder-seeks-support-for-fiscal-council-to-monitor-company.html
Minority shareholders of  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  are seeking support to create a
fiscal council to monitor the oil company as they try to gauge
the state of its business after shares plunged to a record low.  A group of 35 shareholders of OGX, which is controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , met in  Sao Paulo  yesterday after being
called by investor Willian Magalhaes to discuss steps that could
be taken since the stock has  tumbled  90 percent to 43 centavos
($0.19) year to date. Magalhaes said he has the backing of
holders of at least 2 percent of the shares outstanding, which
would be enough to approve the implementation of a fiscal
council that could oversee OGX’s finances.  “What we want is to gather enough information for us to
understand exactly what’s going on with the company,” Magalhaes
told reporters after the meeting. “A fiscal council would be a
way of having a formal channel of communication between us and
the company.”  Magalhaes said he also seeks to be nominated for a seat on
OGX’s board and wants to put his requests to a vote at the
company’s next shareholder meeting, which has yet to be
scheduled. Magalhaes, a business owner who lives in Taubate, Sao
Paulo, holds 21,000 OGX shares, which he started buying last
year.  OGX didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Greater Say  The initiative comes as minority shareholders seek a
greater say in the billionaire’s flagship  oil company . Batista
has made plans to sell assets and renegotiate debt in his
companies after losing about $30 billion in personal wealth
since March 2012 following a series of missed targets and
canceled projects.  Last week, a shareholder sought to block OGX from selling
assets or making payments to companies affiliated with Batista.
A Rio de Janeiro court rejected the injunction July 11.  Magalhaes, who manages a  Twitter account  with 906 followers
to discuss matters related to OGX, said that the shareholders
he’s been in touch with don’t intend to seek legal actions
against Batista or the company.  Doing so now “would do more harm than good,” he said.
“We want to support the company, because everyone here wants
their investments to regain value. We’re all on the same boat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  