-- Most Read on Bloomberg: U.S. Bank Payouts, Stocks, Asiana Crash
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-07-14T04:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/most-read-on-bloomberg-u-s-bank-payouts-stocks-asiana-crash.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. U.S. Banks Seen Freezing Payouts Under Harsh Leverage Rule  July 10 (Bloomberg) -- The biggest U.S. banks, after years
of building equity, may continue hoarding profits instead of
boosting dividends as they face stricter capital rules than
foreign competitors.  2. S&P 500 Rises to Record Close While Dollar Weakens on
Bernanke  July 11 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks surged, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbing to its highest closing level ever, and
metals gained as the dollar slid after Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke called for maintaining monetary stimulus.  3. Asiana Pilots Flying Slowly Reacted Too Late to Avoid Crash  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- The  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  Boeing Co.
777 that crashed while landing in San Francisco had slowed to
almost 40 miles an hour below its target speed before hitting a
seawall short of the runway, a U.S. investigator said.  4. Bernanke Supports Pressing On With Stimulus Amid QE Debate  July 11 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke called for maintaining accommodation even as the
minutes of policy makers’ June meeting showed them debating
whether to stop bond buying by the Fed in 2013.  5. JPMorgan Profit Climbs as Trading Gains Outweigh Mortgage
Drop  July 12 (Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest
U.S. bank by assets, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as higher revenue from investment banking
and trading overcame a drop in fees from mortgage lending.  6. Many on Fed Awaiting More Job Gains Before Tapering QE:
Economy  July 10 (Bloomberg) -- Many Federal Reserve officials want
to see more signs employment is picking up before they’ll begin
scaling back $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according to
minutes of policy makers’ meeting last month.  7. Stocks Rise in U.S., Europe as Natural Gas Leads Commodity
Gains  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose for a third day as
investors awaited the start of second-quarter earnings season
and euro-area finance ministers approved aid for  Greece .
European equities recovered from a July 5 slide, while shares
and currencies in Asia declined.  8. U.S. Boosts Capital Demands on Banks Above Global Standards  July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Capital standards at the biggest U.S.
lenders would rise to 5 percent of assets for parent companies
and 6 percent for their banking units under a proposal by
regulators to bolster financial firms.  9. REITs Slump 20% Fueling Worst Bond Losses Since ’94:
Mortgages  July 10 (Bloomberg) -- Annaly Capital Management Inc.’s
Wellington Denahan, head of the largest mortgage real-estate
investment trust, told investors less than three months ago that
reports REITs could threaten U.S. financial stability were as
misleading as the media frenzy over shark attacks in 2001.  10.  China  Seen Blowing Vietnam-Sized Hole in 2013 Credit:
Economy  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- China’s money-market cash squeeze is
likely to reduce credit growth this year by 750 billion yuan
($122 billion), an amount equivalent to the size of  Vietnam ’s
economy, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  COLUMNS  1. Young White Women, Killing Themselves by Tanning: Peter
Orszag  July 10 (Bloomberg) -- Despite the hoopla over dysfunction
in  Washington , the government can still do useful things. To
prove it, the Food and Drug Administration should move
aggressively to implement and then strengthen its proposed
cancer warnings about tanning beds.  2. The True Confessions of a Chinese Shadow Banker: Joe Zhang  July 9 (Bloomberg) -- In the fall of 2010, as deputy head
of China investment banking at UBS AG, I spoke to a group of
wealthy investors in Beijing about the outlook for Chinese
stocks. A rumpled, 50-something man from Hangzhou named Wang
Zhigang pulled me aside afterward and asked for my advice about
investing. Until then, he had made his money through curbside
lending, not stocks. But, he lamented, his returns had dropped
from more than 30 percent a year to a mere 23 percent. He
worried about his personal fortune, which he had built up from
nothing to almost 3 billion  yuan  (about $445 million back then).  3. Colleges Encourage Families to Spend, Not Save: Richard
Vedder  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Believe it or not, Americans used to
save about one-tenth of their after-tax income. By the 1990s,
that percentage had dropped to less than 5 percent, and from
2003 to 2012 the average savings rate had fallen even further.  4. Why We Underestimate Risk by Omitting Time Factor: Mark
Buchanan  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Suppose I offer you a simple gamble.
Throw a dice: If you get a six, you win $10; if not, you lose
$1. The loss is more likely; the win brings more money. Willing
to play?  5. Wall Street Spin Machine Mobilizes for Corzine: William D.
Cohan  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- The highly compensated Wall Street
spin machine never ceases to amaze me. Case in point: defending
the indefensible Jon S. Corzine. As soon as the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission sued the embattled former chairman
and chief executive officer of MF Global Inc., the now
liquidated brokerage, the spinmeisters mobilized.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Bernanke Sees High Accommodation for Foreseeable Future  July 10 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke speaks about the central bank’s policies and the U.S.
economy.  2. Rex Ryan Runs With the Bulls in Annual Pamplona Race  July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Several thousand people, including
 New York  Jets coach Rex Ryan, dashed alongside fighting bulls in
the Spanish city of Pamplona on Sunday, the first day of the
running of the bulls. Only four people were treated for injuries
and no one was gored, officials said.  3. Asiana Airlines Flight 214’s Path Before Fatal Crash  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Cory Johnson reports on the path of
Asiana Airlines Inc.’s Flight 214 that crash-landed at San
Francisco International Airport on Saturday, killing two of the
307 people on board the Boeing Co. 777.  4. ABC’s Virtual Simulation of Asiana Jetliner Crash  July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Based on witness accounts, ABC News
created a virtual simulation of a crash of an Asiana jetliner
yesterday in San Francisco. Two people were killed and 181 were
taken to hospitals. The flight from  Seoul  carried 307 people.  5. ‘Human Factor’ May Be Focus of Asiana Study, Feith Says  July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Gregory Feith, an aviation consultant
and former investigator for the National Transportation Safety
Board, talks about the Asiana Airlines Inc. jetliner crash at
San Francisco International Airport yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  