-- PCCW-Telstra Venture Stored Phone Data for FBI for Over a Decade
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-14T09:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/pccw-telstra-venture-stored-phone-data-for-fbi-for-over-a-decade.html
PCCW Ltd. (8)  and Telstra Corp.,
partners in an undersea cabling venture, stored phone and
Internet data for the FBI and U.S. Justice Department under
terms of a 2001 agreement with the agencies, Telstra said.  The pact, signed by  Richard Li ’s PCCW after it formed its
joint venture Reach with Telstra, requires the Australian
company to store billing records for two years, according to a
 copy of the agreement  posted online by news website Crikey,
which  first reported  the deal last week. The venture also
guaranteed it would be able to provide U.S. authorities with
copies of stored data, call logs, subscriber information, and
billing data, according to the document.  The revelation comes amid increased scrutiny of government
data gathering as prosecutors in the U.S. seek fugitive security
contractor Edward Snowden, who exposed classified programs and
said the U.S. had been hacking into computers in Hong Kong and
mainland  China  since 2009.  PCCW transferred its 50 percent interest in Reach to its
listed subsidiary  HKT Trust and HKT Ltd.  in 2011, according to
HKT’s 2012  annual report .  “HKT’s U.S.-based operations have an obligation under the
terms of their licence to respond to appropriate enquiries made
by U.S. law enforcement agencies,” Ivan Ho, a PCCW spokesman
said in an e-mailed statement today. Ho added that those
obligations are focused on U.S.-based customer data and do not
apply to HKT’s non-U.S. based operations, including in  Hong Kong 
or its customers in Hong Kong.  Operating Obligations   The document was signed as part of Reach’s operating
obligations in the U.S., which required it to comply with U.S.
domestic law, Telstra spokesman Scott Whiffin said by e-mail.
The copy posted online was genuine, “as far as I can
determine,” he said by phone.  “We understand similar agreements would be in place for
all network infrastructure in the U.S.,” Whiffin said by e-mail. “When operating in any jurisdiction, here or overseas,
carriers are legally required to provide various forms of
assistance to government agencies.”  Reach operates 82,300 kilometers (51,150 miles) of undersea
cables in the Pacific linking China, Japan, Australia,  New
Zealand  and Fiji to  Hawaii  and the continental U.S.,  according
to its website .  It also has a transatlantic cable joining New Jersey and
Long Island to Cornwall in  England  and Brittany in  France , as
well as satellite and regional networks which don’t connect
directly to the U.S., according to the site.  Telstra is Australia’s largest phone company and PCCW
controls Hong Kong’s biggest telecommunications operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  