-- Philippines, Muslim Rebels Forge Wealth-Sharing in Peace Accord
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-07-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/philippines-muslim-rebels-forge-wealth-sharing-in-peace-accord.html
The Philippines and Muslim rebels
signed a wealth-sharing agreement yesterday after eight months
of talks, bringing President  Benigno Aquino  closer to ending
four decades of insurgency on resources-rich Mindanao island.  “In a show of true commitment, the parties extended the
meeting, originally scheduled for four days to six days, to be
able to overcome their concerns and reach an agreement,” the
government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front said in a
statement. The pact provides “sufficient guidance” to draft
wealth-sharing and revenue-generation provisions of a law
expanding Muslim autonomy in a region to be known as Bangsamoro,
they said.  Muslims will get a 75 percent share of metals resources and
an equal split on fossil fuels, Ghadzali Jaafar, the front’s
vice chairman, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We are
going into the meat of the final deal,” he said. The statement
didn’t provide details on the agreement.  Ending one of  Southeast Asia ’s most entrenched conflicts
could help bring investors to Mindanao and unlock mineral
deposits worth an estimated $312 billion. The Autonomous Region
in Muslim Mindanao had per capita gross domestic product of
26,004 pesos ($599) in 2011, about a fourth the national average
of 103,366 pesos and the lowest among 17 regions, according to
the  National Statistical Coordination Board .  “We have a good package, one that we believe would make
fiscal autonomy in Bangsamoro a reality,” Miriam Coronel-Ferrer, the chief government negotiator, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Muslims account for 5 percent of the Philippines’ 103
million-strong population, according to  estimates  by the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency.  ‘Failed Experiment’  Aquino forged a cease-fire with the rebels on Oct. 15,
seeking to end an insurgency that has killed as many as 200,000
people on the southern island. Agreements on power-sharing and
disarmament remain to be negotiated, with Jaafar yesterday
saying a completed deal must be signed this year or there won’t
be time to win Congressional approval before Aquino’s term ends
in 2016.  The accord preserves a cease-fire and provides a road map
toward Bangsamoro, a political entity to replace what Aquino has
called the “failed experiment” of the Autonomous Region in
Muslim Mindanao. The president aims to persuade the 11,000-strong rebel force to abandon its pursuit of a separate state in
return for more power, revenue and territory.  Negotiations on power-sharing and disarming the rebels will
be as difficult as the wealth-sharing talks, Benito Lim, a
political science professor at the Ateneo de Manila University,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  ‘Need Guns’  “The reason for the framework agreement is precisely to
stop the violence and conflict in Mindanao,” Lim said. “Aquino
can press for disarmament but the rebels can argue that they
need guns if they are going to be in charge of peace and order
in the autonomous region.”  Negotiations have excluded other Mindanao rebel groups that
broke away from Moro Islamic Liberation, including the Moro
National Liberation Front and the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom
Fighters. Bangsamoro Fighters clashed with government troops
this month, with at least 12 people killed.  The  Philippines  targets $1 billion of investment in
Mindanao following a peace agreement, then-Board of Investments
head Cristino Panlilio said on Oct. 15. A unit of First Pacific
Co. is looking at possible sites for a palm oil plantation on
the island, Chief Executive Officer Manuel V. Pangilinan said in
May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  