-- Porsche Dogs Sniff Out Money Coming Home to Germany
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-07-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/porsche-dogs-sniff-out-money-coming-home-to-germany.html
To German customs officers, the
smell of money is best captured by their four-legged friends.  The airport in Frankfurt, the country’s financial capital,
has a trio of  German shepherd dogs  to help trace large sums of
cash brought into the country. In 2012, seven offenders were
caught on average each day, and 28 apprehensions were made
specifically using dogs. By June of this year, the canine patrol
had nabbed 20 offenders, the customs office said.  Individuals crossing European Union borders must declare
cash exceeding 10,000 euros ($13,068). With countries including
 Switzerland  and Luxembourg pressured to loosen bank-secrecy laws
and the German government buying up lists of tax dodgers, more
money squirreled away abroad is flowing back home. Notices
served on cash offenders have jumped 11-fold since 2000 to 2,489
last year, data provided by the customs office show.  “Your dog at home that can do some tricks is equivalent to
a bicycle, while our dog is a Porsche,” said Marc Behre, a
spokesman for the Bremen customs office, which also has a
shepherd dog trained for cash. “We use only the best.”  The dogs specialize in detecting euro and dollar notes.
Animals are typically purchased at the age of one, undergo
health checks and then receive an 18-month training routine.
Robustness, size, life expectancy and temper determine which
breeds are suitable, said Uwe Wittenberg, who heads the dog
squad at  Frankfurt airport .  Special Training  German retail deposits  have climbed in 22 of the past 24
months, according to data compiled by the  European Central Bank .
Deposits reached 1.8 trillion euros ($2.35 trillion) in May, an
increase of 3 percent in the past year and up by more than 40
percent in the past decade. German three-month government bill
rates are currently minus 0.02 percent, down from a high for the
year of 0.05 percent at the end of January.  Paper to  print currencies  is made from cotton and linen,
rather than wood pulp, and euro notes are all-cotton. The
sniffer dogs probably react to the ink used to print on the
notes, said Behre, though central banks keep the exact
composition of their legal tender a closely guarded secret.  More than 10 specially trained money-detecting dogs are
used in  Germany , with as many as four employed in Frankfurt,
according to Bernd Roessler, a spokesman for the federal finance
office. While dogs have been used to sniff for drugs for more
than 40 years, training them to seek cash carried is more
complex and has only existed since 2010.  European Initiative  “Our dogs are trained to sniff for bundles containing
1,000 individual notes or more, and after learning the character
of a smell, they can recall it for as long as four months,”
said Wittenberg.  Cash and equivalents seized in the first six months topped
amounts collected in every calender year since 2003, data
provided by the customs office show. Criminal investigation
proceedings on  money laundering  initiated by the hunt stood at
78 in Germany last year, the highest in eight years.  European leaders are working on a savings tax pact designed
to share data on income earned abroad among its 28  member
states , tightening rules and closing loopholes for tax evaders.
Separately, anti-tax-evasion discussions with non-EU members
including Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra,  San Marino  and
 Monaco  are under way.  The German states of North Rhine Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate have bought data on bank accounts of possible tax
evaders, adding pressure on Germans with money stashed away
abroad. Once a probe has been opened, an offender can no longer
turn himself in under an amnesty offered.  Puppy Love  German federal states received more than 8,300 requests for
amnesty in 2013, pushing the total to more than 36,000 since
2010, data provided by the states’ finance ministries show.
North Rhine-Westphalia and Baden-Wuerttemberg alone collected
more than 1 billion euros combined through amnesty cases,
spokesmen for the states said.  “The main reason for this trend surely is the fact that
the risk of getting found out has increased,” said Stienke
Kalbfuss, a spokeswoman for Saarland’s finance ministry.  Those who take chances and try to bring their money home
face the risk of a canine confrontation at the border. In
 Frankfurt , sniffer dogs need no more than 15 minutes to check
about 300 pieces of luggage, a typical airplane load, for
smuggled goods. The animals then take a 30-minute break to
recover, and can check out as many as 8 jets during a shift.  Dogs seeking cash usually undertake fewer checks. While
training for the character of a smell takes only 5 weeks,
detecting cash is much harder for the animals than sniffing for
cocaine or explosives, as the smell of money varies more.  As exposed evaders forgo some money intended for
comfortable sunset years, the dogs are rewarded with a cozy
retirement. After a decade of service, they move in with their
handler, with the government covering food and veterinarian
expenses for their twilight years removed from sniffing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  