-- Prudential Sees Deeper Reforms After QFII Boost: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-14T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/prudential-sees-deeper-reforms-after-qfii-boost-china-overnight.html
China’s effort to lure foreigners to
its capital markets by almost doubling the amount overseas funds
can invest sends a strong signal that the government is
committed to reforms, according to  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   “This is one much more decisive move and sends a strong
signal about what this government wants to do,” said  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential, which oversees more than $1 trillion in assets,
including Chinese equities. “Little by little, they are opening
up the market, paving the way for deeper reforms. The direction
the authorities are taking is encouraging.”  The China Securities Regulatory Commission  increased the
investment limit for qualified foreign institutions to $150
billion from $80 billion, according to a statement July 12. It
also will permit investors with  yuan  holdings in Singapore and
 London  to invest in the Chinese market, expanding the so-called
RQFII beyond Hong Kong for the first time. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks rallied 3.7
percent last week, paring its slump this year to 12 percent.  Authorities are opening the market as Premier Li Keqiang’s
efforts to put the economy on a path to more sustainable growth
spark the worst cash crunch on record and spur analysts from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Barclays Plc. to cut 2013 expansion
forecasts. The Shanghai Composite Index fell to the lowest since
2009 last month as mining and banking shares tumbled.  The Bloomberg China-US Index fell 1.4 percent July 12 to
87.52. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. sank the most in a month and
China Life Insurance Co. tumbled after Finance Minister  Lou
Jiwei  said growth as low as 6.5 percent wouldn’t be a “big
problem.”  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  surged to a record
after getting a $1.78 billion takeover offer.  ETF Sinks  The iShares China large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 2.8 percent to $33.21,
paring its gain last week to 3.6 percent, still the biggest
advance since January. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced
0.3 percent to a record.  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal mining company,
tumbled 7.7 percent to $7.18 in New York. China Life, the
nation’s biggest insurer, slid 3.9 percent to $35.67 to trade at
the biggest discount over its Hong Kong shares in a week.  Spreadtrum, a mobile-chip maker, surged 13 percent to
$29.76, the highest since trading began in 2007. Tsinghua
Unigroup Ltd., a Chinese state-owned company backed by Tsinghua
University, will pay $31 per ADR, 8.8 percent more than it
offered last month for the Pudong, China-based company.  The Shanghai index  rose 1.6 percent last week to 2039.49.
The benchmark has retreated 10 percent this year, compared with
an a 9 percent gain in the MSCI All-Country World Index.  Investment Limits  China  last increased the so-called QFII limit for Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investors in April 2012 by boosting it to
$80 billion from $30 billion. The regulators have assigned $6
billion in quotas this year, compared with $15.8 billion for all
of 2012, according to the statement.  Foreign investors have only fulfilled $43 billion of the
$80 billion quotas since China started to allow overseas
investment through the QFII program in 2002, according to
regulators. They account for 1.6 percent of China’s A-share
stock market.  The quota increase will “attract more long-term foreign
investment institutions to China’s market and promote the
development of the capital market,” the statement said. The
regulator also pledged to speed up the QFII and RQFII programs
and improve the tax system to attract more foreign capital.  “It would definitely be a positive for the Chinese
market,” Timothy Ghriskey, the chief investment officer at
Solaris Group LLC in New York, which manages $1.5 billion, said
in a phone interview. “The U.S. market is very open to global
investing, investing from anywhere, so I think our trading
partners should be similarly open.”  2012 Increase  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.7 percent the first
trading day following the announcement of the increase of the
QFII limit in April 2012. It then rose a further 6.5 percent
during the next month, before falling 20 percent to a four year
low in December.  This time, the market impact will be limited as the
economic slowdown exposes financial risks in the system,
according to David Poh, who helps oversee $113 billion as the
regional head of portfolio-management solutions at Societe
Generale’s private bank.  Growth in the world’s second-largest economy probably eased
to 7.5 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, from
7.7 percent in the first three months of this year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 45 analysts before
data due today.  Economists at Barclays and Goldman Sachs are among those
forecasting 7.4 percent growth this year, the slowest since
1990. Finance Minister Lou told reporters on July 11 in
 Washington  that growth as low as 6.5 percent won’t be a “big
problem,” suggesting the government may tolerate even a slower
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  