-- Refined Palm Imports by India Seen at Record High on Lower Taxes
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-07-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/refined-palm-imports-by-india-seen-at-record-high-on-lower-taxes.html
India , the world’s biggest palm oil
buyer, is set to import record amounts of the refined variety,
taking advantage of lower export taxes in Indonesia and  Malaysia 
as the producers seek to encourage domestic refining.  The share of  refined oil  will climb to 60 percent to 70
percent of total palm purchases by Oct. 31, said  Dorab Mistry , a
director at Godrej International Ltd. That may increase to 80
percent by December if India fails to raise the import duty, he
said. Such products were 20 percent of shipments a year earlier,
according to the  Solvent Extractors’ Association of India .  Malaysia and Indonesia, suppliers of about 87 percent of
the world’s palm oil, cut taxes on shipments to clear stockpiles
and boost prices. Futures for the oil used in everything from
noodles to biofuel entered a  bear market  in June 2012 as output
expanded and demand slowed. Stockpiles are poised to jump 21
percent to a record 9.5 million metric tons in 2013-2014, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  “The problem is created by the differential export taxes
levied in  Indonesia  and Malaysia, and the Indian government has
refused to rectify this situation,” Mistry said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “The economics of
refining are so bad.”  Indonesia set the export tax on refined, bleached and
deodorized palm olein at 4 percent for July, compared with a
10.5 percent tariff on crude oil. RBD palm olein exports from
Malaysia attract no taxes, while crude oil shipments are taxed
at 4.5 percent since March. India imposed a duty of 2.5 percent
on crude edible oil imports in January, while keeping the levy
on refined varieties unchanged at 7.5 percent.  Low Capacity  The gap between RBD olein and crude on a cost, insurance
and freight basis delivered to Indian ports is at times as low
as $10 and on odd days prices are the same, said Mistry.  The industry is in a serious crisis and most plants are
operating at very low capacity, said B.V. Mehta, executive
director of the extractors’ association. The government should
increase taxes to maintain a gap of at least 10 percent between
RBD palm olein and crude oil, he said.  “Our refining capacities are low because of the higher
refined imports,” said Dinesh Shahra, managing director of
 Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. (RSI) , the biggest importer of cooking
oils. “This is true for other refiners as well,” he said by
text message. Imports are definitely cheaper and that’s why so
much olein is coming in, said Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive
officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd.  Futures Tumble  D.S. Malik, a spokesman for the  Finance Ministry  declined
to comment if the government would increase taxes and Vikas
Kumar, a spokesman for the Central Board of Customs and Excise
didn’t answer a call to his mobile phone.  Palm oil for delivery in September tumbled 3 percent to
2,301 ringgit ($724) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
on July 12 in  Kuala Lumpur , the steepest decline for the most
active futures since Nov. 5. Futures lost 5.6 percent this year.  Crude  palm oil  imports by India climbed 24 percent to 3.74
million tons in the seven months through May, while  RBD palm
olein  purchases rose 16 percent to 1.25 million tons, according
to the extractors’ association. RBD olein imports jumped to a
record 373,837 tons in June, making up almost 50 percent of
total inbound palm shipments, it said.  Cooking oil demand in India, the largest user after  China ,
may surge to 23 million tons by 2020 from 17.5 million tons now,
and imports will rise significantly to meet this demand,
according to the Food Ministry. The country meets more than half
its demand by imports. It buys palm from Indonesia and Malaysia
and  soybean oil  from the U.S.,  Brazil  and  Argentina .  Shipments may climb to a record 10.7 million tons in the
year ending Oct. 31, including 8.5 million tons of palm, the
highest ever, said Shahra from Ruchi Soya Industries on March 5.
Vegetable oil purchases, including those for industrial use,
rose 10 percent to 6.2 million tons in the seven months to May,
association data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  