-- Reid Defends Obama’s Right to Pick Staff as Clash Looms
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-14T16:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/reid-defends-obama-s-right-to-pick-staff-as-senate-clash-looms.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
defended President Barack Obama’s right to pick his team, trying
to build support ahead of a fight with Republicans over changing
Senate rules to speed up executive nominations.  Reid is seeking to end delays in confirming Obama nominees
including the labor secretary and the head of the Environmental
Protection Agency. While the Nevada Democrat said on July 11 he
has enough votes to change Senate rules and bar the minority
party from obstructing executive-branch nominees, Republicans
said they may halt Senate business in protest.  “Whoever is president should be able to have the people on
their team that they want,” Reid said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press. ‘‘The changes we’re making are very, very minimal, what
we’re doing is saying: look American people, shouldn’t President
Obama have somebody working for him that he wants?”  The delays have prevented Obama from filling vacancies in
his second-term cabinet and other top jobs. A vote on the
nominees could come as early as this coming week.  The nominations of  Thomas Perez  to run the Labor
Department, Gina McCarthy to lead the EPA and  Richard Cordray  to
lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau face Republican
opposition and risk failing in a filibuster. It takes 60 votes
to end the delaying tactic, and Democrats control 54 seats,
including the two independents who caucus with the party.  Nuclear Option  The parties have been sparring for weeks over Reid’s threat
to seek a permanent change in rules that would ban filibusters
of executive-branch nominees. Republicans say that breaks a
pledge by Reid not to take such a step, and they say it would
constitute a “nuclear option” that could cause them to use
filibusters in other ways to halt work in the Senate.  Mitch McConnell , the Senate’s Republican leader, responded
to Reid on the same NBC program by saying that changing Senate
rules would be a “big mistake.”  “It’s breaking the rules of the Senate in order to change
the rules of the Senate,” McConnell said today. He said he
hopes the Senate will “pull back from the brink” at a meeting
of all 100 senators tomorrow night to resolve the issue.  Both Reid and McConnell urged  House of Representatives  to
work on immigration legislation after Senate approved a bill on
June 27.  Border Security  “Even though the Senate bill in my view is deficient on
the issue of border security, I hope we can get an outcome for
the country that improves the current situation,” McConnell
said. “I hope the House will be able to move forward on
something.”  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , who serves at the
chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program that there’s too much funding for border security in the
Senate legislation and that it was included because it was
important to Republicans.  “When it comes to border security, for some it’s never
enough,” Durbin said.  President  Barack Obama  has said he wants to sign
immigration legislation by the end of this year. The issue is
his highest domestic priority thus far in his second term, after
he won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote in November. Republicans,
in turn, want to boost their party’s appeal with Hispanics after
2012 presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  promoted self-deportation
as the answer to illegal immigration.  Midterm Elections  The House Republicans’ decision to act in a piecemeal
fashion, instead of on one comprehensive immigration bill,
points to a process that may spill into the 2014 midterm
election season and jeopardize final negotiations. Democrats say
that if Congress doesn’t agree on legislation by the end of the
year, an immigration-law revision may fall by the wayside.  The Senate bill, S. 744, combines a path to citizenship for
11 million undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. with a
$46 billion border-security plan. While 14 Senate Republicans
joined Democrats in passing the bill, many  House Republicans 
oppose the citizenship path.  The Senate’s immigration plan includes a provision similar
to the Dream Act, which provides a faster path to citizenship
for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as
children and who attended college or served in the military.  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said he
supports legalizing undocumented immigrants “as long as other
things are done first.”  “What you can’t have is legalization on the promise of
future enforcement,” he said on ABC’s “This Week” today.
While Republicans opted for a step-by-step approach, they are
also discussing “a larger, more comprehensive bill,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  