-- Retail Sales Probably Climbed in June: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-07-14T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/retail-sales-probably-climbed-in-june-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales  probably rose at a
faster pace in June and the U.S. housing market strengthened as
the economy began to emerge from a slowdown tied to higher taxes
and budget cutbacks, economists said before reports this week.  Purchases at retailers rose 0.8 percent, the most in four
months, after a 0.6 percent advance in May, according to the
 median  forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
tomorrow’s Commerce Department release. Other data may show
builders broke ground on more homes, housing permits climbed and
inflation was limited.  Americans bought cars and trucks last month at the  fastest
pace  since 2007, a sign consumers have the wherewithal to keep
spending as household wealth and the labor market improve. Other
data this week are projected to show industrial production
rebounded in June and an index of leading indicators picked up,
setting the stage for stronger second-half growth.  “The transition from a soft patch to a more sustained
rebound is slowly beginning to take shape,” said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA
LLC in New York. “The underlying tone of retail sales is
encouraging. The positive momentum in housing will continue.
Manufacturing has stabilized.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke this week in two
days of testimony to Congress may shed more light on the central
bank’s view of the economy and how policy makers may begin
scaling back $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Motor Vehicles  Retail sales last month got a boost from demand for
automobiles. Cars and light trucks sold in June at a 15.89
million annual rate, the fastest since November 2007, according
to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. The need to replace aging
vehicles, along with attractive financing offers and steady
hiring will keep fueling industry sales.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , makers of the best-selling big pickups in the U.S., reported June sales that beat
analysts’ estimates. Low borrowing costs and rising consumer
wealth should continue to support spending, according to Jenny
Lin, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s senior U.S. economist.  Household wealth has been boosted by a rally in the stock
market and higher property values. Home prices in the 12 months
ended in April rose by the most in more than seven years,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last week reached a record high.  “Economic indicators continue to improve,” Lin said on a
July 2 sales call. The “consumer spending growth pace is slowly
picking up.”  Costco Sales  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, reported a 6 percent gain in June sales at U.S. stores
open at least a year, more than analysts’ projections.  Costlier gasoline in early June probably lifted receipts at
filling stations, TD Securities’ Mulraine said. The Commerce
Department’s retail sales data aren’t adjusted for changes in
prices.  A gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump, which reached
$3.63 on June 9, eased in the next few weeks to a five-month low
of $3.47 on July 7, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring
group. Retail gasoline has again reversed course, having risen
four days in a row as crude oil costs surged and refinery units
shut down for repairs.  More expensive fuel bills leave less for households to
spend on other goods. Excluding automobiles and gasoline, retail
purchases probably rose 0.5 percent, up from the prior month’s
0.3 percent gain, economists projected ahead of tomorrow’s
figures.  Consumer Prices  A Labor Department report the next day may show the
consumer price index, excluding volatile food and energy costs,
climbed 1.6 percent in the 12 months to June, the smallest gain
in two years, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
overall cost of living climbed 1.7 percent from a year earlier
and 0.3 percent from the prior month, economists forecast.  Bernanke said last week that he expects inflation to “come
back up” closer to the Fed’s 2 percent target, which is based
on a measure of prices linked to consumer spending. He also said
the U.S. needs “highly accommodative” monetary policy for the
foreseeable future.  One part of the economy that has benefited from the Fed’s
efforts to keep borrowing costs low is housing.  Starts (NHSPSTOT)  climbed
in June to a 960,000 annualized rate after a 914,000 pace in
May, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The Commerce
Department report, due on July 17, may also show  permits  for
future work on new projects rose to a 1 million annualized pace.  Factories also are starting to stabilize. Industrial
production advanced 0.3 percent in June after stagnating in May,
the Bloomberg survey showed ahead of Fed data to be released on
July 16. Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
production, probably rose for the second month, economists said.
Regional Fed figures also may reinforce projections that factory
activity is growing in the Philadelphia and New York areas.  Rounding off the week, the Conference Board may report on
July 18 that an index of leading economic indicators climbed in
June for the third straight month, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  