-- Road to White House May Start With Virginia Contest
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-07-14T15:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/road-to-white-house-may-start-with-virginia-contest.html
In 1991, Zell Miller, then governor
of  Georgia  and a Democrat, advised his colleague Bill Clinton of
Arkansas that there were two guys he needed to run his likely
presidential campaign:  James Carville  and  Paul Begala .  “Who are they?” asked Clinton, a man well-versed in
Democratic politics. Even though they had had successes,
including Miller’s election, Carville and Begala didn’t become a
big deal until they ran Harris Wofford’s campaign in a special
Pennsylvania senate election in 1991. It was the signature
contest of that off-year election cycle. A month later, Clinton
hired the two young politicos for his successful presidential
run.  This year, the signature race is the  Virginia  gubernatorial
contest. The campaign manager of the Democratic candidate,  Terry McAuliffe , is Robby Mook, a 33-year-old political wunderkind.
For those who believe history repeats itself, there is chatter
that another Clinton -- Hillary -- might turn to him, as the
architect of the year’s most visible Democratic campaign, to
direct her next presidential quest. Mook worked for her in 2008
but is the sort of fresh, new age, tech-savvy strategist that
she lacked at the top of her campaign.  First he has to win in Virginia, a race that pits
McAuliffe, a prolific Democratic fundraiser, successful former
national party chairman and intimate of the Clintons, against
the state’s attorney general,  Ken Cuccinelli , one of the most
prominent Republican social conservatives and a Tea Party
favorite.  Conservative Base  The competing strategies in this close contest are clear.
They are trading ethical charges, which is probably a wash with
voters. Cuccinelli is counting on his passionate base among
social conservatives. The Virginia electorate that will turn out
in November will be older, more white and evangelical than the
voters who helped President  Barack Obama  carry the once reliable
Republican stronghold by four points last year. If the voter
profile had replicated that of the last governor’s race, in
2009, Obama would have lost.  “There are a lot more committed voters who will turn out
for Ken than there are committed voters who’ll turn out for
Terry,” asserts Chris LaCivita, a leading Cuccinelli adviser.  The Republicans are trying to tie Obama’s record around the
Democratic candidate’s neck, especially the  Affordable Care Act .  “Obamacare is the biggest impediment to job growth in the
state,” Cuccinelli said in an impromptu interview last week. He
was the first to bring a lawsuit against the health-care
measure, though without success.  The attorney general, comfortable his base will turn out,
is focusing on jobs and the economy and de-emphasizing his
controversial social positions. He has declared that abortion is
as bad as slavery and that same-sex relationships violate the
laws of nature and could be prosecuted. He’s really moving away
from E.W. Jackson, the minister chosen by the conservative-dominated Republican state convention to be the party’s
lieutenant governor nominee. Jackson has accused Obama of being
a Muslim and an atheist -- a tough trick -- suggested yoga could
lead to Satanism and that  Planned Parenthood  has been more
harmful to blacks than the Ku Klux Klan.  The Democrats are quick to remind voters of Cuccinelli’s
social views. At the same time, McAuliffe is warming to the
debate over jobs and the economy. He is more comfortable than
his opponent in talking to business types; he’s been shaking
them down for campaign funds for decades. He has won the
endorsements of leading Republican business figures and
prominent former office-holders.  ‘Centrist Electorate’  In Virginia, “there is a centrist electorate, including
the business community, which does turn out,” Mook says. He
links McAuliffe to two popular former Democratic governors and
current U.S. senators,  Mark Warner  and  Tim Kaine , as well as to
the current Republican governor,  Bob McDonnell .  “We are capturing the more moderate brand of Warner, Kaine
and McDonnell,” Mook says.  (The Democratic candidate supported, and the attorney
general opposed, McDonnell’s key domestic initiative last year,
a huge transportation measure with tax hikes. The governor’s
popularity, however, is dropping amid serious ethical
allegations.)  McAuliffe, strongly associated with the Clintons, isn’t
running away from Obama.  Michelle Obama  campaigned for him last
month.  And Mook is making extensive use of the vaunted Obama
campaign machine: drawing on personnel, data, software and
social media.  “Robby understands modern campaigns, the value of data and
technology,” says  David Plouffe , who directed the Obama
campaign and is now a Bloomberg Television contributor.  Although they met in person for the first time only last
year, Plouffe has vivid recollections of Mook. “He beat us
three times; his footprint was on our back,” he says.  When he was only 28, Mook ran  Hillary Clinton ’s 2008
campaigns in Nevada, Ohio and  Indiana , all of which, Plouffe
painfully remembers, were victories. “Our sense was he did the
best job of anyone over there,” Plouffe says. “This is a guy
with limitless potential.”  After the failed Clinton quest, he ran Jeanne Shaheen’s
successful campaign to unseat John Sununu, the incumbent
Republican Senator in  New Hampshire .  “He’s a very smart guy and I don’t think he has any
enemies, which is hard in this state,” says Mike Vlacich, a
longtime Shaheen adviser.  Last year, Mook directed the House Democrats’ campaign,
gaining eight seats but not control of the chamber.  The young operative is a workaholic who hires top talent,
empowers them, understands cutting-edge changes in politics and
revels in his craft.  “I love being thrown into a situation, putting together a
team, getting a strategy and achieving something,” Mook says.  He also works unusually well with candidates. The garrulous
and free-wheeling McAuliffe has been more disciplined this time,
staying on message. Invariably, he brings any discussion back to
jobs.  If it seems incongruous that a young guy named Robby Mook
from  Vermont  might be the hottest U.S. political strategist,
remember that a little over two decades ago even  Bill Clinton 
wasn’t familiar with a “Ragin’ Cajun” named Carville.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 