-- Rudd Seeks to Ditch Carbon Tax With Eye on Election Campaign
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-14T22:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/rudd-to-scrap-gillard-carbon-tax-australia-treasurer-bowen-says.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  plans to
accelerate Australia’s move to  emissions trading , scrapping
predecessor  Julia Gillard ’s clean-energy policy that’s left the
nation with the world’s highest carbon price.  Rudd seeks to bring forward by a year to 2014 the move to a
floating price on carbon, Treasurer  Chris Bowen  said yesterday
in an interview with Channel Ten’s “Meet The Press.”
Australia’s fixed carbon price is four times higher than
 Europe ’s. The move came as the ruling  Labor party  drew even with
the coalition in an opinion poll after Rudd ousted Gillard as
leader last month.  “The government is moving in this direction because a
floating price takes cost-of-living pressures off Australian
families and still protects the environment and acts on climate
change,” Rudd told reporters yesterday in Cairns, Queensland.
“We have still got a fair bit of budget work to do, as this has
to be a budget neutral undertaking.”  In overturning a key policy of Gillard and stressing a
potential benefit for voters in lower energy costs, Rudd is
aiming to bolster support for his Labor government ahead of an
election that must be held by the end of November. He’s also
seeking to counter attacks from opposition Liberal-National
leader  Tony Abbott , who has pledged to ditch the carbon price
system if he wins office, calling it a toxic tax.  Australia’s carbon pricing began at A$23 ($20.81) a ton in
July 2012, rose this month to $24.15 and is scheduled to
increase to A$25.40 in July 2014. European prices fell 1.2
percent to 4.04 euros ($5.28) on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
July 12 in  London .  Aid Businesses  Rudd’s planned change would aid businesses grappling with
“high energy prices and lost competitiveness,” Innes Willox,
chief executive officer of the Australian Industry Group, a
business lobby representing about 60,000 companies, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The group had previously
called for the fixed price to be replaced with emissions trading
immediately after Australia’s election.  “Energy prices would be lowered both for businesses and
for households,” Willox said. “This would help stimulate the
economy at a time when it is struggling to transition from the
slowdown in mining investment.”  ‘Moral Challenge’  Backing for Rudd during his first spell as Australia’s
leader waned after he postponed the introduction of a carbon-trading plan to limit  climate change , a phenomenon he’d
described as the “greatest moral and economic challenge of our
time.”  Gillard, who ousted Rudd in a party coup three years ago,
won approval in 2011 for a  Clean Energy Act , striking a
compromise under which she agreed to set a fixed rate for three
years before starting market-based pricing in July 2015.  The tax on emissions for about 300 of Australia’s largest
polluters was planned by Gillard as the main method of reducing
the country’s reliance on coal and meeting its target for a 5
percent cut in greenhouse gas emissions from 2000 levels by
2020.  “The decision to scrap the fixed carbon price is
cowardly,” Greens leader  Christine Milne  said in an e-mailed
statement. “If you believed that climate change was the
greatest moral challenge of our time, and it is, you would not
now be moving to have the big polluters pay less.” Australia is
ranked as the world’s biggest emitter per capita among
industrialized nations.  The planned change would need new legislation, though
Rudd’s office said it couldn’t provide more detail on how the
proposal would be implemented ahead of an announcement scheduled
in the coming days.  ‘Still a Tax’  “Rudd can change the name but whether it is fixed or
floating, it is still a carbon tax,” Abbott said in an e-mailed
statement.  Announcing the move is a part of “developing the new Kevin
persona, distinguishing it from the old Kevin who was undermined
by the carbon tax in the first place,” said Stephen Stockwell,
a political analyst and Griffith University professor of
journalism and communications in  Brisbane .  “He’s had three years to think about how he could have
done things better,” Stockwell said. “What we are seeing now
is a lot of that come out.”  The decision will have an impact of “several billion
dollars” on Australia’s  federal budget , meaning the change will
be accompanied by spending cuts to ensure revenue rates are
maintained, Bowen said. Rudd’s government will continue to seek
a  budget surplus  after the 2015-2016 financial year, he said in
the television interview.  EU Link  Australia is slated to link its carbon market in 2015 with
the European Union, the world’s largest emissions-trading
program, and will probably also attempt to bring forward that
plan, said Kobad Bhavnagri, a Sydney-based analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  If Australia can’t link the carbon price to the EU in 2014,
its floating price would be driven by domestic demand and supply
including the number of excess permits, Martijn Wilder, head of
global environmental markets with Baker & McKenzie International
in Sydney, said by phone.  “It will be quite interesting to see where the price
goes,” Wilder said. “I don’t think anyone really knows that at
the moment.”  Australia ’s government in May halved its projection for
carbon prices starting July 2015 to A$12.10 a metric ton as the
EU struggles with low prices. The revision was calculated at the
time to cut the value of permits by about A$6 billion through
June 2016, or a net cost to government of A$2.1 billion.  Vote Winner  While the proposal will require decisions on spending cuts
to make up for lost revenue, Rudd calculated that ditching the
carbon tax is a probable vote winner, Bhavnagri said.  Since he returned to office, Rudd’s Labor has risen to its
highest level on a two-party preferred basis in almost nine
months, according to a Newspoll survey published July 9 in The
Australian that showed it was tied on 50 percent with the
Liberal-National coalition.  That result was mirrored in a Fairfax-Nielsen poll
published in the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper today, which
also showed an even split in the two-party preferred measure,
designed to gauge which party is most likely to form government
under Australia’s preferential voting system.  Labor’s primary vote surged 10 percentage points to 39
percent in the poll taken July 11-13, while the coalition fell
three points to 44 percent from the previous survey conducted a
month earlier. Rudd leads Abbott as preferred prime minister, 55
percent to 41 percent. The survey of 1,400 people had a margin
of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  “This is essentially a political move,” Bhavnagri said.
“It’s designed to neutralize public angst about the carbon tax,
to try to remove the word tax from public debate and to appease
the business community who are concerned they are paying much
more than in the EU.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  