-- Samsung Surge Spurs Data War as Tariffs Slashed: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-07-15T11:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/samsung-surge-spurs-data-war-as-tariffs-slashed-corporate-india.html
The price war among Indian phone
operators has shifted from voice to data.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)  and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  have slashed fees for sending data by as much as 90 percent
as mobile social networking and gaming surge. They are betting
on cheaper rates to help add users in a market where smartphone
sales, led by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s handsets, almost tripled
in the quarter through March.  “Data is the future and we have to lay out the best
options for consumers so they become broadband users for life,”
Sashi Shankar, chief marketing officer at Idea, said in an
interview. “We have users who don’t have data plans but own
phones that are capable of such services. They are in tier II
and tier III cities and that’s where we are investing.”  The carriers are attempting to replicate a strategy that
got them almost a billion subscribers for voice traffic while
hurting profitability as call rates fell to as low as 0.5 rupees
(less than a cent) a minute. For an industry grappling with more
than $25 billion of debt, declining profit and mounting
expenditure, affordable data services may help boost net income
by 10 percent by 2015, said Nitin Soni an analyst at  Fitch
Ratings  in Singapore.  Stimulate Demand  Revenue from data usage for Indian mobile phone companies
as a share of total sales is about 3 percent, among the least in
the Asia-Pacific region. That may climb more than sixfold to 20
percent by 2017, according to Soni.  “They know they’ve spent huge amounts of money, and now
they have to stimulate demand which isn’t there yet in  India ,”
Soni said. “There will be huge growth. We’ve seen this in other
 emerging markets .”  After struggling to utilize their third-generation, or 3G,
capacity, for which nine bidders paid a combined $11.4 billion
since 2010, operators are dropping data costs on their 2G
network six months after ending a price war in voice, he said.
The number of mobile subscribers peaked at 929 million last year
after call rates dropped from as high as 16 rupees a minute in
1997.  The local unit of Vodafone on June 18 said it cut mobile
data rates in four 2G circles by 80 percent, while Idea
Cellular, controlled by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla,
announced two days later a 90 percent reduction in eight zones
for three months starting July 1. Bharti, the nation’s biggest
carrier, reduced rates by 80 percent in secondary markets.  Not Bad  “These could work as a good hook to attract new users to
data services, which are still relatively low in India,” said
 Sachin Gupta , an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Singapore.
“If this turns into price wars, the offset could be much higher
volumes, which probably isn’t a bad thing.”  Operators have ended their price wars over call rates
during the last six months by scaling back discounts on pre-paid
services, effectively giving them less call time. Carriers have
increased rates by as much as 30 percent to boost margins from
their 867 million subscribers.  Data usage accounted for 5 percent of total revenue at
Bharti, controlled by billionaire Sunil Bharti Mittal, compared
with 32 percent at  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the largest operator in
the world’s most populous country. Data revenue in India grew 25
percent in the quarter ended March 31 from a year earlier,
according to Soni.  ‘New China’  Rising sales of smartphones may help the South Asian
country catch up with other emerging markets, including  China ,
 Brazil  and  Indonesia , where growth has touched as much as 60
percent, according to Fitch’s Soni.  India is the world’s fourth-largest smartphone market after
the U.S., China and  Japan  in the quarter ended March, with 6.6
million handsets, according to data provided by CyberMedia
Research. Of those, Samsung accounted for 42 percent. Shipments
grew four-times faster than the global average, at a rate of 164
percent from a year ago, according to researcher IDC.  “India is the new China,” said  Neil Mawston ,  executive
director  at  Strategy Analytics . “India is a low-penetration,
high-growth market that no smartphone vendor, component maker or
application developer can afford to ignore.”  Chance for Margins  While smartphone sales are encouraging, not all these
handsets guarantee data usage as the tariffs, even after the
reductions, may not be cheap enough in a country where the  World
Bank  estimates about 800 million people live on less than $2 a
day, said Urmil Shah, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt.  The carriers may also be reluctant to offer data at par
with voice as that would erode margins at a time when operators
need to raise finances to renew their licenses next year,
according to him.  “Price wars in data can’t be as aggressive as we saw in
voice, because this is the only area where operators have a
chance of margin expansion,” Shah said in an interview.  Bharti’s group earnings as a percentage of sales before
interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization  narrowed  to 31
percent in the financial year ended March 31, from as high as 42
percent five years ago. The similar gauge of profitability at
Idea shrank to 27 percent from 34 percent.  Net profit at Bharti slid to 22.8 billion rupees ($379
million) from a record 89.8 billion rupees in the year ended
March 31, 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
of the New Delhi-based company gained 2.9 percent to 314.45
rupees in Mumbai, paring this year’s loss to 0.8 percent.  ‘Pocket Friendly’  While data services haven’t fully taken off in the country,
some operators aren’t waiting. Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s
Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. is spending 180 billion rupees to
roll out 4G services starting March 2014.  For now, most operators are using their 2G networks to
deliver data services. Vodafone in India is offering “pocket
friendly” plans and “educating” potential users about the
benefits of  Internet access , Vivek Mathur, the local unit’s
chief commercial officer, said in an interview.  India had 138 million online users in 2012 and that number
will more than double by 2017 to about 350 million, according to
a  forecast  from Cisco Systems Inc.  “We expect the growth momentum to only accelerate,
providing immense opportunity,” he said. “Overall Internet
penetration in India is low while mobile penetration is several
times higher. Most consumers will discover the power of the
Internet via their handsets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  