-- Serendipity and Samples Can Save Barnes & Noble
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-07-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/serendipity-and-samples-can-save-barnes-noble.html
Turmoil at  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ,
where Chief Executive Officer William Lynch resigned last week
after  the company  posted an unexpectedly large loss in the
quarter ended April 30, has people in the publishing industry
worried. “We’re all forced to ask: What would the book
discovery environment look like without Barnes & Noble?”  writes
Rich Fahle , a former Borders executive who runs a marketing
agency for authors.  The question zeroes in on a growing problem for the U.S.
book industry. Although readers increasingly purchase books
online, they still rely on physical bookstores to discover what
to buy. In-store displays are the most common way, after
personal recommendations, that frequent buyers find new books,
accounting for about 20 percent of purchases, according to  a
survey  by the  Codex Group . Yet brick-and-mortar stores are
disappearing, as customers defect to the convenience and, in
many cases, lower prices of Amazon.com Inc.  Online discovery -- including everything from Twitter
recommendations to authors’  Pinterest boards  to Amazon pages --
is growing, but it hasn’t kept up with online sales. People
still seem more likely to buy books if they’ve had a chance to
flip through physical copies.     “Something is seriously
missing with online retail discovery.  It’s not working ,” Peter
Hildick-Smith, the founder and CEO of Codex told the Digital
Book World Conference and Expo in January.  Looking Inside  Books are what economists call “experience goods.” Unlike
blue polo shirts or AAA batteries, they have characteristics
that are hard to observe in advance. You have to consume them
before you know whether you like them. That’s why people rely so
much on trusted friends to recommend books, and it’s also why
browsing is so important.  One big reason readers find it more satisfying to
“ showroom ” in physical bookstores is that many publishers
deliberately make it hard, if not impossible, to examine books
online. In a physical bookstore, the proprietor decides whether
letting people read the books on display is likely to turn into
sales. Most rule in favor of extensive browsing, allowing
potential customers to stand, or in some cases sit, around for
long periods reading their books.  On Amazon or Google Books, by contrast, the publishers
rule, and too many seem determined to keep your dirty eyeballs
off their merchandise. Although some works are relatively easy
to look through, often you can’t even read the entire index or
table of contents, much less actual prose, because publishers or
authors are more concerned with would-be pirates than potential
sales.  The other problem online is that even when you can see the
whole book, you have to know to look for it in the first place.
You’re less likely to stumble on something interesting.  Until he saw it recently in a used bookstore, my husband
had no idea he wanted an 800-plus-page book about  gravitational-wave detection . But he’s been devouring it. Not surprisingly,
consumers are more than twice as likely to  buy books  on impulse
in a bookstore than online, according to Bowker Market Research.
The serendipity of a “new books” table or a bookstore science
section is hard to replicate online. It requires a special mix
of smart curation and easy browsing that, despite the best
efforts of websites including Amazon, is still easier to achieve
in-person.  For publishers and authors, losing bookstores is a problem
because it makes it less likely that buyers will discover their
wares. For many readers, the loss is also cultural and
psychological. It’s enjoyable to be surrounded by lots of books
and by other readers. Bookstores are special places in which to
spend time. That’s why they attract so many deadbeats who sit
around tapping on laptops, browsing new titles and buying
nothing more than the occasional latte or Diet Coke. (I used to
be one of those deadbeats until my neighborhood bookstores
closed.)  Retail Oasis  “You go to Barnes & Noble to forget about your everyday
issues, to stay a while and relax,” Mitchell Klipper, the chief
executive of B&N’s retail group, told the Wall Street Journal in
January. “When you go to Bed Bath & Beyond, you don’t sit down
on the floor and curl up with your blender and your kid.” (Not
even the  Container Store  attracts that sort of behavior.)  It’s a lovely picture, but bookstores don’t make money by
giving you a place to read to your kid. They make money by
getting you to buy their merchandise -- a business model that
requires spending a lot on rent and inventory. A retail store is
an expensive place to store books, especially if people are just
going to flip through them and buy elsewhere.  So here’s an idea, for the publishing industry, Barnes &
Noble or a tech-savvy retail entrepreneur: Instead of fighting
showrooming, embrace it.  Separate the discovery and atmospheric value of bookstores
from the book-warehousing function. Make them smaller, with the
inventory limited to curated examination copies -- one copy per
title. (Publishers should be willing to supply such copies free,
just as they do for potential reviewers.) Charge for daily,
monthly or annual memberships that entitle customers to hang
out, browse the shelves, buy snacks and use the Wi-Fi. Give
members an easy way to order books online, whether from a retail
site or the publishers directly, without  feeling guilty . And
give the place a good name. How about Serendipity Books?  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of
Style” and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her
on Twitter at  @vpostrel .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at  djshipley@bloomberg.net . 