-- Should Fed’s Policies Rule the World?
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   F r i e d m a n   a n d   K i r a n   G a n e s h
-- 2013-07-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/should-fed-s-policies-rule-the-world-.html
Up to 60 percent of global
transactions are conducted in U.S. dollars, more than one-third
of world economic output is produced in dollar bloc economies,
and an even greater share of global assets are priced in the
currency, or linked currencies. This role as the de facto global
currency for more than six decades has made the  Federal
Reserve ’s monetary policy one of the U.S.’s greatest exports.  As we have observed recently in southern  Europe , or in  Asia 
during the 1997 financial crisis, importing monetary policy can
be dangerous. It is surprising then that the Fed’s dominance
hasn’t caused even deeper problems over the decades.  The relative lack of trouble may be because, for the bulk
of the past 60 years, the U.S. has been the world’s largest
economy, and other mature economies have accounted for the much
of the rest of global output. This has meant that monetary
policy settings in the U.S. have usually been in tune with the
global cycle. An acceleration of U.S. growth was likely to be
mirrored in similar economies, or the better conditions in the
U.S. were pulling along the rest of the world through enhanced
trade links.  But this is changing.  The U.S.’ diminishing contribution to global growth means
that economic cycles around the world are becoming both less
synchronized and more divergent. As a result, Fed policies are
proving increasingly inappropriate for most of the rest of the
world.  Overheating Economies  Consider the past three years. In 2010, emerging markets
such as  Brazil  and  China  were battling rising inflation and
overheating economies even as the Fed was engaging in
quantitative easing, forcing even more capital toward those
markets. Now, with the U.S. in the midst of a sustainable
economic recovery driven by domestic causes such as cheap energy
and rising  house prices , the Fed appears to be signaling that it
may tighten policy. Yet the euro area remains in, or close to,
recession, and growth in emerging markets is slowing
drastically.  This points to a fundamental problem in the monetary
system: the Fed’s monetary-policy settings are becoming
incongruous with the economic environment of much of the rest of
the world.  To be sure, the U.S. is entitled to adjust its monetary
policies in response to changes in domestic demand. Indeed, it
would be politically unacceptable for the U.S. taxpayer-funded
Fed to base its decisions on considerations such as unemployment
in  Spain  or house prices in  Hong Kong . Theoretically, countries
that experience swings in exchange rates or capital flow as a
result of Fed decisions should accept these as a normal part of
a global rebalancing, whatever the cost, or benefit, to their
international competitiveness. That is what  Jeffrey Frankel  and
others have  argued .  But this isn’t realistic, because sovereign nations will
instinctively seek to protect their own national interests above
the common good.  For years, China has sought to boost its international
competitiveness through  capital controls  and/or foreign exchange
intervention. And the quantitative easing era has encouraged
many other countries, from  Switzerland  to Brazil, to do the
same.  However, the real effect of such intervention has been to
create an overreliance on credit along with significant internal
imbalances.  As a recent  International Monetary Fund   working paper 
illustrates, countries that attempt to control exchange rates
are more likely to experience credit booms, because of the added
incentive for companies to take on foreign currency debt and the
reality that foreign exchange reserve sterilization is usually
only partial. This dynamic is evident in the more than 20
percent annual credit growth in Brazil, or the overstatement of
Chinese export data attributable to domestic companies’ attempts
to access cheap U.S. dollar funding in Hong Kong.  Fed Tightening  With investors now convinced that the Fed is on the
tightening path, a withdrawal of capital from  emerging markets 
threatens to expose these imbalances. Last week, in an attempt
to attract back capital, Brazil increased  interest rates  by 50
basis points, to 8.5 percent. It is expected to increase rates
by an additional 75 basis points by year-end. These are
necessary, but hardly helpful, steps in an economy where growth
has been driven by credit-backed consumption and where expansion
already slowed to 0.9 percent in 2012.  Meanwhile, the  recent surge  in Chinese interbank rates is
being attributed to an unwinding of a U.S. dollar carry trade.  Unfortunately, there is little that can be done at this
stage to make the process of rebalancing away from credit-dependent expansion easy. In the near-term, it will mean higher
nonperforming loans, liquidity shortages and slower growth.  Ultimately, emerging markets in particular need to resist
the temptation to link their currencies to the dollar by
intervening in foreign-exchange markets for extended periods of
time; such measures may support short-term competitiveness, but
do more harm than good in the long run. Unfortunately, the
temptation for short-term gains is likely to prove too great,
and without more meaningful international pressure, such boom-and-bust credit cycles will become more frequent.  Therefore, in the future, rather than offering tacit
support to capital controls and  currency intervention ,
international institutions should take a tough line on countries
building significant foreign exchange reserves, all the more so
if interventions are associated with a sharp increase in credit.  The coming years will probably show that such interventions
are neither in the common nor the national good.  ( Alexander Friedman  is global chief investment officer at
UBS AG and Kiran Ganesh is a cross-asset strategist for UBS
Wealth Management, overseeing $1.6 trillion.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Alexander Friedman at  alexander.friedman@ubs.com ;
Kiran Ganesh at  kiran.ganesh@ubs.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 