-- China City Cancels $6 Billion Uranium Plant After Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-14T07:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/south-china-city-cancels-6-billion-uranium-plant-after-protests.html
Plans to build a uranium-processing
facility in  China ’s southern Guangdong province were scrapped by
the local government after more than a thousand people protested
against the 37 billion  yuan  ($6 billion) project last week.  The proposed Longwan Industrial Park project won’t be
approved “in order to fully respect the opinion of the
masses,” the Heshan government said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. A “social-stability risk assessment” of the
proposal that was released for public awareness generated “much
opposition,” it said.  Heshan is the latest local authority to back down in the
face of pressure from a public increasingly empowered by its
ability to sway officials who fear the prospect of social
unrest. Governments in cities across the country have scrapped
plans for industrial projects over the past year after
confrontations with residents concerned about safety and
pollution.  “Chinese civil society is getting stronger,” said Willy
Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong . “People now realize if their numbers
are big enough, if they are united and stand their ground, the
government will back down,” he said.  Demonstrators rallied outside government offices in
Jiangmen city, which administers Heshan, to protest against the
uranium-processing facility, Hong Kong-based Cable TV reported
on July 12. China National Nuclear Corp. and China General
Nuclear Power Group had planned to build the 229-hectare (566
acre) plant to enrich uranium and fabricate fuel, according to
an earlier statement on the Jiangmen government website.  Police Clash  Telephone calls to the media offices of state-owned China
National Nuclear and China General Nuclear weren’t answered
today outside normal business hours. Questions faxed to the
companies on July 12 seeking comment weren’t answered and three
calls to the Jiangmen government that day went unanswered.  Local authorities in the eastern city of Ningbo said in
October they halted plans by  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
also known as Sinopec, to produce the toxic chemical paraxylene
at its plant in Zhenhai district after demonstrations against
the project clashed with police.  In July last year, authorities in eastern Nantong city
scrapped plans for a pipeline to discharge waste from a paper
mill into the sea after a protest by thousands of residents in
nearby Qidong, a coastal city under its administration, turned
violent. The same month, thousands of people in the southwestern
city of Shifang protested over the construction of a molybdenum
copper plant, according to reports by state media.  “The leadership of China decided a while ago that they
would distinguish two kinds of protests,” Lam said. They will
crush those perceived as anti-government or anti-Communist
Party, while telling local governments to compromise on demands
that are environmental or economic in nature, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  