-- Stella International Takes on LVMH to Expand in Paris
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-15T08:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/stella-international-takes-on-lvmh-to-expand-in-paris.html
Stella International Holdings Ltd. (1836) ,
the Asian shoemaker that manufactures for companies such as
 Prada SpA (1913) , plans to expand its own brands in Paris, turning into
a lower priced competitor to luxury clients there.  The contract manufacturer plans to add two shops in Paris
by end of this year and expand into other locations in Europe,
Stephen Chi, chief executive officer of the company’s women’s
footwear and retail business division, said in a July 10 phone
interview. The company, which was founded in  Taiwan  and trades
on the Hong Kong stock exchange, already has one Paris store.  In the world’s fashion capital, Stella faces larger and
better known labels including Prada and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA. (MC)  Both companies’ brands are clients of Stella’s
contract manufacturing business,  according  to its website.
Western brands have rushed into the Chinese market to grab a
slice of the country’s luxury market to tap rising incomes.
Stella, which had about 400 stores in China as of March, would
be bucking that trend to expand in the opposite direction.  “We want to be an international brand,” Chi said. “We
want to build a global platform and bring affordable luxury for
women around the world.”  Its first European store in Paris specializes in women’s
shoes priced between 250 euros to 600 euros ($327-$785), about a
third the cost of a pair of  Prada  pumps.  Miu Miu  Established in Taiwan in 1982, Stella has been making shoes
for luxury brands such as LVMH’s Givenchy. The footwear maker
doesn’t aim to compete with luxury clients like Givenchy, Chi
said.  After years of manufacturing for luxury brands, it wants to
leverage the experience to design and produce shoes under its
own brands, he said.  “We are not Prada, Givenchy or Miu Miu,” he said. “We
just want to be the best brand possible in terms of quality and
price.”  Stella shares dropped 0.7 percent to close at HK$19.12 in
Hong Kong trading today after rising as much as 1.8 percent
earlier in the day.  Prada didn’t comment on its relationship with Stella and an
official for LVMH didn’t immediately return calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Stella also manufactures for casual footwear companies such
as Clarks, ECCO, Rockport and Timberland. Manufacturing
accounted for the bulk of its business, or about 92 percent of
its  $1.55 billion total revenue  in 2012.  The company expects its retail business will account for 20
percent of total revenue in five years as it opens more shops
and expands into other categories such as handbags and
accessories. It also expects the retail business to keep growing
in “double digits” for this year, Chi said.  The shoemaker in 2006 started selling its self-developed
“Stella Luna” and “What For” brands in mainland  China , and
recently introduced “JKJY” brand. Retail revenue gained 21
percent to $119.4 million in 2012 and its contribution to the
company’s total revenue rose to 7.7 percent from 6.6 percent a
year earlier.  Parisians are very demanding on quality and design, said
Chi, who is also an executive director and the chief designer at
the company. “If we can be successful in Paris, we’ll have a
much easier task anywhere else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  