-- U.K. Political Funding Furor Rages as Lawmakers Spar on Reform
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-07-14T15:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/u-k-political-funding-furor-rages-as-lawmakers-spar-on-reform.html
U.K. lawmakers sparred on the future
of political funding as a furor over the opposition Labour
Party’s dependence on union money revived reform proposals
ranging from donation limits to tapping taxpayers for cash.  “You clean up your funding,” Labour lawmaker  Angela Eagle 
told Conservative cabinet minister Patrick McLoughlin on the
 BBC ’s “Sunday Politics” show. “We’re cleaning up ours.”  Spurred by a local candidate selection controversy
involving Unite, the U.K.’s largest union, Labour Leader Ed Miliband this month moved to reset the party’s relationship with
the organizations that bankroll it and backed him for the party
leadership. The showdown has reawakened a specter haunting
Britain’s political system as Labour shifts focus to the issue
of party funding, accusing the Conservatives of allowing their
wealthy benefactors to influence government policy.  “There’s a big difference when we’re given money by any
donor; it’s this: they don’t buy our policies, they don’t buy
our candidates, and they certainly haven’t installed our
leader,”  Conservative Party  Chairman Grant Shapps told  Sky News 
today. “That’s completely different from the furor that has
surrounded  Ed Miliband  in the last couple of weeks.”  Miliband asked police on July 5 to investigate the behavior
of Unite over its actions in the selection of Labour’s candidate
for the Scottish seat of Falkirk, a controversy that caused the
resignation of his campaigns chief,  Tom Watson . Since then he
proposed that, rather than every union member being
automatically affiliated with Labour unless they opt out, they
should have to opt in to supporting the party financially.  Union Influence  “We don’t accept his attempt to divert your attention,
let’s put it that way, by saying that actually this is now an
issue about party funding,” Shapps said. “It isn’t, it’s about
union influence on the  Labour Party .”  Still, the furor has resuscitated a debate on how political
parties should fund themselves. A ComRes poll in the Independent
on Sunday showed 30 percent of people, if forced to choose,
favor the use of union money for parties, compared with 27
percent who preferred that the wealthy support political groups.
The biggest proportion, 44 percent, didn’t know which to choose.  One proposal to fix the system is a limit on the size of
contributions, which Labour wants put at 5,000 pounds ($7,554)
against a 50,000-pound ceiling acceptable to the Conservatives.  “We have offered that cap but we have to have agreement
with other parties,” Eagle said. “We cannot go to the election
campaign not being able to raise any money when the Conservative
Party are raising millions upon millions of pounds.”  Taxpayer Subsidy  McLoughlin said that the Conservatives are “open” to a
limit, while citing an estimate that anything less than 10,000
pounds would prompt the need for a taxpayer subsidy.  “The leaders of the parties have to come to a decision,”
Michael Levy, a lawmaker in the House of Lords who was Labour’s
chief fundraiser under  Tony Blair , told Sky News. “Are they
prepared to increase the state funding, which I think the public
would buy into?” He added that “it’s so tiny in comparison to
the money that is wasted in so many areas.”  Labour’s  Ken Livingstone , the former mayor of London,
disagreed with Levy, reckoning that such a move would be
“profoundly unpopular.” He favors spending limits to curb the
“arms race” on election expenditure.  Lawmakers do agree on the need for parties to increase
their earnings from voters’ smaller donations.  “We do need to widen the base of political parties, I’m
very much in favor of that,” McLoughlin said. “What we
shouldn’t be doing is coming to the taxpayer for more.”  Levy predicted that the current funding controversy won’t
result in any rule change for years.  “I don’t think anything is going to happen now, till at
least 2015, to the next election,” he said. In the meantime,
political parties face “a dogfight of trying to bring in the
money from larger donations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in  London  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  