-- U.K. House Prices Climb as Rightmove Doubles Forecast: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-15T11:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-14/u-k-house-prices-rise-to-record-as-rightmove-doubles-forecast.html
U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices for a seventh month to a  record  in July, according to
 Rightmove Plc (RMV) , which said values will increase twice as much as
previously forecast this year.  Prices sought  rose 0.3 percent to an average 253,658 pounds
($383,300), the London-based property-website operator said in a
report today. Rightmove said values will now climb 4 percent
this year instead of 2 percent previously.  Asking prices in
London  were little changed at a record 515,379 pounds.  The report adds to signs that measures by the  Bank of
England  and the government to ease the supply of credit are
boosting demand for property just as the economy shows signs of
strengthening. The Ernst & Young Item Club today raised its
forecast for U.K. economic growth this year, saying the economy
will expand almost twice as fast as previously projected.  “A combination of apparent economic stability
internationally -- or at least, less widely-reported turmoil --
and some signs of an economic upturn nationally mean more home
movers are willing and able to increase their financial
commitments,” said Rightmove director  Miles Shipside . “Barring
a raft of bad economic news, we expect the positive impact of
this on the property market to continue.”  The pound fell for a second day against the dollar,
slipping 0.3 percent to $1.5058 as of 11:51 a.m.  London  time.
The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 2.33 percent.  ‘More Positive’  The Item Club said U.K. gross domestic product will rise
1.1 percent this year, compared with an April forecast of 0.6
percent. Growth will strengthen to 2.2 percent next year and 2.6
percent in 2015, both faster than previous estimates, the
research group said.  “It’s looking much more positive,” said  Peter Spencer ,
chief economic adviser to the Item Club. “Spending on the high
street is holding up nicely, housing-market transactions are
beginning to gather pace and, perhaps most significantly, the
global economy also appears to be on the mend.”  Still, the Item Club said U.K. export markets are “still
weak and we remain pessimistic about the near-term prospects for
a rebalancing.”  Data today showed  China’s economy  slowed for a second
quarter as growth in factory output and fixed-asset investment
weakened. GDP rose 7.5 percent in April-to-June from a year
earlier, equalling the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg survey and
down from 7.7 percent in the first quarter. The pace extended
the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at least two
decades.  Industrial production in  China  rose 8.9 percent in June
from a year earlier. That compared with a 9.2 percent gain in
May. Last month’s pace matched the slowest since 2009, excluding
figures for January and February, which the government doesn’t
publish.  Housing Recovery  In its report, Rightmove said the U.K. housing market is
showing a “broader-based recovery.” According to its index,
average prices in England and  Wales  rose 4.8 percent in July
from a year earlier. In London, values surged 12 percent in the
past year.  Today’s Rightmove data follows similarly upbeat reports
from Halifax, Hometrack Ltd. and  Nationwide Building Society ,
which all said that values rose in June.  A quarterly survey by mortgage lender Halifax on July 13
showed Britons’ confidence in the outlook for the  property
market  rose last month. Fifty-two percent of respondents
predicted prices will advance, an increase of 7 percentage
points from March, while 12 percent saw decreases, Halifax said.  There has been a “partial unblocking of pent-up demand,”
Rightmove’s Shipside said. “The ability to borrow is increasing
as the Funding for Lending Scheme starts to really deliver,
though it still favors those with better deposits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  