-- Abu Dhabi May Inject CO2 in Offshore Fields to Boost Output
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-28T13:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/abu-dhabi-may-inject-co2-in-offshore-fields-to-boost-output.html
Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co. may start
injecting carbon dioxide instead of natural gas into its
offshore fields to enhance oil recovery, according to an
official from the company’s Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Co. unit.  “We are looking at CO2 injection offshore,” Ali al-
Muhairy, senior vice-president of development at Adma-Opco, as
the unit is known, said today at a conference in Abu Dhabi. “We
have tried using natural gas; now we are looking at CO2.” He
declined to give a timeframe for the project to start.  Abu Dhabi National, or Adnoc, is looking at ways to reduce
the oil industry’s use of the 5 billion cubic feet of gas
produced daily in the U.A.E. so that the fuel can be used to
meet soaring power and industrial demand. Gas is used to
increase pressure inside reservoirs to push more crude out.  Adnoc is working with Abu Dhabi’s renewable energy company
Masdar to capture carbon. One plan under consideration is to
build a plant next to Emirates Steel Industries PJSC to capture
800,000 metric tons of CO2 a year, al-Muhairy said.  “Enhanced oil recovery will have to be a part of
sustaining production,” he said. Adnoc is planning to boost
output to 3.5 million barrels a day by 2017, from about 2.8
million now, and “we may see more,” al-Muhairy said.  Adnoc’s onshore unit, Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil
Operations, has completed a pilot project to inject 1.2 million
cubic feet of CO2 a day into the Rumaitha field and is now
planning a further four to five pilot projects for 2013 and
2014, according to SCAL Discipline Expert Zubair Kalam.  Carbon Supply  Expanding the pilot to the entire Rumaitha field would
require 20 or 30 times that amount of carbon and would increase
the oil recovered by as much as 10 percent, he said. Using CO2
to increase oil recovery in all the onshore fields would add 7
billion barrels of crude production, he said.  “I’ve seen estimates of 400 million to 500 million cubic
feet a day if we were to use CO2 for all Adco’s fields,” Kalam
said. “From 2020 onwards, we will have to depend a lot on
enhanced oil recovery if we want to maintain production. The big
question is still on CO2 supply,” he said.  Current production costs are about $5 a barrel, rising to
more than $20 a barrel including the cost of CO2 injection, he
said. Masdar is sourcing CO2 for the pilot projects.  Abu Dhabi is the capital city and main oil producer in the
 United Arab Emirates . The country supplied 2.65 million barrels
a day of oil last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, making it the fifth-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  