-- Africa Has Less Room to Offset Europe Crisis, AfDB Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-28T11:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/africa-has-less-room-to-offset-europe-crisis-afdb-says.html
Europe ’s crisis is undermining growth
in Africa at a time when governments in the world’s poorest
continent are running out of fiscal room to offset the effects,
the  African Development Bank  said.  Europe is casting a “shadow” on Africa’s economic
prospects, muting the impact of a recovery in North Africa after
uprisings that toppled regimes in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya , the
AfDB said in a report released ahead of its annual meeting in
Arusha, Tanzania today.  Slower growth in Europe, where a debt crisis that began
more than two years ago may lead to  Greece  leaving the common
currency, is curbing demand for African exports such as oil and
copper, while crimping investment and economic aid. African
governments have less room to maneuver because of inflation
pressures, widening fiscal deficits and volatile currencies, the
bank said.  “Fiscal deficits and government debts are now above pre-
crisis levels which limits the room for fiscal expansion if new
troubles hit soon,” it said. “A deeper crisis in Europe would
have a direct impact on countries which rely on the European
market.”  Africa ’s economy will probably expand 4.5 percent this year
and 4.8 percent in 2013, faster than the 3.4 percent in 2011,
according to the report. The Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development and United Nations co-wrote
the study.  Europe’s ‘Shadow’  “The shadow comes from a worsening of the debt crisis in
Europe causing lower global growth,” the report said. “This
would further weaken Africa´s export markets, depress commodity
prices and undermine Africa´s recovery.”  African finance ministers and central bank heads are
meeting in Arusha this week to discuss how to boost growth. The
agenda includes talks on reducing reliance on donor funds,
boosting trade within Africa and improving governance.  “Europe continues to be the first partner with Africa and
therefore there will be contagion,” Mario Pezzini, director of
the OECD Development Centre, said in an interview. The OECD’s
studies “have unfortunately confirmed that we are closer to the
worst scenarios” about Europe.  Nations including  South Africa , Kenya,  Uganda  and  Algeria 
are not working fast enough to narrow their budget deficits,
leaving little room for governments to use fiscal policy to
stimulate their economies, the report said.  Libya, Egypt  “The pace of  deficit reduction  is, however, too slow or
non-existent so that by the end of 2013 public sector deficits
are likely to be higher than before the 2009 global crisis,”
the report said.  Inflation, which has soared in East Africa and destabilized
currencies in the region, will probably slow to 8.4 percent this
year in Africa and 7.3 percent in 2013, compared with 8.5
percent in 2011, the report said.  Libya’s economy will probably expand 20.1 percent this
year, the fastest in the region, as oil production resumes after
the uprising that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  last year, the report
said.  Egypt , the most-populous nation in North Africa, will
expand 0.8 percent as the economy struggles to regain its
footing after President  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown last year.
The North African economy will rise 3 percent, the slowest of
all regions in Africa, according to the report.  Oil Producers  South Africa, the continent’s largest economy, will expand
2.8 percent this year, down from 3.1 percent in 2011, the report
said.  Growth in West Africa will be led by oil producers such as
Nigeria, Ghana and Niger, as well as nations recovering from
conflicts, including Ivory Coast and Liberia, the AfDB said.
Niger’s economy will expand 11.2 percent this year, the highest
in the region.  Rwanda’s estimated expansion of 7.6 percent will lead
growth in East Africa, with the region expected to expand 5.1
percent this year, according to the report.  Kenya ’s economy, the
biggest in East Africa, will probably expand 5.2 percent in
2012.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy is forecast to grow 5.4
percent this year from 5.1 percent rate in 2011, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  