-- Air India Pilot Squabbles Mar 787 Debut: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-05-29T09:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/air-india-pilot-squabbles-mar-dreamliner-debut-corporate-india.html
Air India Ltd. is set to receive its
first  Boeing (BA)  Co. 787 this week as a pilots’ dispute over who
should fly the aircraft triggers cuts in international services
and more than 100 dismissals.  A team is already in the U.S. for the handover, which will
follow the government giving final approval for a method of
pursuing compensation for delivery delays, Civil Aviation
Minister Ajit Singh said in New Delhi today. Air India plans to
start using the jet with services to  Melbourne , he said May 25.  “The induction of the 787 should have been a major and
positive milestone,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director
of CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant. “Instead,
there is a possibility that the new plane may be temporarily
grounded due to human-resources issues.”  Travelers have suffered three weeks of disruptions because
of protests rooted in a merger five years ago that left the
state-owned airline with duplicate resources and warring unions.
It has also caused losses, with the government this year
agreeing to 300 billion rupees ($5.4 billion) of bailouts
through 2020.  The fuel-efficient plane is about three years late because
of production delays, which have prompted Air  India  to seek
about $1 billion in compensation from Chicago-based Boeing.
Singh today said a panel of ministers will discuss various
options if the planemaker doesn’t agree to the claim.  Dinesh Keskar, senior vice president of sales for Boeing
Commercial Airplanes in India and Asia Pacific, didn’t reply to
two calls to his mobile phone and an e-mail seeking comments.
The first 787 for Air India will be delivered from Everett,
 Washington , Wilson Chow, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail
last week without elaboration. G. Prasada Rao, an Air India
spokesman, also didn’t respond to two calls to his mobile phone.  Indian Airlines  The introduction of the 787 has sparked protests as  Air
India  has given training on the new aircraft to pilots who
previously worked at Indian Airlines, the state-owned domestic
operator that combined with Air India in 2007.  Pilots who worked at Air India before the merger say they
should be the only ones to fly the aircraft as the planes were
ordered before the combination. All the 43 Airbus SAS planes
bought by Indian Airlines are operated by pilots from that
company even after the merger, according to the  Indian Pilots’
Guild , which represents about a third of Air India’s 1,500
current pilots.  An Air India pilot will have to work at least 14 years
before earning promotion as a commander if pilots from Indian
Airlines are also allowed to fly the new jets, said Amit Jain, a
member of the Guild.  Calling in Sick  Members of the union have called in sick since May 7,
forcing the carrier to cut flights to  Hong Kong ,  Osaka  and
Toronto. Domestic services have largely been unaffected.
Minister Singh canceled plans to attend the 787 handover because
of the pilots dispute.  The carrier sent 30 pilots each from Air India and the old
Indian Airlines to  Singapore  for training on the 787, according
to Singh. The company will have 8 pilots for each  Dreamliner ,
the first wide-body aircraft to join Air India’s fleet in more
than two years. The plane will have 256 seats in a two-class
configuration, according to a Boeing statement.  The Dreamliners were part of a wider fleet expansion plan
that was meant to turn Air India into a major international
carrier. The government combined the company with Indian
Airlines to bolster its network and help it expand overseas.  Instead, the merger has left Air India mired in 438 billion
rupees of debt, struggling to integrate different businesses and
weighed down by labor disputes. Last year, the carrier canceled
more than 1,000 flights as former Indian Airlines’ pilots stayed
away from work for 10 days to complain about being paid less
than their colleagues from old Air India.  ‘Driven From Top’  India’s national  auditor  said in a report on the Ministry
of Civil Aviation in 2011 that the merger was “ill-timed” and
was decided without considering the difficulties involved in
areas such as staff integration. The decision was “driven from
the top,” said the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.  “The integration has been badly managed,” said CAPA’s
Somaia. “The resolution of such human-resources issues is
central to Air India’s turnaround.”  The carrier, once India’s biggest, has slipped to fourth-
place behind newer private carriers,  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ,
IndiGo and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , which have lower costs and fewer
staff. The airline had 17.6 percent of the  market  in April,
according to data published by the Directorate General of Civil
Aviation.  Worst Performance  The carrier may also post a loss of 70 billion rupees in
the year ending March, the worst performance nationwide, CAPA
said in a report last week. Air India probably lost 78.5 billion
rupees last fiscal year, Minister Singh said in a written reply
in parliament on April 25.  The government has injected 72 billion rupees into Air
India since April 1, 2009. That support has weighed on other
Indian carriers including Jet and billionaire Vijay Mallya’s
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which have made losses while competing
with the state-subsidized company.  The 787s may help Air India to start turning around its
reputation, domestically and overseas, as the company is only
the third carrier to receive one.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  got the
first in September followed by Japan Airlines Co. in March.  The Dreamliner marks a breakthrough as it’s the first
aircraft to be built with a large plastic fuselage. That helps
cut fuel usage as much as 20 percent and has allowed carriers to
open new routes that were previously weren’t profitable with
larger planes.  “The 787 will make a qualitative difference to Air India’s
image and position,” said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair
Consulting, a New Delhi-based company that advises carriers.
“But any strike creates a terrible damage to the brand value of
an organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  