-- Taiwan Dollar Halts 3-Day Drop on Greece Outlook; Bonds Steady
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-05-28T09:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/taiwan-dollar-snaps-three-day-drop-as-greece-debt-concerns-abate.html
Taiwan ’s dollar halted a three-day
slide as speculation  Greece  will remain in the euro buoyed
demand for emerging-market assets.  Asian stocks gained after opinion polls in Greece showed
voters warming to parties supporting the European Union’s
bailout before an election set for June 17. Taiwanese bonds were
steady after government data showed on May 25 the island’s
economy expanded 0.39 percent in the first quarter, less than
the median forecast of 0.4 percent economists predicted in a
Bloomberg survey.  “There is optimism on the Greece front,” said Eric Hsing,
a bond trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Emerging-
market currencies will likely gain in the short term.”  The Taiwan dollar advanced as much as 0.3 percent to
NT$29.56 before trading little changed from Friday’s level of
NT$29.65 versus the U.S. currency, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. It has lost 1.4 percent this month. The currency’s one-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
traders use to price options, dropped five basis points to 5.7
percent.  Gross domestic product may rise 3.03 percent this year, the
statistics bureau said last week, revising an earlier forecast
of 3.38 percent. Inflation may be 1.84 percent, it said.
Consumer prices rose 1.44 percent in April.  “The authorities will let the  Taiwan dollar  appreciate
because of the underlying inflation problem here,” Hsing said.  The yield on the 1 percent government bonds due January
2017 was little changed at 0.967 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The  overnight interbank lending rate  was
steady at 0.506 percent, according to a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  “There is a struggle between slowing growth and rising
inflation, so the  bond market  is going to be a range-trading
market with yields between 0.95 percent and 0.97 percent” this
week, Hsing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  