-- Malaysia Said to Plan $636 Million Bond of Mass Railway
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-05-28T04:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/malaysia-said-to-plan-636-million-bond-of-mass-railway.html
Malaysia plans to sell at least 2
billion ringgit ($636 million) of Islamic bonds to help finance
the first phase of construction of a mass railway in  Kuala
Lumpur , two people familiar with the matter said.  Dana Infra Sdn., a company formed by the country’s finance
ministry to fund development projects, may increase the offering
to 3 billion ringgit if there’s sufficient demand, said the
people, who declined to be named as the information is private.
No date has been fixed for the sale because of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and marketing may start as early as June, they said.  Proceeds will go to state-owned Mass Rapid Transit Corp.,
which is overseeing work on a 156-kilometer (97-mile) railway in
the Southeast Asian nation’s capital. The network is targeted at
easing congestion in Kuala Lumpur, with the first line scheduled
for completion in 2016, the government said in a 2010 report.  The government plans to guarantee a total of 8 billion
ringgit of Shariah-compliant bonds for the project, the people
said. Dana Infra may issue an additional 30 billion ringgit of
the securities via a 50-year program, which will be announced
later, one of the people said.  Irwan Siregar, deputy secretary to the treasury, wasn’t
immediately available for comment when called today.  The planned offering follows a record 30.6 billion ringgit
sale of Islamic bonds, which pay returns from assets to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, by the nation’s toll-road
operator PLUS Bhd. completed in January.  Malaysian companies issued 75.6 billion ringgit of sukuk
last year, an all-time high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales total 15 billion ringgit in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  