-- Trumbo’s Game-Winning Homer Lifts Angels Past Yankees; Mets Lose
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-29T05:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/hamels-leads-phillies-past-mets-braves-lose-eighth-in-a-row.html
Mark Trumbo hit a home run in the
bottom of the ninth inning as the  Los Angeles Angels  won 9-8 to
snap the New York Yankees’ five-game winning streak.  Cole Hamels  allowed four runs and struck out six over eight
innings as the  Philadelphia Phillies  beat the New York Mets 8-4
yesterday to open a three-game series at Citi Field in New York.  At  Angel Stadium  in Anaheim, Trumbo was the first batter to
face Yankees’ relief pitcher Cory Wade yesterday, sending a 1-1
pitch into the left-field seats for his eighth homer of the
Major League Baseball season.  With the game tied 8-8 in the top of the ninth inning, the
Yankees (26-22) had the bases loaded with two out before  Derek Jeter  grounded out to second base.  Trumbo also had a triple and a double for the Angels
(25-25), who lost starting pitcher Jered Weaver to a possible
lower back injury during the first inning. Jordan Walden pitched
two innings to earn the win.  Starter  Phil Hughes  went 5 1/3 innings for the Yankees,
allowing seven earned runs on 11 hits, while Curtis Granderson
and Mark Teixeira both had home runs.  Phillies first baseman Ty Wigginton, who began his career
with the Mets, was three-for-three with two walks, a home run
and a career-high six runs batted in. John Mayberry Jr. hit a
two-run home run for Philadelphia, while  Scott Hairston  and
Vinny Rottino each hit two-run homers off Hamels in the loss.  Mets starter Jonathon Niese walked five batters and struck
out seven before leaving in the sixth inning trailing 4-2.
Wigginton broke a 4-4 tie with an RBI single off Bobby Parnell
(1-1) in the seventh and finished the scoring with a three-run
homer off Manny Acosta in the ninth.  The Phillies improved to 26-24 with the win, while  New York 
fell to 27-22.  Lynn Ties Hamels  The  St. Louis Cardinals  beat the Atlanta Braves 8-2 behind
starting pitcher Lance Lynn’s eighth win of the season, tying
Hamels (8-1) for the major league lead. The Braves (26-23) have
lost eight games in a row, slipping to fourth in the National
League East division standings.  In other American League games yesterday, it was the Boston
Red Sox 7, the Detroit Tigers 4; Minnesota Twins 5, Oakland
Athletics 4; Chicago White Sox 2, Tampa Bay Rays 1; Cleveland
Indians 8, Kansas City Royals 5; Toronto Blue Jays 6, Baltimore
Orioles 2; and Texas Ranger 4, Seattle Mariners 2.  In the National League, it was the Miami Marlins 5,
Washington Nationals 3; Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Cincinnati Reds 1;
Chicago Cubs 11, San Diego Padres 7; Colorado Rockies 9, Houston
Astros 7 (Game 1); Rockies 7, Astros 6 (10 innings, Game 2); San
Francisco Giants 4,  Arizona  Diamondbacks 2; and Milwaukee
Brewers 3, Los Angeles Dodgers 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  