-- Manila Electric Plans 1,500-MW Power Plant With Japan Utility
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-05-28T02:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/manila-electric-plans-1-500-mw-power-plant-with-japan-utility.html
Manila Electric Co. (MER) , the power
retailer that sold its plants to the Philippine government
almost four decades ago, will partner with a Japanese utility to
build the Southeast Asian nation’s first natural-gas fired power
plant in more than 10 years to help reduce outages.  The proposed 1,500-megawatt plant may be built in the
southern part of Luzon island with half the project likely to be
completed in late 2016, Chief Operating Officer Oscar Reyes said
in an interview at his office on May 24. He declined to name the
Japanese company because a feasibility study is still being
conducted.  “We’re now building our own generation portfolio to
contribute to the issue of adequate power and help control
prices,” Reyes said.  Running power plants will reduce Manila Electric’s
dependence on generators for supply while helping secure
electricity in a nation faced with rising demand and
intermittent outages. The company, also known as  Meralco ,
distributes electricity in an area accounting for half of the
nation’s economic output.  “Foreign investors are taking an interest in the
 Philippines  because there’s a clear need to increase our power
capacity,” Alvin Arogo, an analyst at DBP-Daiwa Capital Markets
Philippines, said.  Meralco currently buys electricity from First Gen Corp.,
Aboitiz Power Corp., AES Corp. and San Miguel Corp.  Chubu Electric Power Co., Mitsubishi Corp. and Marubeni
Corp. expressed interest in buying power plants from the
Philippine government in 2003. A Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
Marubeni venture in the Philippines operates two power plants,
which they plan to expand.  Sources of Electricity  Japanese companies are buying natural gas assets and fields
around the world, setting the nation on course to be the first
of the 10 largest energy users to bet its future on a less-
polluting fuel.  The gas plant complex will comprise four generation units
of 375-megawatt each. Two units are scheduled to be completed in
late 2016 and the rest at least two years later, Reyes said.  The facility will be in addition to the 600-megawatt coal-
fired power plant Meralco is building at the former Subic naval
base together with partners. The Philippines’ biggest power
plant is the 1,200-megawatt Ilijan gas-fired power plant in
Luzon owned by  San Miguel .  Meralco’s volume sales may rise 9 percent in the first half
after increasing 10 percent in the first quarter on higher
consumption in shopping malls, business process outsourcing
offices, construction and homes, Reyes said. Sales this year may
increase about 5 percent as a “cooler” second half hinders
growth, Reyes said.  Meralco shares fell 0.5 percent to 227.80 pesos on Friday.
The shares have fallen 11 percent since Jan. 1 compared with the
benchmark stock index’s 12 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  