-- Asian Currencies Gain as Concern Greece Will Exit Euro Subsides
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-05-28T08:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/asian-currencies-gain-as-concern-greece-will-exit-euro-subsides.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by the
Philippine peso, as Greek opinion polls showed parties in favor
of supporting the European bailout gaining support among voters,
stoking investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index rose for the first
time in a week as Greece’s New Democracy party, which backs the
bailout negotiated with international lenders, was placed first
in all six opinion polls published on May 26 ahead of a June
general election. A May 6 vote failed to yield a clear winner to
form a government, sparking concern the nation would exit the
euro should leaders reject financial aid and the agreed terms.  “It’s very much in response to some positive poll news out
of Greece that’s suggesting pro-euro parties are gaining
popularity,” said Christopher Gothard, head of foreign exchange
at Brown Brothers Harriman ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “That tends to help
emerging-market currencies, particularly in Asia.”  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 43.545 per dollar in
 Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. Malaysia’s ringgit
gained 0.2 percent to 3.1470 and the Thai baht added 0.3 percent
to 31.61. Onshore financial markets in South Korea were closed
today for a public holiday.  Greece leaving the euro would have a limited effect on Asia
and the country should study such an exit as a way to restore
competitiveness, former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir
Mohamad said in a May 26 Bloomberg Television interview in
Tokyo.  Shares Gain  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional equities snapped a
three-day loss as sentiment improved on the Greek poll results.  Emerging-market stock funds posted a third consecutive week
of outflows amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, with a net $1.54 billion
in redemptions for the period ended May 23, according to EPFR
Global. Bond funds in  developing countries  recorded $478 million
of withdrawals.  The peso rose the most in almost two months after touching
a four-month low of 43.96 per dollar on May 25. Central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said last week the authorities will
curb excessive currency movements if needed.  “In a period of heightened uncertainty, market
participants take on defensive stances,” Tetangco said on May
25. “This trend may continue. But when more normalcy settles,
we could see a move back to assets of emerging-market sovereigns
and corporates that have shown fair resiliency.”  Exporter Demand  Thailand’s baht advanced, rebounding from a four-month low,
amid speculation exporters will repatriate overseas income
before the end of the month to pay bills.  Factory output  rose for the first time in eight months in
April, as more manufacturers returned to full production after
last year’s floods. The industrial production index rose 0.5
percent from a year earlier after a revised 2.7 percent
contraction in March, official figures released today showed.  “We will probably see usual month-end exporter demand for
the currency,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the
Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “Investors also calmed a little bit as the Greek people
seem to want to stay in the  euro zone .”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar was unchanged against the
greenback at NT$29.65.  India ’s rupee and  China ’s  yuan  were
little changed at 55.34 and 6.3454, respectively. Indonesia’s
rupiah slumped 0.6 percent to 9,529.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  