-- Aussie, Kiwi Gain on Prospects Greece to Avoid Euro Exit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-28T06:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/aussie-kiwi-gain-on-prospects-greece-to-avoid-euro-exit.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars advanced, halting four-week slides, as prospects  Greece 
will avoid an exit from the euro bloc boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie touched its highest level in almost a
week after Greece’s  New Democracy  party, which supports the
nation’s bailout agreements, led in opinion polls published over
the weekend. New Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, climbed
versus all of its 16 major counterparts as technical indicators
signaled its recent decline may have been too rapid. Both the
South Pacific nations’ dollars gained as Asian stocks rose,
rebounding from a weekly loss.  “We’ve started the week with a risk-relief rally that’s
being reflected in kiwi and Aussie,” said  Mike Jones , a
Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd.
“The risks of a Greek exit seem to have reduced just
slightly.”  Australia ’s dollar rose 1.1 percent to 98.69 U.S. cents as
of 4:17 p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching 98.71, the
strongest level since May 22. It dropped 0.9 percent versus the
greenback last week. The Aussie gained 0.8 percent to 78.36 yen
from 77.76 on May 25.  New Zealand’s currency added 1.2 percent to 76.31 U.S.
cents after completing a 0.3 percent slide last week. It
advanced 0.9 percent to 60.59 yen.  Australia’s bonds fell, pushing the yield on the 10-year
note up by two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.19
percent. New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, was at 2.48 percent from 2.42 percent
last week.  Stocks Gain  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares strengthened 0.6
percent after falling 0.8 percent in the five days ended May 25.  In Greece, pro-bailout party  New Democracy  placed first in
all six opinion polls published in the country May 26 as its
leader Antonis Samaras said the cost of leaving the 17-nation
euro region would be greater than staying in the currency bloc.  New Democracy led by a margin of as much as 5.7 percentage
points over Syriza, the main party opposed to implementing the
terms of financial aid packages, according to a poll by Kapa
Research SA for To Vima newspaper. Greece will hold a second
general election on June 17 after balloting on May 6 left
parties unable to agree on the formation of a coalition
government.  Worst Performers  The Aussie has lost 2.1 percent this year, the second-worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The New Zealand currency
has declined 0.4 percent.  The Australian dollar has fallen 5.4 percent versus its
U.S. counterpart this month. The kiwi dropped the most among the
greenback’s most-traded peers, sliding 6.8 percent.  “The countries that have been experiencing the greatest
selling pressure are now bouncing the hardest,” BNZ’s Jones
said. “That’s the kiwi and the Aussie.”  The relative strength index for the Australian dollar
versus the greenback was at 37.5, surpassing the 30 level for
the first time since May 21. The RSI for New Zealand’s currency
was at 36.7, also climbing above 30 for the first time since May
7. A reading below 30 signals that a currency may be oversold
and poised for a correction.  Traders are betting the Aussie will fall against the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time since 2009.  Net Shorts  Net shorts , or the difference in the number of wagers on a
decline compared with those on a gain, for the Australian
currency were 16,898 on May 22, compared with net longs of 4,734
a week earlier, according to figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Net shorts for the New Zealand dollar were at 1,509 from
net longs of 2,597 in the week ended May 15, the data show. That
was the first time traders bet on the  kiwi’s drop  since March
2011.  Positioning for the Australian and New Zealand currencies
“is a product of the heightened risk-aversion trade,” Emma Lawson, a currency strategist in Sydney at  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a research note today. “As the market is
now short, a period of good news may see a sharp reversal.”  The appeal of the Australian and New Zealand dollars was
curbed after a report yesterday showed profits for Chinese
industrial companies declined in April, damping the outlook for
the South Pacific nations’ exports.  Earnings declined 2.2 percent from a year earlier to 407.6
billion  yuan  ($64.3 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said on its website. That compared with a 4.5 percent gain in
March.  “There’s no doubt the data in China in the past month or
six weeks have been on the softer side and that’s probably
partly a flow on of weaker demand out of  Europe ,”  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today in response to
questions at a forum in Sydney.  China  is Australia’s largest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export
destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  