-- Scandal-Besieged Gillard Boosts Australia’s Labor Support
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-29T01:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/australia-s-gillard-besieged-by-scandals-boosts-labor-support.html
Support for  Australia ’s governing
 Labor Party  rose to a three-month high as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  attempts to reverse a slide in popularity before
elections due next year.  Labor’s primary vote climbed 2 percentage points to 32
percent, while support for the opposition Liberal-National
coalition increased 1 point to 46 percent, according to a
 Newspoll  published in today’s Australian newspaper. On a two-
party preferred basis, which takes into account the country’s
preferential voting system, the opposition’s lead shrank to 8
points from 10.  Gillard, who overtook Liberal-National coalition leader
 Tony Abbott  as preferred prime minister in today’s poll, has
gained ground on the opposition after this month’s budget handed
out extra cash to households. After defeating her predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  in a leadership ballot in February, her minority
government has been weakened by lawmaker scandals that have
eroded Labor’s control of parliament.  “The government will be relieved with today’s poll, which
shows Labor’s move to deliver some goodies to lower-paid voters
in the budget gave it a bit of a boost,” said  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Monash University  in Melbourne. “It’s
doubtful that momentum can be sustained because there’s a lot of
negativity around this government. One swallow certainly doesn’t
mean spring has arrived.”  The Newspoll survey of 1,152 people, conducted May 25-27,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Support for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a Newspoll
survey taken on Sept. 16-18 last year. Labor’s primary vote was
last above 32 percent in February.  New Attacks  The government unveiled a  federal budget  on May 8 that aims
to return to a surplus next year and scrapped a planned cut in
company taxes to fund payouts for low- and middle-income
earners. Since then, Gillard has faced renewed attacks about her
leadership after unions criticized a decision to allow
billionaire mining magnate  Gina Rinehart  to employ more than
1,700 overseas workers.  The government approved an enterprise migration agreement
May 25 authorizing Rinehart’s Roy Hill mining project in Western
Australia’s Pilbara region to sponsor as many as 1,715 overseas
workers for its three-year construction phase because of a
shortage of local employees.  The Department of Immigration said today it’s investigating
claims made by a labor union that Chinese workers on  Citic
Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s Sino Iron project in the Pilbara are being
underpaid.  “The department is aware of the allegations and is
investigating them,” department spokesman Sandi Logan said.  Rob Cory, media and communications manager for Citic
Pacific’s Australian unit, wasn’t immediately able to comment
when contacted outside of normal business hours.  Abbott’s Call  Australia’s first female prime minister is also fighting to
overcome charges by the opposition that she’s beholden to Greens
party allies and broke a campaign pledge to oppose the carbon
levy, to be introduced July 1.  Abbott has been calling for the resignation of Craig
Thomson from parliament after the former Labor lawmaker, whose
vote Gillard relies on to pass laws, dismissed allegations he
used a union credit card to pay for prostitutes. The
opposition’s strategy of attacking the minority government in
parliament may be backfiring with voters, Workplace Relations
Minister  Bill Shorten  said today.  “What Australians want in parliament is a debate about the
issues, about the future,” Shorten said in an Australian
Broadcasting Corp. interview. “Being positive in the long run
will trump being negative. With Mr. Abbott they’ll always find
the negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  