-- BAA Seeks Second Chance to Appeal Forced Stansted Sale
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-28T16:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/baa-seeks-second-chance-to-appeal-forced-stansted-sale.html
London Heathrow airport owner BAA
Airports Ltd. won permission to present its appeal to overturn
an order that it must sell its Stansted terminal to meet
antitrust rules.  The U.K. Court of Appeal said today it would hear the
request from the airport operator, owned by a group including
 Spain ’s  Ferrovial SA (FER) , the company said in an e-mailed statement.
While BAA is appealing specifically against a Competition Appeal
Tribunal ruling from February, the case centers on the 2009
decision by Britain’s  Competition Commission  that BAA must sell
Stansted and one of its Scottish airports.  “We are pleased that permission to appeal has been granted
and look forward to presenting our arguments before the Court of
Appeal,” BAA said.  In its decision, the Competition Appeal Tribunal dismissed
the company’s argument the ruling should be overturned because
the U.K. airport market had become more competitive since the
agency’s decision three years ago. In October 2010, the Court of
Appeal rejected BAA’s claim that the regulator’s review of the
case was biased and the initial decision should be rescinded.  Siobhan Allen, a spokeswoman for the Competition
Commission, declined to immediately comment.  BAA last month agreed to sell Edinburgh airport to U.S.
firm Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. for 807.2 million
pounds ($1.27 billion) to comply with the antitrust regulator’s
order. Stansted is the company’s second-busiest airport,
following its forced disposal of  London Gatwick  in 2009, and the
biggest base for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s No. 1 discount
airline.  “This seventh appeal, by the BAA, will further delay the
sale of Stansted, proving yet again that the BAA has no regard
for passengers, competition or tourism as it attempts to
retain its stranglehold over London traffic,” Ryanair said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  