-- Bankrupt Nuclear Waste Firm Impact Services Gets Deadline
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-28T15:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/bankrupt-nuclear-waste-firm-impact-services-gets-deadline.html
Impact Services Inc., the bankrupt
nuclear waste processor storing 1 million pounds of scrap
radioactive material at its  Oak Ridge , Tennessee, facility, was
told to produce missing financial documents by next week.  Impact filed for Chapter 7 liquidation May 24 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware , listing assets of less
than $10 million and debt of as much as $50 million. Specific
creditor claims and company financial details haven’t been
filed.  “There is about one million pounds of waste” at the
company’s compound, and “there is a $1.2 million surety bond”
provided “to cover the liabilities incurred when a facility
abandons their responsibility,” said Meg Lockhart, spokeswoman
for the Tennessee  Department of Environment and Conservation , in
an e-mailed statement after the filing.  The radioactive waste “is low-level” and doesn’t pose a
threat to public safety unless it’s stored improperly, said
Impact Chief Executive Officer Darrell Lauterbach in the
petition.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Shannon ordered a status
conference for May 30, and a meeting of company creditors is
scheduled for June 19 in Wilmington, according to court records.  Lockhart said the company “shut its doors” May 18. She
said a radiation safety officer is staffing the site and the
company is “trying to determine what its options are.”  Monitoring Closely  She said information on Impact’s bankruptcy has been shared
with the  Tennessee  attorney general’s office and her department
“will continue to monitor this situation closely.”  Representatives of Impact didn’t return calls today on the
Memorial Day holiday seeking comment on plans for the facility.  According to the company’s website, its work has included
removing partially radioactive metal generator  components  from
nuclear  power plants . Impact said it helped with decommissioning
of the  Connecticut  Yankee plant and removal of contaminated
equipment at Grand Gulf Nuclear Station in  Mississippi .  The American Museum of Science and Energy operates a  summer
camp  in the area for children in fifth through seventh grades,
and includes a tour of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
according to the museum’s website.  The  Department of Energy  offers  public bus tours  of Oak
Ridge from June through August for U.S. citizens 10 years of age
and older. The museum includes an exhibition about the three
secret uranium-enrichment plants built during World War II for
the first  atomic bombs .  Impact, according to court records, is a unit of Impact
Holdings Inc., which in turn is owned by Southpaw Credit
Opportunity Master Fund LP of Greenwich, Connecticut.  The case is In re Impact Services Inc., 12-11605, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  