-- Barclays Sells German Unit to Deutsche Wohnen for $1.56 Billion
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-28T10:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/barclays-sells-german-unit-to-deutsche-wohnen-for-1-56-billion.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, agreed to sell its German housing unit,
Baubecon, to  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  in a deal valued at 1.24 billion
euros ($1.56 billion).  Deutsche Wohnen,  Germany ’s third-largest publicly traded
residential landlord, agreed to buy Baubecon’s 23,500 apartments
using an unspecified amount of cash and debt, according to a
statement by the Frankfurt-based company yesterday.  The acquisition was an “attractive opportunity,” allowing
Deutsche Wohnen to expand the number of units it owns by almost
50 percent and improve funds from operations, the company said
in the statement.  Barclays, based in London, last week sold its remaining
stake in BlackRock Inc., raising net proceeds of $5.5 billion.
The sale allows Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
to meet stricter capital rules and focus on more profitable
operations.  Baubecon is a legacy of the buyout boom in German multi-
family housing before the credit crisis hit in 2008.  Prelios SpA (PRS) 
and Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF Real Estate acquired Baubecon for
1.67 billion euros in July 2007 in a deal 78 percent financed
with a loan from Barclays.  The lender took over Baubecon late last year when Prelios
and RREEF  refused to inject more money  after building-
maintenance costs and a slide in values wiped out their
investment. Barclays valued the company at 1 billion pounds
($1.57 billion) in its 2011 annual report.  Competing Bidders  GSW Immobilien AG also targeted Baubecon in a joint venture
with Whitehall Street Real Estate fund, which is managed by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The Deutsche Wohnen purchase will be
completed in the next few months, according to the statement.  The acquisition adds 6,500 residential units to the real
estate Deutsche Wohnen owns in the greater Berlin area, while it
also gains 9,000 units in the central German cities of
Braunschweig, Hanover and Magdeburg.  The purchase price is 13 times the net rental income of 95
million euros that the Baubecon properties generate annually.
Deutsche Wohnen said debt won’t exceed 60 percent of the value
of the real estate in the coming years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  