-- BHP Must Start Olympic Dam Work by Year-End, Minister Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-28T07:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/bhp-must-start-work-at-olympic-dam-by-year-end-minister-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, will lose the right to proceed with the
$33 billion Olympic Dam copper-uranium expansion in  Australia  if
it doesn’t start work by the end of the year, pressuring the
board to approve the project as commodity prices decline.  “I will not be granting an extension to BHP,” Tom
Koutsantonis, the minister for mining in the South Australian
state government, said today in an interview.  BHP said this month it won’t meet a spending target of $80
billion for building mines and expanding assets over the five
years through 2015. The Melbourne-based company may seek to
delay approving the expansion at Olympic Dam and two other major
projects until the second half of next year, according to a May
23 report by Deutsche Bank AG.  Commodity prices have  declined  13 percent from this year’s
high in February, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials.  “I think BHP will delay the expansion to the extent that
they possibly can because the cost pressures are extremely
intense,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1 billion
($990 million) at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, said
by phone. “For the amount of capital that they have to outlay,
they will need a very high and stable copper and uranium price
for a very long time for the board to have the comfort to be
able to sign off on a project of this scale.”  ‘Ongoing Engagement’  The company won approvals to expand the mine, located 560
kilometers (348 miles) north of the state capital Adelaide, in
October 2011 following a six-year assessment process. The cost
estimate for the expansion comes from the May 23 Deutsche Bank
report as BHP hasn’t given a costing.  “We are in ongoing engagement with the South Australian
government” on Olympic Dam, said Antonios Papaspiropoulos, a
Melbourne-based spokesman for BHP. “A decision on its future
won’t be taken by the board until the end of 2012.”  Expanding Olympic Dam to open pit from an underground mine
would require removing 410 million metric tons of earth, or
overburden, which may take five years, according to BHP.  “I expect there to be evidence that they’ve begun
mining,” said Koutsantonis, referring to mining activity
outside of an initial spending plan of $1.2 billion. “I’m
talking about the work needed to remove the overburden to reach
the ore body.”  Board Decision  The expansion plans would make Olympic Dam the world’s
largest uranium mine within 11 years, increasing copper output
almost fourfold to 750,000 tons a year, boosting gold production
eightfold and uranium by almost fivefold, according to BHP. The
company already produces uranium, copper and gold from an
existing underground operation.  BHP’s board is expected to decide on building three major
projects, including Olympic Dam, by the end of the year. Olympic
Dam, the Jansen potash project in  Canada  and an  iron ore  port
expansion in  Western Australia  may cost a combined $68 billion,
according to Deutsche Bank.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, said in
March it has cut its holdings in  BHP Billiton  following concerns
Olympic Dam and shale gas assets may curb returns.  “We’re not going to have anyone come into this state, go
through a massive approval process and then sit on an asset,”
said Koutsantonis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  