-- Bidding Up RailAmerica at High Seen Bringing 30% Gain: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-05-29T20:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/bidding-up-railamerica-at-high-seen-bringing-30-gain-real-m-a.html
RailAmerica Inc. (RA) , the railroad
operator controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  that
reached an all-time  high  last week, is poised to reap about 30
percent more for investors as a takeover target.  Jacksonville, Florida-based RailAmerica on May 22 said it
was in talks with third parties over a possible sale as part of
a review of its options. While its  shares  have now more than
doubled from last year’s low, the $1.2 billion short-line
operator still trades at a 30 percent discount to rival  Genesee
& Wyoming Inc. (GWR) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even after the company more than doubled  operating earnings 
as Fortress trimmed expenses in the five years it owned the
company, T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Stephens Inc. said
RailAmerica still could attract infrastructure funds and
private-equity firms because there’s room to further cut costs.
 Berkshire (BRK/A)  Hathaway Inc. may also be interested, Stephens said,
as RailAmerica’s  revenue  from each carload of freight approaches
a high and the company is projected to generate record free cash
flow next year. RailAmerica could fetch as much as $31 a share,
a premium of more than 30 percent, Sidoti & Co. said.  “It’s attractive to an acquirer because it’s in a pretty
solid fundamental industry,” Robert Dunn, a New York-based
analyst with Sidoti, said in a telephone interview. “It
generates decent free cash. Certainly it’s a much better-managed
company today” than when Fortress acquired it in 2007.  Donia Crime, a spokeswoman for RailAmerica, said the
company declined to comment beyond its May 22 statement that
said RailAmerica’s board is considering strategic alternatives
and that it is in discussions with third parties regarding a
potential sale.  Rail Connections  Gordon Runte of New York-based Fortress, which had assets
under management of $46.4 billion as of March 31, didn’t respond
to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  RailAmerica operates 44 short-line and regional railroads
with about 7,400 miles (12,000 kilometers) of track in the
U.S. and  Canada , linking customers such as mine operators and
factories with long-haul carriers that haul freight greater
distances, according to an April regulatory filing. The U.S.
industry’s deregulation in the 1980s buoyed short lines as major
railroads such as Union Pacific Corp. opted to let smaller
carriers handle traffic on less-traveled routes. In 2011,
 RailAmerica  transported about 840,000 carloads of freight
including farm and food products, lumber and metals, it said.  The company was taken private in February 2007 by Fortress,
which paid $658 million, excluding net debt. The investment
firm, which hired new management while initiating cost cuts at
RailAmerica, then took the company public again in October 2009.
Fortress held a 60 percent stake in the company as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Exceeded Expectations’  RailAmerica’s operating income rose to about $127 million
last year from $47 million in 2006, the year before Fortress
bought the company, as margins widened by 128 percent.  “This is one of the great private-equity stories of the
past several years in my view,” Alexander Yaggy, New York-based
manager of the  Cortina Small Cap Value Fund (CRSVX)  for Cortina Asset
Management LLC, which oversees about $2 billion, said in a phone
interview. “Fortress took an underperforming company, took it
private, put in new management, repaired it, took it public
again and it has exceeded expectations.”  Yaggy’s  fund , which outpaced 99 percent of its competitors
this year, owned RailAmerica shares as of March 31.  The stock touched a low last year of $11.14 in August
before doubling through last week as the industry gained
momentum. North American railroad operators generated $1,476 in
revenue per carload of freight on average in the fourth quarter,
within 1 percent of an all-time high, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Still Cheap  RailAmerica’s stock had already  climbed  49 percent this
year to $22.13 as of May 22, when the company announced it was
in talks about a possible sale. The shares rose further on the
news, closing on May 25 at $23.75, 113 percent higher than its
August low.  RailAmerica today advanced 1.7 percent to $24.15.  First-round bids are due on May 30, the Deal reported last
week, citing a person familiar with the situation.  Even with the stock’s recent gains, RailAmerica was still
cheaper than its closest rival last week. Its  equity and net
debt  was valued at 9.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last 12 months, a discount
to the valuation of 13.5 times Ebitda for Greenwich,
Connecticut-based short-line operator Genesee &  Wyoming , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The stock is still attractively valued for somebody to
come in” and acquire RailAmerica, Brad Delco, a  Little Rock ,
Arkansas-based analyst with Stephens, said in a phone interview.  Margin Improvement  RailAmerica could attract infrastructure funds, which
invest in everything from railroads and toll roads to airports
and utilities, and other private-equity firms looking to squeeze
out more expenses and further improve margins, Delco said.  The company’s ratio of expenses to sales, a benchmark for
railroads, was about 78 percent last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with an average operating ratio
for companies in the Bloomberg Industries North American Rail
Freight Transportation Index of about 73 percent, the data show.  Financial buyers would also be lured by RailAmerica’s free
 cash flow , said  Andrew Davis , a Baltimore-based transportation
analyst for T. Rowe Price Group Inc. The firm, which oversees
about $550 billion, was RailAmerica’s  second-largest shareholder 
behind Fortress as of March 31 with a 7.7 percent stake.  Analysts project RailAmerica’s  cash from operations  after
deducting capital expenses will total $52 million this year and
rise to a record $92 million next year, according to the average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett Interest  “It’s very likely, because of the high level of cash flow
that these businesses generate relative to the amount of overall
capital expenditures and maintenance that they require, a
financial buyer like a private-equity firm would be
interested,” T. Rowe Price’s Davis said in a phone interview.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire is another potential buyer for
RailAmerica, according to Stephens’ Delco. Buffett, who built
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire into a $197 billion holding
company by acquiring firms that he deems to have durable
competitive advantages, purchased Burlington Northern  Santa Fe 
Corp., a Fort Worth, Texas-based railroad company, in 2010 for
about $34 billion, his biggest deal ever.  Sidoti’s Dunn said he viewed Berkshire as more of a
financial buyer who would run RailAmerica as a separate business
rather than merge it with Burlington Northern.  ‘Healthy Price’  Buffett didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment
sent to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Dunn says RailAmerica may command $24 to $31 a share in a
takeover based on Ebitda multiples typically paid in
acquisitions of short-line railroads. At that price, RailAmerica
investors would be getting a premium of as much as 31 percent to
last week’s closing price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If they’re going to sell it, I hope to get a very healthy
price for it because I think the next several years should
remain very good for the company,” Cortina’s Yaggy said. “As a
stakeholder, I’d hate to see them sell at a low price just to
get a deal done.”  Matt Troy, a New York-based analyst for Susquehanna
International Group LLP, said Fortress may struggle to find
buyers for the entire company and is more likely to sell its
stake through a secondary offering. Long-haul carriers probably
wouldn’t want RailAmerica’s short lines, and private-equity
firms could struggle to find ways to further boost efficiency
after Fortress already improved the business, he said.  Freight Demand  For private equity, Fortress has “run the sponge dry,”
leaving buyers with less incentive to pay up for the company,
Troy said in a phone interview. For the larger railroads, “the
strategic puzzle pieces don’t fit.”  Acquiring RailAmerica would allow any buyer to tap
increasing demand for rail freight as the  U.S. economy  recovers
and the company continues to focus on improving profitability,
T. Rowe Price’s Davis said. RailAmerica said it is aiming to
reduce its operating expenses to as low as 77 percent of its
revenue this year, versus the almost 90 percent operating ratio
it had in 2006 before Fortress took it private.  “It’s a story of a business that has much improved in
quality since they went public and something that would be
attractive to an acquirer because it gives them exposure to what
I would consider a very solid industry,” Davis said. “They’d
be acquiring a much better business with a lot less holes in it
than it had previously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 