-- Blair Denies Murdoch Deals as Protester Disturbs Ethics Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-29T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/blair-tells-news-corp-ethics-inquiry-of-managing-media-ties.html
Tony Blair , the U.K. prime minister
for a decade until 2007, told an ethics inquiry he never made
“implied deals” on press regulation with News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  in exchange for support from his newspapers.  Blair, testifying at the London probe triggered by the
phone-hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid,
said it was “perfectly possible” he’d reassured Murdoch in
1994 about the Labour Party’s plan to pull back on calling for
press regulation. There was no “quid pro quo,” he said.  “If we’d come into power and done a huge thing about who
owned what in the media, it would have been a huge distraction
for the  Labour Party ,” Blair, 59, said yesterday about a
meeting he had with Murdoch before he became prime minister in
1997.  The inquiry, set up by Prime Minister  David Cameron  last
year, is hearing from members of the former ruling Labour Party
as well as his own Conservatives about their ties to Murdoch.
Blair said his personal contacts with Murdoch evolved from a
“working relationship” to becoming a godfather to one of the
media mogul’s children after he left office.  “Being godfather to Murdoch’s child is a line he shouldn’t
have crossed,” said  Steven Fielding , a professor of politics at
Nottingham University. “It reinforces this idea that there’s a
kind of transnational elite that’s just in it for themselves.”  The hearing was briefly interrupted by a man who entered
the courtroom from a secure corridor between Leveson and Blair
and shouted that Blair was a war criminal because of the
invasion of  Iraq . The man struggled with security officers
before being dragged out of the room.  Phone-Hacking Scandal  The probe, led by Judge Brian Leveson, expanded beyond
phone hacking to include the U.K. media’s relationship with
celebrities, the police and politicians. The phone-hacking
scandal led New York-based News Corp. to shut the News of the
World newspaper last year and abandon its bid for the pay-
television company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Blair said he sought to manage his media ties to avoid a
“major confrontation” that would be needed to challenge the
power of the press.  Murdoch was one of Blair’s few supporters when he decided
to go to war in Iraq and the men spoke about it on the phone
three times in the days before the invasion, his ex-press chief,
 Alastair Campbell  told the inquiry earlier this month. Blair
felt he had to deal with a “right-wing” Murdoch to get his
message to the public, Campbell said.  “The relationships moved from being sensible to crucial in
a way that’s not healthy,” Blair said, referring to the press’s
overall relationship with government. He said the problem
extended beyond Murdoch’s media empire.  Another Arrest  As Blair testified, the Metropolitan Police in London
widened their phone-hacking probe with the arrest of a 42-year-
old woman accused of  money laundering . More than 50 people have
been detained in parallel probes that also include bribery and
computer hacking by News Corp. journalists.  Blair said he was friends with Rebekah Brooks, the former
chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, News
International, who was arrested last year in the hacking probe
and charged earlier this month with trying to cover it up. He
said he contacted her when she resigned to offer his support.  Blair said his decision to change the Labour Party’s
handling of union disputes wasn’t influenced by Murdoch’s
support, and that continuing to promise to repeal Conservative
laws on this issue would have been “foolish.”  “I understand why these conspiracy theories arise, but
it’s not as if my position on unions and so on was a matter of
great surprise,” Blair said. Unions “have power and they
should be subject to some kind of legal framework.”  Godfather  Blair said his relationship with Murdoch became “a lot
easier and better” when he was no longer prime minister, and
that he wouldn’t have agreed to be the godfather to one of
Murdoch’s children while he was in office.  “It’s not the closeness that’s the problem,” Blair said
of his media ties. “It’s the imbalance, because you know that
at a certain point” if you are pursuing “a course you believe
in and they don’t believe in it, or they don’t believe in you,
then you are going to be in a big fight.”  Blair’s wife Cherie sued News Corp.’s U.K. unit in
February, joining dozens of other public figures who say they
have police evidence showing the News of the World intercepted
their mobile-phone voice mail. Campbell and former Deputy Prime
Minister  John Prescott  also sued.  Blair courted Murdoch immediately after he became leader of
the Labour Party. In 1995, after Blair traveled to  Australia  to
address News Corp. executives, Murdoch joked that “I suspect we
will end up making love like two porcupines -- very carefully.”  ‘Charm Offensive’  Blair said the trip was part of a “charm offensive” to
woo Murdoch.  “I wouldn’t have gone halfway around the world if I hadn’t
had a very deliberate and very strategic objective to go and try
and persuade them,” Blair said.  Murdoch’s Sun tabloid, the best-selling daily title in
Britain, switched from the Conservatives to endorse Blair in the
1997 election, and Murdoch was an early visitor to Blair after
his victory. It switched back to the Conservatives in 2009,
after Blair had left office.  “The Sun, partly because it is prepared to shift, makes it
all the more important,” Blair told the inquiry.  Blair also complained about attacks made on him, his family
and associates “day in, day out,” by the Daily Mail newspaper
and said the result of falling out with any large media company
is “relentless and unremitting” news coverage.  Independent Watchdog  Murdoch testified at the inquiry last month. He said he
never asked Blair or any other prime minister for a favor while
they were in office.  Leveson, who must issue a report on press regulation, said
a future media watchdog would need to be “independent of the
state, independent of Parliament, but also independent of the
press.” A new system would need to help people who can’t afford
to sue newspapers for privacy violations, he said.  The 49-year-old man who interrupted the inquiry was
arrested for disturbing the peace and later released without
charge from a  London  police station, a spokesman for the
Metropolitan Police said yesterday. Leveson called for a probe
of the security breach.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  