-- BOJ Counters ‘Misunderstanding’ on Asset-Purchase Plans: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-05-28T05:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/boj-counters-misunderstanding-asset-buys-to-automatically-grow.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  board members said they
need to counter the mistaken perception that central bank asset
purchases will automatically increase, the minutes of a meeting
last month show.  “Members made note of some misunderstanding that the bank
would continue to increase the size of its program in an
automatic manner,” until the BOJ’s 1 percent price goal is met,
according to the record of an April 27 meeting released today in
Tokyo. “They agreed that the bank needed to fully explain that
it made decisions on its monetary policy stance after carefully
assessing the economic and price situation.”  The yen’s 5 percent climb against the dollar since mid-
March is weighing on the profits of Japanese exporters,
suggesting that lawmakers and manufacturers will continue to
press for more stimulus. The BOJ needs to avoid being seen
financing government deficit spending and has highlighted limits
to what monetary policy alone can achieve in fueling growth and
ending deflation.  “The BOJ is emphasizing they will act according to the
price outlook, which will be affected by developments in
currencies,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Whether it wants to or not, the
BOJ won’t have a choice but to increase asset purchases if the
yen strengthens significantly.”  The yen traded at 79.35 per dollar as of 2:42 p.m. in
Tokyo. The central bank has increased its asset-purchase fund
twice this year, with the first move in February helping to
weaken the yen against the dollar. Renewed concerns over
 Europe ’s debt crisis are now lending support to the currency.  Monthly Decline  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.7 percent as of 2:42
p.m. in Tokyo as concern eased that  Greece  may exit the euro.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.1 percent.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board added 10 trillion
yen ($126 billion) to the purchase program in April.  The government faces the challenge of extending an economic
recovery after last year’s earthquake and tsunami without
worsening the finances of a nation already bearing the world’s
biggest public debt burden.  Fitch Ratings  last week cut Japan’s sovereign-debt rating,
saying the government’s plans for fiscal consolidation look
“leisurely.” A few BOJ members said in April that it’s
important the central bank makes it clear that its bond
purchases aren’t meant to finance government debt, today’s
minutes showed.  China, Thailand  Elsewhere, a report yesterday showed that profits fell at
 China ’s industrial companies in April from a year earlier.
 Thailand  reported today that industrial output in April rose for
the first time in eight months.  “There’s no doubt the data in China in the past month or
six weeks have been on the softer side and that’s probably
partly a flow on of weaker demand out of Europe,”  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in response to
questions at a forum in Sydney today.  Italian business confidence in May is forecast to fall for
the second month, according to the median estimate of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. There are no economic
reports scheduled for today in the U.S., where markets are
closed for the Memorial Day holiday.  Like the BOJ, the U.S. central bank has turned to buying
securities as its main tool after lowering the benchmark rate to
near zero. The  Federal Reserve  bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in
two programs of so-called quantitative easing. While that total
exceeds what Japan’s central bank has pledged, the BOJ’s balance
sheet as a share of GDP exceeds that of the Fed and ECB, with
Bloomberg data showing the BOJ’s commitment at 33 percent of the
economy compared with the ECB’s 31 percent and the Fed’s 20
percent.  ETF Risks  BOJ staff members at the gathering said increasing holdings
of exchange-traded funds, which are bought through the facility,
entail “a considerable risk of price volatility,” according to
the minutes.  The board refrained from extra easing at a meeting last
week while Shirakawa pledged to continue “powerful monetary
easing.” The central bank forecasts price growth of 0.7 percent
in the year starting April 2013.  The yield on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year debt fell one basis
point to 0.875 percent. It touched 0.815 percent on May 18, the
least since 2003, when the rate slid to a record 0.43 percent.  Japan’s government bonds are set for a sixth monthly gain,
a winning streak that beats Treasuries amid investor speculation
the nation’s central bank will bolster
monetary easing to defeat deflation. Debt maturing in more than
a year has returned 0.3 percent in May, according to an index
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. While Treasuries have returned 1
percent so far this month, they’ve handed losses in March and
February, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  