-- Brazil to Ease Rules on Tax Breaks for Infrastructure Bonds
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-05-28T17:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/brazil-to-ease-rules-on-tax-breaks-for-infrastructure-bonds.html
Brazil  will ease rules that grant tax
breaks to local and foreign investors who buy corporate bonds,
said Finance Ministry Deputy Executive Secretary Dyogo Oliveira.  The new rules, which are likely to be introduced in about
two months, will apply to bonds with at least four years’
duration or to those linked to infrastructure projects, Oliveira
said in an interview in his Brasilia office. The rules extend
tax benefits to buyers of bonds from companies that are selling
the securities to pay previous debts, as long as the new issue
is for long-term bonds or forms part of an investment plan
involving infrastructure, Oliveira said in an interview in his
Brasilia office.  The percentage of total holdings that investment funds must
hold in infrastructure-linked bonds benefitting from tax
discounts will also be reduced, Oliveira said.  The government is trying to fund investments worth 955
billion reais ($482 billion) in projects such as roads, ports
and dams as part of its growth acceleration program through
2014.  “These improvements are part of the government’s effort to
develop private sources of funding for long-term investments,”
Oliveira said.  Last June, Brazil exempted investors from income tax on
returns paid on long-term bonds and those linked to investments
that had been previously approved by the government. In
December, the government also exempted foreigners from a 6
percent tax they have to pay when buying Brazilian bonds for
this type of investment.  Investors won’t lose the tax benefits if the company
selling the bond breaks the rules governing the tax cuts,
Oliveira said. The new rules will also extend the benefits to
bonds that are sold to finance the purchase of government
concessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  