-- Bovespa Advances as PDG Leads Rally in Homebuilders
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-28T22:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/brazil-s-stocks-rise-as-eased-greece-concern-buoys-commodities.html
(Corrects  Bovespa (IBOV)  closing level in third paragraph.)  The Bovespa index rose to its highest
level in a week after a shareholder offered to invest 800
million reais ($405.2 million) in PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos
& Participacoes, sparking a rally in real estate companies.  PDG was the best performer on the gauge, and the
BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index advanced to a two-week high. Iron-
ore producer Vale SA and oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA
followed metals and crude higher as concern  Greece  may leave the
euro currency bloc eased, fueling gains in commodities.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity measure added 1.4 percent to
55,212.69 at the close in Sao Paulo, the highest level since May
21. Fifty-nine stocks rose while eight fell. The real
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.9830 per  U.S. dollar . The
Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index climbed 0.5
percent.  “Homebuilders’ recent underperformance may have made some
people see those stocks as attractive again, spurring a
recovery,” Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Socopa Corretora
brokerage, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “This doesn’t mean
that the outlook for the companies suddenly improved. It’s just
that the recent drop may have been a bit excessive.”  PDG jumped 5 percent to 3.78 reais, paring this year’s
plunge to 36 percent. Shareholder Vinci Partners Investimentos
Ltda. proposed to invest in Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue by issuing warrants that may be convertible into shares
and bonds, according to a regulatory filing today. The offer
amounts to 4.02 reais per share.  PDG’s competitor Rossi Residencial SA rose 2.8 percent to
5.95 reais as the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  increased 3.2
percent, extending gains over the pst three sessions to 7.8
percent.  Commodities Gain  Vale rose 1 percent to 36.10 reais, and Petrobras, as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, advanced 1 percent to 18.79 reais.  Commodities rallied after Greece’s New Democracy party,
which supports a European Union rescue, placed first in all six
opinion polls published May 26, easing concern a new government
may take the nation out of the euro currency union and deepen
the region’s debt crisis. General elections are scheduled for
next month.  “Greek polls showing a pro-bailout party rising spurred
optimism in the global markets,” Gustavo Mendonca, who helps
oversee 250 million reais as an economist at Oren Investimentos,
said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “Problems around  Europe 
still persist. But if Greece manages to survive past the
election, some of the pessimism we’ve seen in the past few weeks
may be reversed.”  CCR Rises  Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias , Brazil’s biggest toll-road
operator, gained 2.3 percent to 15.22 reais. The company said in
a regulatory filing it agreed to buy a stake in  Ecuador ’s Quito
International Airport for $140 million.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
The gauge has since pared that drop to 19 percent and trades at
9.2 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, which compares with the 9.7 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 3.09 billion reais in stocks today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a daily average
of 7.27 billion reais this year through May 25, according to
data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  