-- Brazil’s Real Rises for Fourth Straight Day on Swap Speculation
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-05-28T21:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/brazil-s-real-rises-for-fourth-straight-day-on-swap-speculation.html
Brazil ’s real gained for a fourth
straight day, the longest stretch of advances since February, on
speculation the central bank is prepared to auction more
currency swaps to maintain the  exchange rate .  “The central bank is holding a sword over the market’s
head,” Alfredo Barbutti, economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda., said
in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “If the real falls again,
there could be new currency swaps.”  The real appreciated 0.2 percent to 1.9830 per dollar at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo and pared its drop this year to 5.9 percent,
still the worst performance among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It touched 2.1062 on May 23, the weakest
level since May 2009.  The central bank sold 14,000 out of the 40,000 currency
swap contracts on May 25 in a fourth straight day of swap sales.
The swap sales, which came as  Europe ’s debt turmoil dimmed the
prospects for Brazilian assets, are a reversal from last month’s
policy of stepped-up dollar purchases aimed at weakening the
real to help exporters. Policy makers bought $7.2 billion in the
 spot market  in April, the most since purchases of $8.4 billion
in March 2011.  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures increased on
speculation the central bank will slow the pace of reductions in
borrowing costs. The yield on the futures contract due in
January rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
8.07 percent.  Rate Cuts  Economists cut their estimates for inflation and economic
growth this year in a weekly survey published today as the
government cut taxes and reserve requirements in a bid to boost
 car loans  and speed up the expansion. Inflation will end the
year at 5.17 percent while the economy will grow 2.99 percent,
according to the survey.  Policy makers will lower the benchmark rate, known as Selic,
50 basis points to a record 8.5 percent at a May 30 meeting,
according to the median estimate of 39 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank has lowered the rate 350 basis points
since August.  Investor concern that fiscal stimulus could fuel inflation
is also pushing up yields on rate futures, Barbutti said.  Brazil may reduce this year’s primary budget surplus target,
which excludes interest payments on debt, to as low as 2.5
percent of gross domestic product from the current 3.1 percent
to bolster growth, O Estado de S. Paulo reported, citing
government officials it didn’t identify.  A Finance Ministry official declined to comment on the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  