-- Broadbent Says BOE Will Respond If Worst Euro Fears Realized
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-28T15:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/broadbent-says-boe-will-respond-if-worst-euro-fears-realized-1-.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said the U.K. central bank will respond if the worst
euro-area risks are realized, while acknowledging there is a
limit to what it can do.  “Were the still unlikely worst-case risks in the euro area
actually to be realized, then our own monetary policy would
again play its part in mitigating the impact,” Broadbent said
in a speech in London today. “While they are both necessary and
effective, these domestic interventions have their limits. It
remains the case that, for the time being at least, the most
important policy decisions affecting the U.K. are being taken in
other parts of the continent.”  Prime MinisterDavid Cameron is meeting with Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  today to discuss the crisis in the
euro area amid mounting speculation of a breakup of the 17-
nation currency bloc. The Bank of England has kept open the
possibility of doing more so-called quantitative easing after it
stopped stimulus this month.  “Fears have increased of a rare but bad economic
outcome,” Broadbent said. “These heightened fears may already
have been affecting the growth of U.K. activity, investment and
productivity for some time.”  ‘Animal Spirits’  The policy maker said that there is now a “higher hurdle
for risky investment,” reflecting “a rise in the perceived
probability of an extremely bad economic outcome.”  “Markets and businesses possess ‘animal spirits’ and can
overreact to events,” he said. “They may have done so again.
But there’s probably a premium on risky investments because
there is genuine economic risk.”  Broadbent also said that any response by the Bank of
England to a deterioration in the U.K. economy may already be
priced in by investors.  “Markets should, and presumably do, know that, because
such a downturn would threaten to push inflation to dangerously
low levels, it would also be met with further monetary easing,”
Broadbent said. “To a degree, therefore, that response is
already factored into market yields and the prevailing cost of
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  