-- Busson Said to Weigh EIM Sale as Fund-of-Funds Struggles
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-05-29T13:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/busson-said-to-weigh-eim-sale-as-fund-of-funds-struggles.html
Arpad Busson, who rode a global boom
in  hedge funds  to become one of the biggest investors in the
industry before the 2008 financial crisis, has held talks to
sell his EIM SA fund-of-funds firm after assets shrank, four
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Executives at EIM are discussing a sale to another asset
manager because the amount the firm manages has dwindled by more
than 50 percent from a peak of more than $14 billion before the
crisis, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. With fees for managing client money
falling, EIM is finding it harder to profit from a business that
still employs more than 100 people and has offices in cities
including London,  New York  and Paris, the people said.  EIM’s talks highlight the decline of so-called fund-of-
hedge-funds, which placed billions of dollars on behalf of their
clients with top money managers such as  John Paulson ,  Alan Howard  and  Louis Bacon . Pension funds, sovereign wealth funds
and insurers are increasingly bypassing funds-of-funds after the
companies lost money for investors in 2008 and placed assets
with  Bernard Madoff , later convicted of fraud.  “Fund-of-funds are no longer gatekeepers and the
effectiveness of their risk management has been called into
question,” said Neil Campbell, London-based head of alternative
investments at brokerage  Tullett Prebon  Plc. “The original
reasons why investors were willing to pay an extra layer of fees
now seem hopelessly flawed.”  Louis Bacon  Busson, 49, started Nyon, Switzerland-based EIM in 1992
after establishing himself in the hedge fund industry by helping
raise money from European clients for New York-based firms,
including Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LLC and  Paul Tudor Jones ’s Tudor Investment Corp. EIM and other fund-of-funds
charge fees, typically 1 percent of assets under management and
10 percent of any investment gains, to pick hedge funds for
clients. The charges come in addition to the 2 percent of assets
and 20 percent of gains that go to the underlying hedge funds.  Busson would want to remain with EIM if it is sold to
another company, according to a person briefed on his thinking
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “EIM is constantly looking at opportunities to grow its
asset base and its operations,” said Neil Bennett, a spokesman
for the firm in  London . He declined to comment on sale talks.  Busson is also known for his romantic relationships with
super model  Elle Macpherson  and now actress  Uma Thurman , and for
an annual hedge fund gala he throws in London to raise money for
charity that was attended last year by  Prince William  and the
Duchess of Cambridge. A sale would mark a change in course for
Busson, who said two years ago that he wanted to buy a
competitor and was reviewing three funds-of-funds for a
potential acquisition.  Funds Shrink  Funds-of-funds that lost money in 2008 have struggled to
claw back gains, making it difficult to earn the more lucrative
performance fees on the assets they manage. Firms lost an
average of 21.4 percent in 2008, before rising 11.5 percent in
2009 and gaining 5.7 percent in 2010, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. The average fund-of-funds declined 5.7
percent last year, before increasing 3.1 percent in the first
four months of 2012, according to the research firm.  Assets managed by hedge funds grew to a peak of $2.14
trillion in 2007 from $118.2 billion 10 years earlier, according
to data compiled by BarclayHedge Ltd., a Fairfield, Iowa-based
research firm. Meanwhile, assets in funds-of-funds tumbled to
$643 billion in the first quarter from a peak in 2007 of $798
billion, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Faced with that decline, companies have sought to bolster
their asset bases by acquiring competitors and then eliminating
jobs and cutting costs.  ‘Future is Bleak’  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-
fund company, agreed this month to buy FRM Holdings Ltd. The
deal will add $8 billion of assets to Man Group’s $11 billion
fund-of-funds business, the London-based company said May 21.  FRM will only receive cash from the sale if the firm
retains assets, with as much $47.5 million due to be paid out
after one year and as much as $66.5 million to be paid after
three years, Man Group said.  “Firms below a certain size realize their future is
bleak,” said Tullett Prebon’s Campbell, who previously managed
a fund-of-funds. “Buyers are capitalizing on this and
purchasing businesses at very cheap multiples.”  Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN) , based in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , said this month it would buy Hong Kong-based
Penjing Asset Management to add a business with about $434
million invested in hedge funds. Union Bancaire Privee, the
Geneva-based wealth manager that reorganized after its clients
lost money with Madoff, agreed in February to buy Nexar Capital
Group, a Paris firm with $3 billion of assets.  EIM also invested in Madoff, who is serving a 150-year
prison term after being convicted of running a  Ponzi scheme .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  