-- Buybacks Lowest Since 2009 as U.S. CEOs Push Up Spending
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-05-29T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/buybacks-lowest-since-2009-as-u-s-ceos-push-up-spending.html
Stock buybacks are falling to a
three-year low just as U.S. chief executive officers boost
spending on plants and equipment to a record.  Companies announced $1.1 billion of repurchases a day on
average during the earnings season in April and May, the lowest
level since mid-2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and TrimTabs Investment Research Inc.  Capital spending  in the
U.S. has risen since 2010 and reached $63.6 billion in March.
 Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  eliminated buybacks and boosted exploration
and production spending 18 percent.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
cut repurchases in order to buy TNT Express NV.  After the biggest first-quarter gain for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  since 1998, bears say the 58 percent decline in
buybacks removes key support for equities amid Europe’s debt
crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery. While orders for capital
equipment fell last month, bulls say the two-year gain in
business investment shows CEOs are growing more optimistic,
spending to raise profits instead of reducing stock to boost
per-share earnings.  “Investors and corporations themselves are best served
when the cash is applied to improving capital investment, as
opposed to buying stock back,” Bruce Bittles, chief investment
strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., which
oversees $85 billion, said in a May 22 phone interview. “That
would be much more bullish.”  Monthly Losses  The  S&P 500  has retreated 6.1 percent since its April peak,
leaving the  valuation  at 13.5 times annual earnings, 18 percent
below the average multiple of 16.4 since 1954, Bloomberg data
show. The index is poised for its first back-to-back monthly
losses since September amid concern that global economic growth
is slowing and Greece may leave the euro.  The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities advanced 1.7 percent
to 1,317.82 between May 18 and May 25, breaking a three-week
losing streak, after valuations dropped to the lowest level
since November. The index climbed 1.1 percent to 1,332.42 at 4
p.m.  New York  time today.  Companies purchased about $708 billion of shares in 2010
and 2011 as $1.27 trillion was added to U.S.  equity values ,
according to S&P and Bloomberg data. The buybacks coincided with
the rally that has lifted the S&P 500 by 95 percent since March
2009. The spending helped buoy stocks as investors pulled $167
billion from U.S. equity mutual funds, data from Washington-
based trade group Investment Company Institute show.  Buybacks Drop  Announced buybacks slipped to $21.7 billion in April and
$6.1 billion this month, on pace for the lowest level since
September 2009, according to Sausalito, California-based
TrimTabs. During the earnings season a year earlier, buybacks
averaged $2.6 billion a day, the data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets,
suspended its $15 billion program after at least $2 billion in
losses related to wrong-way bets on illiquid  credit derivatives .  As buybacks diminished, companies continued to return cash
through dividends, keeping the payout yield on the S&P 500 near
its decade average of about 2 percent. The slowdown in
repurchases removes some of the biggest buyers from the market,
said Chris Hyzy, who helps oversee about $325 billion as chief
investment officer of U.S. Trust.  “The demand to own shares is dropping,” Hyzy said in a
May 23 phone interview from New York. “The ability to stabilize
the market at a time when the retail investor and other
investors aren’t fully in is limited.”  Devon Spending  Devon, the third-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-
gas producer, plans no buybacks as it boosts exploration and
production spending to as much as $6.5 billion this year.  “We’re going to take a breather for the time being on
share buybacks,” Chief Executive Officer John Richels of the
Oklahoma City-based company told analysts on an April 4
conference call. “We have enough confidence, and we’re bullish
enough about these opportunities in our opportunity set, that we
just see that as a better allocation of that capital.”  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, this
month reduced its planned buybacks for this year to $1.5 billion
from $2.7 billion, reserving cash for its acquisition of TNT,
the biggest purchase in the Atlanta-based company’s 105-year
history.  “You would want to view buybacks in the context of the
other major uses of corporate cash,” Thomas O’Halloran, a
Jersey City, New Jersey-based money manager at Lord Abbett &
Co., which oversaw about $110.4 billion as of Dec. 31, said in a
May 23 interview. “When these are factored in, the corporate
behavior is probably neutral to bullish.”  Record Cash  S&P 500 companies outside the financial and utilities
industries increased cash holdings to a record $1.03 trillion at
the end of 2011 after  13 straight quarters  of beating analysts’
earnings estimates, according to S&P. Capital expenditures rose
38 percent from June 2010 through the end of the first quarter,
the fastest rate since June 2006, when stocks were in the middle
of a five-year  bull market , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded copper miner, raised its forecast in April for
capital spending to about $4.3 billion from $4 billion in
January. Earnings beat estimates for a  15th straight quarter  as
production dropped less than forecast for the first three months
of 2012, the Phoenix-based company said.  Intel Investment  Intel Corp. (INTC) , based in  Santa Clara , California, has boosted
investment for the past eight quarters to a record $2.97
billion, with analysts estimating that spending will surpass $3
billion this quarter, as the chipmaker overhauls older plants
and builds new ones, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said this month that Intel
expects gross margin, a measure of profitability, to be at the
high end of its historical range next year.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.2 percent last quarter. The
average quarterly rate of 2.4 percent since June 2009 is the
slowest for a post-recession recovery period since World War II,
Bloomberg data show.  Orders for computers, machinery and other non-military
equipment dropped 1.9 percent in April, decreasing for a second
month, data from the Commerce Department showed last week.
Economists forecast a gain of 0.8 percent, according to the
median of 49 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , said the U.S. economy is
expanding slowly enough that the European debt crisis has the
potential to cause a recession.  Business Prospects  “How long is it going to look like that?” Brady, who
helps oversee about $76 billion at Thornburg, said in a May 24
phone interview. “If the prospects for businesses generally are
less good, slower economic growth, slower global growth, then
investing in those businesses is far less helpful.”  Companies such as  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , which sells hardware and
software for storing data, have yet to benefit from a boost in
spending as waning demand for their products and services
translates into lower returns. The Sunnyvale, California-based
company last week forecast first-quarter earnings that trailed
analyst estimates, citing increasing uncertainty about the
economic environment.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  CEO  Michael Dell  said revenue will miss estimates
for the period ending in July as he’s seeing a “delay and pause
in spending activity” by larger customers.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
CEO John Chambers also said earlier this month that a decline in
orders from big companies hurt fourth-quarter sales projections.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  To Pioneer Investments’  John Carey , the slower-than-average
expansion is a benefit for CEOs because they can increase
capital spending at a steady pace, enabling a broader expansion
for the economy over a longer period.  “Companies are now seeing some attractive growth
opportunities for the long term,” Carey, who helps oversee
about $220 billion at Pioneer in Boston, said in a telephone
interview on May 23. “The more moderate growth rate means that
companies don’t have to feel quite as pressured to hire lots of
people and build lots of new plant right away, they can take
their time and plan in a more deliberate way.”  “That’s a positive for creating conditions for a more
sustained kind of recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  