-- Cameron’s Cabinet Distracted From Governing by Hacking Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-29T11:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/cameron-s-cabinet-distracted-from-governing-by-hacking-hearings.html
David Cameron  and his ministers are
braced for weeks of unrelenting media attention, with a third of
his Cabinet putting their day jobs on hold and preparing to
testify under oath to the U.K.’s inquiry into press ethics.  One government aide described the situation as a nightmare,
with ministers getting ready to face hours of questioning from a
trial lawyer, all broadcast live. Another official said
Cameron’s office had been forced to compile a list of every
journalist the prime minister had met since 2005, when he became
Tory leader. The officials declined to be named because they
weren’t authorized to disclose the details.  Education Secretary Michael Gove and Home Secretary Theresa May were the first ministers to face questioning today. The
hearings before Judge Brian Leveson are a distraction as the
Cabinet tackles a double-dip recession, the fallout from a
possible Greek exit from the euro area, and the security and
transport challenges posed by this summer’s  London  Olympics.  “Inquiries are time-consuming, they are distracting,”
Peter Goldsmith, a former attorney general who testified at
probes in 2003 and 2004 into the events surrounding the Iraq
War, said in a telephone interview. “It makes it very difficult
to get on with the business of government.”  Hunt’s Future  After journalists, the police and Rupert and  James Murdoch ,
politicians are starting to come under the spotlight of the
Leveson Inquiry, set up last year by Cameron as he tried to
distance himself from News Corp. following the phone-hacking
scandal at its News of the World tabloid. The future of Culture
Secretary Jeremy Hunt, who testifies on May 31, depends on his
convincing the inquiry he behaved properly in adjudicating on
News Corp.’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , who gave evidence in
public and private to the various Iraq War probes, told Leveson
yesterday he’d never done a deal with Rupert Murdoch to drop
planned media legislation in return for favorable coverage.  It was a less intense grilling then the one he faced at the
2003 inquiry led by Brian Hutton into the death of a government
scientist who’d been identified as the source of a leaked story
on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. That could have cost him
his job, and in his memoir, Blair described “an audible
collective sigh of relief” in his office as they read the
conclusions.  ‘Declared War’  Business Secretary Vince Cable will be questioned tomorrow
about his initial handling of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.2 billion) bid in 2010 to buy the portion of BSkyB that it
didn’t own.  Unlike many ministers from his coalition partners in
Cameron’s  Conservative Party , Cable won’t be asked if he was too
close to the company: the Liberal Democrat was stripped of
responsibility for deciding on the deal in December 2010, after
two undercover journalists recorded him saying he’d “declared
war” on Rupert Murdoch. Cameron asked Hunt to review the bid
instead.  While no schedule for the Leveson Inquiry has been released
beyond this week, Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
have both said they’re ready to appear. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  may also be called, having been cited
frequently in evidence as close to  Rupert Murdoch  and his
lieutenants.  Communications Chief  Cameron will be questioned about his decision to employ as
his head of communications  Andy Coulson , who had resigned as
editor of the News Of The World in 2007 after one of his
reporters was convicted of phone-hacking.  Coulson, who quit his job in Cameron’s Downing Street
office at the start of 2011, was arrested last July after the
police widened their investigation. He’ll also be asked about
his relationship with the Murdochs and with former News Corp.
executive Rebekah Brooks, charged with perverting the course of
justice earlier this month.  In today’s testimony, May told the inquiry she hopes new
national guidelines will bring “common sense” to relations
between police and the press. The rules have been drafted by the
Association of Chief Police Officers, following accusations that
some police got too close to reporters. London’s Metropolitan
Police are investigating allegations that News Corp. made
corrupt payments to officials in return for stories.  Lobbyist E-Mails  It is Hunt who faces an immediate threat. The government
was blindsided in April as the Leveson Inquiry began hearing
extracts of e-mails from News Corp. lobbyist Fred Michel that
appeared to quote Hunt as privately supporting the BSkyB bid
while he was supposed to be adjudicating impartially.  As calls from the Labour opposition began for Hunt’s
resignation, he and his officials were unable to see what he was
supposed to be responding to. The following morning, his adviser
 Adam Smith , whom Hunt had appointed as the contact person for
Michel, resigned, saying he’d got too close to the lobbyist.  ‘Daddy,’ ‘Papa’  The government has since joined the list of celebrities and
news organizations granted early, private access to Leveson
evidence. While that’s more work for the small number of aides
who’ve signed the confidentiality agreement and can see the
documents, it meant they were ready on May 25 when  text messages 
between Hunt and Michel were released that showed them referring
to each other as “Daddy” and “Papa”; they’d met in 2010 when
their wives gave birth in the same hospital.  Matthew Taylor , who was chief adviser on political strategy
for Blair when the Hutton Inquiry’s report was published, said
most ministers aren’t under the pressure Hunt faces.  “How distracting is it? It’s only quite distracting,” he
said in an interview. “I don’t think in Downing Street things
will not be being done because of Leveson. I suspect that  Jeremy
Hunt  is feeling the kind of pressure we felt during Hutton.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 