-- Canadian Stocks Snap Four-Day Rally Amid Spain Concern
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-28T19:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/canadian-stocks-snap-four-day-rally-amid-spain-concern.html
Canadian stocks  declined as concern
about Spain’s finances overshadowed rallies in gold and oil,
preventing the fifth straight advance in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  dropped 2.7 percent after
talks to end a six-day strike ended.  Canadian National Railway
Co. (CNR)  dropped 1.9 percent as the work stoppage snarled traffic.
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  fell at least 0.4 percent.
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  gained 0.3 percent as oil futures rose for a
third consecutive session.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  lost 11.98 points, or 0.1
percent, to 11,564.49 at 3:13 p.m. Toronto time. The benchmark
gauge rose as much as 0.5 percent earlier. It added 2.6 percent
last week and posted the biggest four-day rally since Feb. 22.
Trading volume for S&P/TSX companies was 59 percent less than
the 10-day average today as U.S. stock exchanges were shut for
Memorial Day.  “The lack of liquidity is probably the key thing in  Canada 
today,” Brian Huen, a managing partner at Red Sky Capital
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The
firm oversees about C$55 million ($54 million). “You could see
some swings. I don’t expect people to give much legitimacy to
big moves in stocks.”  The index completed its first weekly gain since the end of
April on May 25 as materials and bank shares rallied after U.S.
home sales rose and investors speculated China and  Europe  will
stimulate economic growth.  ‘Grave and Significant’  Industrial companies in the benchmark gauge decreased as
railroads slumped. The strike is having a “grave and
significant” impact on the world’s 10th-biggest economy, Labor
Minister Lisa Raitt told reporters in Ottawa after introducing
legislation to end the six-day dispute.  Canadian Pacific  fell 2.7 percent to C$75.07. Canadian
National Railway slipped 1.9 percent to C$81.97.  Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
decreased 0.4 percent to C$41.07. Goldcorp, the second-largest
producer of the metal, fell 1.1 percent to C$38.40.  Bank were little changed as Spanish debt fell amid concern
the nation’s lenders will need more financial support to weather
Europe’s debt crisis. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
the euro region’s rescue fund should be able to bypass national
governments and recapitalize distressed lenders directly.  Energy companies in the S&P/TSX rose as oil advanced for a
third day on the growing signs that Greek voters may back
austerity measures, boosting confidence that the bloc’s debt
crisis can be contained.  Suncor Energy, Canada’s largest oil and gas producer, rose
0.3 percent to C$28.95.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  