-- China Yongda Scraps Hong Kong IPO Amid Weak Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T05:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/china-yongda-scraps-hong-kong-ipo-amid-weak-demand.html
China Yongda Automobiles Services
Holdings Ltd. (3669)  canceled plans to raise as much as $430 million in
an initial public offering in  Hong Kong , two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  China ’s biggest distributor of BMW cars, which had extended
its order-taking process from last week, decided to shelve the
offering after failing to get enough demand from investors, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. The Shanghai-based company has to set a
final price for the shares no later than today, according to a
sale prospectus. Yongda Chairman Cheung Tak On couldn’t be
reached for comment at his office.  Yongda pursued its IPO at a time when Chinese auto
dealerships were struggling to raise funds in the  capital
markets .  China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  and Baoxin
Auto Group Ltd., which operate BMW stores in China, scrapped
plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds this month, with Baoxin
citing “less attractive” market conditions.  “Yongda’s IPO came at a bad time,” said Yao Wei, an
analyst with Everbright Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Auto
dealers have been burning money on network expansion and have
caused market concern over their cash flows.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  is  down 11 percent 
this month on signs that China’s economic slowdown is deepening
and  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Dow Jones Newswires reported the cancellation of the IPO
earlier today.  Auto Dealerships  Yongda, which operates 66 stores selling mid- to high-end
vehicles, is the fourth Chinese auto dealer to try and raise
funds in Hong Kong in the past two years.  Zhongsheng Group
Holdings Ltd. (881) , a Beijing-based distributor of Mercedes-Benz
cars, first sold shares in March 2010, followed by ZhengTong
Auto and Baoxin Auto.  All three stocks have fallen this year, with only
Zhongsheng trading above its IPO price. Zhengtong Auto has
fallen 40 percent and Baoxin Auto is down 26 percent. Zhongsheng
has declined about 10 percent.  Hong Kong’s IPO market is set for its slowest first half
since 2009. Companies have raised $1.4 billion through initial
offerings so far this year, compared with $7.3 billion in the
same period in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yongda had planned to use about 50 percent of the net
proceeds to finance the opening of new outlets, about 35 percent
on acquisitions and the rest to upgrade and expand existing
showrooms and for working capital, according to its prospectus.
A 10th of the stock offered were shares sold by existing
shareholders, it said.  Business Risks  The company began as a joint venture with a bicycle
accessory manufacturer in 1991, before expanding into
distributing passenger vehicles a year later. It then started
businesses in auto rental and vehicle insurance, and went into
sales of pre-owned vehicles.  Risks to its business include a reliance on a few major
brands for revenue, and competition in China’s dealership
industry, Yongda said in the prospectus this month.  Growth in the industry is slowing. Chinese vehicle demand
in the first four months of the year increased the least since
1998, weighing on automakers from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which are counting on the nation to offset
slumping sales in Europe.  The slowing demand is hurting dealerships, whose pileup of
unsold cars is threatening to deepen price cuts, according to Su
Hui, vice president of the auto market division at the state-
backed China Automobile Dealers Association.  “Unsold cars are crowding dealer lots in cities from
 Guangzhou  in the south to Xi’an to the west,” Su said in a
telephone interview this month. “It’s like a contagious disease
that will spread.”  Yongda’s sale was arranged by UBS AG and HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  