-- China Stimulus May Be 2 Trillion Yuan, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T09:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/china-stimulus-may-be-2-trillion-yuan-credit-suisse-says.html
The Chinese government’s stimulus in
response to the nation’s economic  slowdown  will probably be as
high as 2 trillion  yuan  ($315 billion), half the size of 2008’s
package, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Spending on investment will range from 1 trillion yuan to 2
trillion yuan, compared with the 4 trillion yuan stimulus
enacted in response to the global financial crisis, Tao Dong, a
Hong Kong-based economist, said in a research note today. The
government actions will aid a rebound in growth that may slow to
7 percent or “slightly below” this quarter, Tao said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has vowed to focus more on increasing
growth after trade and domestic demand were below forecasts in
April, data that prompted economists to pare outlooks for the
world’s second-largest economy. The government’s efforts may
help lift expansion in the second half to a range of 8 percent
to 8.6 percent, Tao said.  “These policy stimuli can hold the slide in growth and
investment demand, but probably not enough to stage a 2009-style
rebound,” Tao said. “The central government is likely to play
a bigger role in funding, in contrast to last time in 2009 where
the local governments relied on bank lending for funding almost
entirely.”  China’s central bank is likely to cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement  ratio  by 50 basis points each in the third and
fourth quarters, said Tao, who doesn’t “rule out an extra cut
in June.”  There’s a “possibility” China’s central bank will lower
the benchmark lending rate by a quarter percentage-point without
a reduction in the deposit rate, he said.  Lending-Rate Range  Separately,  Ma Jun , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 Hong Kong , sees chances of greater than 50 percent that the
nation will cut  interest rates  or ease the floating range for
lending rates, according to a Deutsche Bank research note dated
May 25.  Credit Suisse’s second-quarter growth forecast is lower
than that of all 21 economists who responded to a Bloomberg News
survey May 14-15. The median estimate was for 7.9 percent
expansion, with projections ranging from 7.5 percent to 8.4
percent. Tao forecast an 8 percent rate for the entire year,
compared with the median 8.2 percent in the survey.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose for the first time in
four trading days, gaining 1.2 percent today.  Central authorities have “encouraged local governments to
bring forward their planned infrastructure projects to an
earlier date,” Tao said. There are also credit lines for
railways, subsidies for environmental-protection projects and
funding for public housing, he said.  Speeding Up Approvals  China  has sped up the approval process for major projects,
the official Xinhua News Agency said in a report today. The
country will also encourage greater private investment in banks,
according to guidelines released by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission in a statement posted on its website May 26.  China announced the 4 trillion yuan stimulus package in
November 2008. Local governments ending up spending close to 14
trillion yuan, Tao said.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
planning agency, may be accelerating construction approvals.
Baosteel Group Corp. and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group won permission
to build 134 billion yuan of new factories, the NDRC said last
week. The NDRC had delayed approving the two steel projects in
2009, citing industry overcapacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  