-- China Stocks Gain on Government Support, Greek Election Optimism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T07:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/china-s-stock-futures-drop-after-industrial-company-profits-fall.html
China’s stocks  rose for the first
time in four days on speculation the government will take more
steps to bolster economic growth and concern eased that Greece
will leave the euro bloc.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585)  and  China  Railway Erju Co. jumped
more than 5 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG said the
government is accelerating investment approvals. Jiangxi Copper
Co. advanced among commodity producers after opinion polls
showed support for a party that backed up bailout plans with the
European Union.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s largest carmaker,
surged the most in four months on speculation the government
will subsidize purchases of fuel-efficient cars.  “Investments are the powerful tools the government can use
now to boost the economy in a short term,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million. “These
measures are useful to get rid of the hard-landing risk in the
economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.2 percent to
2,361.37 at the close, erasing a 1.1 percent loss and snapping a
three-day, 1.7 percent drop. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 1.6
percent to 2,614.69. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 0.8 percent in  New York  on May 25.  The Shanghai index lost 0.5 percent last week, a third week
of declines, after a survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics signaled manufacturing may shrink for a seventh month
in May. The stock gauge has fallen 1.5 percent  this month  on
concern the slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is
deepening. The measure trades for 10.2 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s multiple of 9.7.  Government Approval  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, added 5.8
percent to 17.87  yuan . Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co.
advanced by the daily limit of 10 percent to 13.42 yuan. Railway
Erju surged 10 percent to 8.07 yuan.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. (000709) , the
listed unit of China’s biggest steel producer, gained 2.3
percent to 3.10 yuan.  Spending on investment will range from 1 trillion yuan
($157.7 billion) to 2 trillion yuan, compared with the 4
trillion yuan stimulus enacted in response to the global
financial crisis, Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist, said in
a research note today.  China’s State Council said on May 23 that downside risks to
growth are increasing and the government will intensify “fine-
tuning” policies as needed, signaling it may take more
aggressive steps to support the nation’s expansion. Industrial
companies’ profits declined 2.2 percent from a year earlier in
April, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its website
yesterday. That compared with a 4.5 percent gain in March.  ‘Weak’ Measures  The government should speed up important infrastructure
projects in impoverished areas and improve health-care services,
the Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao  during a trip to  Hunan province .  “Economic figures for May will continue to be bad,” said
Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “The current stimulus measures are
still perceived to be weak and not enough to reverse a decline
in growth. The market is looking forward to more.”  The Shanghai Composite has advanced 7.4 percent this year
on expectations the central bank will ease monetary policies to
spur growth. Thirty-day  volatility  in the index was at 14.70
today, near the lowest level in a year. About 7.4 billion shares
changed hands on the gauge on May 25, 18 percent lower than its
2012 daily average.  Biggest Market  Commodity producers advanced on speculation  Greece  avoiding
an exit from the euro area will ease  Europe ’s debt crisis and
boost metals demand in Europe. The continent is China’s biggest
export market, making up about 18 percent of the nation’s
overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose
2.2 percent to 26.04 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal,
added 1.5 percent to 6.84 yuan. Greece’s New Democracy, which
supports a European Union bailout plan, was placed first in all
six opinion polls published on May 26 as campaigning continued
for next month’s general election.  SAIC Motor jumped 5.2 percent to 15.54 yuan, its biggest
gain since Jan. 17. FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars with
Volkswagen AG, gained 5.2 percent to 12.05 yuan.  Chongqing
Changan Automobile Co. (000625) , the Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co.
and Mazda Motor Corp., surged 7.2 percent to 5.38 yuan.  Suntech Power  The government will provide subsidies to buyers who trade
in used vehicles for fuel-efficient ones in rural areas, Reuters
reported, citing an unidentified government official.  American depositary receipts on Suntech Power Holdings Co.,
the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, fell to a seven-month low
on May 25 after HSBC Holdings Plc  reduced  its price estimate on
the shares and Nomura Holdings Inc. reiterated a sell
recommendation on the ADRs.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.5 percent to $32.58
on May 25, taking its  loss  last week to 1.3 percent.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  