-- Colombia Yields Fall to One-Week Low as Bank Holds Rate Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-05-28T19:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/colombia-yields-fall-to-one-week-low-as-bank-holds-rate-steady.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a one-week low, as the central bank refrained from
increasing borrowing costs, citing European debt turmoil.  “The central bank is much more focused on external risks
in this statement,” said Omar Escorcia, an analyst at Asesores
en Valores SA, a brokerage in Bogota. “Given the risks to
growth, we shouldn’t see inflationary pressures or the need to
raise  interest rates  soon.”  The yield on the country’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.14 percent, according to the central bank. The price
rose 0.212 centavo to 122.688 centavos per peso.  The central bank’s seven-member board, led by Jose Dario
Uribe, voted unanimously to keep the overnight lending rate at a
three-year high of 5.25 percent today, matching the forecast of
all 26 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The higher risk of a
“heavy recession” in  Europe  “increased the uncertainty on the
central forecasts for Colombian growth,” policy makers said in
a statement following the decision.  Banco de la Republica maintained its forecast for growth of
about 5 percent this year after the economy expanded 5.9 percent
last year.  While Escorcia expects policy makers to raise the target
rate before year-end, he said he is dropping his call for a 50
basis point increase to 5.75 percent and is expecting a boost to
5.50 percent instead.  Peso Pares Gains  Colombia’s peso pared its gain after the central bank’s
decision. It rose earlier as companies preparing to pay local
taxes between June 8 and June 25 bought the currency.  “We’re going to continue to see increased dollar flows
into Colombia” as companies bring in revenue from abroad to pay
taxes, according to Escorcia.  The peso was little changed at 1,831.50 per  U.S. dollar ,
according to the stock exchange’s electronic currency
transactions system, known as SET-FX. With markets closed in the
U.S. today, Colombia’s currency trades in the so-called next-day
market, in which payment and delivery are made the following
trading day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  