-- Colombia to Keep Rate at Three-Year High, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-28T18:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/colombia-to-keep-rate-at-three-year-high-survey-shows.html
Colombia ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a third month, citing the
deepening  European debt crisis , slower-than-expected April
inflation and lower  oil prices .  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted unanimously to keep the  overnight lending rate  at a three-
year high of 5.25 percent today, matching the forecast of all 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Recent events in  Europe  increase the risk of a heavy
recession in that continent, with scarce space for fiscal and
monetary policies to combat it, and a fragile financial
system,” Uribe said in Bogota today. “The higher chance of
this scenario coming to pass increased the uncertainty on the
central forecasts for Colombian growth.”  Colombia has defied a global trend for lower rates as
domestic demand and record foreign investment helped power the
fastest  economic growth  since 2007. As policy makers cite the
risks of consumer-loan growth, which reached 22 percent in
March, economists are sticking with forecasts for higher
interest rates later this year, while traders see no change
after inflation slowed to within the target range.  Policy makers will probably hold rates until at least
October, said Andres Langebaek, a senior economist at  Banco
Davivienda SA. (PFDAVVND)   “The outlook for inflation is very close to the 3 percent
target and with growth decelerating we don’t see a need to raise
rates,” Langebaek said, speaking by telephone from Bogota.
“The situation in Europe is a big worry, and growth could fall
short of what people now expect.”  Rate Increases  Banco de la Republica has increased the key rate nine times
since February 2011, raising it from a record low 3 percent as
 inflation  accelerated to as fast as 4.02 percent in October.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.43 percent in April, from
3.4 percent in March. Uribe said the April figure was less than
expected, and that inflation risks are “moderate”. Colombia
targets consumer price increases of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Policy makers said they have the tools to provide liquidity
in local and foreign currency in an atmosphere of international
financial turbulence. The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to
1827.50 per  U.S. dollar  as of 12:45 p.m. local time.  Rates Outlook  Trading in six-month and one-year  interest-rate swaps 
reflect bets that rates won’t change through the rest of the
year. Six-month swaps were little changed at 5.12 percent on May
25 from a record-high 5.48 percent Feb. 22, two days before
policy makers raised borrowing costs. One-year swaps rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.2 percent on May 25.  By contrast, the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed
by Citigroup Inc. points to a 25 basis-point increase to the key
rate by year-end, according to a report published May 23. That’s
in line with a May 11 central bank report showing most
economists expect policy makers to raise the lending rate a
quarter point to 5.5 percent in September.  The South American nation moved to slow the pace of
consumer credit growth earlier this month by increasing reserve
requirements for lenders that have seen a rise in delinquent
loans. Forcing banks to set more money aside will help avoid
“future problems,” Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said
in a May 18 statement.  Policy makers will need to raise  interest rates  further
this year to maintain inflation in check amid the surge in
lending, according to Felipe Campos, the head analyst at Alianza
Valores brokerage in Bogota.  Inflation Risks  “The internal dynamics, with  consumer lending  growing at a
strong pace, risks stoking inflation,” Campos said in a
telephone interview before the rate decision. He forecasts
policy makers will raise the key rate in the second half of the
year to 5.5 percent.  Consumer borrowing is increasing after the economy grew 5.9
percent last year, the most since gross domestic product jumped
6.9 percent in 2007. The economy will grow about 5 percent in
2012, Uribe said in the May 18 presentation. That compares with
International Monetary Fund forecasts for expansion of 5.5
percent this year in  Peru , 2.1 percent in the U.S. and 3 percent
in  Brazil .  Colombia’s industrial production fell 0.9 percent in March
from a year earlier, the first annual decline since October
2009. Retail sales rose 5.1 percent in the same month, the 30th
consecutive month of increases.  “It’s very difficult to think the central will keep on
lifting rates,” said Munir Jalil, the chief economist at
Citigroup’s Colombia unit, speaking by telephone before the
interest rate decision. “At a moment when the economy is
decelerating, there is no pressure” to raise borrowing costs,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 