-- Congress’s Trade Policy Is Increasingly Delusional
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/congress-s-trade-policy-is-increasingly-delusional.html
In a speech two weeks ago, Senator
 John McCain  delivered a  blistering assessment  of President
 Barack Obama ’s trade policy.  “The United States has been sitting on the sidelines, and
 Asia  is sprinting forward without us,” he said. “After four
years, this administration still has not concluded or ratified a
single free-trade agreement of its own making.”  McCain conceded that on Obama’s watch Congress passed three
free-trade agreements made under President  George W. Bush . But,
he said, “Since 2003, China has secured nine FTAs in Asia and
 Latin America  alone. It is negotiating five more, and it has
four others under consideration.” Japan and  India  are seeking
trade agreements, as well. “As of last year, one report found
that Asian countries had concluded or were negotiating nearly
300 trade agreements -- none of which included the  United States 
of America.” He concluded that we, too, should pursue “an
ambitious trade strategy in Asia.”  McCain’s criticism of Obama is fair. It is also a bit
strange, and in a way that reflects the oddly narrow scope of
the debate about trade policy in the U.S.  McCain worries that we are falling behind other countries.
But the classical case for free trade doesn’t fit this concern
very well. That case warns against treating international
commerce as a competition among nations -- against, that is,
identifying a country’s interests with those of its exporters.  Economic Argument  Economists, or at any rate the vast majority of them, say
nations should lower their barriers to imports because it
promotes the efficient allocation of resources. That argument
doesn’t depend on whether other countries are making trade
agreements with one another. It doesn’t even depend on whether
those countries have barriers against our imports. The theory
suggests that if nations lower their barriers to one another’s
imports, they will make more gains than if only one country does
so. It also suggests that a country makes itself better off by
lowering its barriers unilaterally.  U.S. politicians who support free trade rarely make any
such argument, and haven’t done so for decades. Instead they
make mercantilist arguments for free trade, in which we must
regrettably  open our markets  to foreign imports as the price for
getting other countries to do the same for our exports. In
debates over trade agreements, both sides typically accept the
notion that imports are bad and exports are good. The question
becomes whether the agreement will do more to boost imports or
exports.  It isn’t uncommon for administrations that seek to
liberalize trade overall to erect barriers for the benefit of
this or that industry. The Bush administration briefly imposed
steel tariffs to placate members of Congress from the  Rust Belt .
The Obama administration has placed tariffs on tires (at a cost
of  at least $900,000  for each job saved). This tactic fits
comfortably within the political consensus for free-trade
mercantilism.  In recent years, the debate has narrowed still further
because both sides have converged rhetorically. Protectionists
in the U.S. do not advertise themselves as such: They say they
favor free trade so long as it is fair. Free traders don’t wish
to be portrayed as supporting unfairness, and so everyone calls
himself a supporter of “free and fair trade.”  Whatever its theoretical inadequacy, free-trade
mercantilism has worked pretty well since World War II. It has
enabled a vast expansion of global trade and thus of global
wealth. But it is yielding diminishing returns as a strategy for
liberalizing trade. Public support for open trade  has fallen  in
the U.S. Majorities in the 1990s thought “the opportunity for
economic growth through increased U.S. exports” outweighed the
“threat to the economy from foreign imports.”  They no longer do .  Critical Turn  The  Democratic Party , which in the middle of the last
century was the more pro-trade of the two parties, has turned
sharply critical of it. In the 2004 and 2008 Democratic
presidential primaries, most candidates were competing on the
basis of who could be most hostile to trade agreements. In 2008,
Obama even called for renegotiating the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  enacted in 1993.  He shelved that idea in office. But as McCain observed,
Obama still hasn’t shown much leadership on trade. Daniel Ikenson and Scott Lincicome  wrote a paper  for the  Cato Institute 
at the start of the administration expressing the hope that
Obama would restore the country’s “pro-trade consensus.” Ikenson
now says he was “too optimistic.” Free traders are spending more
time fending off protectionist measures against  China  than they
are on offense.  Mitt Romney , Obama’s presumptive Republican
opponent in November, is contributing his share of tough talk on
trade with China. (This position might go the way of Obama’s
Nafta idea if he takes office.)  The prevailing rhetoric on trade corresponds less and less
to reality. Ikenson notes that 58 percent of imports are of
intermediate goods and capital equipment that companies here use
to make finished products. Cutting the cost of those imports by
lowering trade barriers helps these companies compete rather
than hurting them.  That’s one reason for free traders like McCain to ditch the
old mercantilist strategy. The other is its increasing political
failure. Falling support for trade has many causes, but the
failure of almost anyone in politics to make the real and
unequivocal argument for it has almost certainly been one.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  uncertainty and the
economy  and  staving off war in Sudan ;  Simon Johnson  on creating
a  National Safety Board for finance ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on the  next debt-ceiling debate ; Chip Jacobs on
 California Governor Jerry Brown’s green-energy plans ;  Roger
Lowenstein  on  risk and hedging .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 