-- Congo May Have Violated IMF Deal With Mining Asset Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-28T16:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/congo-may-have-violated-imf-deal-with-mining-asset-sale.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo sold
a stake in a mining company last year, according to company
minutes, potentially breaching conditions attached to the
country’s $561 million International Monetary Fund loan
agreement because it failed to disclose the transaction.  Gecamines, the state-owned miner, sold its 25 percent stake
in Comide Sprl, which owns copper deposits in the resource-rich
Katanga region, to Straker International Corp., a British Virgin
Islands-registered company, according to Comide board minutes
from June 29 obtained by Bloomberg News.  Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. (ENRC) , the London-listed company founded by Kazakh
investors, is the biggest shareholder in Comide.  Congo hasn’t published details of the deal on government or
Gecamines websites as is required under the IMF accord. The
multilateral lender is due to decide in about a month whether to
release the next tranches of the loan, about $160 million,
blocked after Congo failed to disclose four similar asset sales
in the past 18 months. Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in a
May 24 phone message he had no information on the stake sale.  “Our views and the conditions under the program have not
changed,” Samir Jahjah, the IMF’s representative in Congo, said
in a May 24 interview in Kinshasa, the capital. He declined to
comment further. All state-owned companies, including Gecamines,
are required to report share sales to the government and IMF
under the terms of the loan program, Jahjah said in September.  IMF Aid  Gecamines Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kalej declined to
comment when contacted on his mobile phone on May 24 and didn’t
answer calls or text messages on May 25 and yesterday. Chairman
Albert Yuma didn’t respond to two phone calls, two  text messages 
and an e-mailed request for comment. A list of Gecamines’ joint
ventures on the Mines Ministry’s website still includes Comide.
No contact details for Straker were available. ENRC didn’t
respond to requests to confirm the sales.  The IMF blocked aid to Congo, ranked by the  United Nations 
as the world’s  least developed  country, as it enforced
transparency conditions designed to ensure revenue from natural
resources go to state coffers.  Laurent Lambert Tshisola Kangoa, CEO of another state-owned
miner, Sodimico, said in July his company was asked to pay $10
million to the Treasury to help fund last year’s presidential
election after a similar stake sale that wasn’t announced.  Loans Suspended  Sodimico last year sold its share in two copper projects
for $30 million, less than a 16th of the value of the assets,
according to estimates by Numis Securities Ltd. and Oriel
Securities Ltd., two London-based brokerages. Those deals
prompted the IMF to suspend its loans to Congo.  Over the past 18 months, Congo sold copper and cobalt
assets estimated by analysts at Numis, Oriel and Atlanta-based
Golder Associates to be worth more than $2.4 billion. The Comide
board minutes didn’t disclose the value of the sale of
Gecamines’ stake or the identity of Straker’s owners.  Comide owns deposits in a mineral-rich seam in the southern
Katanga province containing 4 percent of the world’s copper
reserves and more than half of its cobalt, a metal used to make
rechargeable batteries.  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  are investing billions of dollars in
copper and cobalt mines on either side of Comide’s concession.  ENRC became Comide’s biggest shareholder in 2010, when it
purchased 50.5 percent of Camrose Resources Ltd. from Dan Gertler, an Israeli mining investor who says he is a friend of
Congo’s President  Joseph Kabila .  Katanga Acquisitions  ENRC has spent $2.65 billion since 2009 buying into
projects in Katanga, according to regulatory filings from the
company. It bought one of these, a project called Dezita that
borders Comide, for $195 million last year, according to a
company statement in August. The company’s copper production
climbed 46 percent in 2011, its annual report shows.  In August 2010, ENRC became the biggest shareholder of a
mine tailings project that Congo’s government had seized from
Vancouver-based  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , prompting the
Canadian miner to sue ENRC and Gertler-affiliated companies for
more than $2 billion. The case was settled for $1.25 billion in
January. Mine tailings are waste from earlier mining operations
that can be reprocessed to extract metal.  Deal Argument  ENRC’s value declined more than 14 percent over eight days
in August 2010 while the deal with Gertler was being concluded.
Ken Olisa, an independent ENRC director at the time, said in
July the Camrose purchase exacerbated arguments between
independent board members and the main shareholders. ENRC stock
rose 1.3 percent to 456 pence as of the close in  London 
today. It has fallen 28 percent in the past six months.  ENRC has said it’s in talks to take over licenses for two
mines formerly owned by First Quantum that were subsequently
sold by Sodimico to companies registered outside the country.
The IMF has also questioned those sales, which were at prices
below independent valuations done by Numis and Oriel.  In addition to copper, Comide’s concessions may contain
cobalt, gold and nickel, according to the website of Congo’s
Mining Registry. Camrose, which holds ENRC’s and Gertler’s
shares in Comide, is drilling in two of its permit areas and
“aims to define probable reserves during 2012 to accelerate
development,” according to ENRC’s 2011 annual report.  ENRC couldn’t immediately comment when contacted on May 25.
The company’s 2011 annual report still says Gecamines is its
partner at Comide. Gertler declined to comment yesterday through
a spokesman who declined to be identified in line with company
policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  