-- Copper Climbs for Third Day on Reduced Concern About Euro Crisis
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-28T17:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/copper-climbs-for-third-day-on-reduced-concern-about-euro-crisis.html
Copper rose for a third day in London
as opinion polls showed support for Greek political parties
backing a bailout plan, easing concern about the euro-region
debt crisis that threatens to crimp demand.  Greece ’s New Democracy, which supports a European Union
rescue, placed first in all six opinion polls published May 26
as campaigning continued for next month’s general election. The
euro strengthened for a first session in five against the dollar
today, making metals priced in greenbacks cheaper for users of
the single European currency.  “A touch of optimism has crept into the market,” RBC
Capital Markets Ltd. said in a note. Copper benefited from “a
deeply oversold position, as well as some talk that demand is
not as poor as some perceive.”  Copper for three-month delivery settled 0.6 percent higher
at $7,685 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Prices are
down 8.5 percent this month, on course for the biggest drop
since September. Copper for July delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$3.4685 a pound on the Comex in  New York , where floor trading is
shut today for the Memorial Day holiday.  Copper inventories monitored by the LME fell for a third
session to 223,050 tons, daily exchange figures showed.
Stockpiles have dropped 40 percent this year and are on course
to shrink for an eighth month in a row.  “We continue to see a tight market for copper and a
positive long-term outlook,” Neil Hamilton, chairman of OZ
Minerals Ltd.,  said  at the Melbourne-based producer’s annual
meeting. “Global copper supply looks like it will continue to
remain under pressure.”  Orders to draw the metal from LME warehouses declined for
an 11th session to 23,950 tons.  Money managers switched to betting on lower copper prices
by a net 2,808 Comex futures and options contracts in the week
ended May 22, according to the Commodities and Futures Trading
Commission. That compares with a 4,833-contract wager on a
rising market a week earlier, figures showed.  Aluminum and tin rose in  London . Zinc, lead and nickel
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  