-- Costner’s the Real Hatfield; Kidman at Normandy: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/costner-s-the-real-hatfield-kidman-at-normandy-review.html
Shotguns, moonshine, young love and
bad blood: America’s most notorious feud was a miniseries
waiting to happen.  History channel’s three-part, six-hour “ Hatfields &
McCoys ” chronicles the stolen pigs, felled trees and slain
kinfolk that nearly drove Kentucky and  West Virginia  to war.  Granted, that’s a lot of chronicling. Midway through I felt
stuck on a limb in someone else’s family tree.  But in director Kevin Reynolds’s straightforward telling,
“Hatfields & McCoys” has a bit of the old-fashioned appeal of
a classic network miniseries. No “ Deadwood ” cool here.  Kevin Costner  and Bill Paxton star as the dueling
patriarchs, former friends who fell out during the Civil War.
Land disputes and petty lawsuits escalate to bloodshed through
the post-war decades, the scope of the mayhem attaining national
attention and forever tying the family names together.  Paxton takes full advantage of his juicier role as Randall
McCoy, a war camp survivor with a taste for vengeance and
hellfire religion. Mare Winningham plays his woebegone wife (and
gives the series’ most effective, vanity-free performance).  Too much time is handed over to prettier-than-likely Matt
Barr and Lindsay Pulsipher as the mountain’s answer to Romeo and
Juliet, while other characters (Boyd Holbrook’s one-eyed crack-
shot Cap Hatfield, Tom Berenger’s snake-mean Uncle Jim Vance) go
undeveloped.  Costner, a producer of the series, is his usual dour self.
History to the contrary, his feuding seems driven less by
passion and revenge than unshakeable grumpiness.  “Hatfields & McCoys” airs tonight, Tuesday and Wednesday
on History at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Hemingway & Gellhorn’  The digital wizardry hasn’t been invented that could
justify inserting  Nicole Kidman ’s 21st-century face into
harrowing newsreel footage of the concentration camp at Dachau
and other WWII atrocity sites.  But  HBO ’s “ Hemingway & Gellhorn ” tries. Oh, how it tries.  Kidman plays Martha Gellhorn, the pioneering war
correspondent remembered mostly, if unfairly, for her brief
battleground of a marriage to  Ernest Hemingway , here portrayed
by  Clive Owen  as an abusive, bespectacled blowhard.  Directed by  Philip Kaufman  (“ The Unbearable Lightness of
Being ”), “Hemingway & Gellhorn” follows the literary super
duo from the shell-shocked fields of the Spanish civil war
through the bedrooms of  Key West .  Muttering Papa  Screenwriters Jerry Stahl and Barbara Turner leave few
Hemingwayisms unsaid. So we have Papa muttering about “grace
under pressure” while watching the anti-Fascists fight. He
never actually asks for whom the bell tolls. That’s left to a
dinner companion.  Any veneer of historical accuracy is undone by the film’s
howling phoniness, beginning with the hard-boiled dialogue. “I
won’t see you destroyed by some...some...Gellhorn!” screams an
irate Pauline Hemingway (Molly Parker) to her cheating husband.  Too late, of course. Papa is already smitten, having
watched (as we do, thanks to the “ Zelig ”-like special effects)
Gellhorn dodge the generalissimo’s bombs to rescue a baby.  What possessed Kaufman to attempt this trickery is anyone’s
guess. The image of Kidman and Owen --- and we can’t pretend
they’re anyone else -- chatting up the real Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt is nearly as ludicrous as Kidman, in fatigues,
storming the beaches of Normandy.  “Hemingway & Gellhorn” airs on  HBO (TWX)  Monday at 9 p.m. New
York time. Rating: *  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater
and  James Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 