-- Dewey, Coudert, Jenner, Mitchell Silberberg: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-29T11:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/coudert-jenner-block-mitchell-silberberg-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP sought Chapter 11
protection yesterday, listing debt of $245 million and assets of
$193 million in a filing  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The New York-based firm, which had more than 1,300
attorneys in 12 countries after the 2007 merger of Dewey
Ballantine LLP and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & McRae LLP, now has
150 employees in the U.S. to wind it down, Jonathan A. Mitchell,
the firm’s restructuring officer, said in the filing. Dewey will
be liquidated, he said.  Dewey hired Togut Segal & Segal LLP as bankruptcy counsel.
It is closing offices in  Hong Kong , Beijing,  Sao Paulo , London,
Paris, Madrid, Frankfurt and Johannesburg. All U.S. offices have
been closed or are closing. The firm is recovering equipment and
artwork and securing client’s records, according to the filing.  Dewey has accounts receivable and work-in-progress in the
U.S. valued at $255 million, according to the filing. The firm
has historically collected about 95 percent of its accounts
receivable and converted 84 percent of work-in-progress to
accounts receivable, it said, although it is unlikely to attain
those rates in bankruptcy.  Dewey owes secured lenders $225 million, with an additional
$50 million owed to secured property lessors and $40 million in
accounts payable, pension and deferred compensation claims and
claims by employees for accrued paid time off, it said.  The law firm said it consolidated its bank debt on April
16, issuing $150 million of notes. Between Jan. 1 and March 30
about 20 percent of the firm’s equity partners resigned or left,
it said. As of last week at least 250 of Dewey’s 304 partners
had found new jobs.  For more, click here.  Judge Holds Ten Firms Liable to Coudert for Unfinished Business  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP,  Jones Day  and Dechert
LLP are among 10 law firms that must account for profits they
made from Coudert Brothers LLP’s unfinished business, a federal
judge in  New York  ruled.  Coudert filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in September 2006.
The plan administrator sued the firms in 2008 in  bankruptcy
court  claiming they were liable for any profits derived from
completing client matters that former Coudert partners brought
to their new homes. The firms argued that the doctrine didn’t
apply as the matters were billed hourly and not taken on
contingency. U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  disagreed and
denied the firms’ motion to dismiss.  “Although the New York Court of Appeals has not addressed
this precise issue, I believe that it would conclude that the
method by which the client matters were billed does not alter
the nature of Coudert’s property interest in them,” McMahon
said in a 54-page ruling on May 24.  Coudert, founded in 1853, had more than 600 lawyers in 15
countries when it filed for bankruptcy to avoid posting bonds
related to two legal malpractice suits it lost. The law firm
began winding down in 2005.  Last week’s ruling could affect similar claims in the case
of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which has retained a restructuring
company to lead its wind-down efforts. Dewey’s equity partners,
a group that numbered about 190, could be subject to such
claims, lawyers said.  McMahon referred to Dewey in without naming it
specifically. She held that the provisions of partnership law
“may appear dated, or even quaint to observers of the kind of
sophisticated corporate law practice that was once carried on at
Coudert.”  “In the context of the ‘mega-firm’ model -- divisions
among classes of partners, client hoarding, and mercenary
lateral hiring -- one could argue that the law’s presumption
that partners are mutual owners of all of a law firm’s business,
and that all contribute to its success and so are entitled to
share in the profits, no longer reflects the reality of
practice,” she wrote. “Many partners at such firms no longer
view their ’book of business’ as an asset of the firm, but as a
jealously guarded piece of personal property.”  She added that law firms are free to modify partnership
agreements to reflect current law firm practice. But without
such a modification, she held, “the Couderts of this world are
bound by the ‘quaint’ practices of yore.”  McMahon ruled that former Coudert partners are obligated to
account for any profits they earned while winding down the
client matters at the firms.  Beth Huffman, a spokeswoman for Dechert, declined to
comment on the ruling. Dave Petrou, a spokesman for Jones Day,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Ben
Harris, a spokesman for Akin Gump, had no immediate comment.  David Adler, a partner in the New York office of McCarter &
English LLP, represented Development Specialists Inc., the plan
administrator for Coudert. Partner Susheel Kirpalani and of
counsel Eric Kay of the New York office of Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP represented the law firms in the action,
which, in addition to Akin Gump, Dechert and Jones Day, include
Arent Fox LLP, DLA Piper LLP, Duane Morris LLP, Dorsey & Whitney
LLP, K&L Gates LLP,  Morrison & Foerster LLP  and Sheppard Mullin
Richter & Hampton LLP.  The case is In Re Coudert Brothers LLP 11-cv-05994, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-SEC Attorney Barred for 1 Year Over Stanford Ethics Lapse  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission barred one of
its former enforcement officials from practicing before the
agency for one year over claims he violated federal conflict-of-
interest rules.  Spencer Barasch , who participated in the SEC’s
investigation of R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion Ponzi scheme,
performed private legal work for Stanford Group Co. about a year
after leaving the agency even though the agency’s ethics office
had told him he was prohibited from doing so, the SEC said in a
statement last week. Barasch consented to the bar without
admitting or denying the allegations.  Stanford was convicted March 6 of 13 criminal counts
stemming from an investment fraud built on bogus certificates of
deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank sold
through his U.S. brokerage. The investigation became a black eye
for the SEC after an inspector general report found the agency
had been aware of a possible fraud for more than a decade.  “This action shows that the commission takes seriously
ethical lapses by attorneys who appear and practice before it,
and that such violations will result in serious disciplinary
action,” Richard Humes, SEC associate general counsel, said in
a statement.  “In order to avoid the expense and uncertainty of
protracted litigation, Spence and the government have entered
into a settlement that fully and finally resolves this matter,”
Paul Coggins, an attorney for Barasch at Locke Lord LLP, said in
a statement.  Barasch, who now practices law at Andrews Kurth LLP in
Houston, agreed earlier this year to pay a $50,000 civil fine to
the  Justice Department  for violating ethics rules.  New Suits  Jenner & Block, Mitchell Silberberg Sue Dish for Networks  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , alleging
that their copyrights are infringed by Dish’s PrimeTime Anytime
video-on-demand service that allows viewers to watch network
programs commercial-free.  Dish created a “bootleg video-on-demand service,” which,
if not stopped, “will ultimately destroy the advertising-
supported ecosystem that provides consumers with the choice to
enjoy free over-the-air, varied, high-quality primetime
broadcast programming,” Fox said May 24 in a complaint in
federal court in Los Angeles.  Fox is represented by partners Richard Stone, Andrew Thomas, David Singer and Amy Gallegos, all in the Los Angeles
office of Jenner & Block LLP.  CBS and NBC sued Dish separately in the same court. The
networks accused Dish of copyright infringement and asked for
unspecified damages as well as court orders preventing its
unauthorized distribution of their programs. Fox also sued Dish
for breach of contract. Robert Rotstein, Patricia Benson and
Jean Pierre Nogues from Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP are
representing both CBS and NBC.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , filed a separate
complaint May 24 in federal court in New York against Fox, CBS,
NBC and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC. Dish seeks a court ruling that it
isn’t infringing copyrights.  “Consumers should be able to fairly choose for themselves
what they do and do not want to watch,” David Shull, Dish
senior vice president of programming, said in a statement.
“Viewers have been skipping commercials since the advent of the
remote control; we are giving them a feature they want and that
gives them more control.”  Dish is represented by Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP.
Listed on the complaint from Orrick are Peter A. Bicks, E. Joshua Rosenkranz and Elyse D. Echtman, all partners in the New
York office.  In March, Dish introduced its Hopper set-top box, which
contains, in addition to a subscriber-controlled digital video
recorder, a Dish-controlled section of the hard drive that
records the entire primetime broadcast schedule of the four
major networks every night, according to the Fox complaint.  Dish operates the PrimeTime Anytime service so that the
copied shows can be watched commercial-free with its Auto Hop
feature, Fox said.  “We were given no choice but to file suit against one of
our largest distributors,  Dish Network , because of their
surprising move to market a product with the clear goal of
violating copyrights and destroying the fundamental
underpinnings of the broadcast television ecosystem,”  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman, said in a statement.  Grogin declined to comment on Dish’s lawsuit in New York,
where News Corp. is based.  The  Los Angeles  cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).
The New York case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting
Cos., 12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  In the Courts  American Airlines Doesn’t Need Merger, Lawyer for AMR Says  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  can be strong as a standalone
company and doesn’t need a merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to
survive, a lawyer for American said in court.  American needs a competitive cost structure, and union
support for a merger shouldn’t factor into a judge’s
consideration of American’s request to reject union contracts,
attorney Jack Gallagher said in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  “The suggestion that there is a transaction likely with  US
Airways  is wholly speculative, wishful thinking,” Gallagher,
senior counsel at Paul Hastings LLP, said.  American and unions representing pilots, flight attendants
and mechanics were in court May 25 for closing arguments over
AMR’s request to void labor contracts.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deals  Weil Gotshal, Simpson Thacher, Kaye Scholer on Archstone Deal  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. reached a deal to buy the
rest of apartment owner Archstone for almost $1.6 billion from
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , ending a dispute with
the banks over the price.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP represents Lehman. On the deal
from Weil are New York partners David Herman, Michael Bond,
Raymond Gietz and Scott Sontag as well as partner Kyle Krpata in
Silicon Valley.  Kaye Scholer LLP represented Bank of America. The Kaye
Scholer partners involved were New York partners Mark Kingsley,
Edmond Gabbay, Aaron Rubinstein, Louis Tuchman and Frankfurt
Partner Sebastian Jungermann.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP represented Barclays. The
partners from Simpson are Patrick Naughton, Peter Pantaleo,
Gregory Ressa, Peter Kazanoff and Nancy Mehlman, all in New
York.  The defunct investment bank also agreed that  Sam Zell ’s
 Equity Residential (EQR) , which had an option to buy the remaining
half of the banks’ stake, will get $150 million, including an
$80 million breakup fee from the banks and $70 million from
Lehman, according to a statement by Lehman.  Hogan Lovells LLP and Morrison & Foerster LLP represented
Equity Residential. From Hogan & Lovells were partners Bruce Gilchrist, Warren Gorrell, Prentiss Feagles and Cristina Arumi
in  Washington  and Ira Greene in New York. From Morrison &
Foerster was partner David Slotkin in Washington.  Lehman, which is starting to pay creditors after officially
exiting bankruptcy court protection, had tried to stop the banks
from concluding the option deal with Zell, saying he had bid up
the price -- Lehman paid just $1.3 billion for the first half of
the banks’ stake -- and the banks would be unjustly enriched. A
judge earlier this year told Lehman, which had more than $20
billion of cash at the time, it could afford to pay more for the
remaining 26.5 percent of Archstone.  Lehman previously owned 47 percent of Archstone, before
agreeing to pay $1.3 billion for the first half of the banks’
stake.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, and the Archstone case is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more on the deal, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  