-- Debt-Ceiling Deja Vu Could Sink Economy
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/debt-ceiling-deja-vu-could-sink-economy.html
Europe is crumbling.  China  is
slowing. The  Federal Reserve  is dithering. Yet the biggest
threat to the emerging U.S. economic recovery may be Congress.  John Boehner , the leader of the  House Republicans , has
promised yet  another fight  with the White House over the debt
ceiling -- the limit Congress has placed on the amount the
federal government can borrow.  If this sounds familiar, it’s because we suffered through
an identical performance last summer. Our analysis of that
episode leads to a troubling conclusion: It almost derailed the
recovery, and this time could be a lot worse.  Sometime around the end of this year, the federal
 government will bump up  against its $16.4 trillion borrowing
limit, as a direct result of spending and tax laws enacted by
Congress. To raise the limit, legislators must pass a separate
law. In principle, the extra level of approval can serve as a
useful mechanism, forcing Congress to debate its priorities. But
refusing to raise the limit wouldn’t free the government of its
existing spending obligations. Rather, it would leave the
government with no choice but to default on its debts.  In other words, congressional Republicans are taking the
government’s creditworthiness hostage when they threaten not to
increase the debt ceiling. Politically advantageous as this may
be, it is terrible economics. To understand why, let us consider
the economic effects of last year’s debt-ceiling debate. If we
know our history, perhaps we will not be doomed to repeat it.  Confidence Drop  High-frequency data on  consumer confidence  from the
research company Gallup, based on surveys of 500 Americans
daily, provide a good picture of the debt-ceiling debate’s
impact (see chart). Confidence began falling right around May
11, when Boehner first announced he would not support increasing
the debt limit. It went into freefall as the political stalemate
worsened through July. Over the entire episode, confidence
declined more than it did following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. After July 31, when the deal to
break the impasse was announced, consumer confidence stabilized
and began a long, slow climb that brought it back to its
starting point almost a year later. (Disclosure: We have a
consulting relationship with Gallup.)  Businesses were also hurt by uncertainty, which rose to
record levels as measured by the number of newspaper articles
mentioning the subject. This proved far more damaging than the
regulatory uncertainty on which Republican criticisms of  Barack
Obama ’s administration have focused (more on that subject in a
Bloomberg View editorial today). Employers held back on hiring,
sapping momentum from a recovery that remains far too fragile.  Growth in nonfarm payrolls decelerated to an average 88,000
a month during the three months of the debt-ceiling impasse,
compared with an average of 176,000 in the first five months of
2011 (see chart). Payroll growth subsequently recovered and has
averaged 187,000 jobs a month since. Despite the rebound in job
growth, employment is likely still below where it would
otherwise have been.  There are also more visible permanent scars. The sense that
the U.S. political system could no longer credibly commit to
paying its debts led the  credit-rating  company  Standard & Poor’s 
to remove the U.S. government from its list of risk-free
borrowers with gold-standard AAA ratings. Just as a poor credit
score raises the  interest rate  you pay in the long run, so a
worse credit rating will probably raise the interest rate on our
national debt.  Economic Sabotage  All told, the data tell us that a debt-ceiling standoff is
an act of economic sabotage. The only way to avoid this
conclusion is to argue that consumers and employers were
reacting to some other economic factors. But the debt ceiling
was the dominant economic story at the time. No other news fits
the data as well. Although the  European debt crisis  was a rising
concern throughout 2011, the real trouble in  Europe  arose in the
period when consumer confidence and employment were recovering.  The next debt-ceiling battle could be worse, because the
stakes are even higher. In addition to the threat of default,
the U.S. is facing the so-called fiscal cliff: a raft of
spending cuts and tax increases that will happen at the end of
this year unless Congress acts to postpone them. Another
stalemate would almost certainly plunge the economy into a deep
recession. Our best alternative -- in fact, our only hope -- is
for Congress to set aside partisan politics and work together
with a common goal of helping our country out of the Great
Recession.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  uncertainty and the
economy  and  staving off war in Sudan ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the
 U.S.’s flawed trade policy ;  Simon Johnson  on creating a  National
Safety Board for finance ; Chip Jacobs on  California Governor
Jerry Brown’s green-energy plans ;  Roger Lowenstein  on  risk and
hedging .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu ;
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 