-- Deutsche Bank Accused of Improper Swap Sales in Unitech Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-28T08:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/deutsche-bank-accused-of-improper-swap-sales-in-unitech-lawsuit.html
Unitech Ltd. (UT) , an Indian property
developer, accused Deutsche Bank AG of selling it an interest-
rate swap that wasn’t suitable and wasn’t properly explained,
according to a  London  lawsuit over a $150 million loan deal.  Unitech filed a counterclaim in May arguing Deutsche Bank
was negligent to sell an unsuitable hedging agreement, and owed
damages that canceled out its debt, according to court
documents.  Germany ’s biggest bank had earlier sued Unitech
saying a unit of the company owes $11 million under the swap
contract and has missed payments.  Deutsche Bank “knew, or must have appreciated, that it was
likely to make significant amounts of money” from the contract
at Unitech’s expense, the Indian company said in its lawsuit.  Interest-rate swaps  that turned out to be costly for
customers and profitable for banks have led to hundreds of
lawsuits and an investigation by the U.K. Financial Services
Authority into how they were sold. Unitech’s suit is one of the
largest to reach the U.K. courts. The issue has affected bank
customers from British seaside cafes to municipal governments
including Milan in Italy and Jefferson County, Alabama.  “There is a large spectrum of misselling claims in terms
of amounts and sophistication of customers,” said Max Hotham,
an attorney at Enyo Law LLP in London, who isn’t involved in the
Unitech case. His largest U.K. case involves a 1 billion-euro
($1.26 billion) swap, he said in a phone interview. “The scale
of this thing is enormous.”  Unitech’s lawyer Paul Friedman and Libby Young, a Deutsche
Bank spokeswoman, both declined to comment.  Spiraling Costs  The swaps are supposed to protect borrowers from a rise in
 interest rates  by converting floating-rate debt to fixed-rate
debt. Customers can face spiraling costs if rates drop or move
more than expected.  Unitech said in the lawsuit its managers didn’t have any
experience with interest-rate swaps and Deutsche Bank hadn’t
explained the risks.  Total payments under the agreement were at least $23.5
million between 2007, when it was signed, and 2010, Unitech
said. That sum showed “the transaction was not a suitable
hedge.”  The case is:  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  v. Unitech Limited,  High
Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, 12-464  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  