-- Dexia in Exclusive Talks With Sberbank to Sell Denizbank
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-05-28T12:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/dexia-in-exclusive-talks-with-sberbank-to-sell-denizbank.html
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest
lender, is taking advantage of the retreat by western lenders in
Turkey and Eastern Europe to expand, according to Deputy
Chairman Anton Karamzin.  The Moscow-based lender began talks to buy  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in
Istanbul from  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender said on May
24. Citigroup Inc. said on the same day it is selling a 10.1
percent stake in Turkey’s  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  for $1.15 billion to a
group of investors it didn’t identify, according to a statement
from the New York-based bank.  “Some of the European and international banks are forced
by their capital and liquidity positions and regulatory
requirements to reshape their geographic coverage in favor of
their core market places,” Karamazin said.  Sberbank is seeking growth outside the former  Soviet Union 
as western European lenders sell subsidiaries in eastern Europe
and Turkey to comply with capital rules or state-aid conditions.
It acquired most of Oesterreichische Volksbanken’s eastern
European business for 505 million euros ($635 million) in
February to expand in the region.  Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, put Denizbank up for
sale as part of a rescue plan imposed by the French and Belgian
governments when the debt crisis eroded its access to funding.
The sale came amid decisions by lenders such as Deutsche Bank AG
and France’s Societe Generale SA to dispose of more than $1
trillion in assets, loan portfolios and units to raise cash,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, creating a surge in
available banking assets.  ‘Attractive Market’  “Our interest in Denizbank, which is in the top 10 in
Turkey, is based on the premise that you have to have some scale
there to be successful as it’s a very competitive market,”
Karamzin said. “Eastern  Europe  is an attractive market that
will offer growth and profitability opportunities for us so in
case of VBI it was logical for us to enter now because things
are cheap now but haven’t degenerated from the crisis to the
point it would be easier to build banks than to buy them.”  Sberbank may pay as much as 1.5 times Denizbank’s book
value, valuing the bank at about $4 billion, said a person close
to the deal, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. Denizbank had a book value of about $2.7 billion at the
end of the first quarter. Karamzin declined to discuss price as
negotiations are continuing.  ‘Credit Positive’  A deal would be “credit positive” for both Sberbank and
Dexia, according to Eugene Tarzimanov, a senior analyst at
Moody’s Investors Services. It would reduce Sberbank’s reliance
on its domestic market and create a platform for expansion in a
market that offers “long-term growth potential,” Tarzimanov
wrote in a report today.  The bank should reach its five-year target of earning 5
percent of profits from overseas operations by the end of 2013,
Karamazin said. It also has “some interest in  Poland ” even if
it hasn’t identified any targets, he said.  Sberbank bought a 93.3 percent stake in Belarusian BPS Bank
for $280.8 million in 2009. The 171-year-old lender also has an
office in  Germany , a branch in  India  and is building a foothold
in  China , according to its  website .  Sberbank and VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
have increased their share in their domestic retail market over
two years as Barlcays Plc,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  exited. Sberbank, with slightly less than 50 percent of all
deposits in Russia, acquired Moscow brokerage Troika Dialog in
January to expand into  investment banking .  Sberbank’s  shares  climbed as much as 2.2 percent today and
were 0.5 percent higher at 80.42 rubles ($2.52) by 4:11 p.m. in
Moscow. Denizbank’s  shares  plunged 10.56 percent to 12.7 liras
($6.92) in Istanbul after tumbling 20 percent on Friday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  