-- Diageo Targets Brazil With $453 Million Ypioca Acquisition
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-05-28T10:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/diageo-to-buy-brazilian-cachaca-ypioca-brand-for-453-million.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Smirnoff
vodka and Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky, said it will pay
900 million reais ($453 million) in cash for Brazilian cachaca
brand Ypioca as it expands in faster-growing  emerging markets .  Diageo, the world’s biggest distiller, will buy the brand
and some production assets from Ypioca Agroindustrial Limitada,
the London-based company said today in a statement.  The acquisition will further Diageo’s push into markets
outside its main regions of Europe and U.S., where weak economic
conditions are restricting growth. The distiller plans to expand
sales from emerging markets to at least 50 percent of total
revenue. It  bought   Turkey ’s Mey Icki raki brand for about
$2.1 billion last year and got regulatory approval in March
to buy a Chinese white-spirits maker, ShuiJingFang.  “This looks like a pretty smart acquisition,”  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in London, said today. “It fits
into that mould of emerging-market bolt-on deals like Mey Icki
and ShuiJingFang that Diageo seems to be doing.”  As the main ingredient in a caipirinha cocktail, cachaca is
the most popular liquor in  Brazil , Diageo said. Ypioca, the
second-largest cachaca brand by value and third-largest by
volume, had annual sales of about 177 million reais in 2011.
It’s made from fermented sugar cane juice and is mixed with
lime, sugar and ice to make a caipirinha.  Distribution Platform  “Brazil is an attractive, fast-growing market for Diageo
with favorable demographics and increasing disposable incomes,”
Diageo Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said in the statement.
The purchase will boost Diageo’s revenue growth, he said.  Diageo said it will benefit from Ypioca’s distribution
strength in the north-east of Brazil, as the U.K. distiller is
traditionally stronger in the south of the country. The
acquisition will double the U.K. company’s size in Brazil and
“gives us a platform to further penetrate the middle class by
reaching a larger and wider outlet universe with a combined
broader brand portfolio,” according to the  statement .  Ypioca is the leading premium cachaca in Brazil, it said,
with 8 percent of the market. Diageo trying to sell more
expensive, higher-profit brands as fast-growing economies
increase consumer purchasing power in emerging markets.  Brazilian cachaca, though, “is not a premium industry,”
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a
note. Flavored and premium cachaca brands only account for a
combined 2 percent of the market, and Brazilians tend to trade
up from mainstream cachaca to beer instead of more expensive
cachaca, he said.  Limited Potential  “There is potential for growth in premium cachaca,” but
the opportunity is relatively small, Stirling wrote.  Diageo rose 0.6 percent to 1,523 pence as of 11:34 a.m. in
London, extending the stock’s gain this year to 8.3 percent.  The acquisition represents a multiple of about 19 times
earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization, UBS’s Earlam estimated. Diageo paid 9.9 times Mey
Icki’s 2010 Ebitda, it said at the time of that deal.  “There seems to be an increased opportunism around M&A,
but if you look at any sort of acquisition, the multiples are
going to become increasingly eye-watering” as competition for
assets increases, Earlam said.  Morgan Stanley advised Diageo on the transaction, which the
company said will be completed in about a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  