-- Dollar Scarce as Top-Quality Assets Shrink 42%
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-05-29T17:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/dollar-scarce-as-top-quality-assets-shrink-42-after-stimulus.html
The dollar is proving scarce, even
after the  Federal Reserve  flooded the financial system with an
extra $2.3 trillion, as the amount of the highest-quality assets
available worldwide shrinks.  From last year’s low on July 27, the greenback has risen
against all 16 of its major peers. Intercontinental Exchange
Inc.’s Dollar Index surged 12 percent, higher now than when the
Fed began creating dollars to buy bonds under its extraordinary
stimulus measures at the end of 2008.  International investors and financial institutions that are
required to own only the highest quality assets to meet
investment guidelines or new regulations are finding fewer
options beyond dollar-denominated assets. The U.S. is one of
only five major economies with credit-default swaps on their
debt trading at less than 100 basis points, meaning they are
viewed as almost risk free. A year ago, eight Group-of-10
nations fit that category, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The pool of high-rated assets has been shrinking, not
just in the  euro zone  but elsewhere as well,”  Ian Stannard ,
Morgan Stanley’s head of Europe currency strategy, said in a May
22 telephone interview. “With the core of Europe shrinking, and
the available assets for reserve purposes shrinking, it makes
the euro zone less attractive.”  Euro Depreciation  The dollar is gaining mainly at the expense of the euro,
which has depreciated almost 5 percent in the past six months
against a basket of nine major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
as nations from  Spain  to Italy see their credit ratings
downgraded amid the region’s sovereign crisis.  Spain, which has about $917.5 billion of debt, has been cut
six levels by Moody’s Investors Service to A3 from Aaa in
September 2010.  Italy , with more than $2 trillion of debt, has
been reduced four levels to A3 from Aa2 in October.  “We’re seeing many more periods of dollar buying during
these uncertain times,” Ken Dickson, an investment director of
currencies at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, which
manages $257 billion, said May 24 in a telephone interview.  The U.S. currency appreciated 2.06 percent last week to
$1.2517 per euro in New York after touching $1.2496, the
strongest since July 2010. It gained 0.84 percent to 79.68 yen.
The Dollar Index jumped 1.37 percent to 82.402, its fourth-
straight weekly rally.  The dollar rose 0.5 percent to $1.2482 per euro as of 1:20
p.m. in  New York . The greenback was little changed against the
yen at 79.42.  Bigger Share  The five economies with default swaps trading at less than
100 basis points have a combined $14 trillion in debt, with the
U.S. accounting for 75 percent, according to CMA data compiled
by Bloomberg as of May 25. A year ago, when there were eight
nations, the total was $24 trillion, with America making up 38
percent. German credit-swaps rose to 100 basis points today from
99 basis points last week.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s AAA Rated Global Fixed
Income Index contained 3,597 securities with the highest ratings
as of April 30, down from a high of 5,331 in December 2007, the
fewest since November 2005. Dollar assets make up 65 percent of
the index, up from 56 percent in 2008.  Hungary’s central bank is among reserve managers
diversifying foreign-exchange holdings as the credit quality of
European assets declines. The central bank said it will include
dollars, yen and British pounds in its reserves, currently
invested exclusively in euro-denominated securities.  No ‘Master Plan’  “The number of euro-denominated assets that meet our
quality standards has dropped radically,” Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Andras Simor told reporters on May 14 in Budapest.
“More and more securities were dropped from our portfolio as
the credit grade of more and more countries fell below the
single A category and as more and more securities don’t meet our
market quality requirements.”  China Investment Corp. President Gao Xiqing said May 10 the
nation’s sovereign wealth fund stopped buying government debt in
 Europe  as the region’s turmoil intensifies. With an estimated
$440 billion in assets, CIC is the world’s fifth-largest country
fund, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  “Ever since the debt crisis broke out, there has never
been a master plan for a resolution,”  Jin Liqun , chairman of
CIC’s supervisory board, said at an event hosted by the Centre
for Policy Studies in  London  on May 22.  Such comments are bolstering the dollar’s status as the
world’s primary reserve currency after a decade-long decline.  Official Holdings  The greenback’s  share  of global foreign-exchange reserves
climbed in the last three-months of 2011 to 62.1 percent, the
highest since June 2010, while holdings of  euros  fell to the
lowest since September 2006 at 25 percent, according to the
latest quarterly data from the  International Monetary Fund .  Foreign official  holdings  of  U.S. government debt  increased
in each of the first three months of 2012, climbing by 3.24
percent to $3.73 trillion in the best start to a year since
2009, according to data from the Treasury Department.  Demand from outside the U.S. helps the administration of
President  Barack Obama  finance a  budget deficit  forecast to
exceed $1 trillion for a fourth year.  A relatively strong dollar may also damp criticism of the
Fed if it decides to expand its balance sheet to boost the
economy. The  Dollar Index  tumbled 14 percent during the Fed’s
two rounds of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, or
QE, between December 2008 and June 2011.  ‘Way Oversold’  While the dollar is “somewhere safe to hide,” the euro is
poised to rebound before Greek elections next month before
resuming its decline against the U.S. currency, said  John Taylor , founder of New York-based currency-hedge fund FX
Concepts LLC, which oversees $3.9 billion.  “We are way oversold in the euro,” Taylor said on May 24
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen.  The dollar’s appeal is also getting a boost as nations
generally perceived as havens become less welcoming.  The  Swiss National Bank  introduced a 1.20 franc-per-euro
limit in September after its currency rose to a record, hurting
exporters and increasing the risk of deflation.  Japan  spent 16.4 trillion yen ($206.6 billion) in
intervention in 2010 and 2011, according to the  Finance
Ministry . The franc has lost 1.9 percent against the dollar this
year and the yen has depreciated 3.1 percent.  “The other countries that often have some kind of a safe-
haven attraction to them are slowly but surely saying that we’re
not so sure we want our currencies to be stronger,” Standard
Life’s Dickson said.  Bank Demand  Demand for dollars is also showing up in financial
institutions needing to meet Basel III regulations set by the
 Bank for International Settlements . The new rules on capital
reserves will “increase the price of safety” embedded in
assets deemed a reliable store of value, the IMF wrote in an
April 18 report.  The cost for banks to convert euro interest payments into
dollars through the swaps market for three years has increased
to 67.8 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or
Euribor, from 34.8 basis points below in March 29, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Negative spreads show a premium for
dollar funding.  Dollar assets are also looking attractive on a relative
basis, with yields on Treasuries due in 10 years averaging 0.37
percentage point more than German bunds of similar maturity. As
recently as November, Treasuries yielded about 0.33 percentage
point less than bunds.  “With the chronic problems and challenges in Europe, it’s
hard to see how that’s going to overtake the dollar anytime in
our lifetime, if the euro even still exists in our lifetime,”
Tim Adams, a managing director at the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based investment consultant and former Treasury
undersecretary, said May 1 at the Bloomberg Washington Summit
hosted by Bloomberg Link.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  