-- Dutch Debt Regains Allure on Politics: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-05-29T09:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/dutch-debt-regains-allure-as-politics-trump-crisis-euro-credit.html
The  Netherlands  is back in favor
among bond investors attracted by its fiscal record and return
to political stability as they seek havens from  Greece ’s
potential exit from the euro area.  Dutch bonds have delivered the third-biggest returns in the
world since April 23, when Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his
Cabinet’s resignation before winning opposition parties’ support
for an austerity package three days later. Dutch 10-year yields
stayed below 2 percent during each of the past eight trading
days, falling to an all-time low of 1.759 percent today, a drop
of 54 basis points since April 24.  Investors are turning to the Netherlands for refuge in one
of  Europe ’s remaining AAA rated nations as market turbulence
worsened after inconclusive Greek elections fueled bets the
currency area is heading for a breakup. The austerity agreement
reached between Rutte and three opposition parties, which
includes raising the so-called value added tax to 21 percent
from 19 percent, eased concern the country would miss its
deficit targets, making its bonds an alternative haven to the
record-low yields of  Germany .  “The decisive factor was the willingness to cooperate from
the opposition parties,” said Martti Forsberg, a portfolio
manager at Nordea Investment Management in Helsinki, who added
to his holdings of Dutch bonds after the government collapsed.
“There is no question that the Netherlands is one of the
strongest countries in Europe together with Germany.”  Forsberg is responsible for the management of about 2.5
billion euros of European debt.  Dutch Spread  Since April 23, the extra yield, or spread, that investors
get for holding Dutch 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity
German bunds has narrowed 39 basis points to 40 basis points  as
of 10:26 a.m. London time. Demand for the securities rose after
Rutte’s Liberals agreed with the opposition on a package to meet
the European Union’s  budget deficit  limit. The next elections
are due Sept. 12.  The  European Commission  is due to make policy
recommendations to the Netherlands and other EU states tomorrow
based on their medium-term budgetary plans submitted last month.  The euro area’s fifth-largest economy expects to save 12.4
billion euros next year by raising taxes and cutting spending,
the caretaker government said in a plan published May 25. It
pledged to lower the budget deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from 4.2 percent this year, which is
lower than a 4.6 percent estimate made in March.  Austerity Measures  Investors are betting that measures such as increasing the
pension age ahead of schedule, reducing tax breaks for commuters
and increasing contributions to health-care costs will remove
the threat of credit downgrades after  Standard & Poor’s  changed
its outlook on the Netherlands to negative on Jan. 13.  While Holland’s budget deficit is forecast to exceed the
average for the 17-nation euro region in 2012, the nation had
surpluses in the two years before the start of the financial
crisis in 2009.  “The Dutch have a good track record in keeping their
deficit low, and while they’ve had some problems, the long-term
perspective counts most for investors and there’s nothing to get
overly excited or worried about,” said Piet Lammens, head of
research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels.  Even with the $779 billion economy mired in its second
recession in three years, the Netherlands’ borrowing costs for
10 years have plunged relative to the U.S.  The spread over similar-maturity Treasuries was three basis
points, down from 73 basis points in November, as Dutch bonds
benefited from the nation’s status as one of the euro area’s
four AAA rated economies, along with Germany, Finland and
Luxembourg.  Relative Returns  Dutch  government bonds  have returned 3.9 since April 23,
trailing behind France and  Austria  among 26 indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish securities slipped 2.3 percent in the same
period, while German bunds rose 2.1 percent. Greek securities
tumbled 31 percent.  “The rapidity with which the caretaker government was able
to come to an agreement with the opposition parties as regards
an austerity package did much to reassert the country’s core
status,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior-fixed income strategist
at Rabobank International in  London . “There is enough cross-
party support for the necessary measures to bring the budget
under control.”  Greece’s future in the common-currency bloc was thrown into
doubt following last month’s elections when the Syriza party,
which wants to annul the nation’s bailout, finished second,
forcing another vote scheduled for June 17.  Spanish Yields  Borrowing costs in high-deficit countries such as Spain and
 Italy  have risen. Spanish 10-year bond yields are above 6.4
percent amid concern the nation’s regional governments may lose
access to  capital markets .  The Dutch market has put “political problems on the
sideline given that there are so few high-quality alternatives
out there,” said  Michael Leister , a rates strategist at DZ Bank
AG in  Frankfurt . “Investors are happy to get at least some
pick-up over bunds. They went for the mix of  credit quality  and
decent pick-up, though it’s obvious the political problems will
be with us for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  