-- The Truth About Uncertainty Is That It’s (Mostly) Untrue
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/the-truth-about-uncertainty-is-that-it-s-mostly-untrue.html
When corporate executives are asked
why they don’t spend more of their record profits by investing
in their businesses and hiring workers, they offer this mantra:
uncertainty, brought on by President  Barack Obama .  Verizon Communications Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg  led the  charge  in 2010. “By reaching into virtually
every sector of economic life,” he said, “government is
injecting uncertainty into the marketplace and making it harder
to raise capital and create new businesses.” More recently,  John Chambers , the Cisco Systems Inc. CEO, said sales were down
partly because of corporate customers’ worries about government
policy. “Business doesn’t like uncertainty,” he told Bloomberg
TV on May 10.  Is the uncertainty plaint really just an excuse for
inaction -- and cover for lobbyists looking to build support for
less regulation? Or is there substance to the anxiety? If so,
what can be done about it?  Let’s break it down. Many executives blame Obama’s health-
care overhaul for the uncertainty. The law has multiple parts
that take effect over many years and, yes, it can be confusing.
But the law is the law; it’s been passed. If there is
uncertainty, it’s from what Obama’s political opponents are
doing: challenging its constitutionality. The possibility that
the  Supreme Court  will overturn the law’s centerpiece, the
individual mandate, is driving much of the uncertainty.  After health care, CEOs broadly point to overregulation as
the biggest economic damper. But the raw numbers of new
regulations don’t support the uncertainty purveyors, either. The
 Office of Management and Budget  says 931 major regulations --
those with enough economic significance to require OMB review --
were issued by the executive branch during the first three years
of  George W. Bush ’s first term, more than the 886 from Obama’s
first three years.  Those figures don’t cover independent agencies, where most
of the rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law,
another major source of overregulation gripes, is happening.  Wall Street firms do have to comply with a host of new
financial regulations. Some of Dodd-Frank is unnecessarily
intrusive, and costs to industry deserve close consideration.
Nevertheless, the law is essential to U.S. efforts to avoid
inflicting another financial calamity on taxpayers and the
world, after the one in 2008 that occurred because of ...
inattentive regulators.  Obama Versus Bush  The OMB numbers do include the Environmental Protection
Agency, another supposed wellspring of regulatory uncertainty.
The business community may have a point: In Obama’s first three
years, the agency issued 89 rules versus 47 under Bush. Lately,
however, the EPA has more often postponed or withdrawn rules
(sometimes under White House pressure) than imposed them.
Initiatives have been shelved that would toughen standards for
ozone pollution, the main ingredient in smog; limit emissions
from industrial incinerators; and reduce soot from  power plants ,
diesel trucks and factories. New rules on hydraulic fracturing
operations won’t require drillers to add equipment to capture
smog-forming pollutants.  Here, Obama has discouraged economic activity, but not in
the way one would think: Investment in scrubbers, filters and
other technologies to control pollution would create jobs for
the people who design, manufacture and install such equipment.
Moreover, the annual benefits of nine major EPA rules that will
take effect under Obama exceed costs by at least 4-to-1,
according to government  estimates . Compliance costs to the
industries covered by the rules may only amount to 0.1 percent
of gross domestic product.  Companies are also sitting on cash or refusing to hire
because, paradoxically,  unemployment  of 8.1 percent is a drag on
consumer demand, a problem they lay at the president’s feet.
It’s important to note that historical data collected by
economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff show that it takes
almost five years for employment to recover from the wreckage of
a deep financial crisis.  Hiring is down because consumer demand remains low as
households continue to deleverage. Employers are also using
technology and other productivity enhancements to make do with
fewer workers. And it’s worth repeating the obvious: Business
investment hasn’t bounced back to pre-2007 levels because
there’s still too much slack in the economy.  If you accept these explanations for the elevated jobless
rate, as most economists do, it’s hard to see the connection to
Obama’s economic policies or to blame him for uncertainty.  So who or what is to blame? Some of it stems from the
 European debt crisis , which is cutting into demand for American
exports. At the same time,  China ’s growth is slowing down. And
some of the blame rests with the banks. They are still
restricting lending, in part out of fear loans won’t be repaid.  Self-Inflicted Wounds  Much of the problem is self-inflicted by Congress.
Lawmakers are putting off until after November’s elections a
crush of expiring Bush-era tax cuts, the payroll tax reduction
and dozens of other tax breaks and spending programs. If they
expire, and an approved $100 billion in spending cuts occur at
the same time, economic growth would slow to 0.5 percent next
year, the  Congressional Budget Office  says. As Bloomberg View
columnists Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers write today, last
summer’s debt-ceiling fight almost derailed the recovery, and
this year’s replay could be worse.  Congress also lacks a plan to attack the long-term problem
of entitlement spending and has yet to fix an overly complicated
 tax code . Worse, lawmakers have purposely built instability into
the system by disingenuously adding expiration dates to tax cuts
to meet budgetary rules.  Those invoking the uncertainty principle fail to mention
that inflation and  interest rates  are historically low. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has repeatedly pledged not to
raise rates at least through late 2014 -- a gold-plated
certainty guarantee if we ever saw one.  The pledge may be showing up in an  uncertainty index 
created by Steven J. Davis, a  University of Chicago  business
professor, with two others. Using news searches, differences
among economic forecasters and other tools, they have measured
the level of uncertainty by month, back to 1985. Their research
shows that monetary policy and taxes, not regulatory policy, are
the biggest drivers of uncertainty.  The highest point, in August 2011, came when Congress was
embroiled in the debt-ceiling debate and the U.S. lost its AAA
credit rating. Since then, the index has declined steadily and
is now at the August 2008 level, before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Business thrives on certainty, to be sure. Obama’s
rhetorical broadsides against business leaders aren’t helpful.
Nor are declarations like the one by House Speaker  John Boehner 
on May 15, in which he promised another bare-knuckle fight over
the debt ceiling. Yet of this you can be certain: You can blame
Obama for many things, but uncertainty isn’t one of them.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  staving off war in
Sudan ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  U.S.’s flawed trade policy ;  Simon
Johnson  on creating a  National Safety Board for finance ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on the  next debt-ceiling debate ;
Chip Jacobs on  California Governor Jerry Brown’s green-energy
plans ;  Roger Lowenstein  on  risk and hedging .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 