-- Technicolor Dissects IPhones in Hunt for Patent Payoff
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-29T16:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/technicolor-dissects-iphones-in-hunt-for-patent-payoff.html
When  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPhone hits
store shelves,  Technicolor SA (TCH) ’s engineers will rush to get the
handset -- not to make calls or play games, but to rip it apart.  Technicolor, an unprofitable French company that invented
the process for color movies used in “The Wizard of Oz” and
countless other classics, plans to cash in on its 40,000 video,
audio and optics patents to turn its fortunes around. The
company has a team of 220 people dissecting every new smartphone
and tablet from industry goliaths such as Apple,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  for patent infringements.  “We usually send manufacturers a big file, with photos of
the guts of their products, pointing to where they’ve been using
our technology without paying for it,” said Beatrix de Russe, a
lawyer and executive vice president of intellectual property at
Technicolor. “Once those images have sunk in, we can start
negotiating.”  Patents have become a technology industry battleground as
mobile-phone, tablet and computer makers try to lure consumers
with constant improvements to their video and sound.
Technicolor, which made the first color movie 90 years ago,
holds key patents in digital audio and video.  “Smartphones have become the focal point for lawsuits and
licensing talks,” said Yves Gassot, who heads consulting firm
 Idate Digiworld . “It’s because the market is so huge and is
growing so quickly. At the same time, the smartphone is where
you’ll find all the cutting-edge technology jammed into one
place.”  Motorola Deal  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the market-leading Android mobile-
phone technology, this month completed the $12.5 billion
takeover of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s mobile-phone
business and its 17,000 patents. Equipment vendor Ericsson AB
expects to increase revenue from its 27,000 patents, while rival
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  says it plans to generate several hundred
million euros this year alone from its 29,000 rights.  Prompted by surging demand for patents that regulate
functions such as sliding gestures on touchscreens or the
rendering of graphics for games and applications, lawsuits over
smartphone and tablet technology have been filed worldwide.
Samsung and Apple have sued each other in the past year on four
continents over patent-infringement claims related to mobile
technology and design.  Waking Up  Though Technicolor signed its first licensing deal in the
1950’s, de Russe said, ‘it feels like the rest of the world has
just woken up to why patents are interesting.’’  Technicolor has agreements with “all major manufacturers”
and has also started talks with multiple vendors over new
devices, she said, declining to give details on who the
licensees are and who infringed patents in the past.  Patent licensing is the  most profitable business  of the
company. The licensing division had a 76 percent operating
profit margin last year, helped by 1,200 contracts with
television, computer and handset makers. The company’s overall
operating profit margin, based on continuing operations, stood
at 14 percent. Licensing sales totaled 451 million euros, about
13 percent of total revenue.  Technicolor, which has been shifting business from outdated
film processes to digital techniques and software for movie-
making, helped with special effects for the  Harry Potter  film
series. The Paris-based company has refinanced its debt, sold
assets in declining movie-equipment units, closed factories and
cut jobs during the past two years. For 2011, it posted a net
loss of 323 million euros on sales of 3.5 billion euros, its
fifth consecutive annual loss.  ‘Dry Out’  Third Point LLC and Apollo Management Holdings, which
together own 13.4 percent of Technicolor according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, have been pushing for a sale of the
company’s patent portfolio, Le Figaro newspaper reported April
19. Third Point and Apollo representatives declined to comment.  “If we start selling our patents, revenues will dry out,”
de Russe said. “It’s a very short-term vision.”  In February, the company unveiled a three-year plan with a
focus on expanding licensing programs to more devices and
entering China, India and  Brazil .  The market has started to react positively to Technicolor’s
revamp. While Technicolor shares are  down  68 percent in Paris
trading from a year ago, they have risen 31 percent since
January.  JPMorgan Offer  The stock yesterday surged 8.9 percent after investor
Vector Capital Corp. offered to boost its holding from 0.6
percent to as much as 30 percent through a capital increase,
competing with a similar May 3 offer from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Shareholders are scheduled to choose one of the two deals on the
June 20 annual general meeting.  JPMorgan has said it supports management’s patent strategy,
which it calls “investing for growth.” Vector Capital said it
would be a “committed partner in helping Technicolor execute
its strategy.”  Technicolor added 0.1 percent to 1.53 euros in Paris today,
giving the company a market value of 341 million euros.  While the patent licensing business is lucrative, it often
takes time before a company can cash in. Patent negotiations
often last between one and four years, de Russe said.  The company is currently fighting in U.S. courts with
Taiwanese manufacturers over patents used in LCD computer
monitors, after it filed a complaint with the International
Trade Commission. The process was started after several years of
failed discussions.  “We’ve got a reputation for charging reasonable licensing
fees and preferring friendly negotiations,” de Russe said.
“That doesn’t mean we don’t drag people to court from time to
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  