-- Hedge-Fund Billionaire Woos Binoche: Cannes Film Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/hedge-fund-billionaire-woos-binoche-cannes-film-review.html
Eric Packer is 28 and a hedge-fund
multibillionaire. He spends his days in a stretch limo,
consulting geeks and gurus, undergoing medical checkups, and
entertaining women.  Packer is the hero of  David Cronenberg ’s “Cosmopolis,” an
adaptation of the Don DeLillo novel which premiered at the just-
ended  Cannes Film Festival . In the title role is  Robert Pattinson , the vampire from the “Twilight” series.  “It’s very easy to say that this character, Eric Packer,
is a vampire or werewolf of  Wall Street , but really that’s
fairly superficial,” said Cronenberg when probed by reporters
about parallels. “This is a real person with a history and a
past, and the history and the past is not ’Twilight,’ it is
’Cosmopolis.’”  Pattinson likewise avoided making connections in a Cannes
news conference. He described finance as “a world that doesn’t
make any sense to anybody,” yet “seems to have absurd,
disproportionate power.”  Author DeLillo, looking aloof among the film’s cast and
crew, gave Cronenberg his approval.  “I had absolutely nothing to do with the script,” he
said. “That’s why the film turned out so well.”  Actually, DeLillo had everything to do with the script.
Cronenberg, who penned it in six days, lifts dialogue word for
word from the book. And he breathes little life into it,
producing a static, verbatim transposition of a terrific novel.  Presidential Jam  We see the young billionaire gliding through  Manhattan  in
the back of his limo, the ride suggested (sometimes crudely)
through rear shots. Dark and bushy-browed, he wants to get a
haircut across town. When told the visiting president is causing
congestion, he asks, “Just so I know, which president are we
talking about?”  As the day goes by, he summons motley professionals inside
the car. A 22-year-old geek in branded sneakers briefs him on
the  yuan . A doctor announces, during the daily rectal
examination, that his prostate is asymmetrical. An art adviser
( Juliette Binoche ) suggests, after a quickie in the limo, that
he buy a Rothko; Packer says it’s the Rothko Chapel in Houston
he wants, installed in his New York apartment.  Glancing out the window at one point, Packer sees his icy
blond wife of one week, a billionaire heiress, sitting in a cab.
They have brief encounters in eateries where only he does any
eating. Packer is dying to consummate the marriage; she’d rather
go to the library.  Wunderkind Protest  The wealthy wunderkind soon faces the ire of anti-Wall-
Street protesters, who fling dead rats at him and smear cream
pie all over his face. He also engages in a long dialogue with a
disturbed former employee ( Paul Giamatti ).  DeLillo’s book is clearly the source of that rich cast. Yet
in the novel, Packer has more of a soul, as conveyed by the
narration: “Poems made him conscious of his breathing,” reads
the first page. “A poem bared the moment to things he was not
normally prepared to notice.”  The movie strips out that narration, giving few glimpses of
Packer’s spiritual stirrings. All we know is that one of his
private elevators plays Erik Satie at a quarter of the speed. We
are served pure dialogue, with no ambient noise or musical score
adding atmosphere.  To prove how sealed off Packer truly is from the outside
world, Cronenberg shows him inside the limo virtually all the
time -- even when the novel places him outside. We never, for
instance, see him in his lavish apartment. The movie is all the
poorer for it, and all the less a movie.  Limo Scenes  Incredibly, Pattinson delivers the strongest performance.
His blase expression works well, and he pulls off complicated
limo scenes with Binoche and the doctor.  The heavier hitters in the cast are letdowns. Binoche would
be great in her native French; her English sounds slightly
phony. Mathieu Amalric (the lead actor in “The Diving Bell and
the Butterfly”) is even phonier as the pie-throwing protester.
And seasoned Giamatti looks out of place, his low-pitched, nasal
voice unsuited to the part.  “Cosmopolis” joins “On the Road” (which also debuted at
Cannes this year) as yet another fine novel mishandled on
screen. Topicality and a “Twilight” megastar will lure
moviegoers to it in droves. They’d be better off reading the
novel.  Rating: **1/2.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on  New York   dining 
and Catherine Hickley on  travel .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 