-- Egypt Confirms Mursi, Shafik to Contest Presidential Runoff
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-05-28T16:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/egypt-confirms-mursi-shafik-to-contest-presidential-runoff.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate
and  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier will compete for the Egyptian
presidency next month, after official results for the first
round dashed hopes for a last-minute upset by a man favored by
some of the youths who spearheaded last year’s uprising.  The Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi won 5.76 million out of
23.3 million valid votes in last week’s first round, followed by
Ahmed Shafik with 5.5 million, elections commission head Farouk
Soultan told reporters in Cairo today. Hamdeen Sabahi, a
socialist who espouses the nationalism of former President Gamal Abdel Nasser and who is supported by some of the activists who
took part in the anti-Mubarak demonstrations, came third with
4.82 million votes. Turnout was 46.4 percent, Soultan said.  The results pit two of the most divisive candidates in the
race against each other, fueling political tensions that have
built up since Mubarak’s ouster last year and leaving Egyptians
with a choice between a secular candidate with ties to the old
regime and an Islamist. The vote was billed as the freest and
fairest in the country’s history.  “You are limited to only two choices: either back to the
old regime represented by Ahmed Shafik, which is as if the
revolution hasn’t even happened, or you have to vote for the
Brotherhood, who already won the parliamentary election and now
would have all powers in their hands,”  Mona Mansour , co-head of
research at CI Capital, said by phone. “It’s negative on the
 market sentiment , investment sentiment.”  Sliding Stocks  Egypt ’s  benchmark stock index  has slid 4.7 percent to a
six-week low in the two trading days since the vote.  Fitch Ratings  said that while the runoff between the two
men “could exacerbate social unrest and prolong political
stalemate,” both support policies “that could stabilize the
sovereign credit profile.”  Fitch said in a statement that continuing tensions after
the new president takes office could further delay the restart
of talks with the  International Monetary Fund  which Egypt had
tapped for a $3.2 billion loan that has yet to be approved.  While the government will probably try to meet the June 30
deadline to finalize a budget, the country’s BB- rating “will
remain under pressure until a government is able to implement a
comprehensive economic program that attracts external support
and foreign investment,” Fitch said.  Military Council  Islamists and many of the youths who led the anti-Mubarak
uprising decry Shafik’s links to the old regime and accuse him
of being the ruling military council’s favorite in the race. The
council, which says it will hand over power by the end of June,
has said it regards all candidates equally.  At the same time, secular and other groups have accused the
Brotherhood of seeking to monopolize power and impose more
conservative Islamic laws. The group’s Freedom and Justice Party
makes up the largest bloc in parliament.  “The election represents a definite defeat for the
revolutionary camp,” Mustapha K. al-Sayyid, a professor of
political science at Cairo University, wrote today in Al Shorouk
newspaper.  Since initial results put them in the lead, both Shafik and
Mursi have courted activists behind last year’s uprising as they
sought new alliances ahead of their showdown on June 16 and 17.
Final results are due on June 21.  Some activists have advocated boycotting the runoffs since
the preliminary results were revealed.  “We, the people of the revolution who are trapped today
between voting for Mursi and voting for Shafik, are in a dilemma
but we are not anyone’s hostages,” journalist and commentator
Hamdi Kandil, who had announced his support for Sabahi, wrote in
today’s Al Masry Al Youm newspaper.  “Public anger will explode tomorrow or the day after no
matter who the winner is,” he wrote. “We will boycott the
runoffs by the millions. We will not hand over our country to
the powers of the past because we represent the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  