-- Emerging Stocks Rise for 3rd Day on China Stimulus, Greek Polls
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-28T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/emerging-stocks-rise-for-third-day-amid-china-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third day as opinion polls of Greek voters eased concern the
country will exit the euro area and speculation mounted  China 
will take steps to boost its economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.9 percent to 910.03
as of 3:55 p.m. in  New York .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  climbed 1.1
percent. The Micex Index jumped 0.8 percent in Moscow as OAO
Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-largest oil producer, added 2 percent
after first-quarter profit increased 7.7 percent.  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa Index (IBOV)  gained 1.2 percent.  China is speeding up investment approvals to support growth,
with the size of stimulus estimated at between 1 trillion  yuan 
($158 billion) and 2 trillion yuan, Dong Tao, an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research note today.  Greece ’s
New Democracy party, which supports the European Union’s bailout
plan, placed first in all six opinion polls published on May 26
during campaigning for next month’s vote.  “The mood seems to be improving today, perhaps reflecting
the latest Greek polls that seem to favor the bailout
supporters,”  Benoit Anne , head of  emerging-markets  strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London, wrote to clients by e-mail. “We
remain quite cautious towards emerging markets in the near term,
however.”  Emerging-market equities have fallen 11 percent in May,
poised for the biggest monthly drop since September, as concern
grew earlier in the month that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Bovespa Gains  Brazil’s benchmark equity index rose for a second day as
 Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, followed metals
higher. Homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes rallied as much as 13 percent after saying a
shareholder proposed injecting 800 million reais ($404 million)
into the company.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s biggest mobile operator,
rose 4.6 percent as Troika Dialog, citing MSCI Inc. data, said
its weighting was lifted in the MSCI Russia 10/40 Index.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  climbed 0.1 percent in Istanbul.
 Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  dropped 2.2 percent, falling for a sixth day after
Citigroup Inc. reduced its stake by more than half last week.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  jumped 0.9 percent in Warsaw, led by a 3.8
percent rise in  PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s biggest electricity producer.  Mexico ’s  IPC index  climbed 0.4 percent as  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the
biggest cement maker in the Americas, added 1.3 percent.  The rand appreciated 0.7 percent against the dollar, the
ruble slid 0.1 percent and the real strengthened 0.4 percent.
The  Mexican peso  advanced 0.6 percent.  Russian Bonds  Russia’s dollar Eurobond due in 2022 rose for the first
time in four days, pushing yields down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.28 percent.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, sank 4.6 percent after the company
reported an 88 percent slump in first-quarter profit.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 1.2 percent.
South Korean markets were closed for a holiday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 410 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  