-- Euro Strengthens as European Stocks Erase Advance
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2012-05-28T20:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/euro-u-s-equity-futures-advance-on-greece-optimism.html
The euro strengthened, rebounding
from a four-day losing streak, as polls showed  Greece ’s pro-
bailout parties gained ground. European stocks  erased  gains,
Spanish bonds declined and  yields  on German two-year notes fell
to a record low.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.2538 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost less than 0.1 percent,
moving lower after gaining as much as 0.9 percent, as banks
slumped. Spain’s IBEX 35 dropped 2.2 percent while  Germany ’s DAX
Index retreated 0.3 percent after adding 1.4 percent. Yields on
two-year bunds slipped to 0.027 percent. Spanish bonds fell,
pushing 10-year yields to the most relative to benchmark German
bunds since the euro was created.  European stocks reversed course and Spanish debt fell amid
concern the nation’s lenders will need more financial support to
weather Europe’s debt crisis. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the euro region’s rescue fund should be able to
bypass national governments and recapitalize distressed lenders
directly, even as he argued his country’s banks won’t need
external help. U.S. stock markets were shut for Memorial Day.  “Investor sentiment is very cautious and there is likely
to be a lot of volatility with the Greek elections looming over
the market,” said  Keith Bowman , an equity analyst at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc in  London . “A lot of people are sitting on the
sidelines.”  Crude oil  futures  advanced 0.3 percent to $91.14 a barrel.
Gold futures added 0.3 percent to $1,575.60 an ounce. Copper
rose 0.6 percent to $3.467 a pound.  Canada, Emerging Markets  Canadian stocks  erased  gains as the commodities rally
failed to give the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index its
fifth straight advance. Trading volume was 61 percent less than
the 10-day average amid the U.S. market holiday. The gauge lost
0.1 percent.  Emerging-market stocks rose for a third day as opinion
polls of Greek voters eased concern the country will exit the
euro area and speculation mounted  China  will take steps to boost
its economy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.9 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in  Hong
Kong  climbed 1.1 percent. The Micex Index rose 0.8 percent in
Moscow as OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
added 2 percent after first-quarter profit increased 7.7
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa Index gained 1.2 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.5 percent.  Bankia  Bankia (BKIA)  tumbled 13 percent as the lender nationalized by
Spain this month seeks 19 billion euros ($23.8 billion) of state
funds. Banco Popular Espanol SA dropped 7.5 percent for the
second-biggest loss among banks in the Stoxx Europe 600.  Spanish bonds fell, pushing 10-year yields to the most
relative to benchmark German bunds since the euro was created,
amid concern the nation’s lenders will need additional financial
support to weather Europe’s debt crisis.  Spain’s two-year note yield climbed to the highest since
December after nationalized lender Bankia group said it will
seek 19 billion euros ($23.8 billion) of state support. German
two-year note yields dropped to a record even as opinion polls
showed greater backing for Greece’s pro-bailout political
parties. Italian bonds declined as business confidence slid more
than economists forecast and borrowing costs rose at a sale of
zero-coupon notes.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond climbed 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, to 6.47 percent. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of their German
counterparts expanded by 17 basis points to 511 basis points
after reaching 514 basis points, the most since the euro’s
introduction in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  