-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Banks Drop, Rio Rises
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-28T16:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/european-stocks-rise-after-greek-opinion-polls-bhp-gains.html
European stocks  were little changed,
following last week’s rally for the region’s equity benchmark,
as a selloff in banks offset Greek opinion polls that eased
concern the country will leave the euro.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  sank 13 percent after the lender said it will
seek 19 billion euros ($24 billion) of state funds and Spanish
borrowing costs surged. Mining companies limited losses, led by
 Rio Tinto  Group and Antofagasta Plc, as copper climbed amid
dwindling stockpiles in China.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped less than 0.1 percent to
242.47 at the close in  London . Markets in Denmark, Iceland,
Luxembourg, Austria, Norway and Switzerland were closed for a
public holiday today, while U.S. exchanges were shut for
Memorial Day.  “Investor sentiment is very cautious and there is likely
to be a lot of volatility with the Greek elections looming over
the market,” said  Keith Bowman , an equity analyst at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc in London. “A lot of people are sitting on the
sidelines where they can and are waiting for a bit more
certainty.”  European stocks posted their first weekly gain of the month
last week as  China  pledged to bolster growth and a three-week
selloff left the Stoxx 600 at its cheapest valuation since
January. The gauge has still  slumped 11 percent from this year’s
high on March 16  amid concern  Greece  will fail to implement the
measures required to stay in the euro.  Greek Opinion Polls  Greece’s New Democracy, which supports the spending cuts
and tax increases imposed by the European Union, came first in
all six opinion polls published on May 26 as campaigning
continued for the general election on June 17.  Party leader Antonis Samaras said Greece’s departure from
the euro would cause incomes, bank deposits and property values
to lose at least half their value within days, while food prices
would rise by a quarter.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  upbraided Greek taxpayers and Juergen Fitschen, the
incoming co-chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG,
referred to the country as a “failed state.”  In Ireland, supporters of the EU’s fiscal pact maintained
their lead before the 31 May referendum. Four polls over the
weekend gave the yes campaign an average lead of 17.5 percentage
points, when undecideds are excluded.  National benchmark indexes declined in 7 of the 12 western-
European markets that opened today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained
0.1 percent, Germany’s DAX dropped 0.3 percent and France’s CAC
40 decreased 0.2 percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 Index sank 2.2 percent as bonds retreated,
pushing 10-year yields to their highest relative to benchmark
German bunds since the euro was created.  Bankia Shares Plunge  Bankia, the lender that Spain nationalized this month,
tumbled 13 percent to 1.36 euros after the group said it will
seek state funds as it set aside provisions for residential
mortgages and lending to companies.  The group took provisions of 5.5 billion euros for non-real
estate lending after stress-testing the loans, Director General
Jose Sevilla told reporters in  Madrid  on May 26. It also
reclassified 300 million euros of lending, that it had booked as
loans to small- and medium-sized companies, as lending to
property developers, Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of Bankia,  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP)  and  Bankinter SA (BKT)  to junk on May 25, citing
Spain’s weakening economy. The rating company downgraded 11
Spanish banks on April 30.  Banco Popular, Bankinter  Banco Popular retreated 7.5 percent to 1.71 euros and
Bankinter dropped 4.3 percent to 2.81 euros. A gauge of bank
shares lost 1 percent, led by Spanish and Italian lenders.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  dropped 2.7
percent to 137.1 pence amid concern that Bankia, its largest
shareholder, may sell a stake in the company. Bankia’s
Goirigolzarri said on May 26 that the bank will give details on
any share sales when it presents its strategic plan in June.  Rio Tinto, the  world’s third-biggest mining company , gained
2.2 percent to 2,857.5 pence,  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  increased 2.1
percent to 1,038 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining
company, rose 0.8 percent to 1,716.5 pence.  A gauge of mining shares increased 1.5 percent for the
biggest advance of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as
copper climbed for a third day in London.  Inventories of the metal monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange slumped for a seventh week, the longest losing streak
in a year, data from the bourse showed.  Aveva, Technicolor Climb  Aveva Group Plc (AVV)  led  technology companies  higher, surging 11
percent to 1,638 pence. The maker of engineering software
products reported  full-year revenue  of 195.9 million pounds
($307 million), topping the  average analyst estimate  of 192.2
million pounds. Chief Executive Officer Richard Longdon said,
“We are confident about the prospects for 2012-13.”  Technicolor SA (TCH)  surged 8.9 percent to 1.52 euros in Paris
after investor Vector Capital Corp. offered to back a 186
million-euro capital increase and increase  its holding  in the
producer of film-making technology to almost 30 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 44
percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  