-- Europe Crisis Adds Concern to China Outlook at Moody’s
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T10:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/europe-crisis-adds-concern-to-china-outlook-at-moody-s.html
The drop in  China ’s exports caused by
 Europe ’s debt crisis may affect whether Moody’s Investors
Service raises the nation’s sovereign debt rating, said  Tom Byrne , a senior vice president at the company.  Moody’s raised China’s foreign- and local-currency debt
ratings to Aa3, the fourth-highest out of 10 investment-grade
rankings, in November 2010. It is the only one of the three
biggest credit-rating companies with a “positive” outlook, an
indication the rating may be raised usually within two years.  “If you get a slowdown in exports, it feeds into domestic
employment, into wages, into investment, so it would have wider
ramifications,” Byrne, director of analysis for Moody’s
sovereign risk group in  Asia  and the  Middle East , said at a
press briefing in Beijing today. “That’s the source of our new
concern: What are the long-term implications of the continuing
economic stress in Europe on China?”  The world’s second-biggest  economy  may expand at the
slowest pace in 13 years in 2012 as the euro area’s worsening
turmoil saps demand for Chinese goods and the government’s
extended curbs on the  property market  cool domestic demand.
Growth this quarter may drop below Premier Wen Jiabao’s full-
year target of 7.5 percent and an investment stimulus of as much
as 2 trillion  yuan  will be implemented to ensure a rebound in
the second half, Credit Suisse Group AG said today.  Export Slump  China’s exports to the European Union, its biggest market,
fell for a second month in April from a year earlier and rose
0.3 percent in the first four months of the year, government
data show. Total overseas shipments increased 4.9 percent last
month, the slowest pace since gains resumed in December 2009,
excluding distortions caused by the timing of the nation’s Lunar
New Year holiday.  When Moody’s raised China’s ratings with a positive outlook,
it cited the nation’s financial strength and its ability to
contain losses from an unprecedented credit boom aimed at
cushioning the economy during the global financial crisis.  The outlook reflected China’s long-term fiscal and growth
trends that looked “supportive” of a higher rating, said Byrne,
who is based in  Singapore . “However, there’s many challenges,
and new risks have arisen, some that we saw, some have been
intensified lately that add some uncertainty as to whether China
realizes the long-term improvement in its credit fundamentals,”
he said.  The fall in China’s inflation rate has been a “definite
positive,” giving monetary authorities “a bit more scope” to
stimulate the economy, Byrne said.  ‘Strong’ Growth  Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, below the government’s target for a third month.
Economic growth may slow to 7.9 percent in the three months
through June, the sixth quarterly slowdown, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey May 14-15.  Growth at 7 percent is still “strong” and barring
“shocks” or “disturbances” state finances will improve,
Byrne said. Government debt as a percentage of gross domestic
product could decline to 30 percent to 35 percent, including
contingent liabilities, from more than 40 percent currently, he
said.  Still, Moody’s estimates that the debt of China’s local
government investment vehicles, companies set up to borrow money
to fund local-authority spending to build infrastructure, may
not be reduced as some loans aren’t repaid and new credit is
handed out.  A large portion of local government debt has been
restructured or rolled over so the underlying  cash flow  from
projects matches the term of loans, Yvonne Zhang, a Beijing-
based vice president and senior analyst at Moody’s, said at the
briefing.  Chinese banks have in many cases not revealed the source of
funds used to pay off local government loans, said Christine Kuo,
a Hong Kong-based senior credit officer at Moody’s.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 rppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  