-- Europe Leveraged Loan Defaults May Rise to 25%, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-05-29T05:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/leveraged-loan-defaults-may-surge-to-25-in-europe-moody-s-says.html
At least 25 percent of unrated
European leveraged buyout companies with debt due by 2015 may
default as the economy worsens and private-equity owners refuse
to inject capital, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  An analysis of European LBO companies found that 254 had a
combined 133 billion euros ($167 billion) of debt due by the end
of 2015, with more than half owed by 36 borrowers, Moody’s said
in a report.  “The 2014-2015 refinancing risk remains large and
worrisome given our expectations of protracted macroeconomic
weakness combined with the weak average credit quality of this
universe,” analysts led by London-based Chetan Modi wrote in
the report. “We do not expect that private equity sponsors will
inject further capital into their own distressed companies
primarily to assist their lenders.”  Concern is escalating that  Greece  may exit the euro,
splintering the 13-year-old currency bloc and threatening global
growth, as European lenders pressure the nation to meet bailout
terms ahead of elections next month. The euro is trading near
the lowest against the dollar since July 2010 after dropping
more than 5 percent in May, and the cost of insuring Spanish
government and financial debt rose to record levels this month
after Moody’s downgraded 16 of its banks.  Rajoy’s Call  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has called for Europe
to “dissipate any doubts about the euro” as the nation’s
narrowing access to credit markets prompts the government to
consider using public-debt securities rather than cash to fund a
19 billion-euro bailout of its third-biggest lender, BFA-Bankia.  The rate of European LBO defaults could more than double if
companies are shut out of the high-yield  bond market , according
to the Moody’s report. Issuance of new collateralized loan
obligations is unlikely to recover and banks are less willing to
hold leveraged loans, the ratings company said.  While half of the companies studied are large enough to
sell bonds, the high-yield market will be “relatively
discriminating” given the amount of debt that needs to be
refinanced, the report states.  “The multiples private equity firms were paying to buy
those businesses in Europe was one, too high and two, they then
loaded them up with way too much debt,” Neil McDonald, the Hong
Kong-based head of law firm Hogan Lovells International LLP’s
business restructuring and insolvency practice in Asia, said in
a telephone interview today. “Now we’re starting to see the
consequences.”  Greek Exit  At worst, a Greek departure from the common currency could
spur sovereign defaults in  Europe  as well as bank runs, credit
crunches and recessions, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
global strategic adviser  Richard Clarida  predicts.  Global trade and financial ties mean the pain wouldn’t be
confined to the euro area. JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates a 1
percentage point slump in the euro countries’ economy drags down
growth elsewhere by 0.7 percentage point. Financial contagion
could be such that exporting nations from the U.K. to  China 
would suffer.  Stocks in Asia  are headed for an 11 percent decline this
month, the steepest monthly slide since October 2008. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average fell in  Tokyo  after a government report showed
 Japan ’s jobless rate climbed to 4.6 percent in April from 4.5
percent in March.  Loans Maturing  Some 125 billion euros of syndicated corporate loans are
maturing before the end of 2013 in countries on Europe’s
periphery, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies in
 Asia  outside of Japan have more than $110 billion of U.S.
dollar-denominated loans maturing in the same period, the data
show.  A similar risk of leveraged loan defaults doesn’t exist in
Asia, according to McDonald, who has advised commercial banks on
their debt obligations to Dubai World and bondholders of Sino-
Forest Corp. and China Forestry Holdings Co.  “Asian banks were much more cautious in their lending,”
he said. “Having said that, private equity firms here are still
facing all sorts of issues from putting capital into businesses
with venture partners in China, and then getting burnt when
those venture partners have procured a whole lot of local bank
debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  