-- Blue Index Owners Guilty of Inside Trades, Other Cleared
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-05-28T16:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/ex-blue-index-senior-trader-not-guilty-of-u-k-insider-charges.html
The co-owners of the now-defunct
spread-betting firm Blue Index Ltd. and one of their wives
pleaded guilty to U.K.  insider-trading  charges before the case
went to trial.  A former senior trader at the brokerage, Christopher
Hossain, and a friend of the founder, Adam Buck, were cleared of
similar charges today, after a five-week trial at a London
criminal court. The U.K. Financial Services Authority had
alleged at the trial that the two men made at least 185,000
pounds ($290,000) combined trading on tips they received from
the fund’s founder James Sanders.  Sanders, who pleaded guilty to 10 charges, traded on tips
that Kronos Inc., aQuantive Inc. and Getty Images Inc. were the
targets of takeover offers, according to the FSA. Sanders’ wife,
Miranda, pleaded guilty to five counts of insider trading, and
Blue Index co-owner James Swallow to three charges before trial,
according to the FSA.  Profits generated by the defendants from the inside
information were about 1.9 million pounds, while Blue Index
clients reaped approximately 10.2 million pounds, the FSA said
in the statement. The three who pleaded guilty will be sentenced
on June 19. The information originated from Arnold McClellan,
the head of the mergers and acquisitions advisory group at the
accounting and consulting firm Deloitte LLP’s  San Francisco 
office. McClellan’s wife, Annabel, is Miranda Sanders’s sister.  ‘Criminal Conduct’  Sanders and Swallow abused their position at Blue Index
“for their criminal conduct and cynically exploited the inside
information they had illegally obtained to try and improve its
reputation and profitability,” said Tracey McDermott, acting
director of the FSA’s enforcement and financial crime division.  James Sanders  and his wife made 1.5 million pounds from
trading on the tips, according to the FSA, which wasn’t allowed
to comment on the case until today for legal reasons.  Lawyers for Buck, the Sanders and Swallow didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Blue Index, a spread-betting firm that traded contracts-
for-differences, collapsed after the FSA raided its office in
May 2009. A contract-for-difference is a financial instrument
that allows investors to bet on shares or other securities
without owning them.  Hossain, the senior trader, was charged with trading based
on inside information about Kronos and advising Blue Index
clients to trade Kronos and aQuantive, according to the
indictment. Buck, who was the best man at Sanders’s wedding and
once worked at Blue Index, was accused of trading  Getty Images 
based on inside information, producing a 140,000-pound profit.  ‘Flawed’ Case  Hossain said in a statement he regretted that the FSA
brought a “fundamentally flawed” case against him.  “The reputational damage that this case has caused is
incalculable and the financial costs have been huge,” Hossain
said.  Annabel McClellan, who lives in San Francisco, was
sentenced in the U.S. last year to 11 months in prison for
obstructing a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation.
She also settled with the SEC for $1 million in a lawsuit
alleging she and her husband tipped off the Sanders to merger
deals.  McClellan told prosecutors that her husband wasn’t aware
of, or involved in, passing information, according to documents
filed in the SEC case. The case against her husband was dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  