-- FIFA Task Force Considered Scrapping Soccer’s Rule-Making Body
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-28T15:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/fifa-task-force-considered-scrapping-soccer-s-rule-making-body.html
The German official in charge of
reorganizing some of soccer’s administration said he considered
scrapping the 126-year-old body that decides the sport’s rules.  Theo Zwanziger, a member of  FIFA’s  executive board, was
asked by the Zurich-based organization’s president to head a
 task force  to look into reforming the statutes. One of his
suggestions is adding more members to the  International Football
Association Board , which is responsible for the game’s laws.  Currently, the four so-called U.K. home nations --  England ,
 Wales ,  Scotland  and  Northern Ireland  -- each have a vote, while
FIFA has four. Zwanziger, in an interview in Budapest, said he’d
like it to become more democratic after deciding against a
suggestion that it be scrapped.  “It looks like IFAB will continue,” Zwanziger said. “We
initially considered dissolving it but now IFAB, which has
historic and important values, will be preserved.”  Some soccer officials have said the U.K. voters’ influence
on IFAB doesn’t reflect the modern game. FIFA welcomed  South
Sudan  as its 209th member at its annual meeting three days ago.
The rule-making group has the power to change laws, such as
those on offside, and is currently poised to give the go-ahead
for goal-line technology.  The structure of IFAB developed from the 19th-century
history of the sport. FIFA, when it was established in 1904,
said it would adhere to the laws of the sport as laid out by the
body 18 years earlier.  ‘Special Role’  “Of course the Brits, who have great merits in football,
would have a special role, but maybe the special role wouldn’t
be as strong as it is right now,” Zwanziger said. “At the
moment, nothing can be decided against the British
representatives. And I have to say: Here are 209 and they ask
‘How can that be, we also have contributed to football?”’  A newly constituted body may also include representatives
of the media or technical specialists from soccer, Zwanziger
added.  A decision on the reform of FIFA’s statutes is set for next
year when the U.K.’s guarantee of one of FIFA’s four vice-
president positions may also be scrapped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  