-- German Stocks Fall; Banks, Utilities Offset Greek Polls
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-28T16:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/german-stocks-drop-dax-reverses-gains-as-utilities-fall.html
German stocks  declined, halting last
week’s advance, after a selloff in banks and utilities offset
optimism from Greek opinion polls showing support for pro-
austerity parties.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the  second-largest German lender , dropped 3
percent. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the biggest German utilities, fell.
Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, slid 0.8 percent.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG rose 0.6 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.3 percent to 6,323.19 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt after earlier rising as much as 1.2
percent. The benchmark gauge increased 1.1 percent last week,
amid speculation that China and the euro area will take measures
to boost economic growth and as reports showed  consumer
confidence  is recovering in Europe and the U.S. The broader HDAX
Index fell 0.1 percent today.  Greek opinion polls showed voters warming to parties
supporting the European Union’s bailout agreement, easing
concern the country will exit the euro currency bloc.  “These polls show  New Democracy  having a substantially
bigger lead or Syriza than in the May 6 election,” said Nils Rosendahl, a strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm. “The
Greeks are still short of implementing any of the measures
demanded by the troika to get the bailouts, so I still believe
they’ll be leaving the euro fairly soon.”  The New Democracy party, which supports the plan negotiated
with international lenders, placed first in all six polls
published on May 26 as campaigning continued for next month’s
election. It led by a margin of as much as 5.7 percentage points
over Syriza, the main party opposed to implementing the terms of
financial aid packages, according to a poll by Kapa Research SA
for To Vima newspaper.  Banks Decline  Commerzbank dropped 3 percent to 1.34 euros. The head of
the bank’s private customers unit said planning for the
possibility of a Greek exit from the euro is the responsible
thing to do,  Der Tagesspiegel  reported, citing an interview.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender, and Allianz,
the biggest insurer, fell 0.8 percent to 29.17 euros, and 0.8
percent to 75.20 euros, respectively.  A European gauge of banks shares was fell 1 percent, led by
Spanish and Italian lenders, for the second-worst performance on
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of Bankia SA,
Banco Popular Espanol SA and Bankinter SA to junk on May 25,
citing Spain’s weakening economy.  EON fell 1.8 percent to 15.27 euros, while RWE dropped 2.5
percent to 29.70 euros, after Welt am Sonntag reported that
German Environment Minister Peter Altmaier will push forward
with a switch from nuclear energy, saying the country can’t
afford a holdup on the issue.  BMW, the largest maker of luxury cars, climbed 0.6 percent
to 62.28 euros.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the largest cementmaker, rose 1.4
percent to 36.04 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  