-- Google May Face Further U.K. Action After FCC Privacy Report
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-28T10:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/google-may-face-further-u-k-action-after-fcc-privacy-report-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may face further action
by a British privacy regulator for gathering personal data,
after the agency reviews findings by a U.S. investigation.  The Information Commissioner’s Office is studying the  U.S.
Federal Communications Commission ’s report on data gathering by
Google for Street View “to consider what further action, if
any, needs to be taken,” the U.K. watchdog said today.  While Street View cars photograph buildings and homes to
provide street-level mapping to Google users, they went beyond
that to using wireless connections to gather people’s personal
communications.  In an agreement ending the U.K. inquiry into Street View in
November 2010,  Mountain View , California-based Google acceded to
further ICO audits of its privacy practices. One was published
in August 2011 and will be reviewed this year to ensure ICO
recommendations were followed, the agency said today. Google was
fined $25,000 by the FCC last month for impeding its
investigation into improper data gathering.  Google didn’t use the personal data it collected in any
products or services and the U.S. Justice Department and FCC
“have found no violation of law,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  For three years starting in May 2007, Google collected
content from wireless networks that it didn’t need for its
location-based services, according to the FCC. The company
gathered so-called payload data, including e-mail and text
messages, passwords, Internet-usage history and “other highly
sensitive personal information,” the FCC said.  Payload Collection  “We have always been clear that the leaders of this
project did not want or intend to use this payload data,”
Google spokesman Anthony House said.  A Google engineer developed the software that collected the
personal data and has invoked his right against self-
incrimination to not be interviewed by the FCC, the agency said
May 2. The FCC said then it wouldn’t seek penalties under U.S.
wiretap laws because there wasn’t clear precedent, and his
silence left questions unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  