-- Gornictwo, PGE, PKO Bank Polski: Central European Equity Preview
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2012-05-28T06:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/gornictwo-pge-pko-bank-polski-central-european-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may undergo unusual price changes in central
European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names. Share prices are from the last close.  Poland ’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  climbed less than 0.1 percent, the
Czech  PX Index (PX)  declined 1.1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX) 
advanced 0.5 percent.  PGE SA (PGE)  : Poland’s biggest electricity company is
working on a 2 billion euros ($2.52 billion) bond sale plan,
Chief Financial Officer Wojciech Ostrowski said in an interview
with the Parkiet newspaper.  The company may also set a new zloty bond sale plan at the
end of this year as one of its two current debt sale programs
will end in November 2013, Ostrowski said. PGE will first sell
zloty bonds before selling notes denominated in euros, Parkiet
cited him as saying. PGE fell 1.5 percent to 17.15 zloty.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo  SA (PGN PW):
Poland’s biggest natural gas distributor will invest about 50
billion zloty ($14.5 billion) over the next 10 years, Parkiet
reported, citing Slawomir Hinc, the company’s chief financial
officer. PGNiG, as the company is known, slumped 2.9 percent to
3.66 zloty.  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO)  : Poland’s largest lender is
interested in takeovers of the country’s pension funds to
increase its share of this market, Rzeczpospolita newspaper
said, citing Pawel Borys, managing director of investments and
corporate business development department. Two pension funds,
PTE Polsat and PTE Warta, are currently up for sale, the
newspaper said. PKO rose 2.2 percent to 31.16 zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  