-- Governor Jerry Brown Can Do More to Green Up California
-- B y   C h i p   J a c o b s
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/governor-jerry-brown-can-do-more-to-green-up-california.html
Anyone following the listing giant we
call  California  might have noticed that the Chicken Littles have
once again hoarded the microphones for their narrative of
downsized expectations.  Except for taxes and pensions, few subjects leave them as
screechy as the bottomless environmental ethic they blame for
pushing demoralized residents out of state in search of common
sense, not taxes on supermarket plastic bags.  How can Governor  Jerry Brown  support a billion-dollar
blueprint to lop emissions of  greenhouse gases  while foreclosure
ghost towns sink California cities such as Stockton and San
Bernardino, naysayers ask? Why is Brown, whose quixotic
liberalism won him the Governor Moonbeam moniker during his
first stint in office in the 1970s, suing to curb sprawl when
the  state unemployment rate  is near 11 percent and the budget
gap is $16 billion?  Because, they hypothesize, a future with social engineering
that favors a low-polluting, electric-car lifestyle over lunch-
pail jobs is Brown’s naked agenda. Because bellwether
stewardship of reasonable protections for clean air and water a
generation ago have transmogrified today into policy zealotry
about to collapse under its own biodegradable hubris. Beyond
Facebook and  Google (GOOG) , the West Coast spirit of innovation is
withering. A business climate that once nourished oil giants,
defense juggernauts, agribusiness and the country’s smartest
entrepreneurs has died off faster than dial-up. Look at the
latest population numbers showing that since 1980 four million
more people have left California than have come in from other
states.  Fighting Smog  This story line of a Green Hulk run amok in a state whose
economy is in the top-10 in the world would be essential
reading, an SOS even, if only our past didn’t trample it.  In 1955, a dozen years into the Los Angeles campaign to
eradicate eye-watering smog, air pollution generals realized
they needed an emergency plan in case ozone and other airborne
poisons approached life-strangling levels. (A year before, a
frighteningly thick haze led officials to seal the harbor,
redirect planes from the airport and deploy the California
Highway Patrol in case of evacuation.)  Industrialists, embittered by years of being scapegoated
for pollution that mainly puffed from cars, revolted against
this crisis planning, including a last-gasp contingency that
they idle their plants for days to let the atmosphere cleanse
itself.  An executive of  Richfield Oil Co.  announced that its
refinery would only halt operations on written orders from the
Air Pollution Control District. If the shutdown was later found
to have been overkill, Richfield expected the district to write
it a check for lost income.  Hollywood, meantime, desired a return of blue skies for its
backdrops. The chemical air was costing showbiz millions. “Every
morning before we leave the studio we say a few Indian prayers
that the smog will have blown away,” said an actor in the
Western drama “ Brave Eagle ,” filmed in the San Fernando Valley
in the mid-1950s.  So they all vamoosed, right, showbiz and Big Oil, to
Seattle or Phoenix or  Kansas City , where breathing wasn’t
painful and where regulations were relatively pain-free? No! In
the murky 1950s, roughly 100 polluting industries a year
relocated to  Southern California . Behind them caravans of family
station wagons entered the state, with occupants dreaming of
jobs. By the time of the first Earth Day in 1971, with every
car, truck and smokestack in California under the sternest
regulations on the planet, the populace had doubled, to 20
million, since 1950.  Voter Support  The defense companies, whose many smokestacks and machines
disgorged any number of scary chemicals, remained as well. Fine-
print-loving bureaucrats didn’t crush their business. Superpower
peace eventually did much of that.  Today, 40 million souls live in California, not all of them
heel-clicking, but few packing their suitcases with green-
migraine syndrome, either. Even during the Great Recession, when
manufacturing swooned, Californians trounced by an edge of 2 to
1 a  2010 ballot initiative  to delay the state’s global warming
law until the jobless rate dropped.  This is not to suggest that all companies adore
inspections, permitting and fees, or are embracing carbon
markets. But CEOs certainly know, if only in the abstract, that
the estimated $28 billion in health costs from dirty air would
explode to gargantuan levels without rules on the books. That’s
why they are CEOs, not window-washers.  No, the trouble isn’t the existing green ethic. Only about
50,000 out of more than 7 million homes in the state have solar
panels. The problem is a lack of leadership imagination. Brown &
Co., for all their gallant intentions, have yet to inspire
Californians by connecting environmental problems with what
could be a rejuvenating, self-sustaining economy that
electrifies California cleanly while shopping its products to an
energy-parched globe.  At a  speech  to 200 energy experts at  University of
California, Los Angeles , last summer, Brown floated a goal of
the state creating enough clean local energy to support 3
million homes. Developing those 12 gigawatts is “going to take
all manner of investment, risk taking and collaboration,” he
said. Some idea of collaboration! Instead of chin-wagging inside
a university lecture hall, Brown should park a Prius in front of
small-business leaders and just about anybody he can buttonhole,
to solicit their ideas.  About 430,000 Californians, or roughly 4 percent of wage-
earners here, work in clean-energy production, new-generation
batteries, recycling and green education. Brown should be
hollering that we must do better.  In Perspective  Yet, too often, the skeptics are doing the talking about
our eco-obsessions as if they were the indulgences of an
insufferable diva. Remember Solyndra, the solar-panel maker that
went belly up, despite a half-billion dollars in federal
support? Tell me which is more vital for our national security:
public investments to harness solar rays in a world bloodied by
oil, or the  Air Force ’s F-22 Raptor project, where each jet
fighter is estimated to be $269 million over budget, meaning
that overspending on two of them exceeds the taxpayer loss for
Solyndra?  Just as the state once engineered carbon-graphite bombers
during the  Cold War , Brown 2.0 should man the bully pulpit to
speak directly to average Californians. The UCLAs and NRG
Energies and Wal-Marts of the world can book the messianic one
another time.  With an honest spirit of green invention, perhaps some of
those who left the state will flip a U-turn, plugging their ears
to the opinionated cluckers on the drive home.  (Chip Jacobs is the co-author of “ Smogtown : The Lung-
Burning History of Pollution in  Los Angeles ” and author, most
recently, of “ The Ascension of Jerry : Murder, Hitmen and the
Making of L.A. Muckraker Jerry Schneiderman.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  uncertainty and the
economy  and  staving off war in Sudan ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the
 U.S.’s flawed trade policy ;  Simon Johnson  on creating a  National
Safety Board for finance ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
the  next debt-ceiling debate ;  Roger Lowenstein  on  risk and
hedging .  To contact the writer of this article: in Los Angeles at
 chip@chipjacobs.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 