-- Greek Democratic Left Demands Euro Pledge to Back Syriza
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2012-05-28T11:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/greek-democratic-left-demands-euro-pledge-to-back-syriza.html
Greece’s Democratic Left party, which
may determine the governing coalition following June 17
elections, said its backing for the biggest anti-bailout party
depends on getting a guarantee to stay in the euro.  “We have two red lines: one is a policy which serves the
country’s steady presence in  Europe , the euro, the euro area,
and the other is a gradual disengagement from the terms of the
bailout,” party leader Fotis Kouvelis, 63, said in a May 25
interview in Athens. “All this needs to be set out because red
lines may exist but the policies you choose is what matters.”  With opinion polls indicating no party winning a majority,
Kouvelis said he’d team with Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras, who
advocates unilaterally canceling the austerity measures demanded
for a bailout, with an agenda of re-negotiating the terms of the
rescue. The cuts required for 240 billion euros ($306 billion)
of aid have driven the country into the worst recession since
World War II.  Kouvelis refused to join a unity government that didn’t
include Syriza, the second-place finisher after a May 6
election, requiring the need for a revote. Another inconclusive
result may mean the country runs out of money as soon as early
July. International inspectors won’t visit  Greece  for a review
that allows funds to be paid until a government is formed.  Opinion polls since the May 6 vote have shown Syriza
challenging the New Democracy party, which voted for the
bailout, for first place. Both would still need to team up with
other parties to form a majority and govern.  Tsipras Rebuff  Syriza’s Tsipras, who has said he’ll try to keep Greece in
the euro while pledging to cancel austerity measures, rebuffed
approaches to form a coalition. The standoff reignited concern
the country will leave the 17-nation euro area.  “Greece’s exit from the euro area would mean many and
significant problems,” Kouvelis said. “I can’t rule it out
being a possible choice of our partners. Such an eventuality,
irrespective of the huge negative consequences on Greece, would
also create problems for other countries in the euro area.”  Kouvelis says there is recognition now on a European level
with talk of curbing youth unemployment and boosting growth that
can help a new Greek government gradually revise some of the
bailout terms. The “easy solutions” of pension and wage cuts
taken in return for funds have driven 30 percent of the Greek
population to live below the poverty line, with a “vanishing”
middle class and “galloping” unemployment, he said. More than
one in two young Greeks is out of work.  Black Market  Instead, not enough has been done to stamp out  tax evasion ,
curb the black economy, which is 30 percent of output, and cut
unnecessary health, pharmaceutical and defense spending, he
said. The party advocates a  banking system  with a state-
ownership stake.  “Greece has need of reforms, both on the level of how the
state works and on the level of how markets work,” said
Kouvelis, a lawyer who broke from Synaspismos, one of the groups
making up Syriza, in June 2010 for what he called a slide into
“anti-Europeanism.” “There are reforms, necessary actions,
which must and should occur regardless of the presence of the
IMF or troika in Greece.”  Syriza’s unexpected gains in the May 6 election left  New
Democracy  and Pasok, which supported the second international
rescue in an interim government this year, two deputies short of
the 151 seats needed for a majority in Parliament.  Syriza won 16.8 percent of the vote compared with New
Democracy’s 18.9 percent. Kouvelis won 6.1 percent giving the
party 19 seats. Polls now show him between 5.3 percent and 7
percent.  ‘Clear, Specific’  Kouvelis’s proposal for a unity government couldn’t work
after Syriza rejected it, he said, because it would’ve lacked
political and parliamentary support. Any agreement on a new
government after June 17 would have to be “clear, specific”
and in writing, he said, citing conflicting statements made
since the election by Syriza members.  “If there is a policy statement, good,” he said. “If
not, there can be no agreement because coalition governments to
be useful, democratically effective, must be based on a policy
statement, otherwise they are ready to collapse from the day of
their birth.”  The June 17 elections will be more about the country’s
future in the euro than a vote of protest against Pasok and New
Democracy, he says.  Polls have consistently shown Greeks want to remain in the
euro area. A Kapa poll of 1,016 Greeks on May 23 and May 24
showed that the May 6 election was primarily to “punish” the
pro-bailout parties of New Democracy and Pasok, with 66 percent
agreeing with that statement and nearly 26 percent saying the
vote was about dropping the bailout.  Euro Backed  That survey showed that 65.5 percent believed the logic of
staying in the euro would prevail at the June 17 ballot, with
the same number saying they would stick to bailout terms
compared with 24 percent who said it’s be preferable to abandon
the currency.  “The great majority of Greeks want a solution, a
government and the great majority want to stay in the euro,”
Kouvelis said. “And because that doesn’t come from the wave of
any magic wand but from policy, that’s why I think they will
seek to vote responsibly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at  agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  