-- Greek Fund Disburses $23 Billion to Banks
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-05-28T16:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/greek-bank-stability-fund-makes-eu18-billion-payment-to-banks.html
The Hellenic Financial Stability Fund
disbursed 18 billion euros ($23 billion) to  Greece ’s four
biggest banks as part of a recapitalization plan that may enable
the lenders to return to the European Central Bank for funding.  The funds were paid today, Panayotis Thomopoulos, head of
the fund, said in a phone interview. The banks will receive
bonds issued by the European Financial Stability Facility, which
approved the transfer last week.  National Bank of Greece SA , EFG  Eurobank (EUROB)  Ergasias SA, Alpha
Bank SA and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  are relying on the  Bank of Greece (TELL) ’s
Emergency Liquidity Assistance program for funding after being
cut off from the ECB because their core Tier 1 capital ratios, a
measure of financial strength, dropped below 8 percent.
Meanwhile, deposit outflows jumped after parties opposed to the
nation’s second bailout gained in May 6 elections, raising the
prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region.  “Although only a ‘technicality,’ returning to direct ECB
funding would send a strong message of confidence toward
Greece,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  London , said by e-mail. “By contrast, if the ECB does
not resume direct LTRO funding, it would be a key red flag for
the banking system. Resuming funding would relieve some pressure
on the Bank of Greece’s ELA quota.”  National Bank will receive the largest capital injection of
about 7 billion euros, followed by Piraeus, which will get about
4.7 billion euros, Thomopoulos said. Greece’s four biggest banks
posted a combined loss of 27.9 billion euros for 2011, arising
out of the sovereign debt restructuring, the biggest ever.  The banks have a combined market value of about 2.3 billion
euros, based on today’s closing prices. Alpha rose 9.8 percent
to 87.3-euro cents,  National Bank (ETE)  rose 6.6 percent to 1.29
euros, Eurobank gained 9.6 percent to 55-euro cents while
Piraeus gained 8.6 percent to 22.8-euro cents in Athens trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  