-- Icahn’s Chesapeake Stake Puts Governance Before Value
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-30T13:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/icahn-s-chesapeake-stake-puts-governance-before-value.html
(Corrects amount of Icahn’s stake in fifth paragraph and
 Michael Garland ’s name in 20th paragraph of story published
yesterday.)  In 2009, investor Jeffrey Bronchick
told directors of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  that he was disgusted
with their leadership.  “I have never seen a more shameful document than the
Chesapeake proxy statement,” he wrote in an April 23, 2009,
letter to the board after it paid Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  $100 million in a year when the company’s shares
plunged 59 percent. The proxy is “a near perfect illustration
of the complete collapse of appropriate corporate governance,”
he said in the letter, which was cited in the book “Money for
Nothing” by John Gillespie and David Zweig.  Three years later,  Oklahoma  City-based Chesapeake is
embroiled in a new controversy over directors’ close ties to
McClendon, insider deals and off-the-books loans. Bronchick,
however, sees things differently. The natural-gas producer is a
good value investment, and the problems with the board no longer
bother him, he said in an interview.  “Chesapeake’s board doesn’t engender confidence, but the
problem isn’t governance, it’s $2 gas prices,” said Bronchick,
head of El Segundo, California-based Cove Street Capital, which
held 306,088  Chesapeake shares  at March 31. “I would have
thought that after what McClendon went through in 2009, he would
have adopted stricter governance, tightened  capital spending  and
stopped having to be the biggest guy in the room. Still, he can
pull it off once gas hits $3 or $4” per million British thermal
units. Gas ended last week at about $2.50.  New Chairman  The tension investors sometimes see between appropriate
corporate governance and possible rewards from value have rarely
been more apparent than in the case of Chesapeake. The board is
drawing increased attention because billionaire investor  Carl
Icahn , known for pushing for change at the companies in which he
invests, last week announced he bought a 7.56 percent stake and
demanded four directors be replaced.  The board was already searching for a new chairman to
replace McClendon, who will remain CEO and a director of the
company he co-founded 23 years ago. That search began after
revelations last month about McClendon’s borrowing from firms
that do business with the company. The stock dropped 29 percent
this year through May 25 because of questions about McClendon’s
leadership and low prices for natural gas.  The company responded to Icahn with a statement on May 25
saying that “after an independent chairman is named, the
board’s nominating committee will consult with  shareholders  and
carefully review Mr. Icahn’s request for board representation.”  Previous to that Chesapeake had said it was confident of
the board’s independence, according to a May 20 statement by
Michael Kehs, a company spokesman. Chesapeake is handling all
requests for comment from directors, Kehs has said.  “Each of Chesapeake’s directors has built a superb
reputation based on impeccable credentials, independent judgment
and unwavering integrity,” he said.  Under Siege  The highly compensated board has been under siege for more
than three years. New York City Comptroller  John Liu , who
controls pension funds that own 1.9 million Chesapeake shares,
said the company’s “root problem” is “the directors
themselves and their failure to protect long-term shareowner
value.” Two of the nine directors face re-election at the
annual meeting June 8, and Liu said he would withhold votes from
them.  It’s largely a symbolic gesture. There are no opposing
candidates and, under Chesapeake’s rules, a board member doesn’t
need a majority of votes cast to win re-election.  In 2009, by 78.7 percent of votes cast, shareholders
approved a majority-vote measure. The board ignored that
advisory vote. Shareholders also approved a measure to have all
board members elected every year, not one-third of them every
three years. This makes boards more accountable, according to
corporate-governance experts.  Advice Ignored  The company also ignored that advice. A year later,
Oklahoma passed a law prohibiting annual elections of entire
boards for large, publicly traded companies registered in the
state and requiring staggered terms for directors.  In response to the Oklahoma law, shareholders such as  New
York  State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  are backing a resolution
at the annual meeting to force Chesapeake to re-incorporate in
 Delaware . The company opposes the measure.  DiNapoli also is urging investors to withhold votes for the
reelection of directors V. Burns Hargis and Richard K. Davidson,
calling it “a necessary first step toward reconstituting a
board that is currently entrenched and unaccountable to
shareholders.”  Performance Evaluation  “There needs to be an evaluation of the entire board’s
competence and performance, including an assessment of whether
the current directors have the necessary skills and attributes
to continue to oversee the company,” he said today in a filing.  After Chesapeake directors were criticized this year, the
company announced that board members cut their own pay.  They’ll
still receive 34 percent more than the average $260,752 in
compensation received last year by board members at 15 other
exploration and production companies on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The company also said it now supports a majority rule,
which is the practice at about three-quarters of public
companies. Under Chesapeake’s proposal, which will be considered
at the annual meeting, any director nominee who doesn’t receive
a majority vote must submit a resignation. The board can reject
the resignation, however.  Paid $343 Million  “The board retains the ultimate authority,” Glass Lewis &
Co., the proxy advisory firm, wrote in a report to clients.
“This policy does not take the majority vote standard far
enough.”  Michael Garland, governance expert for the New York City
comptroller, said none of this was sufficient because the board
is too close to McClendon. Lead director Merrill A. “Pete” Miller is CEO of  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , a drilling
equipment maker that has been paid more than $343 million by
Chesapeake since 2009, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities & Exchange Commission. Board member Hargis is
president of the Oklahoma State University system, which has
received more than $10 million in Chesapeake funding, according
to filings and university publications.  ’Under Siege’  “Over and over this is a board that gives crumbs when it’s
under siege,” Garland said in an interview. “This board is
rife with conflicts of interest and egregious pay. There’s a
disconnect between what they think they need to do to restore
shareholder confidence and what shareholders think they should
do.”  Still, Chesapeake may be a cheap way to buy into the U.S.
shale revolution, according to  Fadel Gheit  and Robert du Boff,
two Oppenheimer & Co. analysts who rate the stock  outperform ,
saying the shares are worth “several times the current price.”  The company is the largest U.S. holder of onshore drilling
leases, with 15.6 million acres under its control and proved
reserves equivalent to 3.13 billion barrels of oil.  Natural gas futures for June delivery closed down 6.3
percent last week at $2.48 per million Btus. That erased some of
their 37 percent rally since April 19 and still left the
commodity about 75 percent below its mid-2008 high. Despite the
current glut of gas from new wells in shale formations from
 Texas  to  Pennsylvania , an incipient gas rally portends well for
Chesapeake. It holds reserves vast enough to satisfy four years
of U.S. household demand.  Chesapeake shares “have plummeted in recent weeks on
relentless attacks by the media, deserved and undeserved, for
excessive compensation of its CEO and board, lack of
transparency and complex financial structure,” Gheit and du
Boff said in a May 22 report to clients. “Although some changes
have been made, more are needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brecher at 
 jbrecher4@bloomberg.net  