-- India’s Bond Yields Near One-Week Low on Central Bank Purchases
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-28T11:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/india-s-bond-yields-near-one-week-low-on-central-bank-purchases.html
India ’s benchmark bonds were steady,
with yields near a one-week low, on optimism purchases by the
central bank will boost cash in the financial system and spur
demand for debt.  The  Reserve Bank  of India picked up 112 billion rupees ($2
billion) of securities at an open-market auction on May 25. The
RBI has injected 321 billion rupees through such purchases so
far in the year that began April 1, replenishing banks’ funds
that may have been drained by the monetary authority’s dollar
sales aimed at curbing exchange-rate losses. The rupee touched a
record low of 56.3875 per dollar last week.  “The requirement for open-market buying will continue to
be there as intervention in the  currency market  sucks out
liquidity,” said Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 was
little changed at 8.51 percent in Mumbai, after declining in
each of the last four weeks, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The Reserve Bank may buy sovereign notes worth
1.5 trillion rupees by the end of this fiscal year, Rajpal
predicts.  The central bank sold a net $20.1 billion of foreign
currency in the seven months through March, the latest data on
its website show. The monetary authority intervenes in the
currency market to limit volatility and has no target levels,
Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said in Mumbai on May 16.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.98 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  