-- Indonesian Lower-Quality Coal Swaps Slide; China Rises
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-05-28T10:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/indonesian-lower-quality-coal-swaps-slide-china-rises-correct-.html
Swaps contracts fell for lower-
quality thermal coal from  Indonesia , the world’s biggest
exporter of the fuel, according to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte
Ltd. China prices rose.  The price for Indonesian sub-bituminous coal with a heating
value of 4,900 kilocalories a kilogram for loading in June fell
75 cents to $68.35 a metric ton on a net as-received basis May
25, the energy broker said. The contract for the third quarter
dropped 80 cents to $67.50 a ton.  Coal with a calorific value of 5,500 kilocalories a
kilogram on a net as-received basis for shipments to South China
for June rose 10 cents to $90.20 a ton, Ginga said. The swap for
the third quarter was unchanged at $90.25 a ton.  A commodity swap is a financial agreement whereby a
floating, or spot price, is exchanged for a fixed rate over a
specified contract period.  Power-station coal will stay under pressure until seasonal
demand increases next quarter in China, where domestic
stockpiles are high and imports are being deferred, according to
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “Price activity will remain subdued” until the end of the
third quarter, when Chinese demand should start to reduce
inventories,  Mark Pervan , the head of commodity research at ANZ
in  Melbourne , said in a note today. Thermal-coal prices at the
Australian port of Newcastle, the benchmark contract for  Asia ,
fell below $100 a metric ton last month for the first time since
October 2010.  About 60 percent of Indonesia’s coal is classified as sub-
bituminous. The grade is typically softer, with a dull, earthy
appearance, according to the London-based World Coal
Association. Higher moisture levels and a lower carbon content
reduce the heating value compared with grades with a better
quality stock. Sub-bit coal has kilocalories of less than 6,100
per kilogram, according to the Indonesian Energy Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  