-- Mining Maven Says Share Slump to Spur Merger Boom
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-28T14:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/mining-maven-says-share-slump-to-spur-merger-boom.html
Catherine McLeod-Seltzer, one of
 Canada ’s top mining dealmakers, is forecasting an increase in
mergers and acquisitions because of a shortage of financing.  Mining stocks  are trading close to a three-year low as
commodity prices decline on concern that growth is slowing in
 China , the largest metals consumer. McLeod-Seltzer says that as
investors shun equity offerings and banks shy away from making
loans, more mine developers will be bought by larger competitors
looking to add output and reserves.  “I see these downturns as opportunities,” she said in an
interview in Toronto. “The company that’s going to create value
for shareholders today is the one that’s not timid.”  McLeod-Seltzer, 52, who sits on the boards of five miners
including Toronto-based  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , says that during her
28-year career she has raised more than $600 million for new
companies searching for mineral riches. She has co-founded
exploration startups including Arequipa Resources Ltd., which
was bought by  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  for almost $1 billion after
three years, and Peru Copper Inc., sold for about C$776 million
($757 million) within three years of its initial public
offering.  ‘Like Cockroaches’  “She’s been very effective,” Rob McEwen, founder of
Canada’s  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and the chief executive officer of
Toronto-based  McEwen Mining Inc (MUX) , said in an interview. “She’s
curious, and she’s one of those people who seems to have a good
eye for mineral deposits.”  The world of mineral exploration comprises hundreds of
ventures in Canada alone that are trying to bring deposits into
production. In return for assuming the risk of evaluating and
developing projects, often in remote regions, the payoffs, when
they come, can be enormous.  Mineral prospectors and promoters are “some of the most
optimistic people on the planet,” McLeod-Seltzer says. “We’re
like cockroaches -- we’ve survived a lot of nuclear winters.”  The  S&P/TSX Global Mining Index (TXGM)  has fallen 31 percent in
the past 12 months. The cost to build and operate mines is
rising. Smaller companies are having difficulty accessing
capital after equity markets cooled and European banks, the
biggest providers of mining project finance, curbed lending amid
economic turmoil at home.  ‘Rocks and Stocks’  “If you have that kind of risk profile going forward, I
can’t imagine sitting on a lending committee and saying we’re
going to lend $1 billion to a project in some crazy part of the
world,” she says of lenders caught up in  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Canadian miners raised $72.3 million from 11 stock sales in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with $620.3 million from 30 deals a year earlier. The amount of
money raised year-to-date has fallen 37 percent to $2.06
billion.  “The junior explorationist, what he needs to be doing
right now is making sure he doesn’t go under, that’s his number-
one focus,” McLeod-Seltzer says. Companies may need to rein in
costs and delay some spending, she said.  McLeod-Seltzer says having a father in the mining business
meant she grew up talking “rocks and stocks” at the dinner
table. Her family lived in northern British Columbia when her
father Donald managed a gold mine, before moving to the
 Northwest Territories , where he worked on an exploration
project, after which they settled in  Vancouver . She learned from
her dad just how quickly boom can turn to bust in mining.  Lights Off  “You’d have one day where my dad was building a swimming
pool in the backyard and then the next thing you know he’s
running around the house turning off every light,” she says.
“These cycles that we see, they always correct.”  She studied business administration at Trinity Western
University in Langley, British Columbia. After graduating, she
worked for a year at Canadian Commercial Bank and was hired in
1985 by brokerage Yorkton Securities Inc.  In 1992, while she was running Yorkton’s office in
Santiago,  Chile , she met prospector David Lowell. The two became
friends and founded Arequipa with properties in  Peru  that Lowell
had acquired.  Arequipa discovered the multimillion-ounce Pierina gold
deposit in 1995, after which Barrick made its move, buying the
company for C$940 million. Arequipa was a “really big score”
for McLeod-Seltzer, McEwen says.  “She picked up a flavor of what the market wants and she
said, ‘Let’s get the geologists operating closer to what the
market wants, rather than what the geologists want,’” he says.  Prices Near Highs  McLeod-Seltzer achieved a similar result 11 years later.
Peru Copper, another South American mining venture she co-
founded, was purchased by  Aluminum Corp. of China  in 2007 for
C$6.60 a share. Peru Copper sold shares at C$1.65 apiece in an
initial public offering less that three years earlier.  Since then, McLeod-Seltzer says she’s tried to do the same
thing: find “great explorationists,” help them raise money and
communicate with investors.  She’s chairman of  Bear Creek Mining Ltd. (BCM) , a Vancouver-based
company exploring for precious metals in Peru. She’s also
chairman of Vancouver-based Pacific Rim Ltd., another junior
miner, and a director of  Stornoway Diamond Corp. (SWY) , a company she
co-founded with geologist Eira Thomas.  Another company that she helps run,  Troon Ventures Ltd. (TVN) , is
“actively looking” for a project to acquire, McLeod-Seltzer
says. Troon directors include her father, brother Bruce McLeod,
as well as Michael Kenyon and Jonathan Rubenstein, the founders
of Canico Resource Corp., a miner created in 2002 and acquired
by Vale SA for C$803.7 million three years later.  ‘Pots of Cash’  Mine builders and operators are getting some good news,
McLeod-Seltzer says. Prices for many of the commodities they
produce remain close to historic highs. Copper prices in  New
York  have quadrupled since the end of 2000 and gold has risen
more than fivefold.  “It’s a liquidity issue, a financial issue, I think, not a
lack of demand for the materials,” McLeod-Seltzer said. “The
metals prices are still very robust.”  Developers with advanced projects that are almost ready to
be built will probably become takeover candidates for larger
producers, most of which have strong balance sheets and lots of
cash, she said.  “Most of the producers are sitting on pots of cash, they
are making money and they know that every day that they stick a
shovel in the ground they are diminishing the size of their
resources,” McLeod-Seltzer says. “They have to replace them.
Now is the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  