-- Minority Shareholders of Serbian Agrobanka Mull Legal Action
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-28T16:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/minority-shareholders-of-serbian-agrobanka-mull-legal-action.html
The minority shareholders of
 Agrobanka AD (AGBN) , the unprofitable lender that had its license
revoked after five months in receivership, are considering legal
action against the Serbian government.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije pulled Agrobanka’s
license on May 25 and transferred its deposits and some claims
to a new institution to operate as Nova Agrobanka AD Beograd.
The central bank issued a license to Nova Agrobanka during the
weekend, “to ensure the continuity and implementation of
business activities and to fully protect the interests of all
its depositors and other lenders,” it said on its website.  “A new special-purpose bridge bank has been established,
which is much better in terms of liquidity and solvency than the
old bank,” central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said by phone
today. The new bank is financially backed by a government  bond
issue , which can be used “as collateral for additional
liquidity” and there is “nothing that can endanger the
financial stability,” he said.  The new, fully state-owned bank has capital of 90 million
euros ($113.2 million), according to the Serbian Business
Registers Agency. The capital comprises 9.84 billion dinars
($106.8 million) worth of long-term dinar bonds issued by the
outgoing Cabinet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic “to protect
the financial stability” and a cash portion of 578.7 million
dinars.  ‘All Options’  Minority shareholders are exploring “all options, but it
seems that the legal option is all they’ve got,” Branislav
Bogdanovic, chairman of AC Broker, a Belgrade-based brokerage
representing more than 20 percent of the mostly foreign
institutional investors with stakes in Agrobanka, said by phone
today.  The bond issue is “just the first step toward saving the
bank,” Deputy Finance Minister Goran Radosavljevic, said by
phone. “Within six months, the bank will be offered for sale
and recapitalized again because the bridge bank cannot last
long, or merged with another bank,” he said, adding decisions
will be made by the next government.  The government sold a three-year bond, yielding 2
percentage points over the  consumer price index , and then used
the notes to back the bank’s capital in exchange for shares, he
said.  Shareholders Agreement  The bonds were part of a shareholders agreement with the
government and the central bank earlier this year meant to
“replace Agrobanka’s non-performing loans, especially because
those non-performing assets had been provisioned for,”
Bogdanovic said. The investors will “need to decide how to
proceed” as this was the first such case in Serbia, he said.  “The aim of the whole operation was to protect the
deposits and prevent any further deterioration of the bank,”
Radosavljevic said. “The alternative was to spend 300 million
euros of taxpayers’ money to save the bank and its shareholders.
It wasn’t worth it.”  Authorities fired Agrobanka’s management on Dec. 29 and
placed it in receivership after inspectors discovered its
capital didn’t match the risk it had assumed. The bank, in which
the government held a 20 percent stake, had an unaudited 2011
loss of 29.7 billion dinars. Agrobanka reported the loss after a
full-year pretax profit of 1.18 billion dinars in 2010 and a
loss of 2.27 billion dinars at the end of September 2011.  ‘Wrong Address’  “We were aware that legal action on behalf of the minority
shareholders could follow, but the government of  Serbia  is the
wrong address,” Radosavljevic said. “They can take action
either against the central bank or Agrobanka’s former management
which brought the bank to collapse,” he said, adding that “we
would join such legal action.”  Minority shareholders tried three times to hold shareholder
meetings demanding a new audit to scrutinize the 2010 financial
statement signed by  KPMG ’s Serbian unit. Their efforts failed as
no government representative attended the scheduled meetings.  The bank had a market share of 2.3 percent in 2011, ranking
12th in assets among 33 banks operating in the Balkan country.  The  Belgrade Stock Exchange  halted the trade in Agrobanka’s
shares, which rose 2.2 percent to 904 dinars on May 25. The
stock has lost 70 percent so far this year, after a 58 percent
decline in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  