-- Iran Sets Condition for Possible Restrictions on Nuclear Work
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-28T07:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/iran-sets-condition-for-possible-restrictions-on-nuclear-work.html
Iran said Western nations should
recognize that its nuclear program is non-military in exchange
for a possible curb of  uranium enrichment  work.  “If Western countries acknowledge that Iran is enriching
at 20 percent for peaceful purposes but ask us not to do it,
Iran will consider their request,” Iranian Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  was quoted as saying late yesterday
by the official  Islamic Republic News Agency . “That there was
an agreement in  Baghdad  to a further meeting is positive. They
have repeatedly seen that threats yield no results.”  Iran negotiators and their Chinese, French, German,
Russian, British and U.S. counterparts agreed on May 24 to hold
a new round of talks about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
work in Moscow on June 18-19 after failing to bridge differences
during negotiations in Baghdad last week.  There is “some common ground” though “significant
differences remain,”  Catherine Ashton , European Union foreign
policy chief, told reporters in the Iraqi capital after the
talks.  As a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
Iran is entitled to carry out uranium enrichment for civilian
purposes. The U.S. and its allies say the program may be
designed for military ends, and have imposed financial, trade
and energy sanctions against Iran.  “Imposing sanctions against Iran while negotiations are
ongoing won’t be efficient,” Mehmanparast said. “Only the
recognition of the Iranian nation’s right is seen as an
undertaking that may allow for results.”  Medical Isotopes  Uranium enriched to 20 percent is closer to the 90 percent
level of purity needed in atomic weapons. Iran says it’s only
enriching uranium to that grade to ensure sufficient fuel for a
Tehran Research Reactor producing medical isotopes for cancer
treatment.  The six nations, known as the P5+1, had offered to discuss
providing fuel plates for  Iran ’s medical-isotope reactor in
exchange for Iran curtailing its production of 20 percent-
enriched uranium, U.S. and European diplomats said during the
talks last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  