-- Iran’s Larijani, Who Oversaw 2011 Presidential Probe, Re-Elected
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-28T12:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/iran-s-larijani-who-oversaw-2011-presidential-probe-re-elected.html
Iran ’s parliament speaker,  Ali
Larijani , who oversaw lawmakers’s unprecedented public
questioning of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , was re-elected to
the position today, state media reported.  Larijani, who has headed the parliament for the past four
years, was returned to his post after winning 173 votes, ahead
of his political rival, Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, who received 100
votes, the state-run  Press TV  news channel reported.  The new Iranian parliament, which was formed after
elections earlier this year and consists of a majority of
opponents of the president, was  sworn in  yesterday.  In March, Ahmadinejad became the first president in the
history of the Islamic Republic to be summoned by parliament and
questioned about allegations of political and economic
mismanagement. Ahmadinejad has also been criticized for failing
to show sufficient allegiance to Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei , the country’s highest authority.  Larijani is a former top nuclear negotiator who stepped
down from his post following clashes with the president. He ran
against Ahmadinejad in the 2005 election and is seen as a
potential candidate in next year’s presidential race.
Ahmadinejad has been in office for two consecutive four-year
terms and isn’t allowed to run again.  Larijani will be the interim speaker until two thirds of
the lawmakers’ credentials are approved, according to the state-
run  Fars  news agency said. Temporary speakers have traditionally
gone on to become permanent, according to  Associated Press .  Larijani’s brother Sadegh heads the Iranian judiciary and
another brother, Mohammad Javad, is an adviser to Khamenei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  