-- Irish Supporters of EU Fiscal Treaty Keep Lead as Voting Begins
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-05-28T10:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/irish-supporters-of-eu-fiscal-treaty-keep-lead-as-voting-begins.html
Irish supporters of the European
Union’s fiscal treaty maintained their lead as voting began in
some parts of the country.  Four polls over the weekend gave the “yes” campaign an
average lead of 17.5 percentage points, when undecideds are
excluded. Voters on five islands off the northwest of the
country cast ballots today on whether to accept tighter
budgetary rules. The referendum will be held May 31 for all
voters.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  urged his countrymen to back the
treaty in a televised address yesterday, saying their
“sacrifices” are starting to make a difference and a “yes”
vote guarantees access to future bailout funds if needed. With
almost a third of voters still undecided, according to one poll,
opponents of the treaty said they will step up their campaign.  “The latest polls suggest that the ‘yes’ side has a
commanding lead,”  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at Dublin-based
 Goodbody Stockbrokers , said in a note today. “It would take
something dramatic over the next three days for the ‘no’ side to
win.”  The yield on Irish October 2020 bonds climbed four basis
points today to 7.42 percent. While Irish borrowing costs have
risen as the Greek political crisis unfolded this month, they’re
still about half the euro-era record of 14.1 percent seen in
July.  Support for the treaty among voters with a preference has
remained largely unchanged at about 60 percent since Kenny
announced plans to hold the referendum in February. Two polls,
one for the Sunday Independent and one for the Sunday Times,
showed the “yes” campaign with a 20-point lead yesterday.  Union Plea  Three trade unions -- Unite, Mandate and the Civil Public
and Services Union -- called on their more than 100,000 members
yesterday in a joint statement yesterday to vote “no.”  Residents on the islands of Arranmore, Gola, Inishboffin,
Inishfree and Tory Island, with about 765 voters, get to pass
judgement on the treaty today. Inhabitants of other west coast
islands will vote tomorrow and on May 30.  Support for Kenny’s Fine Gael party dropped one point to 32
points, while Labour, its coalition partner, saw support decline
three points to 10 percent compared with a previous poll five
weeks ago, the Dublin-based Irish Times said today. The poll was
conducted by research company Ipsos MRBI between May 23 and
May 25 and has a margin of error of minus or plus three points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  