-- Italy Business Confidence Falls to Lowest in Almost 3 Years
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-28T10:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/italian-business-confidence-falls-to-lowest-in-almost-3-years.html
Italian business confidence fell more
than economists forecast, declining this month to the lowest
level in almost three years as the country’s fourth recession
since 2001 deepened.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  dropped to 86.2, the
lowest since August 2009, from a revised 89.1 in April, Rome-
based national statistics institute Istat said today. Economists
had predicted a reading of 88.6, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We are likely to see more drops going forward, also
because some taxes introduced by Monti’s government will take
effect in the second part of the year,” Nicola Marinelli,
portfolio manager at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London ,
said by phone.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy will shrink 1.5
percent this year as household spending and corporate investment
both decline, Istat said in a May 22 report. That gross domestic
product forecast compares with a 1.2 percent contraction
expected by Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government. The
statistics institute also said the  unemployment rate , currently
at a 12-year high of 9.8 percent, won’t start falling until
2014.  “A key concern is that firms are increasingly concerned
about Italy’s economic outlook, with the sub-index measuring
this sinking to its lowest level since early 2009, which is
likely to be a significant drag on employment and investment
decisions in the next few quarters.”  Raj Badiani , an economist
at Global  Insight Inc. (2172)  in London, wrote in a note.  Rising Pessimism  Pessimism among households and businesses has grown after
Monti’s government started implementing a 20 billion-euro ($26.4
billion) austerity plan passed in December that aims to
eliminate the deficit in the next two years. The measures
included tax increases and higher gasoline prices that crimped
domestic demand.  Consumer confidence  plunged this month to the
lowest since 1986.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, will temporarily
lay off 5,400 employees in Turin for six days in June and July,
union Fiom Cgil said on May 18. It’s “very bad news as it shows
that the company also has problems at the the upper levels,”
Fiom official Edi Lazzi said in a statement.  Italian companies are suffering under  Europe ’s highest tax
burden, amounting to 68.5 percent, Giorgio Squinzi, the new
leader of the country’s main employer lobby Confindustria said
in a May 24 speech. He called on banks to provide credit to
firms after European lenders received more than 1 trillion euros
in three-year loans from the  European Central Bank .  Istat originally reported a reading for April business
confidence of 89.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  