-- Most Japanese Stocks Fall on BOJ Remarks, Greece Concern
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-05-28T06:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/japanese-stocks-rise-on-easing-greek-concern-u-s-data.html
Most Japanese stocks declined, with
the  Topix (TPX)  Index’s trading value falling to a four-month low,
after the  Bank of Japan  said it will not automatically expand
its asset purchases and amid concern Greece will exit the euro.  MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. (8725)  paced declines in the
sector on a report Lloyd’s of  London  Ltd. is prepared for the
single currency to collapse if Greece leaves.  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s biggest maker of automotive
microcontrollers, sank 11 percent on plans to raise capital.
Furukawa Co. gained 3.1 percent on a report the civil-
engineering machinery maker and the University of  Tokyo  will
develop equipment to test the radiation level of fish.  The Topix slid 0.1 percent to 721.11 at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, set for a monthly drop of 8.7 percent. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  added 0.2 percent to 8,593.15, with volume 24
percent below the 30-day average. The  total value  of stocks
traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first section fell to 781.5
billion yen ($9.8 billion) today, the lowest since Jan. 16.  “Investors in the market cannot decide their positions
because the Greek issue remains unpredictable in Europe,” said
Yoshihisa Okamoto, who helps oversee about $33 billion at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. “The market doesn’t think the BOJ will
automatically expand its asset purchases, but many people want
to sell shares and are using the remarks as a catalyst.”  Lloyd’s of London is prepared for a collapse of the
European single currency that may be triggered if Greece leaves
the monetary union,  The Sunday Telegraph  reported after an
interview with Chief Executive Officer Richard Ward.  Bankia SA (BKIA) ,
Banco Popular Espanol SA and Bankinter SA had their ratings cut
to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited Spain’s weakening
economy.  Insurers declined. MS&AD Insurance Group lost 1.5 percent
to 1,244 yen, while NKSJ Holdings Inc. slid 0.9 percent to 1,484
yen.  BOJ Minutes  Japanese stocks also dropped after the minutes of an April
27 meeting concerning the Bank of Japan’s asset purchases were
released today in Tokyo. “Members made note of some
misunderstanding that the bank would continue to increase the
size of its program in an automatic manner,” until the bank’s 1
percent inflation goal is met.  “The market doesn’t think the BOJ will automatically
expand its asset purchases, but many people want to sell shares
and are using the remarks as a catalyst,” said Mizuho Asset’s
Okamoto.  The Topix has plunged 17 percent from this year’s high on
March 27 as  China ’s economic growth slowed, and on renewed
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. The political gridlock in
 Greece  after an inconclusive election this month reignited
concern the nation will renege on austerity pledges required for
240 billion euros ($302 billion) in aid and exit the monetary
union.  Topix Valuations Fall  The drop cut the  value  of stocks listed on the index to
0.84 times book value, compared with 2.08 times for the S&P 500
and 1.33 times for the Stoxx 600. A number below one means
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  Renesas Electronics plunged 11 percent to 244 yen after the
company said it will eliminate 10,000 jobs and raise 100 billion
yen ($1.3 billion) in capital under its restructuring plan. NEC
Corp., Renesas’s top shareholder, dropped 9.2 percent to 108 yen.  Among companies that gained, Furukawa climbed 3.1 percent
to 66 yen after the Nikkei newspaper reported the company and
 University of Tokyo  will develop screening equipment to check
radiation levels in a fishing vessel’s entire catch in seven to
eight seconds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  