-- Japan Rebound May Be Cooling as Jobless Rate Rises
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-05-29T01:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/japan-s-unemployment-rate-rises-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Japan ’s jobless rate unexpectedly
rose and retail sales fell for a second month, underscoring 
concern that an economic recovery will lose momentum in the 
face of gains in the yen and Europe’s debt crisis.  The  unemployment rate  increased to 4.6 percent in April
from 4.5 percent in March, the first increase in three months
the statistics bureau said today in  Tokyo . The median 
estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 
4.5 percent.  Retail sales  fell 0.3 percent from March, the 
Trade Ministry reported.  Sony Corp. (6758)  is among manufacturers to have announced job
cuts that may weigh on an economy that relied on  consumer
spending  for most of its growth in the first quarter. The
expansion may slow as boosts from earthquake reconstruction and
government incentives to spur spending fade and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and austerity measures cap exports.  “Employment conditions are not improving,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Securities in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. “Recent economic indicators and a
deterioration in financial markets suggest that strong growth
cannot be maintained.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average snapped a three-day rally,
falling 0.3 percent as of 10:22 a.m. local time. The yen traded
at 79.53 per dollar, compared with a post World War II high of
75.35 in October.  BOJ Policy  Bank of Japan  board members said last month they need to
counter the mistaken perception that central bank asset
purchases will automatically increase, a record of the BOJ’s
April 27 meeting released yesterday showed. Policy makers have
to add stimulus should the yen advance “significantly,”
according to Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  The overall unemployment results are “not that good,”
said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo.
“Today’s employment data suggested a mismatch of jobs and
geographic areas is widening.”  There has been an increase in construction jobs as
reconstruction projects in the disaster-struck north have
started, pushing up labor demand and costs in those regions,
Kato said.  At the same time, a succession of Japanese manufacturers
have plans to cut job this year, with both Sony and  NEC Corp. (6701) 
announcing cuts of 10,000 workers worldwide. Shares in  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723)  fell yesterday to the lowest level on record
after the company was said to be planning to eliminate 10,000
jobs and raise 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) under the latest
draft of a restructuring plan.  Spain’s Woes  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy yesterday called for a
show of force from European authorities as his government sought
ways to avoid tapping markets to fund the bailout of the
nation’s third-biggest lender.  “ Europe  has to dissipate any doubts about the euro,” the
premier told reporters in  Madrid . It “must affirm that the euro
is an irreversible project and act in consequence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  