-- Asia Stocks Rise as China Stimulus Tempers Europe Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-05-29T10:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/japanese-stock-futures-drop-amid-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Asian  stocks  rose amid speculation
 China  will do more to boost growth in the world’s second-largest
economy, tempering concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. China has
no intention for large-scale stimulus, the official Xinhua News
reported after most markets in the region closed.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  led Chinese carmakers higher
after BNP Paribas SA said they may benefit from government
subsidies. Komatsu Ltd., a Japanese construction machinery maker
that gets 14 percent of sales from China, gained 3.2 percent.
Shui On Land Ltd. jumped 7.3 percent in Hong Kong after the
developer controlled by billionaire Vincent Lo said it plans to
spin off its Xintiandi entertainment complex unit.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.2 percent to 113.63
as of 7:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , after earlier falling as much as 0.6
percent. About seven stocks climbed for every two that slipped.  Chinese “leaders are already aware of the slowdown and
we’re going to see measures coming through in the next few
weeks,” Raymond Chan, chief Asia-Pacific investment officer at
Allianz Global Investors, told Bloomberg Television. The firm
oversees about $300 billion. “There’s speculation that there
will be measures coming out for the auto market. Sooner or later
there will be interest-rate cuts.”  The regional gauge is headed for a 9.2 percent decline this
month amid signs of a deeper slowdown in China and as European
leaders pressure  Greece  to meet bailout terms before elections
next month. Concern is now growing that Spanish lenders will
need more financial support to weather the crisis in the debt-
stricken region.  Japan Employment  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 0.7 percent,
reversing earlier losses after a report the nation’s jobless
rate last month unexpectedly rose for the first time since
January. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.1 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 1.4 percent after the market
reopened from a holiday.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.4 percent and
China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.2 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index gained 2.9 percent, the most since December, after
the ruling party proposed easing a tax on trading gains for
individual investors.  Shares rose after China’s finance ministry said it will
allocate as much as 2 billion  yuan  ($317 million) every year to
support purchases of energy-efficient cars.  China has no intention to introduce large-scale stimulus
like it did during the global financial crisis in response to
this year’s economic slowdown, the official Xinhua News Agency
said today after markets including China,  Hong Kong , Japan,
Australia and Korea closed.  In  Spain , Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called for a show of
force from European authorities to help fund a bailout of the
nation’s third-biggest lender, BFA-Bankia. Rajoy, repeating
yesterday that he wouldn’t seek a European rescue for Spain’s
banks, said the European Stability Mechanism should be able to
recapitalize struggling lenders directly, bypassing national
governments.  ‘Irreversible Project’  “Europe has to dissipate any doubts about the euro,”
Rajoy told reporters in  Madrid . It “must affirm that the euro
is an irreversible project and act in consequence.”  “The more the crisis progresses, the worse the situation
becomes,” said Peter Elston, the Singapore-based head of Asia-
Pacific strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees
about $270 billion. “We have a very serious and deteriorating
problem in Europe.”  Declines in equities this month dragged the average price
of stocks on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  to 11.6 times estimated
earnings yesterday, compared with a multiple of 12.6 for the S&P
500 and 10.1 for the Stoxx 600.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent
today. The index slid 0.2 percent in  New York  on May 25, paring
its first weekly rally since April. Financial markets in the
U.S. were closed yesterday for the Memorial Day holiday.  Automakers Jump  Geely gained 5 percent to HK$2.92 and Dongfeng Motor Group
Co. climbed 2.1 percent to HK$13.76 after BNP Paribas SA that
they are among automakers that may benefit from state subsidies
targeted at rural motorists. The Ministry of Industry said the
incentives were aimed at increasing domestic consumption to
counter slower-than- expected economic growth.  Shui On Land (272)  rose 7.3 percent to HK$3.08. The Shanghai-
based developer has submitted a spinoff proposal to the Hong
Kong bourse, Shui On said in a statement yesterday. The company
didn’t say how much it plans to raise and when the listing is
expected be completed.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
jumped 4.4 percent to 212 yen after Credit Suisse Group AG
recommended buying the shares. Komatsu gained 3.2 percent to
1,952 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  