-- JPMorgan Injects $394 Million in China Unit on Faster Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T04:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/jpmorgan-injects-394-million-in-china-unit-on-faster-growth-2-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , increased the capital of its China unit by 2.5
billion yuan ($394 million) to meet rising demand for financial
services in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The second infusion since the local subsidiary was
incorporated in 2007 will bring its capital to 6.5 billion yuan,
the New York-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today.
The U.S. bank also received approval from the China Banking
Regulatory Commission to open a branch in Suzhou.  JPMorgan joins  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  in adding to investments in China,
seeking a bigger share of the world’s third-biggest banking
market, where local currency  loans  have grown by an average 22
percent a year since 2008. Foreign banks may lend a maximum of
10 percent of their net capital to a single borrower, which
limited their participation in the three-year lending boom.  “JPMorgan now sees a good opportunity to expand in China,
given that there’s a lot of demand for all kinds of financial
services,” Victoria Mio, a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at
Robeco Hong Kong Ltd., whose parent firm oversees about $222
billion in assets globally as of March 31, said by telephone.
“There’s still growth in China, versus other parts of the world
where there’s contraction or slower growth.”  Third-Largest Market  With 114 trillion  yuan  of assets at the end of last year,
China’s banking system is larger than the combined size of the
30 other  emerging markets  tracked by  Fitch Ratings , and smaller
than only the U.S. and Japan. About 45 percent of the nation’s
55 trillion yuan of  outstanding loans  were doled out in the past
three years as the government spurred lending during the global
financial crisis to resuscitate the economy.  Foreign banks more than doubled their combined profit from
China to 16.7 billion yuan last year, according to the banking
regulator. JPMorgan’s China unit earned 297.3 million yuan in
2011, compared with 70.4 million yuan a year earlier, according
to its annual  report .  ANZ Bank said this month it plans to invest $300 million in
its China unit. DBS,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank, announced in
April it would inject 2.3 billion yuan into its Chinese
subsidiary, adding to a 4 billion-yuan initial investment five
years ago.  “The additional capital will better position the bank in
the evolving regulatory environment and cement our commitment to
clients in China,” Shao Zili, chairman and chief executive
officer of JPMorgan China, said in the statement. “The capital
will be used to expand the bank’s branch network, develop
products, increase corporate lending and recruit employees.”  Ties Since 1911  The U.S. bank’s ties to China go back to 1911, when it led
a syndicate in managing a railway company’s $7.5 million bond
sale. In 1921, Equitable Eastern Banking Corp., one of
JPMorgan’s predecessor firms, opened a Shanghai branch,
according to the lender’s website.  JPMorgan has branches in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin,
Guangzhou, Chengdu and Harbin. The company also offers
investment banking services in  China  through a joint venture
with First Capital Securities Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  