-- Lazio Captain Arrested, Juve Coach Probed in Italy Soccer
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-28T17:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/juventus-coach-lazio-captain-targeted-in-italian-soccer-probe.html
Italian police arrested the team
captain of SS Lazio SA and prosecutors are probing the coach of
champion  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE)  as part of an international
investigation into match-rigging in the nation’s soccer leagues.  Prosecutors leading the investigation in Cremona ordered
the arrest of 19 people, including Lazio midfielder Stefano
Mauri and Padova player Omar Milanetto, according to an e-mailed
statement from their office in the northern city. Eight matches
from 2011 are under review, Prosecutor Roberto Di Martino said
at a news conference in Cremona today.  Police visited the Italian national team’s practice grounds
outside Florence today as they questioned international defender
Domenico Criscito for his alleged involvement in the case, which
comes less than two weeks before the European Championship kicks
off. After the news, Criscito was left off  Italy ’s final roster
for the tournament in Poland and Ukraine.  “He’ll definitely not be part of our contingent,”
Demetrio Albertini, a vice president of the Italian Soccer
Federation, said at a news conference at the team’s training
center in Coverciano. “He said he doesn’t have anything to do
with this story and wants to put an end to it as soon as
possible.”  Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci also is being targeted
in the probe, news agency Ansa reported.  The probe recalls a similar scandal that erupted before the
2006 World Cup that led to Juventus being stripped of a Serie A
title. Italy went on to win its fourth  World Cup  even as the
charges rocked the nation’s most popular sport.  ‘Only Criscito’  “There are no other national team players involved,” Di
Martino said today. “This only involved Criscito,” who is
being probed and has not been charged, he said.  While Juventus coach Antonio Conte’s name didn’t appear on
the prosecutors’ suspect list, his home was searched today for
clues of match-fixing when he managed Siena during the 2010-2011
season, daily Gazzetta dello Sport reported today. A Juventus
spokeswoman didn’t respond to three telephone calls to her
office in Turin.  Juventus Chairman Andrea Agnelli defended Conte, saying
“I’ve known him for 20 years and honesty is one of his
attributes” in comments broadcast by Sky TG24 today.  Conte, appearing alongside Agnelli, criticized prosecutors
for not seeking to question him. “I’ve always acted honestly as
a player and coach,” he said, after his lawyer had earlier
denied any wrongdoing by the former Italy international.  Lazio Loses  Shares in Juventus, which will take part in next season’s
lucrative  Champions League , rose 4.73 percent to 18 euro cents
in Milan today.  Lazio (SSL)  shares closed at 34 cents, down 4.28
percent.  Di Martino said a key game prosecutors are examining was
Lecce-Lazio from May 2011. The betting ring earned 2 million
euros ($2.5 million) and the players who helped rig the 2-4
result earned 600,000 euros, he said.  The probe is also focusing on suspects from Croatia and
 Hungary , some of whom were part of a previous investigation in
2010, Di Martino said. One Hungarian has been arrested as part
of the probe in his country, he said.  “I don’t know if we’re at the end of this,” Di Martino
said. “It seems we could go on forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  