-- Karachi Blackouts Worsen With Power Ship Idle in Harbor
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-05-28T18:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/karachi-blackouts-worsen-with-power-ship-idle-in-harbor.html
The world’s largest power ship lies
anchored off  Pakistan ’s energy-starved port city of  Karachi ,
just one of its 19 chimneys puffing smoke into the sea air.  The Kaya Bey and a sister vessel, whose furnace-oil
generators could halve the city’s peak 600-megawatt energy
shortfall, has been largely idle since the  Supreme Court  on
March 30 suspended its license amid an anti-corruption probe.
Karachi’s 18 million people face another summer without the
power they need to cool homes or run businesses.  The Turkish floating power station dropped anchor in
November 2010 as part of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s bid
to curb a nationwide power deficit that widened to 6,000
megawatts this month, or 30 percent of demand. Energy shortages,
which the government says may slice 4 percentage points off
economic growth in the year to June, have stirred public
discontent against Gilani. Street protests and factory shutdowns
are proliferating less than a year before the next general
election.  “This is a lethal weapon in the hands of opposition
parties, and probably the most decisive factor in the next
elections” to be held by February,  Rashid Khan , a professor of
politics and international relations for four decades, said by
phone from the  University of Sargodha  in central Pakistan.  As Gilani’s government prepares to unveil its final budget
in June, it forecasts the  $177 billion  economy will expand 4.3
percent in the fiscal year that starts from July, too slow to
generate the jobs needed in a country with 60 percent of its 180
million people  under 25  years of age.  Musharraf Mess  “This is a constant struggle until we get to the point
when we have surpluses and can safely say that we are out of
this crisis,” Naveed Qamar, Pakistan’s minister for water and
power, said May 7 in Islamabad after hosting a dinner for
Chinese investors interested in building dams and wind units.  Gilani’s elected government is faced with a crisis that
began with missteps by the military dictatorship it replaced in
2008. Unpopular army ruler  Pervez Musharraf  refrained from
raising power tariffs even as record crude  oil prices  sent the
cost of generating electricity surging.  As power demand rose 10 percent during Musharraf’s eight-
year rule, he failed to add a single megawatt of generating
capacity from 2006 to 2008, according to  finance ministry  data.
Foreign investment in the terrorism-plagued nation has fallen to
an eight-year low.  The fixed power prices and unpaid consumer bills led state-
owned utilities to stop payments to fuel suppliers and private
generating companies, triggering a cycle of debt that has risen
to a record 450 billion rupees ($4.94 billion), according to
 Foundation Securities  in Karachi.  Bond Sale  The government announced May 11 that it planned to sell
$900 million of domestic bonds to help pay off the debts it owes
to private producers after they served a default notice.  Private companies generate about half of Pakistan’s
electricity. The country had a capacity of about 14,000
megawatts in 2010, according to data on the National Electric
Power Regulatory Authority’s website.  Some of Pakistan’s largest energy companies, including
Karachi-based  Pakistan State Oil Co. Ltd. (PSO)  and  Hub Power Co. (HUBC) , are
trading 30 percent below fair value because of rising debt, said
Nasim Beg, executive vice chairman of Arif Habib Investments
Ltd. in Karachi, which oversees 35 billion rupees in stocks and
bonds.  Instead of grappling with the crisis, Gilani and President
Asif Ali Zardari have been distracted by disputes with the U.S.
and the threat they pose to American aid, a war with Taliban
militants that has cost Pakistan $68 billion since 2001, a
contempt of court indictment and 2010’s worst-ever floods.  ‘Total Disaster’  Pakistan needed to add 6,790 megawatts of generating
capacity by 2013 to end its energy crisis, according to a plan
prepared with the help of Western donors in 2010. Gilani has
been able to add less than a quarter of that during his four
years in power, the Manila-based  Asian Development Bank  said in
an April report.  “Buying rental power was this government’s first line of
defense,” Sakib Sherani, chief executive officer at
Macroeconomic Insights Pvt. in Islamabad and a former economic
adviser to Pakistan’s Finance Ministry, said May 15. “But it
proved a total disaster.”  Iran ’s state-run Press TV reported May 27 that Pakistani
officials will visit the Persian Gulf nation this week seeking
to increase electricity imports.  Cricket Star  The Kaya Bey, a converted bulk carrier, never received the
fuel it needed to operate at anywhere near full capacity,
according to its owner, Istanbul-based Karkey Karadeniz Elektrik
Uretim AS. Since the March court order it has only produced
electricity for its crew.  Amid anger over the economy and the government’s troubled
alliance with the U.S., a poll  last year  by the Pew Research
Center found former cricket captain  Imran Khan  to be Pakistan’s
most popular politician. Sixty-eight percent of those polled had
a favorable view of Khan, compared to 63 percent for former
premier  Nawaz Sharif , and 37 percent who approved of Gilani.
Zardari won the backing of 11 percent. Khan attracted more than
100,000 people to a Karachi rally in December.  Power shortages are most acute in Punjab province, which
accounts for 60 percent of the national economy.  Sizzling Summer  As temperatures rose to 41 degrees centigrade (105
Fahrenheit) this month, residents of Lahore, Punjab’s capital
and the powerbase of Zardari’s chief political opponent, Sharif,
faced blackouts lasting 18 hours. Television channels showed
protesters setting fire to government offices and blocking
national highways.  AFCO Steel Industries , headquartered outside the city, has
cut production in half since 2008 in large part due to power
outages, Chief Executive Officer Hammad Azhar said May 4.  “You can’t leave hot steel in machines and wait for the
power to return,” Azhar said in Lahore, pointing to a newly
built melting and re-rolling plant that produces beams for the
 construction industry .  North Star Textiles Ltd., which turns raw cotton into yarn
near Punjab’s Faisalabad city, shelved expansion plans as the
government failed to supply enough electricity and gas to run
spindles, Akber Sheikh, its chairman, said.  “New investments have totally stopped in the  textile
industry ,” Sheikh said at his office, where a blackout had
knocked out the air-conditioning. The  sector  produces two-thirds
of Pakistan’s exports, shipping T-shirts, trousers and fabrics
worth $13.8 billion to the U.S. and  Europe .  Graft Row  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s biggest phone company, has
seen earnings squeezed by blackouts. Providing backup power adds
15 percent to operating costs, Lars Christian Iuel, chief
executive officer of Telenor Pakistan, said March 1.  The arrival of the Kaya Bey was among short-term measures
adopted as Pakistan bid to muster funds to mine about 186
billion tons of largely untapped coal reserves, build power-
generating dams and bring in gas from neighboring Iran.  Instead, the ship, and eight other rented power units whose
licenses the court suspended, finds itself embroiled in a graft
investigation.  The power producers were paid “exorbitant rentals,” while
their contracts were not transparent and violated the principles
of fair competition, the court said March 30. Judges barred a
former power minister from leaving Pakistan.  Payment Demand  The Kaya Bey was never able to operate at full tilt as fuel
supplies weren’t delivered, Nuray Atacik, a Karkey director,
said by phone May 18. By February, it was running at 21 percent
of capacity, according to the court investigation.  “We fulfilled our all contractual obligations,” Atacik
said from Istanbul. “It’s a very unfortunate situation. The
 Supreme Court  has painted everybody with the same brush.  Faced with a court demand it return $79 million in advance
payments, Karkey is considering options that include leaving
Pakistan once the dispute is settled, Atacik said.  Fishermen cleaning their nets in  Karachi ’s Ibrahim Hyderi
neighborhood would miss the Kaya Bey, whose engineers
occasionally stop to buy crabs and prawns. They are already
missing the power the ship was meant to generate. ‘‘Only one
ever works,” said Gul Baloch as he gazed at the line of
chimneys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  