-- Najib Unveils $6.5 Billion in Malaysia Private Investment
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-05-28T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/najib-unveils-6-5-billion-in-malaysia-private-investment.html
Malaysia  announced private investment
plans worth a total 20.5 billion ringgit ($6.5 billion), seeking
to bolster growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to slow
expansion in Southeast Asia’s third-biggest economy.  The investments include a 12.5 billion-ringgit property
development by  GuocoLand Malaysia Bhd. (GUOL)  near the Kuala Lumpur
International Airport, Prime Minister Najib Razak said yesterday
in the Kelana Jaya suburb outside the capital.  “Global economic headwinds are uncertain,” Najib told
reporters. “Now more than ever, we must keep to our true north
to focus on the key engines of growth in the economy and to be
competitive globally.”  The prime minister has sought to boost investment as he
strives to shore up confidence in the government ahead of
elections due by early 2013, unveiling in 2010 an Economic
Transformation Program that identified $444 billion of private-
sector led projects ranging from mass rail to oil storage for
the current decade. Malaysia is set to hit a foreign-direct-
investment target of 33 billion ringgit this year, International
Trade and Industry Minister Mustapa Mohamed said yesterday.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest maker of
semiconductors, said earlier this month it will invest 4 billion
ringgit over 10 years in its wafer fabrication facilities in the
Malaysia’s north.  Malaysia’s  economic growth  slowed last quarter as the
protracted European debt crisis sapped demand for its exports.
Gross domestic product rose 4.7 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, after expanding 5.2 percent
in the previous quarter, the central bank said on May 23.  GuocoLand waterfront project will cover 4,000 acres of land
in Sepang, Selangor, according to a government statement
yesterday.  Boustead Heavy Industries Corp. (BHIC)  will invest 1.6
billion ringgit in its shipbuilding and repair business, the
government said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  