-- TNK-BP Billionaire Fridman Quits as CEO, Deepening Dispute
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-05-28T16:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/tnk-bp-billionaire-fridman-quits-as-ceo-deepening-dispute-2-.html
TNK-BP said billionaire investor
 Mikhail Fridman  resigned as chief executive officer, deepening a
dispute between  BP Plc (BP/)  and Russian shareholders at Russia’s
third-largest oil producer.  Fridman, 48, who will leave within 30 days, also resigned
from the company’s management board, leaving Viktor Vekselberg
and  German Khan , fellow shareholders in AAR, which owns 50
percent of TNK-BP, will remain, the company said. BP owns the
rest of the venture, which accounts for about 25 percent of its
production and reserves.  Fridman was supposed to stay at helm of the company until
the end of 2013. Relations between BP and its Russian partners
have often been fractious. In 2008, current BP CEO Bob Dudley
was forced to resign as head of the venture and leave  Russia .
More recently, the billionaires sued BP over a deal with
Russia’s state oil company, and the board hasn’t met this year
because the investors can’t agree on an independent director.  “BP has already found it difficult to find candidates to
replace its nominees as non-executive directors and identifying
a CEO is likely to be even harder,” said  Peter Hutton , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in  London . “We might expect
Fridman to be reviewing his stake and that is likely to create
significant turbulence.”  A TNK-BP spokesman declined to provide reasons for
Fridman’s resignation.  Corporate Governance  Fridman wasn’t directly involved in day-to-day operations,
which will continue to be run by the management committee,
 Vladimir Buyanov , a BP spokesman in Moscow, said by phone today.  “Fridman’s departure extends issues with  corporate
governance ,” Mikhail Rotaev, an oil and gas analyst at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone today.
“Operational activities will remain with Khan and Vekselberg,
so we do not expect any significant near-term changes in company
operations and other activity.”  TNK-BP shares gained 0.8 percent to close at 84.70 rubles
in Moscow today. The Micex Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,290.72.  BP and AAR, the group that represents the Russian
shareholders, are seeking to fill a vacant slot on its 11-member
board of directors after two of three independent members --
former German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  and James Leng, a
former chairman of steelmaker Corus Group Plc -- quit last year.
Those resignations followed legal claims AAR filed to halt BP’s
planned $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic tie-up with Russian
oil champion OAO Rosneft.  Open Slot  Fridman remains one of four AAR directors on TNK-BP’s
board. AAR and BP last week agreed to appoint Evert Henkes, a
former head of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s chemicals unit, as an
independent director, leaving one open slot. Both sides agreed
to delay paying dividends for the first quarter until the third
independent director is found, allowing for a quorum.  Maxim Barsky, who quit as deputy chief executive on Nov. 1,
may return to TNK-BP as a management adviser, Russian newspaper
Izvestiya reported today, citing a person familiar with the
matter it didn’t name.  Still, one analyst said Fridman’s departure could allow
some progress in resolving the impasse over non-executive
directors.  “I suspect this will make it easier to appoint the
board,” Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas analyst at Oktritie
Financial Corp., said by e-mail from Moscow today. Fridman’s
involvement clearly favored the interests of one  shareholder
group, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  