-- Azarenka Avoids French Open Upset; Federer Matches Connors Mark
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-29T00:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/no-1-seed-azarenka-comes-back-to-win-opening-french-open-match.html
Top-ranked Victoria Azarenka
rebounded to avoid an opening-round upset at the  French Open  as
men’s No. 1 Novak Djokovic won in straight sets and  Roger Federer  secured a record-tying 233rd Grand Slam victory.  Azarenka of Belarus lost the first set and was down 4-0 in
the second yesterday before beating 105th-ranked Alberta Brianti
of Italy 6-7 (6-8), 6-4, 6-2. She avoided becoming the first top
seed to lose in the first round at Roland Garros since women
started playing in Paris in 1925.  “Bad days happen,” Azarenka said at a news conference.
“The important thing is how I came out of it.”  Azarenka won the Australian Open in January for her first
Grand Slam title, and yesterday’s victory lifted her record this
year to 36-3. Two weeks ago, she pulled out of the Rome Masters
with a shoulder injury after winning her first match.  Li Na , who last year became the first Chinese player to win
a major singles championship, opened her title defense by
defeating Romania’s Sorana Cirstea 6-2, 6-1.  The seventh seed hasn’t been able to repeat her success at
Roland Garros at the other majors. She was ousted in the second
round at Wimbledon and lost her first match at the U.S. Open. At
January’s Australian Open, she didn’t get past the fourth round
after being runner-up in 2011.  Up, Down  “For me, it’s always like up, down, up, down,” Li said.
“It’s tough for me to stay same level all the time.”  Djokovic, who’s trying to become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win four Grand Slams in a row, beat Potito Starace of Italy 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-1. The Serb hit 39 winners
against the 97th-ranked Starace.  “I tried to be aggressive on the court and take my
chances,” Djokovic said. “At the start I was still trying to
find the rhythm and movement on the court.”  Today at  Roland Garros , Spain’s  Rafael Nadal  begins his
quest to become the only man to win the French Open seven times
when he takes on Simone Bolelli of Italy.  Serena Williams  of the
U.S., the champion a decade ago, plays  France ’s Virginie Razzano,
while No. 4  Andy Murray  of Britain faces  Japan ’s Tatsuma Ito.  Federer beat  Germany ’s Tobias Kamke 6-2, 7-5, 6-3 yesterday
to tie Connors’s mark of Grand Slam victories.  The Swiss, who has won 16 major singles championships, took
the title at Roland Garros in 2009. He may meet Djokovic in the
semifinals after beating the Serb at the same stage last year.  “I’m very happy because  Jimmy Connors  was a huge champion,
so it’s a great pleasure,” Federer told reporters. “That
record is a big one, because of the longevity.”  Awesome Americans  Women’s No. 3 seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland advanced
in straight sets along with eighth-seeded  Marion Bartoli  of
France and Dominika Cibulkova, the No. 15 seed from Slovakia.  No. 12 Sabine Lisicki of Germany was ousted by 167th-ranked
Bethanie Mattek-Sands, one of 10 U.S. women to make the second
round so far in Paris.  “It really shows that some of the Americans are coming
through playing tough, grinding it out here on the clay,”
Mattek-Sands said after her 6-4, 6-3 win. “It’s awesome.”  Vera Zvonareva, the former world No. 2 from Russia,
yesterday pulled out of the tournament with a shoulder injury.  Men’s No. 15 Feliciano Lopez of  Spain  quit his match
against Florent Serra when trailing the Frenchman 5-0 in the
first set.  No. 7 seed Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  and 10th-
seeded American John Isner advanced in straight sets.  Gilles Simon , the No. 11 seed from France, came back from a set down to
defeat Ryan Harrison of the U.S.  Main-Draw Debut  Brian Baker, a wild-card entry from the U.S. ranked 141 in
the world, beat 2002 Wimbledon semifinalist Xavier Malisse of
Belgium 6-3, 7-6 (7-1), 7-6 (7-5).  Baker, who reached the junior final at the 2003 French Open,
hadn’t played in the main draw of a Grand Slam event since
losing to Malisse in the second round of the 2005  U.S. Open . He
was sidelined for about six years after five surgeries before
returning to competitive tennis in July 2011.  He tuned up for his main-draw debut at Roland Garros by
reaching the final of the ATP World Tour tournament in Nice.  “It’s definitely something I didn’t envision I’d say a
couple months ago or a year ago,” Baker said in a news
conference. “But the last couple weeks my game has come around
and I’m feeling a lot healthier and definitely playing some good
tennis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  