-- Oil Is the Key to Peace Between Sudan and South Sudan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/to-stop-sudan-south-sudan-war-start-getting-oil-to-pour.html
What a difference a year doesn’t
make. Last July, the birth of the Republic of South  Sudan 
promised an end to a decades-long conflict that had claimed more
than 2 million lives.  Yet nine months after South Sudan took its place as the
193rd member of the  United Nations , its forces were fighting
those of its reluctant parent, the Republic of Sudan, over an
unsettled border and control of oil resources.  Today, after a stern diplomatic  intervention  by the UN
Security Council, both sides return to talks in  Addis Ababa ,
 Ethiopia . To settle their differences, they will need firm
pressure, strong support and creative, high-level diplomacy from
China and the U.S., among others.  Here’s the problem: The six-year process that began with a
Comprehensive Peace Agreement in 2005 and culminated in the
creation of  South Sudan  failed to resolve issues critical to
peaceful coexistence. These include the distribution of income
from oil resources (which exist mostly in South Sudan but are
refined in and exported through Sudan), demarcation of the
border, and the rights of citizens from one country who choose
to live in the other.  Tensions over oil came to a head in January. Spats with
Sudan over pipeline fees and confiscated shipments prompted
South Sudan to shut down oil production (350,000 barrels a day),
depriving both countries of needed revenue. This brinkmanship
was followed by South Sudan’s move in April to seize an oilfield
in Sudan, sparking deadly retaliatory attacks, a breakdown in
negotiations and the threat of a wider conflict.  The oil fight is relatively easy to solve, if there is
political will. South Sudan now has three-fourths of the old
Sudan’s oil resources, but that isn’t much good without a way to
get it to market. (A planned pipeline via  Kenya  is years, and
billions of dollars, in the future.) The absurd discrepancy in
the value that the two sides put on using Sudan’s pipeline ($36
versus $.60 a barrel) can be resolved by invoking global
benchmarks. Market prices suggest a rate of $1 to $2
a barrel would be reasonable.  More difficult is the question of settling the border and
disputed territories, and the related issue of the rights of
citizens who have a foot in each country. Cartographers favor
clean lines; tribes that migrate with the grazing season do not.
The latter also defy government control, not to mention facile
distinctions between a Muslim north and a Christian south.
African Union  mediators  have sensibly suggested a soft border as
one solution, which we support; both governments, however, have
used hard territorial claims to whip up public support.  Each side deserves a share of blame for the current state
of affairs. Sudan has routinely acted in bad faith, and has
intensified its  repression  in Darfur and in its new border
areas. South Sudan’s recent belligerence, its support for
insurgents within Sudan and its handling of internal ethnic
conflicts are also obstacles to peace. Neither government has a
strong mechanism for, much less a tradition of, sharing power
internally -- something that will take decades to develop under
even ideal conditions. We worry that a comprehensive solution is
unrealistic and out of reach, and that a more piecemeal approach
would be better.  Start with the oil impasse.  China  gets almost 5 percent of
its oil  imports  from South Sudan, is a major trading partner
with Sudan and has growing investments in both countries. With
the most leverage and the most to lose, it could speed a
breakthrough on oil transit fees by offering Sudan financial
assistance to make up for the oil revenue it lost with South
Sudan’s creation. Meanwhile, China can help its  interests  in
South Sudan not only through more development loans and aid, but
by breaking with past practices and promoting openness and
environmental and social considerations in its investments.  The U.S., which has been coordinating its efforts with
China and other diplomatic partners, has much more leverage with
South Sudan than the north, which feels betrayed by earlier
signals that U.S. sanctions would be eased if the referendum for
South Sudan was allowed to go forward. Any easing of sanctions
on a country run by a president, Umar al-Bashir, indicted by the
 International Criminal Court  must be carefully weighed. Yet such
an easing could also yield concrete benefits for South Sudan --
everything from improving investment opportunities in its oil
industry by U.S. companies to creating the space for a larger,
and enduring, agreement on peace.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 