-- Obama Joins Americans to Honor Legacy of U.S. Veterans
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-28T19:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/obama-joins-americans-to-honor-legacy-of-u-s-veterans.html
President  Barack Obama  honored the
legacy of war veterans today with a tribute at Arlington
National Cemetery and reminded Americans that the nation is
wrapping up the decade-long war in Afghanistan.  “You are the family and friends of the fallen,” Obama
said to a military family audience at the Memorial Day
Observance at Arlington  cemetery  after laying a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknowns. “For the first time in nine years,
Americans aren’t fighting and dying in Iraq. We are winding down
the war in Afghanistan, and our troops will continue to come
home.”  Before making their way across the Potomac River into
 Virginia , he and first lady  Michelle Obama  hosted a private
breakfast for families who’ve lost loved ones in war.  Obama said the U.S., as it honors those who made the
ultimate sacrifice, reaffirms its commitment to caring for
veterans who return home, including the newest generation of
soldiers from  Iraq  and Afghanistan.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee for
president, said in an e-mailed statement from  Boston  that “a
lot of young Americans are risking their lives in distant
battlefields today. Memorial Day is a day to give thanks to
them, and to remember all of America’s soldiers who have laid
down their lives to defend our country.”  The 2012 campaign is the first modern presidential election
in which neither major party candidate served in the military.
Romney is appearing with Senator  John McCain  of Arizona at the
Veterans Museum and Memorial Center in San Diego.  War Casualties  About 6,400 U.S. military personnel have died in wars in
Iraq and  Afghanistan , and more than 48,000 have been wounded,
according to the Defense Department.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , who spoke before the
president, said Arlington National Cemetery, which is the final
resting place for more than  14,000  veterans, is “a constant
reminder that freedom is not free.”  In this election year, the administration is reminding
voters that it has fought for increased funding for veterans’
health care and expansion of the GI Bill for education. It’s
also won approval of a tax credit that encourages businesses to
hire unemployed veterans.  “As long as I’m president, we will make sure you and your
loved ones receive the benefits you’ve earned and the respect
you deserve,” Obama said. “America will be there for you.”  Disability Cases  At the same time, the government has a backlog of thousands
of disability cases, with the waiting period for action lasting
a year or more, Senator  Patty Murray , chairman of the Veteran
Affairs Committee, said yesterday.  “It’s not acceptable,” she said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program. “It doesn’t meet the guidelines of the VA. It
doesn’t meet what the country expects.”  The president also designated May 28 to Nov. 11 to
commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the  Vietnam War . He urged
Americans to honor Vietnam veterans with programs, ceremonies,
and activities.  This afternoon at the  Vietnam Veterans Memorial , Obama said
America honors the 58,282 soldiers who paid the ultimate price
and whose names are etched into the Wall.  For those who returned, “even though some Americans turned
their back on you, you never turned your back on America,”
Obama said.  Veterans and Republicans  Military veterans have traditionally been strong supporters
of Republican presidential candidates, although Obama is
aggressively courting the constituency. McCain of  Arizona , the
Republican nominee in 2008 and a one-time prisoner of war, won
54 percent of the veterans vote, compared with 44 percent for
Obama, according to exit polls at the time.  Veterans  support  Romney over Obama by 58 percent to 34
percent, according to data from an analysis of Gallup Daily
tracking interviews conducted April 11 through May 24.  In a speech to several thousand at the Veterans Museum and
Memorial Center in San Diego, Romney called for a strong U.S.
military.  The best choice is “to commit to preserve America as the
strongest military in the world, second to none, with no
comparable power anywhere in the world,” Romney said. “We
choose that course in America, not so that we just win wars, but
so we can prevent wars because a strong America is the best
deterrent to war that has ever been invented.”  Romney Fundraisers  Romney’s appearance in  California  came at the start of a
week that will mostly be filled with fundraising for him. He’s
also poised to finally win enough delegates in tomorrow’s Texas
primary to secure his party’s nomination.  Before his fundraising tour this week, Romney is scheduled
to make campaign appearances tomorrow in Colorado and Nevada,
both crucial swing states in November’s election.  Later on Tuesday, he’s set to appear at a fundraising event
at the Trump International Hotel in  Las Vegas . He’ll be joined
by billionaire  Donald Trump  and former Republican presidential
primary rival  Newt Gingrich , who will be making his first
appearance with Romney since ending his White House bid May 2.
Romney, 65, is also scheduled to make fundraising stops later in
the week throughout California.  Separately, the president and the first lady met today with
24 women accepted into the Navy’s nuclear submarine program.
It’s the first time women are being assigned to the submarine
force, according to a White House statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen at Arlington National Cemetery   rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in  San Diego  at  
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  