-- Oil Climbs for Third Day on Greece Outlook, Iran Tension
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-05-29T12:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/oil-climbs-for-third-day-on-greece-outlook-iran-nuclear-tension.html
(Corrects enrichment increase in sixth paragraph of story
published on May 28.)  Oil advanced for a third day in  New
York  on signs that voters in Greece may back austerity measures
needed for a European Union bailout, boosting confidence that
the bloc’s debt crisis can be contained.  Futures gained after Greece’s New Democracy party, which
supports the bailout plan agreed to with international lenders,
was placed first in six opinion polls. Crude has slipped 13
percent this month amid concern that  Europe ’s turmoil will curb
fuel demand. Prices climbed on May 25 after the  United Nations 
said Iran boosted its output of enriched uranium. The nation
faces an oil embargo starting July because of its nuclear
program.  “The economic front is looking slightly better and the
geopolitical situation a bit worse,” said  Christopher Bellew ,
senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “There is a
stronger chance of a conservative pro-euro administration in
Greece, the situation in  Syria  appears to have deteriorated and
the Iranian talks did not offer any hope of a relaxation in
sanctions.”  Crude for July delivery rose 28 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$91.14 a barrel in electronic trading at 1:14 p.m. on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The price is down 7.8 percent this
year. There is no floor trading in New York today because of the
Memorial Day holiday.  Brent oil for July settled at $107.11 a barrel, up 28
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Prices
are down 10 percent this month. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was $15.97 a
barrel, equaling the spread on May 25.  Iran Inspections  Iran , the second-biggest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, faces Western sanctions
including an oil embargo starting July 1 aimed at persuading it
to stop enriching uranium. The Persian Gulf nation has increased
its stockpile of 20 percent medium-enriched uranium by a third
since February, the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency said
in a May 25 report.  The inspectors also found “the presence of particles” of
27 percent-enriched uranium at the nation’s Fordo facility, they
said. Iran, which says its atomic work is peaceful, has been
under IAEA scrutiny since 2003 over evidence that it is trying
to develop nuclear weapons.  Negotiators from the U.S., the U.K.,  France , Germany,  China 
and Russia plan to meet their Iranian counterparts June 18 and
June 19 in Moscow. The sides were unable to reach agreement
during talks in  Baghdad  last week.  Hedge Fund Bets  “Evidence that Iran’s production of uranium has increased
is a reminder that the core issue is still there,” Ric Spooner,
a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said in a
telephone interview today. “If we were to start moving toward
the Greek election with a realistic chance that the most likely
outcome is a pro-bailout government, that would change the risk
profile of a lot of markets.”  The cost of Greece leaving the euro area would be greater
than staying in the shared currency, the leader of  New
Democracy , Antonis Samaras, said May 26. The party led by a
margin of as much as 5.7 percentage points over Syriza, which is
opposed to implementing the terms of financial aid packages, a
poll by Kapa Research SA for To Vima newspaper shows.  Reduce Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil bets to a 20-month low as
Europe’s worsening debt crisis weakened the region’s economy and
currency. Money managers decreased net-long positions, or wagers
that prices will rise, for a third week to 136,751 in the seven
days ended May 22, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on May 25. It was the
lowest level since September 2010.  In  London , hedge-funds and other money managers reduced
bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 6,417 contracts in the week ended
May 22,  according to data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 91,208 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report.  Tropical Storm Beryl, the second named weather system of
the  Atlantic hurricane season , made landfall and was weakening
as it moved inland over northeast Florida, according to the U.S.
National Hurricane Center. The weather system was 60 miles (100
kilometers) west-northwest of Jacksonville, with maximum
sustained winds of 35 miles per hour, the Miami-based center
said in its 11 a.m. advisory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  