-- Oil India to Consider Chesapeake Governance Before Buying
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-29T04:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/oil-india-to-consider-chesapeake-governance-issues-before-buying.html
Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , armed with as much as
$1.3 billion of cash for acquisitions, will consider  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s “corporate governance issues” before investing
in the explorer’s shale assets in the U.S.  “We would certainly have to consider Chesapeake’s
corporate governance issue,” Finance Director T.K. Ananth Kumar
told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. “Investing in their
assets is one of the opportunities we’re looking at for
investments in the U.S.”  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer,
plans to sell as much as $14 billion in assets this year.
Plummeting natural gas prices and revelations that Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  used personal stakes in the
company’s wells to obtain more than $800 million in private
loans have resulted in the explorer losing almost half of its
market value in the past year.  Some directors from Oil  India  met officials from Chesapeake
in  Oklahoma City , where the company is based, this month, Ananth
Kumar said. Discussions to invest in the U.S. company’s assets
are preliminary and one among other opportunities, he said.  “There are many opportunities in the U.S. right now and
we’ve been approached by a few companies,” Ananth Kumar said.  Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment in
an e-mailed statement.  Chesapeake  shares  have declined 49 percent in the past
year. Oil India, based in Duliajan in India’s northeastern state
of Assam, has  dropped  10 percent in the past 12 months and rose
1.1 percent to 454.40 rupees at 9:39 a.m. in Mumbai.  Billionaire Investor  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  bought a 7.56 percent stake
in Chesapeake and demanded four of the company’s nine directors
be replaced by candidates named by major shareholders, the hedge
fund manager said in a May 25 letter to the company’s board. The
current board has failed to rein in overspending and a chief
executive officer with an appetite for too much risk, he wrote.  The company is facing a  cash-flow shortfall  that Fitch
Ratings estimates will reach $10 billion this year. Chesapeake
has $19.7 billion of total bonds and loans, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Directors at the company’s board agreed to strip McClendon
of his chairman title after revelations about his borrowing from
firms that do business with Chesapeake. Board members also cut
their own pay and started a formal review of the CEO’s financial
arrangements.  The company has 125 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) of cash
reserves, Ananth Kumar said yesterday. They’ve set aside as much
as 70 billion rupees for acquisitions, he said.  “In unconventionals in North America, we will spend a
smallish amount $100 million to $200 million,” he said. “We
want to gain experience in shale exploration. We’re looking at
shale gas, shale oil and also  oil sands  in  Canada .”  Oil India has had talks with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  for Canadian
oil sands investments, he said, declining to give more details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  