-- Oil Climbs a Third Day on U.S. Economic Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-29T06:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/oil-climbs-a-third-day-on-u-s-economic-growth-outlook.html
Oil rose for a third day in  New York 
as speculation that economic growth will boost fuel demand in
the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest crude consumers,
countered concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  Futures advanced as much as 1.2 percent from the close on
May 25. U.S.  consumer confidence  probably gained in May and job
growth may have picked up, according to surveys by Bloomberg
News before reports this week. China’s cabinet agreed to revive
financial incentives for consumers to trade in their passenger
cars to help increase demand in the world’s biggest vehicle
market, a government official said yesterday. Oil has slipped 13
percent this month amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will derail
the global economic recovery.  “There’s little green shoots of optimism,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a telephone interview
today. “We’re going to get a robust story out of the U.S. We’re
not out of hot water with Europe.”  Crude for July delivery climbed as much as $1.13 to $91.99
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.36 at 2:08 p.m. Singapore time. Floor
trading was closed yesterday for the U.S. Memorial Day holiday
and transactions will be booked with today’s trades for
settlement purposes. Front-month prices are down 7.6 percent
this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $107.35 a barrel, up
24 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
Prices have fallen 10 percent in May. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was at $16.01,
from $16.12 yesterday.  Technical Support  Oil is paring its monthly decline after rebounding from
long-term technical support at $89.83 a barrel, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart, that’s the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December
2008 from an intraday record high of $147.27 in July that year.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  China’s cabinet approved a so-called cash-for-clunkers
program last week, according to the official, who asked not to
be identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. The
nation rolled out a similar incentive plan in 2009 to counter
the global financial crisis, spurring 49.6 billion  yuan  ($7.8
billion) in new car purchases the following year.  U.S. Economy  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of  consumer
confidence  probably rose to 69.5 in May from 69.2 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey before a report tomorrow.
U.S. payrolls increased by 150,000 workers after a gain of
115,000 in April that was the lowest in six months, according to
the median forecast of 70 economists in a separate survey before
Labor Department figures on June 1.  The jobless rate in  Japan  rose for the first time in three
months in April, data from the statistics bureau in  Tokyo  showed
today. The number exceeded analysts’ estimates and underscored
concern that an economic recovery will lose momentum in the face
of Europe’s crisis. The  rate  increased to 4.6 percent from 4.5
percent in March. The median estimate of 26 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for 4.5 percent.  Japan was the world’s third-biggest crude user in 2010,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  