-- Olympic Games Spur Doping Alert for $82-a-Shot Stamina Booster
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-05-28T22:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/olympic-games-spur-doping-alert-for-82-a-shot-stamina-booster.html
The  World Anti-Doping Agency  is
storing suspicious readings of a substance used in clinical drug
trials in the run-up to the London Olympics after police seized
vials in a sports doctor’s luggage.  Athlete urine samples with elevated levels of a metabolism
modulator, AICAR, are being frozen pending validation of a test
for the substance, WADA Science Director Olivier Rabin said. A
2008 study found AICAR, made in synthetic form by companies
including New York-based  Enzo Biochem Inc., (ENZ)  helped boost stamina
in sedentary mice by 44 percent.  Doctor Alberto Beltran was arrested in March, with
Barcelona police  saying in a statement  that they were breaking
up a doping ring because of the proximity to the Olympics.
Beltran denies wrongdoing, his lawyer Matias Palomo said.
Athlete samples can be stored and re-tested for eight years
under anti-doping rules.  “We’re not blind and deaf: we can see what has been
seized,” Rabin said from  Montreal . Storing and re-testing
samples “is part of our arsenal.”  He declined to say how many samples had been stored. The
mice research has helped AICAR attain “mythical” status among
athletes, according to the study’s author Ronald Evans, a
professor at the  Salk Institute for Biological Studies  in  La
Jolla ,  California . He said he has been contacted by about 100
athletes seeking more information.  The research found untrained rodents that were fed
synthetic AICAR over four weeks ran 44 percent longer on a
treadmill than untreated rodents. Salk Institute published a
news release headlined  “exercise in a pill,”  which was picked
up by media including the  New York  Times. WADA added AICAR to
its banned substance list the following year.  ‘Secret Society’  While no tests have been done on athletes to show an uptick
in stamina with synthetic AICAR, Evans said he has gotten e-
mails and letter inquiring about its effects. Some athletes
attended his seminars to ask questions.  There’s “a secret society of athletes that are willing to
cheat,” Evans said by telephone. “My experience is that they
are willing to try anything.”  Beltran, a Colombian based in  Bahrain , was arrested at
Madrid airport with AICAR in his luggage, the March 19 police
statement said. A police spokesman who declined to be identified
in line with procedure said officers found two vials marked with
the Enzo brand name.  Steven Anreder, a spokesman for Enzo Biochem, said the
company, which sells a  50 milligram vial for $82  in the U.S.,
only sells to bona fide research companies. AICAR hasn’t been
approved for human consumption and is listed as “harmful” on
the company website.  Police ‘Wrong’  There is no evidence anything Beltran had with him was for
doping, Palomo said. The police hypothesis about him leading a
doping ring is “totally wrong,” the lawyer said. Palomo said
he didn’t have details about what substances police seized, or
what they were for.  Beltran is being held in prison as a judge in L’Hospitalet
de Llobregat near Barcelona studies whether to charge him and
nine other people arrested.  The  Olympic Games  open July 27. To be sure, the effects of
AICAR on athletes’ performance may be negligible, according to
Dan Cuthbertson, a professor at the U.K.’s Liverpool University
who oversaw a 2007 study that treated “healthy” men with
AICAR.  The only effect of AICAR was to “marginally” increase
glucose uptake in muscle, Cuthbertson said. For highly-fit
Olympic athletes, he said, any effect may be non-existent or
require “bucket chemistry.”  Unethical  “If I was a top athlete and I wanted to abuse something,
if I was unethical and daft enough to do so, I wouldn’t use
this,” Cuthbertson said. “There is no evidence it will do
anything.”  Anti-doping scientists won’t drop their guard, according to
Mario Thevis, an investigator at the German Sports University in
Cologne who has tested for AICAR.  “The fact is the temptation remains,” Thevis said. “Even
if there is a 1 or 2 percent improvement in performance that
could be the difference between first and second place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  