-- Olympus Ex-CEO Woodford Said to Seek $60 Million in Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-05-28T16:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/olympus-ex-ceo-woodford-said-to-seek-60-million-in-suit.html
Former  Olympus Corp. (7733)  Chief Executive
Officer Michael C. Woodford will seek $60 million in a lawsuit
in the U.K. against the Japanese camera maker over his
dismissal, according to a person familiar with the claim.  Woodford, fired after he questioned $1.7 billion in
payments that were later determined to be fraudulent, will sue
for damages amounting to 10 years of lost earnings, according to
the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, as the
information isn’t public.  Olympus, also the world’s largest endoscope maker, is
installing new management after the company and six individuals
were indicted by prosecutors for falsifying securities reports
in March and the Tokyo-based company had to restate earnings.
Overseas shareholders including Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. called for more independent board nominees, saying some
have conflicts of interest because of their ties to Olympus
creditors.  The Telegraph reported earlier that Woodford is suing
Olympus for $60 million. A hearing at the East London Tribunal
today was adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow so the parties could
continue to negotiate, Judge George Foxwell said.  13-Year Fraud  Olympus, which admitted a 13-year accounting fraud, has
said it attempted to conceal previous losses by inflating fees
to advisers on the $2.1 billion acquisition of London-listed
Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three Japanese
companies.  Former chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, former executive vice
president Hisashi Mori and ex-auditing officer Hideo Yamada,
were indicted March, after being arrested in the previous month
on suspicion of violating  Japan ’s Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act, according to a statement from the  Tokyo  District
Public Prosecutor’s office.  Olympus shares rose 0.6 percent to 1,133 yen as of the
close in Tokyo. They have fallen 54 percent since Woodford was
fired, slashing 366 billion yen ($4.6 billion) off the Tokyo-
based company’s market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  