-- Hong Kong Stocks Swing From Gain to Loss on China Economy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-05-28T03:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/hong-kong-stocks-advance-on-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Hong Kong   stocks  swung between gains
and losses after Premier Wen Jiabao’s called for more government
support to help  China ’s poorest regions, while a report showed
profit declined at mainland industrial companies.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese
developer listed in Hong Kong, climbed 2.3 percent.  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts  Europe  as its biggest
market, gained 1.8 percent as concern eased that Greece may exit
the euro. Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. fell 1 percent after co-
chairmen Raymond and Thomas Kwok reported to Hong Kong’s anti-
corruption body, almost two months following their arrests in a
bribery investigation.  The Hang Seng Index was little changed at 18,712.67 as of
10:54 a.m. in Hong Kong after losing as much as 0.2 percent and
gaining as much as 0.4 percent. About the same number of shares
rose and fell in the measure. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland stocks added 0.1 percent to 9,545.50.  “China is a little bit of a concern, but China has policy
levers,”  Binay Chandgothia , a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager
at Principal Global Investors, which manages $250 billion
globally, said on Bloomberg Television. “They can use policy
incentives to get growth back on track.”  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  is heading for an 11 percent
decline this month, the most since September, on concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and amid signs China’s economic
slowdown is deepening. Shares on the gauge traded at 9.5 times
estimated earnings on average as of May 25, compared with 12.6
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Wen’s Call  Wen, while visiting a remote region in  Hunan province ,
called for extra government support for the nation’s poorest
areas, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The
country should speed up important infrastructure projects and
improve health care services in impoverished regions, he was
cited as saying.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index expiring this month added
0.4 percent to 18,629. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  added 0.4
percent to 28.71, indicating that traders expect swings of about
8.2 percent in the next 30 days.  The Hang Seng Index has fallen about 14 percent from this
year’s peak as political uncertainties in Europe stoke concern
governments will struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis.
Greek opinion polls showed voters warming to parties supporting
the European Union’s bailout agreement as political leaders at
home and abroad warned of economic catastrophe should the single
currency fragment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  