-- Hong Kong Proposes Class Actions After Investor Concerns
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-05-28T10:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/hong-kong-proposes-class-actions-after-investor-concerns.html
Hong Kong , where the securities
regulator this month proposed introducing civil liability for
banks working on initial share sale prospectuses, may also allow
class-action lawsuits to help investors seek damages.  The city’s  Law Reform Commission  today recommended
legislation to allow a group with a common complaint to sue
through a representative. The new regime initially will apply to
product liability and consumer fraud cases and not to purchasers
of securities, the commission said.  Hong Kong currently allows multiparty proceedings under
rules the city’s then-chief justice Andrew Li criticized as
restrictive and inadequate in 2004. Losing parties must pay all
or part of their opponent’s legal fees under Hong Kong law, a
deterrent for individual investors seeking damages.  As a result, litigation risk for bankers and companies
selling shares in Hong Kong has been relatively low to date,
according to Jeff Maddox, a lawyer who had advised on capital
raising in Hong Kong,  New York  and Singapore stock exchanges.  “There’s less than a three percent chance of getting sued
after a listing here compared to a 20 to 25 percent chance in
the U.S.,” said Maddox, a Hong Kong-based partner at
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, citing industry statistics.  Allowing class actions was recommended by a sub-committee
of the law commission in 2009 following losses by thousands of
investors on notes guaranteed by failed Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Criminal Liability  The need for class actions “most typically arises where a
large number of persons have been adversely affected by
another’s conduct, but each person’s loss is too small” to make
individual litigation viable, the commission said today.  Its final recommendation comes two weeks after the
Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong’s market regulator,
proposed extending criminal and civil liability laws to initial
share sale arrangers who sign off on misleading or inaccurate
prospectuses.  The SFC said tighter laws are needed to protect investors
after finding substandard work by investment banks arranging
IPOs. In one case, it alleges that Chinese fabric-maker Hontex
International Holdings Co. misled investors in its listings
prospectus in 2009.  Buyers of products sold by consumer banks or brokerages
will be allowed to seek permission to sue as a class under the
proposed new regime, the law commission’s Anthony Neoh said
today.  Not Like Facebook  Their lawsuits can be financed by the city’s  Consumer Legal
Action Fund , with a general government fund recommended when
other types of group suits are allowed. Contingency fees and
other forms of litigation funding aren’t recommended by the
commission, and the type of lawsuits around the Facebook Inc.
IPO won’t be covered by the proposed regime initially, he said.  Neoh said the proposals would have to be acted on by the
government and declined to speculate on when class actions would
actually be allowed or on when they would be extended to cover
shareholders of publicly-listed companies.  “Legislation has to be drafted and introduced,” he said.  Civil liability will have a positive influence on the
behavior of market participants, SFC Chief Executive Officer
Ashley Alder said May 22. That said, the current litigation
system can be “off-putting -- in part because of expense,” he
said.  There have been no investor lawsuits against  Citic Pacific
Ltd. (267) , which plunged after it announced a potential $2 billion
loss on wrong-way bets in 2008, six weeks after directors first
learned of the information.  Too Complex  Three retirees tried to pursue the steelmaker and property
developer’s former chairman in the small claims tribunal, where
parties represent themselves, to avoid the potential legal costs
involved in a trial. The case was dismissed on the grounds that
it was too complex for the tribunal.  “If Hong Kong were to allow class actions, the risk of
facing potential shareholder class-action lawsuits might well be
a powerful driver for a change in mindset and behavior in the
market,” said Tim Mak, a Hong Kong-based financial services
regulatory lawyer at Herbert Smith LLP.  “Some might argue that a class-action system would
encourage higher standards of corporate governance and listed-
company management behavior,” he said.  “Over and above any potential criminal responsibility, the
possibility of being on the receiving end of a class action
lawsuit would be an additional risk that market participants
would need to take seriously,” Mak said.  Stock Market Boom  This year there have been at least six disputes between
accounting firms and mainland Chinese companies, including
 Boshiwa International Holding Ltd. (1698) , a Shanghai-based Harry
Potter apparel licensee whose auditor resigned in March due to
disagreements over financial information.  Hong Kong, which Britain returned to Chinese rule in 1997,
has benefited as $159 billion of IPOs by companies from the
mainland in the past decade swelled the value of its stock
market. First-time sales peaked at $58 billion in 2010 before
declining by more than half last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The SFC’s aim with its recent proposals on IPO sponsors is
to encourage vigilance not to put bankers in prison, according
to Alder.  Gareth Hughes, a Hong Kong-based disputes lawyer at Ashurst
LLP said that a group lawsuit regime has been long-awaited and
is welcomed.  “That said, the devil is in the detail, not least given
the mixed results in other jurisdictions and the scope for
abusive claims,” he said. “It may well be some time before
such a regime is in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  