-- Moody’s Fading Relevance Exposed in Nordic Downgrades
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-29T11:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/moody-s-fading-relevance-exposed-in-nordic-downgrades.html
The response to the Moody’s Investors
Service downgrade of the biggest Nordic banks was rising bond
and share prices.  The reaction is the latest sign that investors are paying
less attention to the views of rating companies and relying more
on their own analysis to determine whether to buy or sell.  “We can see for ourselves just how strong the Swedish
banks are so we don’t place much weight on what rating agencies
tell us,” Nicklas Granath, a partner at Stockholm-based asset
manager Norron AB, who helps manage about $200 million, said in
an interview. “More and more the market is likely to take the
same approach.”  As European policy makers try to reduce the dominance of
rating companies in financial markets, investors are showing
greater willingness to ignore Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings. Denmark, which holds the European Union
presidency, said this month it won backing in the 27-member bloc
to curtail the influence of the raters. Danish banks have
started firing Moody’s, while  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , one of  Sweden ’s four
biggest lenders, has said the views published by rating
companies are “backward looking.”  Moody’s last week lowered Sweden’s  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  to Aa3, and  Norway ’s DNB Bank ASA to
A1, all single-level downgrades. Credit grades of  SEB AB (SEBA)  and
Swedbank AB were affirmed while Landshypotek AB was cut two
steps to Baa2. All ratings carry stable outlooks, Moody’s said.  Yields Decline  Handelsbanken’s  shares  rose on the day after the May 24
downgrade. Nordea was up as much as 1.4 percent and DNB climbed
as much as 1.6 percent, before erasing gains that day. Nordea
shares advanced as much as 1.3 percent and were trading lower by
0.3 percent to 54.45 kronor at 1:28 p.m. in  Stockholm  today.
Handelsbanken increased 0.8 percent, topping the 0.9 percent
loss of the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  The yield on Nordea’s benchmark 1.25 billion-euro note
maturing in 2019 has declined four basis points to 2.61 percent
over the past three days, while the yield on a five-year
Handelsbanken dollar note slid two basis points to 2.60 percent
on May 25. The yield moves inversely to price.  A similar response has also been seen in the sovereign debt
markets, where U.S. Treasuries last year rose after S&P stripped
the world’s largest economy of its top grade. The  Bank of
England  said in March there was “little market reaction” to
Moody’s decision to cut the outlook on its rating to negative.  Open Doors  “The Nordic banks are in general very solid and have
currently no issues in funding,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-
based  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management, which
oversees $72 billion. “Moody’s is knocking down open doors with
this. In these volatile markets the rating agencies are
definitely behind the curve and, strangely enough, could be at
risk of being considered irrelevant by the market during times
when they actually do have something critical to say.”  The downgrades were justified by the “comparatively high
reliance on wholesale funding, which Moody’s regards as less
reliable under a severe stress scenario,” the company said. The
downgrades were necessary even though “Swedish banks have
strengthened their capitalization since 2008,” Moody’s said.  The cuts were part of a review of 114 European lenders
announced in February. Moody’s downgraded 16 Spanish banks on
May 17 as the euro region’s fourth-largest economy struggles to
stay afloat without an international bailout. The ratings
reductions follow pledges by banks to boost capital levels
following European stress tests.  Spanish Banks  S&P on May 25 also downgraded five Spanish banks to junk.  Denmark , which is bringing its proposals to the European
Parliament, says ratings often don’t reflect credit risks.
Measures to improve the industry include a plan to cut reliance
on ratings for both investors and within financial regulation,
the Business Ministry in Copenhagen said May 21. The intention
is also to make it easier for investors and issuers to demand
compensation from ratings companies that fail to do their job
properly, the ministry said.  In Denmark, banks have started firing Moody’s after winning
assurances from some of the country’s biggest investors that the
opinions of ratings companies hold limited value. Nykredit A/S,
Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender and Europe’s largest issuer of
covered bonds backed by home loans, terminated its contract with
Moody’s in April, citing its “volatile” views.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding in an interview in May
criticized Moody’s view on systemic support, less than a year
after the bank’s mortgage arm sacked the company.  Moody’s, which published its first guide to securities in
1900 after being founded by  John Moody , said investors value the
global comparability its ratings offer.  “The ongoing debate surrounding Moody’s credit opinions is
a testament to our relevance,” Jessica Sibado, a Moody’s
spokeswoman said in a phone interview today.  Best Rated  Swedish banks, still among the best-rated in  Europe , are
now signaling they may rethink their cooperation with the rating
company.  “We’re surprised we were even on Moody’s list,”  Thomas Backteman , head of corporate affairs at Swedbank, said in an
interview. “We plan to continue our talks with Moody’s about
their methodology and process.”  Momentum is building against ratings companies, which
failed to identify some of the imbalances that led to the global
financial crisis of 2008. There’s also evidence that ratings
downgrades play less of a role in determining the value of
bonds. U.S. Treasuries with maturities longer than one year have
returned 5.7 percent since Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S.
of its AAA grade on Aug. 5. Credit-default swaps show the U.S.
is deemed a better investment for bondholders than the U.K.,
which is still AAA rated at S&P.  No Emphasis  According to a 2011 U.S. Senate report, both  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s adjusted the way they graded mortgage-backed
securities after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and at least
six more banks pressured them. When the ratings companies
changed their assessments in July 2007, it helped trigger the
financial crisis, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations said in April last year.  “Moody’s in general is very backward looking; they are
often stating things that are well recognized from the financial
community for a long time,” Swedbank Chief Financial Officer
Goran Bronner said in response to Bloomberg questions on May 23.
“I don’t think Swedish banks should put any particular emphasis
on it.”  Part of the problem is that the credit ratings industry is
dominated by too few companies, Danish Business Minister Ole Sohn said on May 21. Raters themselves need to be better
regulated and conflicts of interest removed, he said.  “It is hard for” rating companies “to keep track and
when you come close to them it is quite apparent they have
difficulty following everything that is happening elsewhere,”
Bronner said. “The key is more transparency and then the market
can decide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 