-- Moody’s Bulgaria Rating, Outlook Reflect Moderate Strength
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-05-28T15:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/moody-s-bulgaria-rating-outlook-reflect-moderate-strength-1-.html
Bulgaria ’s Baa2 government bond
rating and stable outlook reflect its moderate levels of
economic and institutional strength, as well as high government
financial strength, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  The country has “moderate susceptibility to event risk,”
because of “extensive euroization, the significant presence of
Greek-owned financial institutions in the local banking system,
high external debt and weak external liquidity,” Moody’s said.
The annual credit report does not constitute a rating action.  Bulgaria’s sovereign debt is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor (SPY) ,
level with Russia and  Lithuania , and BBB- by Fitch, level with
Romania and Iceland. Moody’s estimates Bulgaria’s budget deficit
to reach 2 percent of gross domestic product this year, wider
than the government forecast of 1.6 percent, after 2.1 percent
last year.  “Moody’s is not as optimistic as the government, given the
still-high unemployment, anemic expansion in industrial
output,”and as import demand will probably remain subdued,
growth of import-related revenue will be limited, according to
the statement.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The government is working
on cutting the budget gap to help contain fallout from the euro
debt crisis and raise funds for 835 million euros of debt due in
2013.  “Largely as expected,” said Tim Ash, chief emerging-
market economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London ,
in e-mailed comments today. “Bulgaria’s great strength is its
modest public sector debt ratios,” at about 15 percent of GDP
and fiscal reserve, about 10 percent of GDP, plus near balanced
current-account position, he said.  The government has “a strong cash position to bail out
banks if need be,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  