-- Osborne Reverses U.K. Budget Plan to Put Tax on Pasties
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-29T11:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/osborne-reverses-u-k-budget-plan-to-put-tax-on-cornish-pasties.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  reversed a plan to make hot takeaway snacks such
as Cornish pasties subject to value-added tax, one of the most
controversial measures in his March 21 budget.  The Treasury said last night that it had dropped the
proposal to impose the  sales tax  at 20 percent on hot baked
snacks such as pasties and pies, to align them with other hot
takeaway food. It also amended a second budget plan to put the
full rate of VAT on static caravans, mobile homes that are left
on the same site. Instead, they’ll be subject to a tax of 5
percent.  “The government has done the right thing,” Treasury
minister David Gauke told BBC television. “We’ve listened to
the concerns the people have raised.”  The original hot-snacks proposal drew anger from bakers
including  Greggs Plc (GRG) , the U.K.’s biggest such chain. It sparked
the “pastygate” affair, in which Prime Minister David Cameron
attempted to deflect the complaints and declare his enthusiasm
for the west-of-England snack consisting of meat and vegetables
baked in a pastry case.  Greggs rose 5.6 percent to 492.8 pence at 12:04 p.m. in
 London , having earlier surged as much as 9.3 percent, the most
in 3 1/2 years.  In a second government policy reversal, Justice Secretary
Ken Clarke said he’d make “substantial changes” to his
proposals to have evidence from security agencies at court
hearings given in secret.  Memories of Pasties Past  Cameron, who has spent vacations in Cornwall and whose
youngest child was born there, attempted to calm the tax spat a
week after the budget, telling a news conference of the last
pasty he’d eaten, a large one from a stand at Leeds railway
station in Yorkshire. Local reporters discovered it closed at
least two years ago.  A day earlier, Osborne told the House of Commons Treasury
Committee as it quizzed him on the budget that he couldn’t
recall the last time he’d eaten a pasty from Greggs, drawing
derision from members of the opposition  Labour Party .  ‘Dancing in the Streets’  “There will be dancing in the streets from Land’s End to
the Tamar” at each end of Cornwall, lawmaker Stephen Gilbert
from Cameron’s junior coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats,
who represents a district in the county, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The strength of feeling from local people and the
national baking industry has been clear since these proposals
were announced.” He said the original plans “would be unfair,
unenforceable and cost jobs and investment across the country.”  Labour called on the government to go further and drop the
headline measure in the budget, cutting the top rate of income
tax to 45 percent from 50 percent with effect from next year.  “George Osborne’s budget has been a total and utter
shambles,” a Labour finance spokeswoman, Rachel Reeves, said in
an e-mailed statement. “These partial U-turns, just a few weeks
after ministers were defending the pasty tax and caravan tax,
show just how ill thought through the budget was and how out of
touch  David Cameron  and George Osborne are.”  The latest changes of policy come less than three weeks
after an announcement that Britain will equip its aircraft
carriers with a jump-jet variant of Lockheed Martin Corp.’s F-35
Joint Strike Fighter, instead of a version launched with a
catapult and arrester-wire system as originally planned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  