-- Lotus CEO Is Suspended After DRB Complaint Over Conduct
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-28T16:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/lotus-ceo-is-suspended-after-drb-complaint-over-conduct.html
Group Lotus Plc, the unprofitable
luxury sports-car maker, suspended Chief Executive Officer Dany Bahar after a complaint from Malaysian parent  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) 
about unspecified concerns over his conduct.  The temporary suspension is meant to facilitate an
investigation into the complaint, according to a statement from
Proton Holdings Bhd. today. Bahar, formerly a Ferrari executive,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary’s DRB is shaking up
management at Lotus, which hasn’t made a profit in at least 15
years, according to comments from Bahar in an interview in
December, after inheriting control of the British carmaker
through its purchase of Malaysian taxi-and-sedan maker Proton
this year. Proton also said today that it is not selling Lotus.  “Dany Bahar was the key player behind the turnaround plan
for Lotus,” said Alexander Chia, an analyst at  RHB Capital
Bhd. (RHBC) , in a telephone interview today. “If he is cleared, it
would indicate that the management is happy to continue
bankrolling Lotus. If he ends up out, there will be a lot of
uncertainty on where Lotus goes from here.”  Red Bull  Bahar, 40, joined Hethel, U.K.-based Lotus as CEO in 2009
from Fiat SpA’s Ferrari, where he was a senior vice president,
according to Lotus’s website. Prior to that, the Istanbul,
Turkey-born executive worked at energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH
and Fritz Kaiser Group, according to the website.  The Telegraph reported late last week that Bahar had been
suspended by Lotus’s Malaysian owners.  Lukman Ibrahim, Mohd Khalid Yusof and Aslam Farikullah from
Lotus’s parent companies will be in charge of day-to-day
management at Lotus during the suspension, according to the
statement.  According to the December interview with Bahar, Lotus
hasn’t generated any profit since it was acquired by Proton in
1996 as the maker of the Elise sports car struggled to compete
against Porsche AG and Ferrari in  Europe . Still, the carmaker
hung on to relevance in the  auto industry  partly because of its
decades-long expertise in designing lightweight frames.  The Lotus Elise, at 2,010 pounds (912 kilograms), is the
lightest performance car sold in the U.S., according to  Santa
Monica , California-based Edmunds.com. In comparison, the 2012
Porsche Cayman weighs 2,932 pounds, while the Mazda MX-5 Miata
sports convertible tips the scales at 2,480 pounds, according to
the website.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  has relied on Lotus chassis
designs since 2008 for its Roadster sports car.  Turnaround Plan  DRB-Hicom hired consultant KPMG to evaluate Lotus, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. DRB said in March that
it may sell Lotus if it doesn’t meet performance targets and a
decision will be made after a thorough evaluation. Other options
include changing the management at Lotus or its business
approach, Managing Director Mohd Khamil Jamil said then.  As part of a five-year turnaround plan that began 2010,
Lotus plans to increase sales in  emerging markets  -- especially
 China  -- and introduce five new models, starting with the Esprit
at the end of 2013, according to Proton’s annual report for the
year ended March 31, 2011.  Bahar said in December that Lotus could break even by 2014.  The carmaker sold 1,985 units for the year ended March 31,
2011 according to the annual report. That compares with Ferrari,
which boosted global deliveries by 9.5 percent to a record 7,195
cars last year, led by sales in the U.S. and China.  DRB-Hicom rose 0.8 percent to 2.43 ringgit at the close in
Kuala Lumpur trading. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index gained
0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  