-- How I Escaped From Bolivian Jungle After Concert: Travel
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-05-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/how-i-escaped-from-bolivian-jungle-after-concert-travel.html
Our bus floats across the wide
expanse of  Bolivia ’s  Rio Grande  on a wooden raft, its roof
stacked high with luggage. It looks both precarious and surreal.  Perched on the edge of the boat towing the bus across the
river, I watch as a truck edges gingerly down the muddy bank
onto the next raft and hope that it’s not carrying cement.  Our group of Baroque music fans has just left Concepcion, a
former Jesuit mission located deep in the jungle of the remote
Chiquitania region. The evening before, we had listened to
Orquesta de Cuerdas, a local youth orchestra, playing Vivaldi
and works by local 18th-century composers with gusto in
Concepcion’s opulently restored wooden cathedral.  We’d intended to stay another night, until striking health
workers thwarted our plans by threatening to block the bridge on
the road to  Santa Cruz  de la Sierra, the regional capital. We
packed hastily, grabbed sandwiches, and bundled into our bus to
bump back to the city along some dusty roads, not all of them
paved. We couldn’t be sure protesters hadn’t already closed the
bridge over the Rio Grande, so took the alternative raft route.  To travel to Bolivia is to invite adventure, as we
discovered before even leaving home. Two weeks before a friend
and I were due to fly out, the troubled Bolivian airline Aerosur
canceled our flights, forcing us to book with another carrier
and offering no guarantee of a refund.  Flashy Narcocruisers  After the raft trip, we arrive back in Santa Cruz, a
sprawling, brash modern city that beats to the thud of pop music
blaring from flashy jeeps on the street. My guidebook tells me
these are known locally as “narcocruisers,” because of the
probable origins of their owners’ wealth. Plush new villas
sprout from the red soil on the city outskirts, often before the
dust track connecting them has been transformed into a road.  We head to Los Huerfanos church near the main plaza for a
concert by a German chamber orchestra called BuBo-100, followed
by the  Orchestra of New Spain , based in  Dallas , performing at
San Roque church. Both were invited to take part in the
 International Festival of American Renaissance and Baroque
Music , the reason for our visit. The festival began in 1996 and
takes place every two years.  Between the two performances, we catch Piotr Nawrot, a
Polish priest and musicologist who has made reviving Bolivia’s
Baroque music tradition his life’s work. He tells us he will
find out in the next two hours whether he has to cancel 30
concerts in the missions because of the striking health workers.  Jesuit Legacy  Pale and slight, he smiles philosophically.  “In Bolivia, you have to find a way,” he says. “It means
you have to be creative. Sometimes, miracles do happen.” (There
was a miracle this time and the concerts went ahead.)  When we meet again later under less stressful
circumstances, he speaks passionately about the legacy left by
the Jesuit missionaries, including 5,500 sheets of music in the
Chiquitania archives, much of it composed locally.  “The musical collections are so rich that we will not
finish them in my lifetime,” Nawrot says.  In the days of the Jesuits, who were expelled by the
Spanish in 1767, each church hired 40 full-time musicians who
performed daily, he recounts. Before the festival began, the
musical tradition was in danger of dying out as the last
performers reached old age, he says.  The festival has triggered a new wave of interest in
Baroque music in the Chiquitania region. In Urubicha, a town
with a population of about 4,000 people that only got
electricity in 2010, one in four children can now read music and
plays an instrument, Nawrot tells us.  Musical Battle  We’d seen a youth orchestra and choir perform Nawrot’s
version of the 18th-century Bolivian opera “San Ignacio” a few
days before at the mission church of San Ignacio. More than 170
musicians took part in a battle of good and evil waged in front
of the lavish gilded altar. The audience, many of them friends
and family of the performers, loved it.  The musical highlight of the week for me was the vivacious
Uruguayan ensemble  De Profundis , who brought the Baroque
tradition to life with castanets, lots of movement and
beautifully expressive singing. The group sang works by the
Guatemalan Baroque composer Gaspar Fernandez, the Spaniard
Manuel Blasco and a piece by Juan de Araujo from the Bolivian
national archives, transcribed by Nawrot.  The last days of the trip we spent away from civilization
at the  Amboro National Park , in the dreamy  Refugio los Volcanes ,
improbably built in a remote valley by an enterprising German.  The park is an ornithologist’s paradise, with an estimated
800 different bird species. Enveloped by spectacular yet
hospitable sandstone mountains, we bathed in waterfalls, lolled
in hammocks and took walks through the cloud forest with a local
guide to spot parrots, toucans, monkeys and orchids.  It’s a place to return to. Perhaps I’ll even get to see an
armadillo or a tapir the next time.  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on  film  in Cannes and
Richard Vines on  New York   dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 