-- How to Snare Table at World’s Best Restaurant: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-05-30T17:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/how-to-snare-table-at-world-s-best-restaurant-review.html
People often ask how they can book
tables at the winners of the  World’s 50 Best Restaurants  awards.  One answer is: with great difficulty.  Rene Redzepi, chef at the current title holder, Noma,
 posted  on Twitter April 28, for example, that the dinner waiting
list that night was 1,204 for about a dozen tables. On the day
after he first triumphed in 2010, the Copenhagen restaurant
received enough applications to be full for almost 15 years.  The previous winner, El Bulli, was no easier. The usual
figure quoted for that establishment north of Barcelona, before
it closed last year, was of more than two million inquiries for
8,000 places. Restaurateurs tend to prioritize journalists and
chefs for tables, so the odds are even longer for civilians.  The best I can suggest is that people should become
customers of a restaurant before it wins the title. I head the
U.K. and Ireland panel for the awards and have no inside
information on future winners. What I can do is point to a
restaurant to watch, and that is Eleven Madison Park.  This  New York  establishment, founded by the restaurateur
 Danny Meyer  in 1998, first entered the 50 Best chart at 50, in
 2010 . Last year, it  jumped to 24  and this year it reached No.
10. Also this year, chef Daniel Humm, who co-owns Eleven Madison
with general manager Will Guidara, was named Outstanding Chef in
the U.S., the premier award from the  James Beard Foundation .  Michelin Stars  (I’ve been friendly with Guidara since Meyer introduced us
in 2008 and got to know Humm last year, so I’m not an impartial
observer. On the other hand, I do know plenty of chefs.)  Eleven Madison Park was named James Beard’s Outstanding
Restaurant in America last year, when it also was awarded three
Michelin stars, jumping from a single star after Humm and
Guidara reduced the number of tables and jettisoned the regular
a la carte menu. Diners must now either go with a tasting menu
or choose four courses from a grid of 16 main ingredients.  (The prices are lower than you might expect at this level.
Lunch is $74 and the number of courses is closer to 10 when you
include the canapes and other giveaways. Dinner is $125, while
the tasting menus are $125 and $195, respectively.)  Humm, 36, is a classically trained chef who started as an
apprentice at age 14 in his native  Switzerland . He has a mastery
of technique that makes for faultless dishes, an understanding
of flavors that allows originality without requiring it, and an
appreciation of beauty that speaks without words.  Smoking Sturgeon  Yes, there are visual surprises: the parmesan-and-truffle
savory cookies, served in a box like a sugary treat; the
sturgeon hiding within a dome filled with sweet smoke. Indeed,
the presentation of each dish is a match for anything I have
seen. What makes Humm such a special chef is that he achieves
all this without losing sight of the key ingredients.  The dishes are as clear and clean as an Alpine stream.
Fortunately, that’s not what you have to drink with them. The
wines are pretty good, too. The service is all you would expect
in a restaurant in which Meyer had a hand. The owner of Gramercy
Tavern -- who sold Eleven Madison to Humm and Guidara when they
made it such a success -- is watching for a victory in the
World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards two years from now.  “Eleven Madison Park remains on its upward trajectory and,
since Daniel and Will are relentless in their pursuit of
excellence, I have every confidence they’ll achieve the No. 1
ranking by 2014,” Meyer said via e-mail. “I’ve never seen them
fall short of one goal -- and imagine they’ll reach this one as
well.”  The World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards took place in  London 
on April 30.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on  film  in Cannes and
Catherine Hickley on  travel .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in New York at
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 