-- Loyola Tops Maryland 9-3 to Win NCAA Men’s Lacrosse Championship
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-28T20:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/loyola-tops-maryland-9-3-to-win-ncaa-men-s-lacrosse-championship.html
Eric Lusby scored four goals as
 Loyola University Maryland  beat the  University of Maryland  9-3
to win the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
lacrosse championship.  Lusby’s final tally was his 17th of the tournament, an NCAA
record, and sophomore goalie Jack Runkel made six saves as the
top-seeded Greyhounds won the game at Gillette Stadium in
Foxborough,  Massachusetts .  After trailing 3-2, Loyola scored seven unanswered goals
and held Maryland scoreless for the final 40 minutes, giving the
Greyhounds their first title at college lacrosse’s top level.
The team was runner-up in 1990, its only previous appearance in
the championship game.  “There are so many people that have gotten us to where we
are today,” Loyola coach Charley Toomey said in a televised
interview after the game. “This is for them. This is for our
alumni, this is for our university.”  Maryland held early leads at 1-0 and again at 3-2, when
junior midfielder Kevin Cooper scored with 10:40 remaining in
the second quarter. The Greyhounds responded with seven straight
goals, the final three from Lusby, and  Maryland  was kept off the
scoreboard for the final 40:40 of the game, missing on its final
20 shots.  “Our kids got what they deserved, because they were great
all year,” Toomey said.  The two schools, located 40 miles apart in Maryland, took
different routes to the finals. The Greyhounds finished the
regular season with one loss and clinched the top spot in the
tournament for the first time since 1999.  Maryland lost five times before the tournament began and
entered unseeded. The Terrapins beat third-seeded  Johns Hopkins 
and second-seeded  Duke  to reach the finals.  Lusby, a graduate student who missed last season due to
injury, was the first Greyhound to hoist the championship trophy
after the game. Surrounded by teammates, he jogged the prize to
the corner of the stadium where the Loyola fans had gathered.  Lusby’s 54 goals this season set a school record, two more
than junior attack Mike Sawyer scored. Earlier this month Sawyer,
who gave the team a permanent lead today when he broke a 3-3 tie
with 5:57 remaining in the second quarter, was named one of five
male finalists for the  Tewaarton Award , given every year to the
sport’s best male and female players.  Maryland, which won the NCAA championship in 1973 and 1975,
is winless in its last seven trips to the tournament final.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  