-- Palm Oil Gains on Growing Demand Before Ramadan, Greece Optimism
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-28T08:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/palm-oil-futures-gain-on-growing-demand-before-ramadan-correct-.html
Palm oil  climbed for a third day on
speculation that demand may increase ahead of the Muslim fasting
month of Ramadan and as Greek opinion polls showed voters
backing parties that support the European Union’s bailout.  The August-delivery contract advanced as much as 0.9
percent to 3,158 ringgit ($1,004) a metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the highest price for the most-active
contract since May 16. Futures traded at 3,146 ringgit at the
4:15 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , after a 1.1 percent gain last week,
trimming this month’s decline to 9.4 percent.  Exports from Malaysia rose 10.5 percent to 1.15 million
tons in the first 25 days of this month from the same period a
month earlier, surveyor Intertek said May 25. Shipments advanced
7.6 percent to 1.11 million tons, Societe Generale de
Surveillance said. Consumption of food staples and cooking oils
climbs during the fasting month of Ramadan, which starts in July
this year, as followers break daylong fasts with communal meals.  “Ramadan is coming soon, so Middle East countries may
start to buy ahead to stock up,” Alan Lim Seong Chun, an
analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone today.
“There’s some good news that in  Greece  the pro-bailout group is
ahead in the poll survey,” said Lim.  New Democracy , which supports the plan negotiated with
international lenders, was placed first in all six opinion polls
published on May 26 as campaigning continued for next month’s
general election, easing concern that Greece will exit the
currency bloc.  “On the supply side, there’s news that El Nino may come in
later this year,” said Lim.  El Nino conditions, which can parch Asia and bring cooler
weather to the U.S., may develop this year as the Pacific Ocean
warms, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said May 8. Palm oil
yields in Indonesia and Malaysia, the largest producers, have
been affected by El Nino in the past, resulting in lower output.  Palm oil for September delivery gained 1 percent to close
at 8,022  yuan  ($1,265) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange .
 Soybean oil  for January advanced 1.3 percent to 9,338 yuan. U.S.
financial markets are closed for the Memorial Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  