-- Peru Protests Against Xstrata Mine Leave Two Dead
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-05-29T01:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/peru-protests-against-xstrata-mine-leave-two-dead.html
Peru declared a state of emergency in
the southern Andes region after two people died in protests
against  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Tintaya copper mine.  The measure will last 30 days as authorities seek talks
with residents who have been demanding compensation for alleged
mining pollution since May 21, Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes said
today in comments transmitted by state television.  Protesters in Espinar near Cuzco burned company offices and
took a local official hostage, according to Lima-based
Radioprogramas. Environmental protests have halted mining
projects by companies including  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ,  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  and  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  over the past year.  “These are extremists who have attacked authorities,”
Valdes said from the Presidential Palace. “The state will
remain firm as it has done from the beginning of this
government.”  The mine meets environmental standards, the Zug,
Switzerland-based company’s Tintaya unit said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Xstrata has financed 800 projects in the area
such as a school, hospital and dairy plant and is willing to
improve its social programs, it said.  “Tintaya rejects violence of any kind and invokes
authorities to facilitate dialog that could lead to a
solution,” Xstrata Tintaya said. “The social instability in
the provincial capital is spurred by some leaders who are
stirring up violence and causing the death of innocents.”  Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment sent
outside of normal trading hours.  Xstrata rose 3 percent to 939.80 pence in  London  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  