-- Pound Snaps 4-Day Gain Versus Euro as Greece Exit Concern Eases
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-28T15:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/pound-drops-versus-euro-as-greek-pro-bailout-party-gains-support.html
The pound snapped a four-day advance
against the euro as Greek polls showed greater support for
parties supporting the country’s bailout plan, damping demand
for U.K. assets as a refuge.  Sterling declined against 13 of its 16 major counterparts
before U.K. reports this week that economists said will show
 consumer confidence  worsened and manufacturing contracted,
adding to signs the economy is faltering. Ten-year  gilt yields 
rose from within a basis point of a record low.  “We’ve seen the pound post steady gains and now there’s a
bit of a reality check,” said  Gavin Friend , a markets
strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in London. “Looking
forward, some of the data is expected to show that the second
quarter isn’t off to a great start. In the short-term, the moves
have been so large and now we are pausing a bit.”  The pound was little changed at 79.96 pence per euro at
4:43 p.m. London time after rising 1.3 percent over the previous
four days. Sterling was also little changed at $1.5682. It
dropped to $1.5631 on May 24, the weakest since March 13.  The pound surged to the strongest since November 2008
against the euro on May 16 as a political impasse in  Greece 
boosted speculation the nation will exit the currency bloc. The
New Democracy party placed first in all six opinion polls
published on May 26 before the general election on June 17,
damping concern that politicians opposing the terms of the
nation’s international aid would gain further ground.  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  Spain ’s  Bankia SA (BKIA)  lost about a quarter
of its market value and the country’s bonds tumbled.  ‘Positive Headlines’  “Sterling is trying to figure out which way to go against
the euro because while there are some more positive headlines
about Greece, there’s also the Bankia news,” said Lee McDarby,
head of dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk
at Investec Bank Plc in  London .  The euro-area debt crisis will weigh on Britain’s property
market, Hometrack Ltd. said today, as it reported that U.K.
house prices rose for a third month in May.  An index of U.K. consumer confidence fell to minus 32 in
May from minus 31 in April, economists forecast before a report
published by GfK NOP Ltd. on May 31. A U.K. manufacturing index
published on June 1 will show output shrank for the first time
since December, according to a separate survey.  Gilts Decline  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed was little changed at
1.76 percent. The 4 percent bond due in March 2022 dropped 0.04,
or 40 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 120.06. The yield
earlier declined to 1.74 percent, within a basis point of the
record 1.738 percent set on May 24.  Two-, five and 10-year gilt yields fell to all-time lows
last week amid speculation the  Bank of England  would resume its
program of asset purchases to spur growth. Central bank Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  said in a Sunday Times interview that
while the 325 billion-pound program of quantitative easing has
had a “considerable impact” in stabilizing the economy, its
ability to provide aid has limits.  “Some people say we can just pump more into the economy
with QE, but if weak growth reflects problems on the supply side
of the economy, that may not be appropriate,” Dale was cited by
the newspaper as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  