-- Precise Biometrics Rises on Apple Certification: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-05-28T09:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/precise-biometrics-rises-on-apple-certification-stockholm-mover.html
Precise Biometrics AB (PREC) , a fingerprint
log-in and smart-card security provider, rose the most in more
than a year after its Tactivo product was certified by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , a signal the company may broaden use of its technology.  The shares climbed as much as 41 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since April 1, 2011. Precise Biometrics was up
36 percent at 1.43 kronor as of 10:31 a.m., for the biggest gain
among stocks in the  OMX Stockholm All-Share index .  Precise Biometrics expects to receive the first orders for
Tactivo, a casing for tablets and smartphones that includes an
embedded fingerprint and smart-card reader, this summer, the
Lund, Sweden-based company said today in a statement. Tactivo
enables “a high level of security” for accessing private
information on mobile units.  “We are expecting substantial sales of both Tactivo for
iPhone and Tactivo for iPad in 2012,” Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Marschall said in the statement. Tactivo is already
adapted for Apple’s iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S devices, and an iPad
version will start selling later in the year, Precise Biometrics
said.  The company is seeking to identify opportunities for its
core technology outside the traditional customer base. “There
is substantial interest from government agencies, enterprises
and healthcare customers worldwide to use iPhone and iPad
devices to access and share data more securely,” it said.  “Early indications from customers, even outside government
agencies, suggests that we are on the right track and may have
found a significant new growth opportunity,” CEO Marschall
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 