-- Roche Limits Drug Billing Credit for Spanish, Portuguese Clinics
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-05-28T14:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/roche-limits-drug-billing-credit-for-spanish-portuguese-clinics.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  tightened its bill-
collecting policy for hospitals in  Spain  and Portugal, requiring
clinics with the worst arrears to pay down debts before they can
get more drugs on credit, and may do the same in  Italy .  The policy applies to a dozen Spanish hospitals and 23
hospitals in Portugal, about a quarter of Portuguese hospitals,
Silvia Dobry, a Roche spokeswoman, said today. In Spain, that
means Roche won’t supply drugs to hospitals that are more than
700 days behind on payments, El Pais newspaper reported today.  Roche has tightened its payment policies in the countries
most affected by the euro debt crisis, switching in the first
quarter of last year to a payment-on-delivery policy in Greece
for hospitals with the biggest debts. The Basel, Switzerland-
based drugmaker changed its policy in February in  Portugal  and
last year in Spain, with more Spanish hospitals added to the
list in March and April, Dobry said.  “There are several hospitals that have not paid their
bills for more than two years,” Dobry wrote in an e-mail.
Hospitals are given credit again if they pay down their old
debts to reach a certain level, she said.  Roche is also weighing a policy change in “a limited
number” of Italian hospitals that haven’t paid their bills for
two to three years, she said.  The affected Spanish hospitals are in the regions of
Castile and Leon, Andalusia, Castile-La Mancha and Valencia.  In Spain, the policy applies to all types of drugs. In
 Greece , Roche offers an emergency access program, allowing even
debt-ridden hospitals without funds to pay on delivery to get
HIV drugs, transplant medicine CellCept and a handful of other
medicines the drugmaker makes for life-threatening diseases.  Some of the affected Portuguese hospitals hadn’t paid for
more than 1,000 days, according to Roche. None of the country’s
cancer clinics are affected by the new policy, Dobry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  