-- Rupee Drop Fans Inflation Risk as GDP Growth Slows
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-05-28T05:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/rupee-drop-fans-inflation-risk-as-gdp-growth-slows.html
India ’s sliding rupee, the worst
performing major Asian currency in the past year, threatens to
fuel inflation and limit room to revive an economy where growth
probably slowed to levels last seen in the 2008 global crisis.  The rupee is down 18.3 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, the most in a basket of 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg that shows a 1.8 percent climb in  Japan ’s
yen and a 2.4 percent advance in China’s  yuan . Gross domestic
product rose 6.7 percent in the year ended March, matching the
pace in the 12 months through March 2009, the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey shows before a May 31 report.  Investors have pared bets on further cuts in borrowing
costs by  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao after
the first reduction last month since 2009. The cost of locking
in  interest rates  for one year has climbed 17 basis points since
April 17, when the central bank lowered its repurchase rate by
0.5 percentage point to 8 percent while flagging price pressures
from the rupee, the fiscal deficit and energy costs. Inflation
unexpectedly quickened to 7.23 percent last month.  “India is likely to see disappointing growth in the coming
quarters, and it seems growth may not exceed 7 percent for the
next two-to-three years,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-
based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “The central bank
doesn’t have much room to break the vicious cycle of a weak
currency causing high inflation.”  Subbarao pledged last week to take steps as needed to curb
swings in the rupee, helping it recover from a record low of
56.3875 per dollar on May 24. The currency strengthened 0.2
percent to 55.25 per dollar as of 10:14 a.m. local time today.  Gasoline Price  Rupee weakness threatens to boost the cost of imports such
as crude oil, intensifying price pressures in a nation already
grappling with the fastest inflation among the biggest  emerging
markets . State refiners including Indian Oil Corp. raised
gasoline prices by 11 percent to 73.18 rupees ($1.32) a liter in
New Delhi on May 24.  While growth has slowed in countries from  Brazil  to China
as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps global expansion, domestic risks
are also weighing on India’s outlook, contributing to a near 11
percent decline in the BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks in
the past year.  Faltering efforts to liberalize the economy and uncertainty
over tax changes in March’s budget are among the challenges,
deterring investment from abroad. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
is also grappling with a record trade deficit and the widest
budget shortfall in the so-called BRIC group of major emerging
nations that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  ‘Lack of Policies’  International investors have  pulled  about $274 million from
India’s local-currency bonds since the April 17 rate cut. The
yield on benchmark 10-year sovereign debt rose 17 basis points
in the period to 8.51 percent, and the  extra yield  on the notes
over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 41 basis points to 678, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of locking in interest
rates for one year rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 8.02 percent last week and was little changed today.  “What is ailing India is a lack of policies that would
have opened the capacity of the economy and put India firmly on
the global map,”  Arun Singh , a Mumbai-based senior economist at
Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt., said in an
interview on May 25. “Growth will remain sluggish.”  Citigroup Inc. said last week that “there is now near-
consensus that the India story has de-rated.” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. downgraded its growth forecast for the country on May
25, predicting a 6.6 percent GDP increase this fiscal year, down
from an earlier estimate of 7.2 percent.  Benchmark Rate  The  Reserve Bank of India  will probably be unable to lower
borrowing costs until October-to-December, Goldman said. Tushar Poddar, an economist at the company in Mumbai, wrote in a note
to clients that the RBI will now likely lower interest rates by
half a percentage point in the final three months of 2012,
compared with the 75 basis points previously forecast.  Asia ’s third-largest economy probably expanded 6 percent in
the three months through March from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since the first quarter of 2009, according to another
Bloomberg News survey.  India’s trade deficit swelled to a record $185 billion in
the year ended March 31. The  shortfall  in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade, reached $19.6 billion in the
three months through December, the most in at least six decades.  The current-account deficit tends to widen when global  oil
prices  rise as the South Asian economy imports about 80 percent
of its crude needs. Oil shipments accounted for 32 percent of
the country’s $489 billion import bill last fiscal year.  Core Inflation  Subbarao said last week that the central bank won’t rule
out the possibility of selling dollars directly to oil refiners,
a step that may ease pressure on the rupee in currency markets.  He reiterated the central bank’s stance that it will
consider inflation and economic growth data before deciding on
interest rates at the June 18 policy meeting.  While headline inflation “surprised on the upside” last
month, core inflation remains below 5 percent, Subbarao said.  The core reading along with slowing growth may open a
window for a rate reduction in June, according to Standard
Chartered Plc. Slower global commodity prices and heightened
concern about the future of the euro area also support a 25
basis points reduction, said  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at the
company in Gurgaon, near  New Delhi .  Brent crude , the benchmark for most Indian oil imports, has
declined about 6.4 percent in the past year to $107.4 a barrel.  Stagflation  The cost of five-year credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of
India climbed 49 basis points in May to 380 basis points, set
for the biggest monthly increase since November, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. Some
investors consider the state-owned lender, the nation’s biggest,
a proxy for the sovereign. The swaps pay the buyer face value if
a company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Indian sovereign notes returned 7.4 percent in the past
year, trailing the 16.5 percent earned by Indonesian securities
in the region’s best performance, indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc show.  The government is seeking to pare the  fiscal deficit  to 5.1
percent of GDP this fiscal year from 5.9 percent in the year
ended March. It plans to sell a record 5.69 trillion rupees of
debt this financial year.  “The recent currency depreciation and a potential hike in
oil prices will push headline inflation up to 8 percent over the
next two to three months,” said  Chetan Ahya , an economist at
Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . “The deceleration in growth over
the next three to four quarters is unlikely to be accompanied by
a commensurate softening in inflation, implying a stagflation-
type environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  