-- Rupiah Trades Near Lowest Level Since 2009 on Europe; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-28T10:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/rupiah-trades-near-lowest-level-since-2009-on-europe-bonds-fall.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah traded near the
lowest level since 2009 and bonds declined after global
investors reduced holdings of the nation’s assets on concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  Overseas funds sold $350 million more local stocks than
they purchased last week and withdrew 930 billion rupiah ($100
million) from investments in  government debt  in the four days
through May 24, official data show.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
credit ratings of three Spanish banks to junk on May 25.
Greece’s New Democracy party, which supports plans for a
European Union-led bailout, placed first in all six opinion
polls published on May 26, ahead of a June 17 election.  “The market still swings from risk-on to risk-off,” Putu Andi Wijaya, a foreign-exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat
Indonesia in Jakarta. “ Spain  is a worry again and we still
can’t hope for much from Europe. Markets may improve a little
and then decline even steeper.”  The rupiah traded at 9,479 per dollar as of 4:54 p.m. in
Jakarta, after closing at 9,474 last week, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached
9,534 earlier, the weakest level since December 2009.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 16.5 percent, the
highest since Oct. 5.  “Demand for dollars remains strong and despite Bank
Indonesia’s efforts to hold the line, I believe they will
struggle,” Patrick Perret-Green, head of foreign-exchange
strategy for Asia excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in
Singapore, wrote in a e-mailed note to clients today. “Further
selling will place the rupiah under more strain.”  Bank Indonesia  Bank Indonesia doesn’t want the rupiah to weaken too fast
and continues to intervene in the currency market, deputy
governor Hartadi Sarwono said on May 16, adding that it will use
its “ammunition” carefully.  Benchmark 10-year bonds dropped for a third day, with the
 yield  climbing two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
6.55 percent, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  “We didn’t get a sense of panic dollar buying and notably
the  bond market  was comparatively calm,”  Tim Condon , chief Asia
economist at ING Financial Markets in Singapore wrote in a
report today. “We believe  Bank Indonesia  will intervene as
needed to maintain calm and we don’t expect this will entail
macroprudential measures,” such as  capital controls , he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  