-- Seaway Oil Torrent Boosts Gas Cargoes as Scorpio Rises: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-05-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/seaway-oil-torrent-boosts-gas-cargoes-as-scorpio-rises-freight.html
The unprecedented flow of crude from
the U.S. storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , to Gulf Coast
refiners is poised to boost gasoline exports and tanker demand
when most of the shipping industry is still losing money.  The Seaway pipeline reversed oil flows on May 17 for the
first time since it opened in 1976 and will supply as much as
400,000 barrels a day by 2013. That will cut costs for
refineries and encourage them to make more products for export,
said Jonathan Chappell, a shipping analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York . Shares of  Scorpio Tankers Inc. (STNG) , which operates
19 of the vessels, will rise 56 percent in 12 months, the
average of nine analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The U.S. is already shipping a record amount of gasoline as
domestic oil output reaches a 13-year high and fuel demand
weakens. The U.S. prohibits most crude exports, spurring sales
of refined products. Rates for Medium-Range tankers, each
hauling 38,000 metric tons of gasoline, will rise 17 percent to
$14,657 a day this year and to $16,000 in 2013, according to the
median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is likely to mean better refinery margins and more
U.S. product exports,” said Urs Dur, a New York-based analyst
at the investment-banking unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. “That is good news for shipping, especially
oil-product tankers.”  Heating Oil  Demand for refined-product tankers, which also carry diesel
and heating oil, will exceed supply this year, according to
 Capital Product Partners LP (CPLP) , the operator of 13 Medium-Range
vessels. The global fleet will expand 2 percent as cargoes rise
3.4 percent, Chief Executive Officer Ioannis Lazaridis told
analysts on a May 2 conference call.  Shares of the Piraeus, Greece-based company jumped 23
percent to $7.54 in New York trading this year, compared with a
1.5 percent gain for the Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top 50 Shipping
Index Value of the largest companies. The stock will advance 24
percent to $9.38 in the next 12 months, the average of four
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Scorpio Tankers, based in  Monaco , climbed 13 percent to
$5.55 this year and will reach $8.64 in 12 months, the analyst
forecasts show. The company’s net  loss  will narrow to $13.2
million this year from $82.7 million in 2011, according to the
mean of seven estimates.  Energy Department  U.S. gasoline exports rose threefold since 2010 to a record
553,000 barrels a day in the first quarter, Energy Department
data show. Shipments of refined products to Mexico and  South
America  will gain a combined 24 percent to 1.8 million barrels a
day in 2012, London-based Clarkson estimates.  Gasoline demand in the U.S. has contracted for 38 weeks in
a row from a year earlier, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report. The pump price of regular gasoline in the
U.S. fell to $3.641 a gallon on May 27 from an 11-month high in
April, data from the American Automobile Association show.  The anticipated surge in gasoline shipments may not be
immediate. Initial flows through the pipeline are likely to be a
mix of heavier crudes yielding more heating and fuel oils, as
well as crudes that produce a higher proportion of so-called
light products such as gasoline, said  Andy Lipow , president of
Houston-based consultant Lipow Oil Associates LLC.  Quarter Century  The market for U.S. gasoline exports may also weaken amid
signs a global recovery is faltering. World growth will slow to
3.5 percent this year from 3.9 percent in 2011, the
International Monetary Fund estimates. Gasoline consumption
retreated 0.6 percent in 2008 amid the global recession, the
first drop in more than a quarter century, figures from London-
based BP Plc show.  European demand slumped 5.3 percent that year, the most for
data going back to 1966. The region’s leaders are still trying
to contain a debt crisis that is threatening to force  Greece  out
of the euro. The economy of the 17-nation currency zone will
contract 0.35 percent this year, the median of 32 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising earnings for product tankers contrast with a slump
in returns for owners of other types of merchant vessels. The
Baltic Dry Index, reflecting the cost of hauling dry-bulk
commodities including coal and iron ore, fell 38 percent since
the start of January, retreating for a third year.  Rates for Suezmax tankers, each carrying 1 million barrels
of oil, dropped 37 percent, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange, which publishes costs across more than 50 maritime
routes. About 90 percent of world trade moves by sea, the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations says.  Crude Discount  The switch in the 500-mile Seaway pipeline was prompted by
a glut at Cushing that left the U.S.’s West Texas Intermediate
grade of crude trading at a  discount  to  Europe ’s Brent benchmark
for an unprecedented 21 months. Midwest refiners typically use
oil priced off WTI, giving them an advantage over those on the
East and Gulf Coasts, which rely on supply linked to Brent.  Gulf Coast refineries ran at about 89 percent of capacity
this month and made about $23 for each barrel of oil processed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Midwest refineries had
a utilization rate of 94 percent and a $31-a-barrel margin, the
data show. Brent is trading at an 18 percent premium to WTI,
compared with a five-year average of 4 percent.  “The Seaway pipeline reversal will give U.S. Gulf Coast
refineries running crude priced off WTI a competitive
advantage,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy
consultant Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “If margins are
good, this could increase utilization rates and output of
refined products for export.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  