-- Serbia Has No Room for Fiscal Expansion, Central Banker Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-29T14:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/serbian-central-banker-soskic-sees-no-room-for-fiscal-expansion.html
Serbia  has no room for fiscal
expansion and would be punished by financial markets if it
loosened policy as it seeks to restart talks on its bailout
loan, central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said.  The government to emerge from May 6 parliamentary elections
must quickly trim the Balkan nation’s budget deficit after it
hit 6 percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter,
compared with a full-year goal of 4.25 percent, while public
debt hit 46.7 percent of GDP, Soskic said in a phone interview
in Belgrade yesterday.  “It’s about the real state of the economy” and fiscal
expansion is not “feasible in the situation we are in,” he
said. “If we don’t consolidate our finances, the punishment
will come from markets, either through depreciation pressures on
the dinar or through higher  interest rates , the cost of which
ultimately is paid by our taxpayers.”  The yield on five-year bonds jumped to 15.01 percent at an
auction today as the government sold 520 million dinars of the
debt, below its offer of 3 billion dinars.  Serbia’s sovereign spread, according to JP Morgan Chase &
Co’s EMBIG index, has risen 79 points since May 3 to 569 points
on May 25, and yields on its Eurobond maturing in 2021 rose by
40 basis points in the same period to 6.96 percent.  Inconclusive Elections  The elections were inconclusive with neither of the two
biggest voter getters winning a majority. The deepening of the
former Yugoslav republic’s stalemate pushed the dinar to record
lows on concern a delay in forming a new administration will
halt progress on spending cuts and the renewal of the country’s
$1.3 billion international bailout loan. Delays will also affect
Serbia’s path to the EU.  The election victory of  Tomislav Nikolic , who will be
sworn-in on May 31, “proved that the country’s political
landscape had become more complex and that the EU needs to be
involved in an intensive dialogue with Serbian authorities and
all political leaders from the very first moment,” Miroslav
Lajcak, the Slovak Foreign Minister and EU Foreign Policy Chief
Catherine Ashton’s envoy, said in an article posted on
euobserver.com.  The Western Balkan nation of 7.2 million people formally
became a candidate for the EU membership on March 1, without any
date for the start of entry talks. Lajcak said “this year could
be a turning point in Serbia’s European history,” making it
clear the next step hangs on Serbia’s relations with its former
province of  Kosovo , which declared independence in 2008.  The economy shrank 1.3 percent in the first quarter and the
dinar has slipped 8 percent this year and traded at 116.27 to
the euro today, its lowest in a decade. The Belgrade-based
Narodna Banka Srbije has sold more than 1 billion euros ($1.25
billion) to slow the currency’s weakening since February.  New Government  The past four years have coincided with the global economic
and European debt crises. The dinar has lost 30 percent,
unemployment rose 10 percentage points, public debt increased 16
percentage points to 14.4 billion euros and the average take-
home wage is 360 euros per month.  The new government needs to adopt fiscal consolidation
measures as soon as possible, to pave the way for a revision of
the loan program with the  International Monetary Fund . The
Washington-based lender froze the $1.3 billion precautionary
loan deal in February, as it became clear that Serbia would slip
on agreed fiscal targets.  The central bank kept its two-week repurchase rate at 9.5
percent on May 10, saying its monetary policy in the coming
months will depend on the “pace and intensity” of the next
government’s actions to control the budget.  “Fiscal expansion is not feasible because there’s no money
for it and in order to do it,” Serbia will need to borrow even
more money, moving if further from a fiscal rule that caps
public debt to gross domestic product at 45 percent, Soskic
said.  Recession Battle  Serbia, which is struggling to head off a return to
recession, has been without a government able to cut spending
and create new jobs in an economy with unemployment at about 24
percent.  Former President  Boris Tadic  said yesterday he will start
formal coalition talks to form a government even though his
party came second in the May 6 vote. Tadic’s Democrats and the
third-place Socialists, a party once governed by strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic , have agreed to an alliance that gives them
111 of parliament’s 250 seats.  Tadic said he wants to lead a government whose main task
will be the “fight against unemployment and poverty and the war
against corruption and crime,” while ensuring better standards
of living by the end of its term.  The  Fiscal Council , a three-member body appointed by
parliament, will present its proposal for fiscal consolidation
measures from 2012 to 2016 on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  