-- SNB’s Jordan Gets Weber Support as Solid Hand for Franc
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-29T06:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/snb-s-jordan-gets-weber-support-as-solid-hand-for-franc.html
When former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  was asked whether he has confidence in Thomas Jordan’s
currency policy, he didn’t hesitate.  “As solid and steady as he is as a central banker, so is
the Swiss franc,” Weber told an audience of European central
bankers at an event on May 16 in  Frankfurt . “I wake up in the
morning and if somebody asks me where the Swiss franc is, I
don’t need to look at any screens. I know where it is.”  The resolve of Swiss National Bank Chairman Jordan to keep
the franc from breaching the 1.20 ceiling versus the euro may be
further tested as the central bank finds itself engulfed by the
euro area’s worsening debt crisis. With  Greece ’s inconclusive
elections increasing investor concern about a breakup of the
currency bloc, he said this week that capital controls are among
the measures being considered if the turmoil escalates.  The franc traded at 1.2019 versus the euro at 8:06 a.m.
today, little changed on the day. It was at 95.92 centimes
versus the dollar.  The Swiss currency had previously been the top choice for
investors seeking safety from global turmoil, strengthening to
near parity with the euro in August before the introduction of
the ceiling the following month forced them to look elsewhere.  While the dollar has gained 4.4 percent against the euro
and the yen appreciated 4.9 percent since the Greek elections on
May 6 catapulted an anti-bailout party into second place, the
franc has been little changed. The British pound and  Singapore
dollar  also advanced.  ‘Stern Test’  “Average volumes seen in euro-franc trading remain far
below last year’s levels,”  UBS AG (UBSN)  currency analysts, including
 Geoffrey Yu  and  Chris Walker  in  London , wrote in a May 21 note.
“This still points to limited conviction among parties with an
interest in playing further downside. However, the wider
circumstances for euro-franc have changed and a Greek exit from
the euro zone would prove a stern test.”  Jordan, 49, who was appointed chairman last month, has
indicated he’s ready for any test, saying on April 10 that the
SNB’s “trading limits amount to some hundreds of billions of
euros a day.” He told the newspaper SonntagsZeitung in an
interview published May 27 that the Swiss economy needs “to be
prepared for the possibility of the currency union collapsing.”  “One measure would be  capital controls , or measures that
directly influence the inflow of capital,” he said, without
elaborating. “We’re identifying these instruments in case more
measures are needed.”  ‘Hard Way’  Fifty-seven percent of investors in a Bloomberg Global Poll
published on May 10 said at least one country will abandon the
euro by year-end. For Weber, who is chairman of UBS,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, choosing the “hard way” of staying
within the euro region is still the “best way.”  “The euro and any discussion about this not being a one-
way arrangement will just lead to another genie-out-of-the-
bottle debate,” he told the central bank audience. “When the
markets start pricing in that effect, it just produces more
repercussions.”  Since the ceiling was introduced on Sept. 6, much of the
SNB action has been verbal, with Jordan saying it will enforce
the limit with “all means at its disposal” and that it’s ready
to buy currencies in “unlimited quantities.”  The SNB doesn’t disclose details of its market operations.
At the end of April, currency reserves were 235.6 billion francs
($246 billion), little changed from March. They have more than
doubled since the end of 2009, partly because of SNB currency
interventions in the 15 months through June 2010.  Franc Forecast  Ian Stannard , head of European currency strategy at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in London, said the SNB will eventually be forced to
give up its franc defense as  Europe ’s crisis worsens,
reaffirming the currency’s haven status. He sees it
strengthening toward 1.10 per euro later this year.  The ceiling will probably “give away in the third quarter
of this year,” he said. “It’s going to be very much the sheer
weight of the amount of interventions that would have to be done
to maintain it.”  Data show the SNB has been reducing its euro exposure over
the past two years. Euro holdings accounted for 51 percent of
reserves at the end of the first quarter, down from 70 percent
in the second quarter of 2010. Reserves of dollars rose to 28
percent from 22 percent in that period.  Negative Yields  Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services
Ltd. in London, said investors are likely to continue shifting
out of euros over the coming months.  “With European politicians bereft of coherent ideas on how
to resolve the sovereign debt and banking crisis, and with
Greece on the verge of being forced out, it’s little wonder that
anyone with any exposure to the single currency is doing
something about it,” he wrote in an e-mailed note. “For now,
fearing the worst for Europe is probably the right call.”  Switzerland sold six-month bills at an average yield of
minus 0.32 percent on May 22 and three-month bills at minus 0.2
percent on May 15.  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London, said
investors “remain concerned about the preservation of their
capital, rather than the return on it.”  ‘Acute Threat’  Jordan, speaking at the same event in Frankfurt as Weber,
signaled that the SNB was running out of tools as the franc
ascended to a record last year, which threatened export
competitiveness and  economic growth . The ceiling was “really
the only effective option we had at that time available to
combat the acute threat,” he said.  With the euro-area turmoil clouding Switzerland’s economic
outlook and new Greek elections looming on June 17, Jordan has
to remain vigilant, said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  in Frankfurt.  “There’s a general increase in  risk aversion ,” he said.
“It may well happen that some people out there might be tempted
to test the SNB’s resolve. It’s a bit like poker -- the SNB may
have bad cards, but it has the deepest pockets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  