-- South Africa’s Slowing Growth May Pressure Fitch Rating
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-29T12:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/south-africa-s-slowing-growth-may-pressure-fitch-rating.html
(Corrects jobless rate in seventh paragraph.)  South Africa ’s credit rating may come
under pressure as growth in Africa’s biggest economy slows and
the government faces the prospect of bailing out the state-owned
road agency,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Government guarantees on outstanding debt owed by South
African National Road Agency SOC Ltd. may complicate efforts to
narrow the  budget deficit  after a court blocked plans by the
state-owned company to raise toll revenue to repay bonds and
loans,  Carmen Altenkirch , a sovereign credit rating analyst at
Fitch, said in an interview in Arusha, Tanzania, yesterday.  Economic growth of below 3 percent “is quite weak for a
country like South Africa,” Altenkirch said. “One could see a
number of factors stacking upon each other which could see debt
increasing and weigh on the rating.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  pledged in his February
budget to narrow the fiscal gap to about 3 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2015 from 4.5 percent
this year, by curbing wage increases and boosting tax
collection. That goal is being undermined by a worsening debt
crisis in  Europe , which may slow economic growth to an estimated
2.7 percent this year from 3.1 percent in 2011, according to
government forecasts.  Rating Outlooks  In January, Fitch cut the outlook on South Africa’s BBB+
credit rating to negative from stable, citing slower growth and
a wider budget deficit. That followed similar action by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  The economy expanded an annualized 2.7 percent in the first
quarter, compared with 3.2 percent in the previous three months,
the statistics office said today. The rand fell 0.1 percent to
8.3536 against the dollar as of 12:06 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the R157 bond due in 2015 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.38 percent today.  Rising unemployment, especially among young people, puts
more pressure on the government to raise spending, Altenkirch
said. South  Africa ’s  jobless rate  rose to 25.2 percent in the
first quarter, the highest among more than 60 nations tracked by
Bloomberg, from 23.9 percent in the previous three months.  “There are more generalized risks created as a result
because of the crisis in the euro zone,” Altenkirch said. “It
makes it even more difficult for government to meet the
objectives of  job creation .”  ‘Large Negative Implications’  The government is also facing rising debt levels. Sanral,
as the state-owned road agency is known, risks defaulting on 37
billion rand ($4.4 billion) of debt if it’s prevented from
charging tolls on roads in Gauteng province, Gordhan said on May
23. That may require the government to repay the debt on behalf
of Sanral, undermining the nation’s credit rating, he said.  “If government were forced to redeem Sanral’s debt as part
of a call on the guarantee and debt acceleration, then there
will be large negative implications for the budget deficit and
government issuance,” Carmen Nel and Mamello Matikinca,
analysts at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed
note to clients today. “It would become more difficult to
contain the spill-over to other parastatal debt.”  Altenkirch said the ruling  African National Congress  must
clarify its position on the  mining industry  when the party holds
its national policy conference next month. The ANC Youth League
has pushed for mines to be nationalized in South Africa, the
world’s largest producer of platinum and chrome.  “They need to reiterate very clearly that nationalization
is not the policy of the ANC or the government and that it is no
longer under discussion,” Altenkirch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  