-- South Africa Bonds Gain Second Day on Rate Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-28T14:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/south-africa-bonds-gain-second-day-on-rate-bets.html
The rand rebounded from a fourth week
of losses after opinion polls of Greek voters eased concern the
country will exit the euro area, boosting commodity prices and
 South Africa ’s export prospects. Bonds gained.  The currency gained as much as 1.5 percent and traded 1
percent stronger at 8.3243 per dollar as of 4:01 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand fell 0.8 percent last week and has
slipped 6.5 percent this month. The yield on the country’s 6.75
percent bonds due 2021 dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.66 percent.  Greece ’s New Democracy, which supports the European Union’s
bailout plan, was placed first in all six opinion polls
published on May 26 as campaigning continued for next month’s
general election. The 17-nation euro region is South Africa’s
biggest regional trading partner, buying 22 percent of the
country’s exports.  “Investors will probably start unwinding the risk trades
that were driven by fears of a catastrophic event that would
deal the  euro zone  a serious blow,” Quinten Bertenshaw, an
analyst at Tradition Analytics in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “This would hint at the possibility of a rand
recovery.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials advanced
for a second day as the prices of metals including copper and
nickel and rose. South Africa has the world’s largest mineral
reserves, according to Citigroup Inc. and raw materials account
for 45 percent of the nation’s exports.  ‘Rebound’  “With the euro on a slightly firmer footing and commodity
prices also gaining, the rand is likely to regain some ground
against the dollar in the short term,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “With commodity currencies in particular
having taken a beating against the dollar last week, there is
room for a rebound today.”  Africa’s biggest economy grew 2.4 percent in the three
months through March, from 3.2 percent the previous quarter, a
report tomorrow may show, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Emerging-market stocks  rose for a third day and South
Africa’ benchmark stock  index  gained, led by commodity exporters
including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.  The yield on South Africa’s $1 billion 5.875 percent bonds
due 2022 dropped for the first time in five days, falling two
basis points to 4.10 percent. The extra yield investors demand
to hold the debt rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed one basis
points to 232 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  