-- South Sudan Says Sudan Bombed Country Before Peace Talks
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-05-28T14:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/south-sudan-says-sudan-bombed-country-before-peace-talks.html
South Sudan  accused neighboring  Sudan 
of carrying out air and artillery attacks on the eve of
scheduled peace talks.  Sudan bombed Northern Barh el-Ghazal state today in
violation of a May 2 United Nations  Security Council  resolution,
South Sudan’s chief negotiator,  Pagan Amum , said as he prepared
to fly to Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, for the start of
African Union-sponsored talks tomorrow. Ten civilians were
killed in the attacks, government spokesman Barnaba Marial
Benjamin said.  “Today as we are leaving to the negotiations, the
government of Sudan is attacking South Sudan,” Amum told
reporters at the airport in the capital, Juba.  The UN Security Council approved the resolution after the
countries came close to all-out war along their disputed border.
Since South Sudan gained independence in July, negotiations have
failed to yield agreements on oil-revenue sharing, citizenship
and border demarcation.  South Sudan, which gained control of about three-quarters
of the formerly united country’s crude production, shut down
output in January after accusing Sudan of stealing $815 million
of its oil. Sudan said it confiscated the crude to make up for
unpaid fees for use of a pipeline and a port on the  Red Sea  that
the south needs to export its petroleum.  Peace Process  Sudan’s military used Antonov planes, MiG jet fighters,
helicopter gunships and artillery in today’s attacks, Philip
Aguer, spokesman for South Sudan’s army, told reporters.  “Maybe they want to spoil the  peace process ,” Benjamin
said.  Amum said he was confident the negotiations due to start
tomorrow had a chance of success.  “Now, we are actually more optimistic than any other time
before,” he said. “There is an international backing; there is
a strong will by the Security Council to support achievement of
peace and a resolution of all the issues.”  Amum accused Sudan of repeatedly violating the UN
resolution by bombing South Sudan.  He urged the Security Council to “force the government of
Sudan to withdraw its forces from Abyei.”  Amum said South Sudan accepted the African Union’s so-
called road map to peace, which was endorsed by the Security
Council and gives the countries three months to conclude the
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  