-- Spain Regional Rescue Risks Tipping Point on Yields: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-28T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/spain-regional-rescue-risks-tipping-point-on-yields-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s plan to help cash-strapped
regions sell debt risks piling additional liabilities on the
central government as  borrowing costs  approach the level that
pushed other nations into bailouts.  The government is under pressure to devise a way to help
the nation’s 17 regions regain access to  capital markets . Yields
on 2013 debt issued by Catalonia, the biggest and most-indebted
region, traded at 8.3 percent today, compared with 3.6 percent
for equivalent Spanish securities and 4.3 percent for state-
guaranteed bonds.  Spain is weighing how to rescue the regions as the rate on
its 10-year debt moves closer to the 7 percent level that led
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek aid from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . The regions, which owe a
combined 140 billion euros ($175 billion), are adding to the
burden as liabilities swell following the bailout of Bankia
group, the country’s third-biggest lender.  “Some kind of central-government funding that gets
disbursed to the regions is probably the most cost-effective way
to do it,” said  Harvinder Sian , a London-based fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The problem is
loading up on extra issuance at this point where the market is
fragile; it could be a tipping point to get you toward 7
percent.”  Bankia Bailout  The rate on 10-year Spanish debt rose to 6.47 percent
today, pushing the spread over German bonds of the same maturity
to a euro-era record of 509 basis points. The yield has risen
almost 50 basis points since May 9 when the government
nationalized BFA-Bankia. The bank said May 25 after markets
closed that it would need 19 billion euros from the government,
or about 1.8 percent of gross domestic product, to bolster
capital and cover potential loan losses.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos have said the government will help regions raise
funds. They haven’t said how and they’re still thrashing out
details two months after de Guindos announced the idea. Regions
face about 15 billion euros of redemptions in the second half of
the year, according to data on the Budget Ministry’s website.  On May 16, the government finalized a rescue to help
regions and town halls settle their unpaid bills with lending
backed by the local administrations’ revenues, the  Economy
Ministry  said. The government organized a 30 billion-euro
syndicated loan from banks, guaranteed by the Treasury, which in
turn is backed by regions’ and town halls’ receipts from the
central government.  Missing Target  “The risk to the sovereign would be if this is announced
without mechanisms to control the regions,” said Ricardo Santos, a European economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . The
reason is investors “could price in that regions would have
bigger incentives to spend,” he said.  Overspending in the regions, most of which are shut out of
markets, pushed Spain’s overall budget deficit over its target
last year and was responsible for a second revision of the 2011
deficit, announced May 18, to 8.9 percent of GDP. They also
missed their deficit goal in 2010.  The move mirrors a debate among European officials over
whether the 17 euro members could move toward joint issuance of
bonds to reduce weaker states’ financing costs.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said May 24 that  Europe 
“can have euro bonds soon” as a united Europe is “in
 Germany ’s interest.” German states are also pushing Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  to share their borrowing rates.  Locked Out  The Spanish plan may be positive for the sovereign by
reducing the risk of a regional default, which would have
“serious reputational repercussions” for the central
government, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report published
April 2. The final impact will depend on whether the regions can
be pushed to meet their deficit targets, Moody’s said.  Spain’s overall debt-to-GDP  ratio , forecast to reach 80
percent this year, already includes regions’ debt even as the
law forbids the central government from paying it off.  Efforts for the regions come as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  says the nation risks being locked out of markets. Spain,
which favors the creation of joint euro bonds, is rated BBB+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , having lost its AAA rating in January 2009.  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Spanish central
government debt to 37 percent of the total in April from 50
percent at the end of last year. Domestic lenders, helped by
emergency funding from the  European Central Bank , have picked up
the slack, increasing their holdings to 29 percent from 17
percent. The trend will continue,  Fitch Ratings  said May 23.  Spooking Markets  That may help explain the delay in designing the strategy.
De Guindos first announced the plan on March 27, saying the
government may allow regions to issue debt jointly in sales
guaranteed by the national Treasury.  Montoro, tasked with making the regions meet their deficit
goals, has offered fewer details on the plan, saying only that a
mechanism should be in place by July and it won’t jeopardize
Spain’s rating or shield regions from the consequences of
 overspending . His deputy for regional governments, Antonio
Beteta, said in an interview with ABC on May 20 that the state
would offer guarantees on a case-by-case, issue-by-issue basis.  The mechanism, which is “complicated,” will be ready
“soon,” Josep Duran i Lleida, the leader in Parliament of
Catalan party CiU, said on May 25 after a meeting Prime with
Rajoy. He declined to give details in a briefing to reporters.  “If you pile the regional-issuance needs into central-
government funding, you could end up spooking the market,”
RBS’s Sian said. “If you go off and do it with some sort of
underlying guarantee in a separate entity, you may not be able
to get reasonable funding rates: in many ways they are stuck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  