-- Spurs Beat Thunder to Open NBA’s West Finals, Extend Win Streak
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-28T04:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/spurs-beat-thunder-in-game-1-of-nba-s-western-conference-finals.html
The  San Antonio  Spurs pushed their
winning streak to 19 games by rallying from a nine-point fourth-
quarter deficit to beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 101-98 in the
opening game of the National Basketball Association’s Western
Conference finals.  Manu Ginobili scored 11 of his 26 points in the final
quarter last night, when the Spurs outscored the Thunder 39-27
at the AT&T Center in San Antonio.  “That’s Manu’s game. He’s a scorer,” Spurs coach Gregg
Popovich said. “He’s someone we depend on to create and make
things happen. That’s what he’s done for us his whole career.”  Tony Parker added 18 points while Tim Duncan had 16 points
and 11 rebounds for the Spurs, who improved to 9-0 in the
postseason and haven’t lost since April 11. San Antonio will
also host Game 2 of the best-of-seven series tomorrow.  “Each game is different and  Oklahoma , they’re a very, very
good team,” Parker said at a news conference. “We’re going to
have to play a lot better if we want to win Game 2.”  The winner of the Western finals will face the  Miami Heat 
or  Boston Celtics  in the NBA Finals. Game 1 of the Eastern
Conference finals is scheduled for tonight in Miami.  The Spurs trailed 73-64 in the opening minute of the fourth
quarter before going on a 13-1 scoring run to take a lead they
wouldn’t relinquish.  San Antonio, which had three second-half turnovers after
making 14 in the first half, pushed its lead to as much as 10
points, with Ginobili leading the way. Ginobili had missed all
three of the Spurs’ regular-season meetings with  Oklahoma City .  Finding Cracks  “Ginobili was terrific,” Thunder coach Scott Brooks said
at a news conference. “He was making shots, making threes,
getting to the basket, getting to the foul line. That’s what he
does, he finds cracks that you don’t even think is possible. We
have to do a better job of corralling him.”  Kevin Durant  scored 27 points for the Thunder, though he
didn’t make a basket in the fourth quarter, when he was limited
to six free throws.  “Stephen Jackson did a real good job for us down the
stretch guarding Kevin Durant, which is like an impossible
task,” Popovich told reporters. “He made him work hard and
that combined with the rebounding and the charges it really
fueled the defense.”  It was the second postseason loss for Oklahoma City, which
was coming off series wins over the defending champion Dallas
Mavericks and  Los Angeles Lakers .  The Spurs swept the  Utah Jazz  and Los Angeles Clippers in
the opening rounds, winning their first eight games by an
average of 18.3 points. Last night’s victory was San Antonio’s
second game this postseason decided by fewer than six points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  