-- Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Is Probed in Second Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-05-28T01:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/sumitomo-mitsui-trust-is-probed-in-second-insider-trading-case.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) ,
 Japan ’s fourth-biggest bank by market value, said it’s being
investigated for possible  insider trading , the second such probe
in two months.  “We are fully cooperating” with the Japanese Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission on the case, Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust said in a statement in  Tokyo  today, adding that it
apologizes to customers and stakeholders.  The SESC will seek to fine a fund management arm of
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust for insider trading relating to a public
share offering of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in 2010, Reuters
reported May 26, citing people with knowledge of the matter. The
securities regulator believes an employee of  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , an underwriter of the Mizuho sale, told the  fund manager 
about the offering before it was made public, Reuters said.  Keiko Sugai, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Nomura, declined
to comment on the report. A spokesman for the SESC wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust’s Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking
Co. unit was found by the SESC in March to have obtained insider
information on a share sale by energy company  Inpex Corp. (1605) 
Nomura, which managed the Inpex offering, was involved in that
case, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  The SESC recommended fining Chuo Mitsui Asset 50,000 yen
($630) for that breach and didn’t penalize the underwriter,
which it didn’t identify.  Shares of Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Trust fell 1 percent
to 204 yen at 10:25 a.m. Nomura fell 1.2 percent to 257 yen. The
 Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  slipped 0.3 percent, and the benchmark Topix
dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  