-- Summa to Buy United Grain Stake With 5.95 Billion-Ruble Bid
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-05-28T15:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/summa-to-buy-united-grain-stake-with-5-95-billion-ruble-bid-1-.html
Summa Group,  Russia ’s biggest port
operator, will acquire almost half of state grain trader  United
Grain Co.  for 5.95 billion rubles ($186 million) as the
government dilutes its stake.  United Grain accepted bids for 3.51 million new shares,
equivalent to 50 percent minus one share of its equity following
the additional stock issue and sale, it said today in a
statement.  The grain trader, set up three years ago to conduct state
purchases, develop export infrastructure and ship grain abroad,
will use the investment to raise handling capacity at ports to
16 million metric tons a year by 2015 and silo storage to 8.4
million tons, according to company data. Russia is poised to
become the third-biggest grain exporter in the season ending in
June following a shipment ban last year because of a drought.  “We will take the necessary steps to strengthen our
management team, adding new competencies, including experience
in global grain trading,” Alexander Vinokurov, president of
Summa Group, said today. “United Grain has the means to become
a world leader in grain trading.”  The company owns at least 1.2 million tons of silo capacity
and controls a terminal with capacity of 4.5 million tons a year
at the Novorossiysk harbor on the  Black Sea . It plans to invest
about 17 billion rubles from 2011 through 2013 to expand port
handling capacity and silo storage, company data show.  United Grain also attracted a bid from Vadim Moshkovich’s
agricultural producer  Ros Agro Plc (AGRO) , which offered almost 5.73
billion rubles for the stake, according to today’s statement.  On May 21, United Grain said its stock was valued at 5.4
billion rubles, citing an appraisal report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  