-- Sun Hung Kai’s Two Co-Chairmen Report to ICAC on Graft Probe
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-28T09:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/sun-hung-kai-s-two-co-chairmen-report-to-icac-on-graft-probe.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ’s co-
chairmen Raymond and Thomas Kwok today reported to  Hong Kong ’s
anti-corruption body, almost two months since they were arrested
as part of a bribery investigation.  The brothers arrived at the offices of the  Independent
Commission Against Corruption  this morning and left about half
an hour later, Cable TV reported. As of May 27, no charges have
been laid by the body, also known as ICAC.  Hong Kong’s anti-corruption commission arrested the co-
chairmen and Rafael Hui, formerly the city’s No. 2 official, in
March in one of the highest-level investigations conducted in
the body’s 38-year history. The probe has increased public
concern about real estate policies implemented by the government
as property price gains make Hong Kong the world’s most
expensive place to own a home.  Sun Hung Kai, Hong Kong’s biggest developer, has fallen 21
percent in Hong Kong trading since the March 29 arrests,
compared with a 11 percent drop in the  Hang Seng Property Index. (HSP) 
The shares gained 0.5 percent to HK$88.20 at the close.  Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  were arrested in connection with a
probe into offenses suspected to have been committed under the
Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, the company said March 29.
Walter Kwok, their brother and former chairman of the company,
was also arrested and later released by the agency, Sun Hung Kai
said on May 4.  Hui also reported to the ICAC earlier today, Cable TV said.  Sun Hung Kai has been “advised by lawyers” not to comment
on the investigation, spokeswoman Brenda Wong said in an e-
mailed reply. Cecily Chik, a spokeswoman for ICAC, declined to
comment.  The company said March 19 that Executive Director Thomas
Chan Kui-Yuen was arrested by the ICAC. Chan and  Walter Kwok 
also reported to the ICAC today, Cable TV said.  Brokerages including Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc have
cut their recommendations on Sun Hung Kai’s stock since the
Kwoks’ arrest, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended its
ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  