-- Swiss Franc Drops Against Euro on Greece as SNB Weighs Controls
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-05-28T15:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/swiss-franc-drops-against-euro-on-greece-as-snb-weighs-controls.html
The franc fell against the euro after
Greek opinion polls showed pro-bailout parties gaining ground in
polls, reducing the risk of  Europe ’s common currency area
breaking up and limiting demand for the safety of Swiss assets.  Switzerland’s currency extended declines as  Swiss National
Bank (SNBN)  President Thomas Jordan said a government-led panel was
considering controls on capital inflows among measures to stop
the franc strengthening if Europe’s debt crisis escalates.  New
Democracy , which supports  Greece ’s aid plan negotiated with
international lenders, came first in all six opinion polls on
May 26 before next month’s general election.  “We are probably going to be trading from a risk-on point
of view today,” which may push the franc lower, said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in London. “That will probably come as a bit of a
relief to the SNB from an intraday point of view.”  The franc fell 0.1 percent to 1.2019 per euro at 4:50 p.m.
 London  time, leaving it little changed this month. The currency
gained 0.2 percent to 95.79 centimes per dollar.  The Swiss working group will focus “mainly on instruments
to combat the franc strength based on a joint approach of the
government and the central bank,” Jordan told the
SonntagsZeitung newspaper in an interview published yesterday.
SNB spokesman Walter Meier confirmed Jordan’s remarks.  The franc has dropped 2.5 percent in the past six months,
the second-biggest decline after the euro’s 4.8 percent slide
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 1.8 percent.  The SNB countered the franc’s gains by buying euros in the
15 months through June 2010. As the European sovereign debt
crisis worsened last year and helped push the franc to a record
1.0080 per euro in September, policy makers imposed a ceiling of
1.20 francs per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  