-- Syrian Carnage Fails to Budge Russia From Mideast Ally
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-28T01:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/syrian-carnage-fails-to-budge-russia-from-mideast-ally.html
The slaughter of children and women
in the Syrian town of Houla, reminiscent of past massacres that
provoked the United Nations to step in, has failed to budge
 Russia  into stepping away from its only Mideast ally.  UN officials said more than 100 Syrians were killed in what
may be the worst atrocity in the 14-month conflict, and they
said evidence of artillery and tank shelling indicate that
forces under President Bashar al-Assad were to blame. His regime
denied responsibility, and Russia said knife wounds on some
victims reflected the techniques of his opponents.  The episode presents the U.S. and its allies with
conflicting moral and practical considerations. While Western
leaders denounced Assad, they gave no indication that the latest
carnage will be a tipping point for the international community
to scrap the failing monitoring mission by UN envoy  Kofi Annan ,
consider joint military intervention, or embrace calls by U.S.
Republicans for the Obama administration to supply weapons to
Assad’s foes.  “The West is obviously still avoiding going down a
military track, so there is an awful chance that you’ll have a
flurry of diplomatic activity, a lot of fierce comments, but no
reaction from the UN,”  Richard Gowan , associate director for
crisis diplomacy and peace operations at the  New York  University
Center on International Cooperation, said in an interview.
“That sends a dreadful signal to Assad.”  ‘Difficult to Imagine’  At an emergency meeting of the 15-member  Security Council 
in New York yesterday, Russia insisted explicit references to
Syrian armed forces being responsible for the latest bloodshed
be dropped. Alexander Pankin, Russia’s deputy envoy at the UN,
told reporters it was “difficult to imagine” the Syrian
government would massacre women and children.  General Robert Mood, head of the UN’s observers in Syria,
raised the death toll in the town in Homs province from 92 to
116, with 300 wounded, according to two diplomats present who
spoke on condition of anonymity about the closed-door
deliberations.  So far, the Houla slaughter hasn’t persuaded Russia to drop
its support for  Syria , a customer for Russian arms. A day before
the massacre, Al-Jazeera reported Russia’s latest shipment of
arms was arriving in the port of Tartus.  “I don’t think the Russians are going to do anything,”
said  Andrew Tabler , a Syria specialist at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy.  Nor is there willingness by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization or  Turkey , which shares a border with Syria, to
become directly involved, Gowan said. “The West has slapped
every possible sanction on Assad. The chances of Western action
without a UN mandate remain low so it’s hard to see what kind of
response this massacre will trigger.”  Putin’s Role  The Obama administration is reluctant to confront Russia
over its support for Assad, two administration officials said
this month, because it wants to avoid a confrontation with
President  Vladimir Putin  so soon after he took office and
because it puts a higher premium on gaining Russian support for
halting  Iran ’s suspected nuclear weapons research.  At the same time, tensions with  Pakistan  have increased the
need for U.S. and allied troops in Afghanistan to use supply
routes through former Soviet republics in Central Asia where
Russia still has influence, the officials said.  Still, the killings in Houla make it harder for President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to stick with the same formula in
Syria.  “It’s one of those times when our morals and our interests
seemingly line up,” Tabler said in an interview. “It’s hard to
argue against doing something more. Either way, it puts the
Obama administration in a tough spot. Not going the extra step
to achieve the goal of getting the Assad regime to go down is
going to be held against them.”  Romney’s Comments  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said in a
statement yesterday that the “horrific” killings show “it is
far past time for the  United States  to begin to lead and put an
end to the Assad regime” and that Obama “should work with
partners to organize and arm Syrian opposition groups so they
can defend themselves.”  Even with such Republican criticism, deeper involvement in
Syria may not prove a political plus with a public wary of
foreign entanglements such as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
and concerned most of all about the  U.S. economy , according to
election-year opinion polls.  The administration hasn’t objected to efforts by  Saudi
Arabia  and other Gulf nations to funnel arms to the rebels. The
U.S. hasn’t done so partly because of concern about who would
get the weapons in Syria’s fractious opposition.  Terrorist Groups  There are signs that terrorist groups, such as al-Qaeda,
may be gaining a foothold in Syria. Elements of the Syrian
opposition have begun to adopt tactics that the U.S. and its
allies consider terrorism, such as a double suicide bombing
outside an intelligence building in Damascus on May 10 that
killed 55 people and wounded at least 370.  Syria presents a convergence of two themes that Obama has
stressed in his administration’s foreign policy: moral and
pragmatic reasons for acting.  Syria is a Iranian ally and ousting Assad would be a
strategic blow to Iran at a time when the U.S. and allies are
trying to isolate it and halt what they say is its nuclear
weapons program.  For now, the two most realistic scenarios are that Assad
continues to rule over a weakened state battling an insurgency,
or that he will fall and the country will plunge into anarchy
and civil war, according to an administration official, speaking
on condition of anonymity about internal deliberations.  ‘Yemen-Like’ Solution  A more optimistic scenario would be a “Yemen-like”
solution in Syria, shorthand for the managed transition that the
northern African country has managed over the past year, the
administration official said.  That would require that elements of the regime and the
opposition start negotiating and then for Assad to step down at
some point, the official said. A coalition or technocratic
Cabinet acceptable to all sides would lead the country through a
transition period. The constitution would be amended or
redrafted and election laws would be redrawn, culminating in
presidential and legislative elections.  The administration thinks that approach is worth trying,
especially if Russia can be cajoled into being part of the
solution, even though it’s a long shot, the official said.  The future of the Annan-crafted mission of observers, which
comes up for formal review in mid-July, is in jeopardy. Western
diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, have described
that plan as doomed and Annan’s pending visit to Damascus as his
last chance.  ‘Perilous Position’  “There is a misconception, difficult to correct, about the
role of unarmed military observers and what they can and cannot
do,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wrote in a  letter to the
 Security Council  dated yesterday and obtained by Bloomberg News.
This puts their presence on the ground in a “perilous
position.”  The key to the Annan strategy was to buy time and create
political space for powers such as Russia to force a deal,
according to UN officials not authorized to speak for
attribution. In the end, it comes down to whether events such as
the massacre in Houla will shift Russia’s position, which
remains unlikely, the officials said.  Episodes in past conflicts created enough outrage to prompt
a change of course. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s unrelenting
shelling of Benghazi marked one such turning point, spurring the
NATO mission that helped oust him.  Another was in  Yugoslavia  in 1999. UN observers on the
ground were powerless to prevent repeated instances of ethnic
cleansing. After Serbian forces massacred 45  Kosovo  Albanians in
the village of Racak, confirmation by the observers that
soldiers under  Slobodan Milosevic  carried out the killings
finally galvanized NATO to use force and carry out air strikes.  About 1,400 observers were in Kosovo, which is a tenth of
the size of Syria, where there currently are 271.  -- Editors: Larry Liebert, John Brinsley  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  