-- U.K. Hometrack House Prices Jump as London Values Surge: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-28T10:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/u-k-hometrack-house-prices-jump-as-london-values-surge-economy.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a third
month in May on gains in London, according to Hometrack Ltd.,
which said the euro-area debt crisis will weigh on the market
and limit further gains.  Values increased 0.2 percent from April as the supply of
properties grew at the slowest pace since January, the London-
based property research company said today. Prices in the U.K.
capital jumped 0.6 percent. In  Italy , the impact of the debt
turmoil continues to undermine business confidence, which fell
to the lowest level in almost three years.  The recovery in U.K. property may falter as euro-area
officials’ struggles to contain the debt turmoil and ensure
Greece stays in the currency bloc undermine  consumer confidence 
in Britain and the 17-nation common  currency region . The
additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds rose to the most since the
euro was introduced in 1999 today.  “Increased  mortgage rates  and mounting concerns over the
impact of the  euro zone  on the U.K.’s economic growth and
employment are likely to keep demand and prices in check as we
move into summer,”  Richard Donnell , director of research at
Hometrack, said in the report.  From a year earlier, prices fell 0.6 percent in May,
Hometrack said. The number of new properties listed with real-
estate agents rose 2.2 percent in May from the previous month,
when they increased 4.8 percent. The number of potential buyers
registering with agents to browse listings increased 0.4
percent, the least since January.  Inflation Eases  Out of the 10 regions assessed by Hometrack, three showed
price increases from April, three had no change and four showed
declines. The average time on the market held at 9.3 weeks, with
the average for London the lowest, at 5.1 weeks.  Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club said  slowing inflation  and the
government’s increase in the personal tax allowance will ease
pressure on consumers this year. It sees price growth slowing to
match wage increases and said that Britons will have an extra
482 pounds ($757) for spending this year and 624 pounds in 2013.  The  Bank of England , which stopped expanding stimulus this
month, forecasts a “gradual” recovery starting later this year
as slowing inflation helps ease pressure on households. The
central bank held its  bond-purchase target  at 325 billion pounds
on May 10.  “After the tightest squeeze on consumer incomes in a
generation, the worst is now behind us,” said  Andrew Goodwin ,
senior economic adviser to the ITEM Club. “Most people should
start to feel a bit better off by the end of the year.”  Credit Conditions  A separate report by manufacturers’ lobby EEF said credit
conditions for U.K. companies improved in the second quarter. A
survey of 246 companies showed a net balance of 4.3 percent
reported improved access to new credit over the past two months.
Still, a measure of the cost of credit worsened.  “A greater improvement in the availability of credit after
tentative signs of improvement at the start of the year is
welcome,” EEF Chief Economist  Lee Hopley  said in a statement.
“‘Increasing costs however remain a frustration, particularly
the proportion of companies reporting higher fees.’’  Meanwhile, a deepening fiscal crisis in the euro area is
affecting confidence, after  Greece ’s inconclusive elections on
May 6 fueled concerns about a breakup of the 17-member area. The
euro, which fell to lowest against the dollar since July 2010
last week, strengthened today as pre-election polls showed
Greece’s pro-bailout parties gaining ground.  Italian Confidence  Italian  business confidence  fell more than economists
forecast this month as the country’s fourth recession since 2001
deepened. The manufacturing-sentiment index dropped to 86.2, the
lowest since August 2009, from a revised 89.1 in April, Rome-
based national statistics institute Istat said. Economists had
predicted a reading of 88.6, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said controls
on capital inflows are among measures being considered by a
government-led panel to stop the franc from strengthening if the
euro-area debt crisis escalates.  In  Asia ,  Bank of Japan (8301)  board members said they need to
counter the mistaken perception that central bank asset
purchases will automatically increase, the minutes of a meeting
last month show.  ‘‘Members made note of some misunderstanding that the bank
would continue to increase the size of its program in an
automatic manner” until the BOJ’s 1 percent price goal is met,
according to the record of an April 27 meeting. “They agreed
that the bank needed to fully explain” that it made decisions
“after carefully assessing the economic and price situation.”  Elsewhere, a report yesterday showed that profits fell at
 China ’s industrial companies in April from a year earlier.
 Thailand  reported today that industrial output in April rose for
the first time in eight months.  There are no economic reports scheduled for today in the
U.S., where markets are closed for the Memorial Day holiday.  -- With assistance from Svenja O’Donnel in  London . Editors:
Fergal O’Brien, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  