-- U.K. Police Add Money Laundering to Phone Hacking Probe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-28T14:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/u-k-police-add-money-laundering-to-phone-hacking-probe-1-.html
U.K. police widened their probe of
phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World Sunday tabloid
to include potential  money laundering  offenses.  The Metropolitan Police arrested a 42-year-old woman on
suspicion of money laundering, according to a statement today.
More than 20 people have so far been detained as part of
Operation Weeting, the phone-hacking investigation.  News Corp., based in  New York , shut the News of the World
last year and abandoned its bid for the pay-television company
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  after its journalists were
revealed to have intercepted voice mail.  Police also have parallel probes into whether News Corp.
journalists bribed public officials and hacked computers for
stories. News Corp. spokeswoman Mary Kearney declined to comment
on today’s arrest.  The investigation has led to charges against Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News Corp.’s
British publishing unit, for perverting the course of justice.
Ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who served as press
chief to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , has also been
arrested.  Bribery Probe  About 30 people have been arrested as part of the probe
into bribery of public officials by journalists at News Corp.’s
daily Sun tabloid. News Corp.’s internal Management Standards
Committee is providing information to the police after the
company faced earlier criticism from victims that it sought to
cover up the scandal.  Previous arrests in the bribery probe, dubbed Operation
Elveden, included the Sun’s Royal editor, pictures editor, a
chief reporter and an ex-member of the armed forces, as well as
police officers.  The hacking affair emerged in 2006 with the arrest of the
News of the World’s royal reporter Clive Goodman and the
tabloid’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who both pleaded
guilty and were jailed the following year. While News
Corp.’s News International unit in the U.K. said the practice
was contained, civil lawsuits filed by victims in 2010 revealed
phone hacking was far more widespread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  