-- Most U.K. Stocks Advance, Led by Rio Tinto; IAG Falls
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-28T15:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-ftse-100-has-weekly-gain.html
Most  U.K. stocks  climbed as Greek
polls showed increasing support for political parties backing
the country’s membership of the euro area, while rising metals
prices lifted mining companies.  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  advanced as copper
climbed amid dwindling stockpiles in  China , and as Citigroup
Inc. advised raising holdings in the industry.  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , owner of British Airways, fell
after Spanish shareholder BFA-Bankia sought a bailout from the
government.  The FTSE 100 Index added 0.1 percent to 5,356.34 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London. Trading was about half of the daily
average volume in the past 30 days, according to Bloomberg data.
The FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.2 percent, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index rose 0.7 percent. The U.S., Switzerland, Denmark,
Norway and Austria are closed today for national holidays.  “The last week or so has seen a gradual recovery for stock
markets and it does feel as if shares in London could grind out
a few more gains to the upside over the week,” said  David Jones , chief market strategist at IG Index in London. Still,
“the reaction to poll results may be seen as a little fickle
and we have got used to any positive news quickly getting
swamped by the next tranche of disappointment.”  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has  lost 10 percent from its 2012 high  on
March 16 as Greece failed to form a government to deal with its
debt payments, and borrowing costs for Spain surged. The gauge
posted its first weekly gain in a month last week as China
pledged to bolster growth and a three-week selloff left the
benchmark at its cheapest valuation since the fourth quarter.  Rescue Fund  The European Union is working on plans to set up a rescue
fund for ailing banks, capitalized by levies imposed on the
lenders, the Sunday Times reported May 27, without saying where
it got the information.  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 2.2 percent to 2,857.5 pence. BHP, the largest one, rose
0.8 percent to 1,716.5 pence. Copper climbed for a third day in
London as inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
slumped for a seventh week, the longest losing streak in a year.  Heath Jansen, Citigroup’s head of research for European
metals and mining, wrote in a report today that in the “short
term,” his view on the industry changed to “neutral” from
“bearish” because of higher-than-average dividend yields
offered by the companies.  Antofagasta Plc, a copper miner operating in Chile, rose
2.1 percent to 1,038 pence, its first gain in four days. Xstrata
Plc, the largest exporter of coal used by  power plants , gained 3
percent to 939.8 pence.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s largest provider of pumps to
the  mining industry , advanced 4 percent to 1,614 pence for the
steepest gain in the FTSE 100.  International Consolidated Airlines dropped 2.7 percent to
137.10 pence. BFA-Bankia, a Spanish lender that owns about 12
percent of IAG, is seeking 19 billion euros ($24 billion) of
government funds as it struggles with bad loans.  Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said on May 26 that the
Spanish bank will give details on stake sales when it presents
its strategic plan in June.  Capita Plc (CPI)  advanced 3 percent to 629 pence after UBS AG
upgraded the supplier of services for the British army to buy
from neutral and added the shares to its list of preferred
stocks. The shares may climb to 725 pence each, the brokerage
wrote in a report.  Rexam Advances  Rexam Plc (REX)  rose 2.1 percent to 400.7 pence. The company is
close to selling its personal-care unit and may get 350 million
pounds ($550 million) for it, the Financial Times reported on
May 25, citing unidentified people close to the matter.  Aveva Group Plc (AVV) , the maker of computer software, jumped 11
percent to 1,638 pence, the most since October 2008. The company
reported annual revenue that topped estimates and proposed a
final dividend that was higher than Bloomberg’s forecast.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  jumped 8.7 percent to 74 pence,
capping 11 sessions of losses. The mining company said its
Mimosa mine in Zimbabwe is unaffected by a restriction on
banking services for exporters. By Clementine Fletcher  Resolution Ltd. (RSL)  fell 1.4 percent to 199.5 pence. The
insurance investment firm is considering a takeover of Rabobank
Groep’s Robeco unit, the Sunday Times reported, without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  