-- U.S. Stock Futures Gain as Greek Polls Ease Exit Concern
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-28T14:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/u-s-stock-futures-gain-as-greek-polls-ease-exit-concern.html
U.S. stock-index futures advanced as
Greece’s pro-bailout New Democracy party came top in opinion
polls before next month’s election, boosting speculation the
nation can implement austerity measures and keep the euro.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  each rose 1 percent in
German trading as copper climbed amid dwindling Chinese
stockpiles.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  gained while  Facebook Inc. (FB)  declined.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  futures expiring in June
increased 0.5 percent to 1,321.1 at 10:16 a.m. in  New York . Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures increased 41 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,470. The U.S. equity market is closed today for
the Memorial Day holiday.  “The polls suggest that the New Democracy and Socialist
parties would have enough votes to form a coalition and hence
stem the tide of negativity surrounding an immediate Greek
default,” Gerard Lane, an equity strategist at Shore Capital
Group Ltd. in Liverpool, England, wrote in a note to clients.  New Democracy , which supports the austerity measures
imposed by the European Union, came first in all six opinion
polls published on May 26 as campaigning continued for the
general election on June 17.  Party leader Antonis Samaras sought to sketch out the
consequences of a euro exit, saying Greek incomes, bank deposits
and property values would lose at least half their value within
days, while food prices would rise by a quarter.  Irish Referendum  In Ireland, supporters of the EU’s fiscal pact lead before
a May 31 referendum, according to a poll for the Sunday
Independent. Excluding undecided voters, the yes camp leads by
60 percent to 40 percent, the Dublin-based newspaper said.  The  S&P 500  gained 1.7 percent last week, its first weekly
rally since April, as investors were lured by the cheapest
valuations since November.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, rose 0.9 percent
to $8.71 and Newmont Mining added 0.4 percent to $49.  Copper climbed for a third day in London as inventories
monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange slumped for a seventh
week, the longest losing streak in a year.  Heath Jansen, Citigroup Inc.’s head of research for
European metals and mining, wrote in a report today that in the
“short term,” his view on the industry changed to “neutral”
from “bearish” because of higher-than-average dividend yields
offered by the companies.  Apple, the maker of the iPhone and iPad, added 0.7 percent
to $566.17 in Germany.  Bank of America Corp (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. lender by
assets, advanced 0.8 percent to $7.21.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-network website, fell
1.1 percent to $31.55 in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  