-- Uchumi of Kenya Falls 3rd Day on Valuation Bets: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-28T11:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/uchumi-of-kenya-falls-3rd-day-on-valuation-bets-nairobi-mover.html
Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd. (UCSP) , Kenya’s
only publicly traded retailer, fell for a third day and was
trading at its lowest level in more than two weeks on
speculation the stock is over-valued following a rally.  The stock dropped 9.9 percent to 15.50 shillings by 12:28
in Nairobi, the capital, bringing its decline over the past
three trading days to 20 percent. A close at that level would be
the weakest since May 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Uchumi’s 14-day  relative strength index  closed at 93.3 on
May 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, capping a 10-
day rally. A reading above 70 suggests a security is overvalued.
The stock is the best performer in  Kenya ’s All-Share Index this
year, having more than  doubled.   “Investors are taking profit after the rally, it shot up
quite high and it could only keep up with that trend for so
long,” Joy Migongo, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel
Capital East Africa Ltd. said in a phone interview today.  The company’s pretax profit for the six months through
December climbed 26 percent to 204.3 million shillings ($2.39
million), Uchumi said in January. Kestrel Capital recommended in
March investors buy the stock, initiating coverage with a price
estimate of 15 shilling, saying the board of directors was
likely to deliberate on the company’s dividend policy at the end
of the financial year in June.  Uchumi resumed trading in Nairobi in May 2011, following a
five-year suspension, after most of its debts were cleared and
others were converted into shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  