-- Hungarian Sentiment Index Plunges on ‘Deeply Pessimistic’ Mood
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-05-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/hungarian-sentiment-index-plunges-on-deeply-pessimistic-mood.html
Hungary’s May  economic sentiment 
index fell the most since the onset of the global credit crisis
in the country in late 2008 as business and consumer moods
turned “deeply pessimistic.”  The index dropped to minus 24.9 from minus 19.3 in April,
the GKI research institute in Budapest said today in an e-mailed
statement. The  business confidence  index decreased to minus 14
from minus 9, while the  consumer confidence  index declined to
minus 55.9 from minus 48.8.  “The last time such negative opinions about the Hungarian
economy were seen was at the end of 2009,” GKI said, adding
that businesses and consumers were “deeply pessimistic.”  Hungary’s economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first
quarter of the year from the previous three months, jeopardizing
the government’s projection for an expansion of 0.1 percent for
2012. The Cabinet has yet to resume financial-aid negotiations
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund 
collapsed in December.  Forint Weakens  The forint weakened 0.6 percent last week to 300.2 per
euro, extending its depreciation in May to 4.5 percent, heading
for the biggest slide since September. The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  stock
index is down 7.9 percent this month.  Sentiment in the manufacturing industry deteriorated
“dramatically” in May and fell “significantly” in the
commercial sector, according to GKI. Households’ perception of
their financial situation and their ability to save was at the
lowest level since 1993 when GKI started gaging consumer
sentiment, the institute said in the statement.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will introduce new taxes on
phone calls, financial transactions and insurance products to
trim the  budget deficit  below the EU’s 3 percent of economic
output limit and end an excessive-deficit procedure.  GKI’s indexes are calculated based on a balance of positive
and negative answers to questions about the outlook for the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  