-- Vietnam’s Stocks Seen Gaining 65% as Rates Fall: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-29T04:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/vietnam-s-stocks-seen-gaining-65-as-rates-fall-southeast-asia.html
Vietnamese  stocks , Asia’s biggest
losers during the past five years, are rising the most in 2012
as the nation’s largest money managers say falling interest
 rates  will reverse the deepest earnings slump in three years.  The benchmark VN Index may extend its rally by another 65
percent through 2013 after climbing 24 percent since December,
said Samsung Asset Management. Financial and real-estate
companies in Asia’s 13th-largest equity market may lead gains,
Eastspring Investments said. Dragon Capital,  Vietnam ’s biggest
private stock investor, favors consumer and agricultural shares
such as Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock Co. and Petrovietnam
Fertilizer & Chemical Joint Stock Co., the nation’s largest
listed fertilizer maker.  Vietnam is cutting borrowing costs from a three-year high
after  inflation  fell to 8.3 percent this month from 23 percent
in August, economic  growth  slowed to the weakest pace since 2009
and VN Index  profits  sank 12 percent in the first quarter. The
stimulus has spurred Samsung Asset Management to invest in the
country’s $40 billion equity market for the first time, while
Vietnam mutual funds tracked by EPFR Global lured inflows for 20
straight weeks, the longest stretch for any developing nation.  “The stock market is discounting improving economic and
corporate fundamentals ahead,” said  Alan Richardson , who helps
oversee about $87 billion as a money manager at Samsung Asset in
 Singapore . His Samsung ASEAN Securities Master Investment Trust
has gained about 26 percent annually during the past three
years, topping 92 percent of rivals, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  dropped 1.2
percent to 430.13 as of the 11:30 a.m. break, heading for the 
lowest close since May 24.  Leading Gains  While the VN Index has retreated 11 percent from its 2012
high on May 8 amid a global equity rout sparked by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, the gauge has still outperformed indexes in all 73
markets tracked by Bloomberg this year except  Egypt ’s  EGX30
Index (EGX30)  and Venezuela’s  IBC Index. (IBVC)   Vietnam’s stock market is classified by MSCI Inc. as a
 frontier market , which has an average stock-market value of
about $29 billion. That’s 94 percent less than in emerging
countries designated in MSCI indexes, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Vietnam’s market value of $40 billion is about half that
of Walt Disney Co., based in  Burbank ,  California .  The  MSCI Frontier Markets Index (MXFM) , which includes shares in
25 countries with a combined market value of $369 billion, has
slipped 2.5 percent this year. Institutional money managers
tracked by EPFR Global and Citigroup Inc. have about $11 billion
in frontier-market funds, compared with $654 billion in  emerging
markets , according to a November report by New York-based
Citigroup.  Bond Rally  Vietnam’s stock exchange in Ho Chi Minh City started
trading in 2000 with shares of four companies that began as
state-controlled businesses. The first private company was
listed four years later and a second bourse in Hanoi opened in
2005. The two exchanges now have about 700 stocks. The ruling
Communist Party has plans for 254 government-run businesses to
sell stakes this year, according to the State Capital Investment
Corporation’s website.  Vietnam’s  bond  market is also signaling higher confidence
that policy makers have tamed  Asia ’s fastest inflation rate.  Five-year  government securities  in Vietnam have surged this
year, sending yields down 287 basis points, or 2.87 percentage
points, to 9.68 percent, the biggest drop among 43 countries
tracked by Bloomberg. The nation’s currency, the dong, has been
little changed at about 20,900 per dollar for the past 15
months, after losing about 18 percent the previous three years.  2011 Retreat  Vietnam’s stocks and bonds  retreated  in 2011 as the central
bank raised  interest rates  by 6 percentage points to restore
confidence in the dong, reduce inflation and curb a 28 percent
surge in credit growth. The policy helped slow the  economy’s 
expansion to 4 percent in the first quarter of this year from
6.8 percent at the end of 2010, government data show.  More than 17,700 companies halted production in the first
four months of 2012, according to the Ministry of Planning and
Investment. Per-share earnings in the VN Index declined to 41
dong at the end of March from 46 dong a year earlier, the
biggest drop since the year ended June 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Weaker exports may prolong the country’s economic slowdown.
Overseas  sales  fell to $8.96 billion in April from $9.48 billion
in March, government data show. Growth in  garment  shipments,
Vietnam’s biggest export, slowed to 15 percent through April
after expanding 33 percent a year earlier, according to
preliminary figures from the statistics office.  Trading volumes have discouraged some investors from buying
Vietnam stocks. The 30-day average  value  of shares changing
hands on the Ho Chi Minh Exchange as of May 24 was 1.6 trillion
dong ($77 million), data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with about $52 million in Dubai and $14 billion on
 China ’s Shanghai Stock Exchange.  Growth Spur  “Liquidity is one of the big issues,” said  Andrew Beal , a
London-based money manager at Henderson Global Investors who
helps oversee about $104 billion and invests in Vietnam through
closed-end funds listed overseas.  While the slowdown has been “painful,” Vietnam’s $106
billion economy will probably recover toward the end of this
year as the government switches its focus from curbing inflation
to spurring growth, said Dominic Scriven, who co-founded Dragon
Capital, a Ho Chi Minh City-based money management and
securities firm, in 1994.  The government cut corporate income tax for small- and
medium-sized companies by 30 percent this month, and Deputy
Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said on May 21 the government
will help some companies repay loans.  Interest Rates  The central bank, led by Governor Nguyen Van Binh, has
reduced its benchmark refinancing rate by 300 basis points to 12
percent since March and capped some lending rates for smaller
businesses at 14 percent this month. Binh said in March that
policy makers would cut  borrowing costs  by 100 basis points in
each of the second, third and fourth quarters.  The government has stepped up efforts to bolster lenders
and has encouraged takeovers of weaker financial institutions,
 Fitch Ratings  said in a May 11 statement, affirming its B+
foreign-currency credit rating for Vietnam, four levels below
investment grade.  Policy makers will probably reduce borrowing costs further
this year as inflation falls toward 7 percent, the slowest pace
since 2009, said Scriven, who expects corporate  earnings  to
rally about 14 percent this year.  “There’s a steely determination in the government to
regain the mandate and confidence of Vietnamese savers,
investors and businesses,” said Scriven, whose $415 million
Vietnam Enterprise Investments Ltd. fund is the biggest
actively-managed stock fund focused on Vietnam, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It returned 14 percent in dollar
terms during the past 18 months, beating the VN Index by 14
percentage points, the data show.  Stock Valuations  Earnings at Ho Chi Minh City-based Vietnam Dairy Products,
known as Vinamilk, will probably climb 15 percent this year and
35 percent in 2013, according to the average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The dairy producer is  valued  at
10.8 times reported profit, compared with 29 times for global
packaged food and meat companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has returned 2.8 percent this year.  Petrovietnam Fertilizer, based in  Ho Chi Minh City , posted
a 69 percent surge in unconsolidated net income in the first
quarter. The shares, up 45 percent this year,  trade  for 3.8
times trailing 12-month earnings, versus the 27.1 times average
for global peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Demand  While the VN Index’s rally has boosted its price-to-
reported earnings  ratio  to 9.8 from 7.2 at the start of this
year, the measure is still about 34 percent cheaper than its
five-year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
VN Index has lost 60 percent during the past five years, the
most among stock gauges in 17 Asian nations tracked by
Bloomberg.  “The level of valuations is quite low compared to
international standards,” Ngo The Trieu, who oversees about $1
billion as head of public investment at Eastspring Investments,
the Vietnam unit of Prudential Plc’s asset management business.  Long-term investors will benefit from Vietnam’s surging
consumer demand and its allure to global manufacturers as a
lower-cost alternative to China, according to Dragon Capital’s
Scriven.  Retail sales  increased 22 percent in April, near the 24
percent average growth rate since 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  About 95 percent of Vietnam’s 91 million people are below
the age of 65 and the minimum wage is equivalent to about $67 a
month, compared with about $230 in Shanghai, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau and government statements.  Stock Outperformance  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Espoo, Finland-based mobile-phone maker with
about 6 percent of its long-term assets in China, said last
month it started building a manufacturing plant in Vietnam’s Bac
Ninh province and plans to start production of low-cost phones
next year.  The VN Index has outperformed the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
by 17 percentage points this year as Vietnam funds tracked by
EPFR Global recorded $122 million of inflows, equivalent to 13
percent of their total assets. China funds lured $1 billion
during the same period, or 3 percent of assets, the data show.  “In the long-run, we are still very positive on the
market” in Vietnam, said Tran Thi Kim Cuong, head of equities
at Manulife Asset Management (Vietnam) Co. “We are still buying
stocks.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  