-- England Beats West Indies in 2nd Test to Ensure Series Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-05-28T16:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/west-indies-reaches-141-8-leads-england-by-83-runs-in-2nd-test.html
England  beat West Indies by nine
wickets in the second cricket Test to ensure victory in the
three-match series and keep its place atop the world rankings.  The hosts, chasing a victory target of 108, reached 111-1
in the final session of the fourth day at  Trent Bridge ,
Nottingham. Captain  Andrew Strauss  made 45 before being caught
out.  Alastair Cook  got 43 and Jonathan Trott made 17. The win
put England 2-0 up.  “We’re delighted to get over the line in this Test match,
it was quite hard work at times,” Strauss said at the post-
match presentation. “There were some really good performances
from the lads and a well-earned victory.”  Earlier West Indies was dismissed for 165 in its second
innings, after England’s bowlers seized the initiative with six
wickets yesterday. Marlon Samuels finished on 76 not out as
 James Anderson  and  Tim Bresnan  each took four wickets in the
innings.  The visitors, who began today on 61-6, added 104 runs at a
stadium where they were unbeaten in eight previous Tests. They
were all out soon after lunch.  Captain Darren Sammy was trapped leg-before-wicket by
Bresnan for 25 and Kemar Roach (14) was lbw to Anderson as West
Indies reached 141-8 at lunch. Graeme Swann then had Shane
Shillingford caught in the slips by Anderson and Ravi Rampaul
was the final dismissal.  Man of the Match  Man of the match Bresnan had figures of 4-37 in the
innings, with Anderson on 4-43. They took eight and six wickets
in the match, respectively, and Bresnan scored 39 not out in the
first innings.  England won the first Test by five wickets at Lord’s in
 London . It needed to win the series to stay atop the
International Cricket Council’s Test rankings. Second-place
South Africa will visit for another best-of-three contest in
July and August.  Strauss said some players may be rested for the third Test
against West Indies, now that this series has been won.  “We’re going to have to take stock over the next couple
of days to see how the bowlers are feeling, how fresh they are,
and then make a decision on what the best side for that third
Test is,” Strauss said. “First and foremost you want to win
the Test match, that’s important. We want to keep winning.”  West Indies made 370 in the first innings, to which England
replied with 428, including 141 by Strauss.  The third Test starts June 7 at Edgbaston, Birmingham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 