-- Wheat Falls in Paris as Rains Seen Boosting Europe Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-05-28T16:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/wheat-falls-in-paris-as-rains-seen-boosting-europe-crops.html
Milling wheat fell for the first time
in three sessions in Paris on speculation that warm weather and
rains this week will improve the prospects for crops in parts of
Europe and  Russia .  Areas of  southern  and central England may have showers this
evening, while temperatures today could climb as high as 27
degrees Celsius (81 degrees Fahrenheit), according to the  Met
Office . Rains may fall in parts of  Ukraine  starting today and
areas of southern  Russia  beginning May 30, according to
AccuWeather Inc.  “This heat we’ve got at the moment is exactly what the
crop needed,”  Dave Norris , an independent grain broker in
Harrogate, England, said today by phone. “It’s come on
enormously in a week, and we’re set to have a bit of rain.”  Milling wheat for November delivery fell 0.2 percent to
settle at 216 euros ($270.82) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris by 6:30 p.m. local time, after swinging between gains and
losses. The grain, which climbed for a third straight week last
week, has gained 6 percent this month and 11 percent this year.  World wheat output will decline 3.5 percent in the 2012-13
crop year to 670.5 million metric tons as poor conditions weigh
on prospects in Russia,  Morocco  and the European Union, the
London-based International Grains Council said May 24. The
winter grain harvest in Ukraine will drop by 43 percent this
year to 14.5 million tons, the Interfax news agency reported
today, citing Mykola Kulbida, head of the Meteorology Center.  “The focus is upon one thing and one thing only these
days: the quality and size of the Russian and Ukrainian winter
wheat crops,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily
Gartman Letter.  Rapeseed futures for November delivery increased by 1
percent to 467 euros a ton in Paris. Markets on the Chicago
Board of Trade were closed today for the Memorial Day holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  