-- Two Men Set Themselves on Fire in Tibet’s Capital Over China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-28T10:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/two-men-set-themselves-on-fire-in-tibet-capital-to-protest-china.html
Two men set themselves on fire in the
Tibetan city of Lhasa yesterday, the first in a spate of self-
immolations in recent months to occur inside the regional
capital,  China ’s Xinhua News Agency reported.  One man died of his injuries after police put out the
flames “in two minutes” and took both of them to hospital,
Xinhua reported, citing the publicity department of the Chinese
Communist Party’s regional committee in  Tibet .  The self-immolations occurred in a neighborhood of Lhasa
where large crowds of pilgrims gathered to celebrate the
anniversary of Buddha’s birth. Chinese officials have stepped up
security in areas populated by Tibetans as monks and their
supporters have engaged in self-immolation to protest government
policies in the region.  “It’s very significant that it happened in the religious
and political heart of Lhasa outside the Jokhang temple,” Kate
Saunders, a spokeswoman for the International Campaign for
Tibet, said in a phone interview from  London . “It’s a further
indication that the causes of the self-immolations across Tibet
are still there.”  Tibetans accuse China of attacking their culture, religion
and environment with policies that have moved thousands of
ethnic Han Chinese into Tibet in the name of economic
development. There have been at least 34 immolations since March
2011, according to the  Associated Press .  Fled in 1959  Tibet’s spiritual leader, the  Dalai Lama , has lived in
northern  India  since fleeing in 1959 from China’s military
takeover of the region. China accuses the Dalai Lama of waging a
campaign for independence while the spiritual leader says he is
seeking autonomy for Tibet.  “They were a continuation of the self-immolations in other
Tibetan areas and these acts were all aimed at separating Tibet
from China,” Xinhua cited Hao Peng, secretary of the Commission
for Political and Legal Affairs of the party’s Tibet Committee,
as saying.  Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  said at a briefing
today in Beijing that the “political motivation behind inciting
this kind of harmful incident will not succeed.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  