-- Won Drop No Problem for Templeton on Korea Manufacturing Bet
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-05-29T06:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-28/won-drop-no-deterrent-to-templeton-on-korean-manufacturing-bet.html
Franklin Templeton Investments, the
biggest overseas owner of South Korean bonds, remains
“positive” on the country, betting the manufacturing industry
will hold up as the currency weakens, a local executive said.  “ Korea  has a strong manufacturing base with rising global
recognition and competitiveness, so even if the currency weakens,
it rebounds quickly as manufacturers boost exports,” Kim Dong Il, who manages 3 trillion won ($2.6 billion) as the Seoul-based
chief investment officer for fixed income at Franklin Templeton
Investment Trust Management Co., said in a telephone interview
on May 24. “We hold our positive view on  South Korea .”  The nation faces its biggest maturity of debt next month
since December 2010 and a central bank report today showed South
Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell from a 9-month high in
June. Templeton’s  Global Bond Fund (TEMGINI)  in Luxembourg had South
Korean bonds as its top holding as of April 30, comprising 16
percent of $43 billion of assets, and held $1.9 billion of the
government’s 4 percent security due June 2012. That bond makes
up 19 percent of the 11.8 trillion won in sovereign notes
maturing next month.  South Korea’s government is monitoring markets and pledging
action to avoid capital withdrawals that wracked the country
during the subprime mortgage crisis in 2008, when the won fell
26 percent against the dollar. The currency has weakened 3.8
percent in May, touching a seven-month low on May 25, as concern
mounts that a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  may crimp demand
for the nation’s exports and slow growth.  Growing Uncertainty  “With overseas uncertainties growing, we’re closely
monitoring foreign investors’ movements,” Kim Jin Myung,
director of treasury bureau at the  Finance Ministry , said in a
telephone interview on May 24. “We expect overseas funds to buy
other Korean bonds like central bank notes and agency debt after
sovereign notes mature, rather than pull out of the nation.”  Foreign investors held 17.8 percent of outstanding
government debt at the end of 2011, more than double the ratio
in 2008, official figures showed. Templeton was the largest
holder based on regulatory filings compiled by Bloomberg. The
won strengthened 0.9 percent today to 1,174.82 per dollar from
May 25, after weakening 1.1 percent last week. Markets were
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Templeton’s Kim declined to comment on future investment
plans.  Closely Watched  “It’s an issue in the market what Templeton, one of the
major foreign investors in Korea, will do after receiving their
money as it will show their view on the nation,” said Hong Jung Hye, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Shinyoung Securities
Co. “Their investments are closely watched by local and
overseas investors, and if they don’t reinvest and pull out, it
will also affect the  exchange rate .”  South Korea issued more government debt in 2009 than
previous years to tackle the global financial crisis. Sales were
concentrated in three- and five-year bonds as shorter tenors
were easier to issue, resulting in an increase in debt maturing
between 2012 and 2014, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
released in December. A total of 43.4 trillion won of sovereign
bonds mature this year, nearly double the amount of 2011, the
statement showed.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the outlook for the nation’s long-
term foreign currency rating last year to “positive” and
affirmed its A+ grade. The ratings company lowered  Japan ’s
ranking this month to A+ with a negative outlook.  Re-enter Korea  South Korea’s  economy  expanded 0.9 percent in the first
quarter this year from the previous three months, the fastest
pace in a year, while  inflation  cooled to a 21-month low of 2.5
percent in April, official figures show. Exports contracted for
a second month in April partly due to delayed resolution of the
 European debt crisis , the government said in a statement this
month.  “Investor exits are possible in the current climate, as
they seek the safety of the  U.S. dollar ,” Wai Ho Leong, a
Singapore-based senior regional economist at Barclays Plc, wrote
in an e-mailed response. Once the fear starts to ebb, he said,
foreign investors will re-enter Korea quickly, taking advantage
of its solid fundamentals and attractive exchange rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  