-- ‘Harlem Nutcracker’ Star Turns Mideast Conflict Into Sexy Dance
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/-harlem-nutcracker-star-byrd-turns-mideast-conflict-into-intimate-dancing.html
Abraham makes love to his wife Sarah
and then forces himself on her maid Hagar. Later Ishmael grabs
Abraham’s face in a pas de deux, daring him to recognize and
acknowledge his fatherhood.  The scene, danced by an Israeli Jewish Abraham and female
Palestinian Ishmael, comes at the end of “Maybe a Genesis.”
The show lends a Biblical slant to the Middle East dispute.  “The idea wasn’t to confront the conflict directly,” says
Donald Byrd, its choreographer. “We go back to the narrative of
Genesis and look at it as one big dysfunctional family -- like,
‘who gets the land when the old man is dead?’”  The piece is the second attempt at the subject by Byrd, who
is best known for creating “The Harlem Nutcracker” and was a
Tony nominee for the Broadway show “The Color Purple.”  “One of the hardest things for people to do around this
conflict is to listen to what the other side has to say,” Byrd
says in an interview.  Chaste Sarah, wearing a long dress, prays to God before the
coupling with Abraham. Soon Abraham is enticed by Hagar’s tight
shirt and dark curls. He throws himself onto her. The servant
becomes pregnant and is banished along with Ishmael.  “This kind of work between artists should happen more,”
says Or Avishay, 26, who dances the part of Hagar and was at
first hesitant about the political undertones. She was working
with Shaden Abu Elassal, an Israeli Arab from Nazareth who
describes herself as Palestinian and dances as Ishmael.  “Donald is making us meet without giving any political
opinion,” says Anat Yaffe, 29, who plays Sarah.  Seattle  Debut  The work-in-progress developed at the  American Academy in
Jerusalem , which is modeled on the American Academies in  Rome 
and Berlin. The program aims to make  Jerusalem  an international
destination for culture.  Byrd’s first piece on the subject was performed in Seattle,
where he is artistic director of the  Spectrum Dance Theater . He
spent much time during that attempt trying to get U.S. visas for
the Palestinian and Israeli dancers. This time, he decided to
come to them.  “The point of being in Jerusalem is that you are in a
complex city and need to have a clue as to all of the nuances,”
says Academy founder Elise Bernhardt. “Donald managed to do
something with people from both sides of the wall,” says
Bernhardt, executive director of the National Foundation for
Jewish Culture.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he
will not return to negotiations unless Israel stops  West Bank 
building. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the
work stopped for 10 months and he won’t order another halt.  Eurovision Entry  One of the more famous collaborations between Israeli Jews
and Arabs was the 2009 Israeli entry in the Eurovision Song
Contest: “There Must Be Another Way,” sung by Ahinoam Nini and
Mira Awad, who, like Byrd, encountered objections on both sides.  The role of art, says Byrd, is to “be evocative and
provocative, suggestive, so that people start thinking about the
conflict a bit differently.”  Byrd, one of 52 recipients of the United States Artists
$50,000  awards  in 2011, plans to use some of the money to return
to  Israel  and expand by including dancers from Ramallah in the
West Bank.  Gershon Baskin, founder of Israel Palestine Center for
Research and Information, an institution dedicated to ending the
conflict, says projects like Byrd’s “create an environment
where making peace is possible.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 