-- Convicted Lobbyist Abramoff Tells Lawmakers to Be Wary of Money
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/abramoff-warns-lawmakers-of-danger-of-money.html
Jack Abramoff  offered some expert
advice on ethics to Kentucky lawmakers, who are bound by state
laws aimed at limiting the influence of lobbyists: Be wary of
the corrupting power of money.  The convicted federal lobbyist, visiting the state capital
Frankfort yesterday, warned the legislators that they can be
doing “stuff that’s not illegal, but is wrong.”  The audience of 138 lawmakers listened attentively,
laughing at jokes about how aides frequently work harder than
their elected-official bosses, and had pointed questions, which
they asked anonymously with note cards. Several called it the
best ethics session they’d ever attended.  “I was conscious of the fact that what I was saying was
hitting them hard,” Abramoff, 52, said afterward. “I will
speak to anybody, anywhere, but lawmakers are daunting.”  This appearance, for which Abramoff was paid $5,000 plus
travel expenses, marked his first before any legislative body
since his time in front of a 2004 U.S. Senate committee that had
subpoenaed the Washington lobbyist to talk about his
overcharging of  Indian tribes  with casinos.  In the prologue to his autobiography, “Capitol
Punishment,” he wrote that the September Senate hearing was
akin to “being tossed to the lions in the Roman Coliseum. You
know that, no matter what, you will soon be eaten alive.” In
January 2006, he pleaded guilty to crimes related to his
lobbying and to the fraudulent purchase of a fleet of casino
boats. He was released from federal detention in December 2010.  Former U.S. Republican Representative Robert Ney of  Ohio 
also was convicted as part of the probe, as were officials in
President  George W. Bush ’s administration and senior aides to
House Minority Leader Tom Delay, a Texas Republican.  Rapt Audience  Abramoff, who also has spoken at  Harvard Law School  and on
more than 200 radio and television programs, opened the session
by saying he is “trying to do something that is right” by
explaining what he now sees as the poisonous influence of money
in politics. He told the lawmakers, seated in a capitol complex
conference room, that his legal trouble began after “losing
sight of the line in the sand” between right and wrong.  John Schaaf, general counsel for the ethics commission,
said Kentucky lawmakers probably hadn’t heard much about
Abramoff’s misdeeds. “We’re way outside the beltway,” he said.  ‘Most Interesting’ Session  “This was the most interesting one we’ve had,” Steven Riggs, a Democratic House member since 1991, said after the 90-
minute session. Other featured speakers have included former
Representative David Skaggs, a Colorado lawmaker who was co-
chairman of the congressional ethics office, and Norman Ornstein
of the  American Enterprise Institute . Today, they will hear from
a pastor who is a religious columnist.  Several Democratic colleagues complained about Abramoff’s
appearance, Riggs said.  “Are you not still using us and the system?” one lawmaker
asked in an anonymous question, noting that the state was paying
him with taxpayer money. Much of any money Abramoff makes,
including speaking fees, goes toward a $44 million restitution
order for Indian tribes and others he was convicted of
defrauding, he said.  Riggs had a different take than his doubtful colleagues.
“When the police want to get better at their jobs, who do they
talk to?” he asked. “The criminals. It’s called ‘intel.’”  Adam Koenig, a Republican House member in his sixth year,
praised Abramoff’s trip to  Kentucky  as “a great idea” and said
he had been “mesmerized” by Abramoff’s November interview on
the CBS News program, “60 Minutes.”  Practical Questions  Peggy Kerns, director of the Center for Ethics in
Government at the  National Conference of State Legislatures , had
traveled from Denver to listen to Abramoff.  “I thought he had important things to say,” she said
afterward. “He has real words of wisdom.”  The Kentucky legislature is weighing whether to allow  slot
machines  at horse racing tracks, and several lawmakers asked
Abramoff, the central figure in a movie called “Casino Jack,”
about the power of gaming interests.  Are there “special incentives for lawmakers to push the
envelope because there’s so much money involved?” one asked.  Abramoff told a story about representing an Indian tribe
trying to protect its tax-free gaming empire in  Mississippi .
When a state lawmaker proposed taxing Indian casinos, Abramoff
dispatched a team from  Washington  to fight him, he said.  Their tactics included recruiting a candidate to run
against the lawmaker. The strategy was so effective, he said,
that his target backed off the tax idea and apologized on a
radio show to the chief of the tribe.  ‘I’m Ashamed’  “I’m ashamed of the fact that I did all this,” Abramoff
told the Kentucky lawmakers.  Another lawmaker asked whether part-time legislators, who
work as lawyers or in business, are inherently more beholden to
their jobs than to the public. The ability to corrupt “resides
within the soul of the individual,” regardless of his or her
outside employment, Abramoff responded.  Kentucky legislators are sensitive to corruption. A scandal
in the early 1990s involving regulation of horse-track betting
and hospitals led to the prosecution of more than a dozen top
lawmakers and lobbyists on bribery, extortion and racketeering
charges. The so-called  Bobtrot  Operation, named after the House
committee that oversaw horse racing, prompted changes in state
ethics laws in 1993.  State rules now require annual, mandatory ethics training
for state lawmakers and forbid lobbyists from making campaign
contributions to lawmakers.  Abramoff praised the laws as strict, even as he noted a
loophole: Lobbyists’ clients are allowed to make contributions.  The former lobbyist said he’d funneled “millions” to
federal lawmakers’ campaign coffers that way, something he said
he now views as legalized bribery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Frankfort, Kentucky at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  