-- Ackman Push for New Rail Chief Puts Bull’s-Eye on Canadian Pacific’s Green
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-04T15:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ackman-push-for-new-rail-chief-puts-bull-s-eye-on-canadian-pacific-s-green.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s chief
executive officer may wear a target on his back as the company’s
biggest shareholder,  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, pushes for a management switch.  Ackman said yesterday the railroad sought a meeting with
his proposed replacement for CEO Fred Green -- Hunter Harrison,
the retired chief at  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  Canadian
Pacific Chairman John Cleghorn said the railroad never requested
talks with Harrison, while not ruling out a CEO change.  “Why wouldn’t they have said in there, ‘Look, Fred Green’s
our guy, he’s going to continue to run the company,’” said
Brian Yarbrough, an Edward Jones & Co. analyst in  St. Louis .
Cleghorn’s only stated concern about Harrison in a letter to
Ackman was the former CEO’s “non-compete” agreement with
 Canadian National , Yarbrough said.  Green’s future figured in an exchange of letters between
Cleghorn and Ackman. Cleghorn wrote that Calgary-based Canadian
Pacific has a “strong management team” and didn’t mention
Green. Ackman said it is the “senior-most leadership of the
company that must be changed, namely Fred Green.”  The 55-year-old CEO has run Canadian Pacific since May
2006. The railroad’s ratio of operating costs to sales is the
highest among North American peers, and annual profit slid 18
percent from 2006 to 2010.  Net income (CP)  fell in each of 2011’s
first three quarters as foul weather cut train speeds.  ‘Pretty Bold Move’  Ackman is making a “pretty bold move to suggest another
CEO” at a company with a leader in place, said Matthew McGreal,
a principal at executive recruiter Crist Kolder Associates LLC
in Hinsdale,  Illinois . “I wouldn’t say it’s that common.”  In championing Harrison to run Canadian Pacific, the
country’s second-biggest carrier, Ackman is backing the CEO who
helped triple  net income (CNR)  during seven years in charge of
Canadian National. Harrison, 67, stepped down in 2009 from the
country’s largest railroad.  The “significantly increased” probability of Harrison’s
becoming CEO spurred Thomas Wadewitz, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst in New York, to raise his rating on Canadian Pacific
today to “neutral” from “underweight.”  ‘Clear Catalyst’  “If Mr. Harrison is appointed CEO, it would provide a
clear catalyst for operating improvement and margin expansion,”
Wadewitz said in a note to clients.  Canadian Pacific’s  network  runs through the Canadian
Rockies and the U.S. Upper Midwest. While much of the railroad’s
declining efficiency and falling profit can be attributed to
harsh weather, Harrison boasts a “phenomenal” record and would
impress Canadian Pacific’s  board (CP) ,  Edward Jones ’s Yarbrough said
in an interview.  “Nothing against Fred, but you’re probably going up
against one of the best railroad operators” in the U.S. and
 Canada , Yarbrough said of Harrison. He  rates (CP)  Canadian Pacific
stock as “buy.”  Harrison declined to comment yesterday. Mark Seland, a
Canadian Pacific spokesman, said the railroad stood behind
Cleghorn’s letter.  Pershing disclosed its initial Canadian Pacific stake on
Oct. 28 and has since expanded that holding to 14.2 percent.
Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and pushes
changes he says will improve shareholder returns.  Shares Rise  Canadian Pacific rose 1 percent to $69.39 at 10:05 a.m. in
New York, the highest in intraday trading in 11 months. The U.S.
shares fell 31 percent in 2011 through Sept. 22, a day before
New York-based Pershing began buying the stock, dwarfing the 3.8
percent drop for Montreal-based Canadian National.  “People start to look at the leadership of a company and
wonder if the performance is a direct result of that leadership
and if a change needs to be made,” McGreal, the Crist Kolder
principal, said in an interview.  Ackman’s campaign for CEO change echoes his approach at
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , which brought in Apple Inc.’s retail chief,  Ron Johnson , last year after Pershing became the biggest investor in
the Plano, Texas-based department-store chain. J.C. Penney
surged 17 percent, the most since 2000, after the hiring of
Johnson, which Ackman called “a credit to the company.”  Yesterday’s exchange of letters between Pershing and
Canadian Pacific included assertions by both sides that talks
had been “constructive,” even as Cleghorn and Ackman disagreed
on the substance of some of those discussions.  ‘Expressed Concern’  Cleghorn wrote that when Pershing put forward Harrison’s
name as a CEO candidate, Canadian Pacific “expressed concern”
that the retiree’s non-compete agreement with Canadian National
would limit his ability to “engage with CP.” Ackman said he
was the one who explained to Cleghorn that Harrison couldn’t
meet with the company until Jan. 1.  Ackman said he is requesting two Canadian Pacific  board (CP) 
seats, for Harrison and a candidate he didn’t identify, and
asked that directors meet with him, Harrison and that person. He
said he declined a board seat himself because the terms required
him to vote Pershing’s shares in favor of each of the board’s
nominees and for directors’ recommendations on other matters.  The board includes two members added last month, Tony Ingram and Edmond Harris, and Ackman said he was “supportive”
of their appointments. Harris worked for Canadian National with
Harrison and later was Canadian Pacific’s chief operating
officer.  In the middle is Green. For Canadian Pacific, Ackman’s
demands represent “a pretty harsh spotlight, and certainly from
management’s standpoint an unwanted harsh spotlight,” recruiter
McGreal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  