-- Taliban Takes First Step Toward Talks to End Decade-Long Afghanistan War
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-01-04T15:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/afghan-taliban-takes-first-step-toward-peace-talks-to-end-the-war-with-u-s.html
The Taliban’s announcement that it
plans to open an office in Qatar for peace talks with the U.S.
and its allies marks the first public step toward negotiations
to end the decade-long war in  Afghanistan , former U.S. officials
and analysts said.  Contacts between the Obama administration and the Afghan
Taliban, who were ousted from power by the U.S. military in late
2001, have been secret and limited to preliminary discussions
between a few U.S. and Taliban representatives over whether
peace talks were even feasible, according to a U.S. official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the subject.  The Taliban’s announcement yesterday that it had negotiated
to open a liaison office in the Persian Gulf nation may prove to
be a watershed because it’s the first time the militant group is
publicly acknowledging it wants to talk to the U.S. and is
offering a pathway to do so, former officials and analysts said.  “This is a major political step by the Taliban” that will
engender resistance from its own hardliners,  Vali Nasr , a former
senior adviser to the U.S. special representative for
Afghanistan and Pakistan, said in an interview. “If the office
materializes, it is a big deal.”  “It doesn’t mean things are going to be solved, but it
means they’re coming out of the closet with negotiations,” he
said. “It’s going from talking about talks to actually
talking.”  Taliban Motivations  Nasr, now a professor of international politics at  Tufts
University  in Medford,  Massachusetts , cautioned “that just
because they agree to negotiate doesn’t mean this is a ceasefire
or that they’ve thrown in the towel.” Just as the Vietcong held
talks with the U.S. while continuing to fight the  Vietnam War ,
he said, the Taliban may see negotiations as a way to expedite
the drawdown of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, scheduled to occur
by the end of 2014.  For the U.S. side, “it would be foolhardy” not to pursue
peace talks, however elusive a deal may now seem, he added.
“We’re going to leave Afghanistan, so it’s better to help
negotiate an agreement with the Afghan Taliban that would make
our exit easier” and help stabilize the country “after we
leave,” he said.  The Taliban agreed to a preliminary deal, following talks
with Qatari officials and other “relevant parties,” to open a
liaison office in Qatar,  Zabihullah Mujahed , a Taliban
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The Taliban
has asked in exchange for the release of its detainees held at
the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Taliban said in
the statement.  ‘Process of Reconciliation’  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  declined to
comment on the prisoner release demand. She told reporters in
Washington that the U.S. is “prepared to support an Afghan-led
process of reconciliation” as long as the Taliban renounces
violence, breaks ties with al-Qaeda and abides by the Afghan
constitution, including the protection of  women’s rights .  “If this is part of an Afghan-led, Afghan-supported
process, and the Afghan government itself believes it can play a
constructive role and it is also supported by the host country,
then we will play a role in that as well,” she said.  Nuland said U.S. willingness to participate in negotiations
doesn’t change its military posture. U.S. troops will continue
to fight “enemies of the Afghan government,” she said.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , who had protested the
creation of a Taliban office in Qatar, last week dropped his
opposition.  Taliban Address  In contrast to Nuland’s comments, an e-mail statement today
from Karzai’s press office presented the development as a step
toward “U.S.-Taliban peace negotiations.”  “To save Afghanistan from war, from civilian killings, and
with the aims to reach peace, Afghanistan agrees to U.S.-Taliban
peace negotiations and a liaison office in Qatar for the
Taliban,” Karzai’s office said in the statement today.  Last week, Karzai was quoted as saying the office in Qatar
was not his preference.  “If America wants the Taliban office to be opened in
Qatar, then we are agreed; however, we preferred  Saudi Arabia  or
 Turkey ,” Karzai said, according to a statement from his press
office released on Dec. 27. “The government of Afghanistan is
seriously ready to pursue the  peace process  and wants a Taliban
address to be opened,” the statement quoted Karzai as saying.  Tribal Elders  In November, Karzai gathered tribal elders and other Afghan
leaders to consider how to advance talks with the Taliban
following the September assassination of chief Afghan peace
envoy  Burhanuddin Rabbani .  After Rabbani was killed by a suicide bomber who posed for
months as a Taliban emissary, Karzai said efforts to negotiate
with the Taliban were pointless and he should pursue peace talks
with their Pakistani handlers instead. The U.S. and Afghanistan
accuse  Pakistan ’s military and intelligence forces of aiding the
Taliban and the Haqqani militant network.  Andrew Exum, a former adviser to U.S. Army General Stanley McChrystal when he was commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan,
noted that military and security forces in neighboring Pakistan
have thus far “been able to act as a spoiler” to any peace
efforts.  Powerful factions in Pakistan probably are balking at the
Taliban’s deal with Qatar, Exum, a fellow at the Center for a
New American Security in Washington, said in an interview.
Pakistan has “exerted great effort to make any negotiated peace
settlement something that would have to go through Islamabad,”
he said.  ‘Path to Talks’  Andrew Wilder, director of Afghanistan and Pakistan
programs at the U.S. Institute of Peace in  Washington , said the
creation of a liaison office is significant “because you’ve
seen so little progress” until now, even though the U.S. and
its allies have labored for two years to find a path to talks.  Previously, the Taliban had rejected any talks with the
U.S. until all American troops were out of Afghanistan.  “I’m the first to admit that it’s a long shot, but I think
it’s our only shot,” Wilder said. A “politically negotiated
end to the conflict that’s relatively inclusive is the most
likely to lead to any kind of durable stability in
Afghanistan.”  Rustam Shah, Pakistan’s former ambassador to Afghanistan,
called the announcement of the office “a major breakthrough in
the Afghan reconciliation process.”  “It shows that the Taliban’s role as a political force has
been accepted” as a factor in any national unity government
that might follow a U.S. withdrawal, he said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  