-- Taiwan Dollar Trades Near One-Week High on U.S., German Data
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-01-04T08:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/taiwan-dollar-trades-near-one-week-high-on-u-s-german-data.html
Taiwan ’s dollar traded near the
strongest level in more than a week after economic data from the
U.S. and  Germany  boosted optimism that global growth is intact.
Bonds were steady.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 1.1 percent
after reports yesterday showed U.S. factories expanded in
December at the fastest pace in six months and Germany’s
unemployment fell more than forecast. The central bank will
maintain order in the  currency market  if irregular volatilities
occur, the monetary authority said in a statement on Dec. 29,  “We’ve been getting positive U.S. economic data recently,
and that has led to some weakness in the greenback,” said
Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. “The central bank has indicated the  Taiwan dollar  will
stay stable in the coming months.”  The island’s dollar was steady at NT$30.290 against its
U.S. counterpart and touched NT$30.180 earlier, matching the
Jan. 2 level which was the strongest since Dec. 22, according to
Taipei Forex Inc.  The yield on the 1 percent bonds due January 2017 was
little changed at 0.993 percent, prices from Gretai Securities
Market show.  Inflation (TWCPIYOY)  accelerated to 1.1 percent in December, from 1
percent in November, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before data due tomorrow.  The government sold NT$40 billion ($1.3 billion) of five-
year notes at 1 percent yesterday, matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. That compared with a rate of 1.08 percent
at an October sale of similar-maturity securities. The offer
drew a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.13 times, the highest since 2010.  The  overnight money-market rate (NTON) , which measures interbank
funding availability, was steady at 0.4 percent, according to a
weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  