-- Al Futtaim HC Securities to Shut U.A.E. Brokerage Operations
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-04T15:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/al-futtaim-hc-securities-to-shut-u-a-e-brokerage-operations-1-.html
Al Futtaim HC Securities LLC , a
brokerage based in Dubai, decided to shut operations in the
 United Arab Emirates  after  stock trading  and volumes slumped.  “Shareholders of Al Futtaim HC Securities have agreed to
discontinue the brokerage operations in the U.A.E.,” general
manager Hasan Choucri said in a telephone interview today.  Al
Futtaim  Development Services Co. owns a 65 percent stake and
Cairo-based investment bank  HC Securities & Investment  holds the
remainder. Al Futtaim was ranked 14th by value traded in
December, according to the Dubai Financial Market PJSC’s
 website.   Some brokerages in the U.A.E. are suspending operations or
cutting costs after political unrest in the  Middle East  and debt
restructurings pushed average trading volumes in Dubai to a six-
year low. HSBC Holdings Plc will stop offering brokerage
services to retail investors in the U.A.E. and focus on
institutional clients, the bank said in October.  “The main reason is the liquidity of the market, and you
still have too many brokers that are not able to generate enough
commissions in order to keep operating,” said Sebastien Henin,
who helps oversee $100 million at The National Investor in  Abu
Dhabi . “Unfortunately big players may have to reduce costs and
the smaller ones may have to close altogether.”  The number of “active and functioning” brokerages in the
U.A.E. has dropped 42 percent since the end of 2008 to 57,
according to the Securities & Commodities Authority website.  CAPM Investment PJSC, a financial services company based in
Abu Dhabi, may suspend operations if global market conditions
don’t improve in the next three months, two bankers with
knowledge of the situation said earlier today.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slumped 17 percent in 2011, while
Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased 12 percent in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  