-- Halliburton Denies Destroying Evidence in BP Oil Spill Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-05T00:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/halliburton-denies-destroying-evidence-in-bp-oil-spill-case.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  denied  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
accusation that engineers destroyed testing evidence to keep it
from being used in litigation over the  Gulf of Mexico  rig blast
that triggered the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  BP and Halliburton are suing each other over whose actions
caused the Macondo well to explode off the Louisiana coast in
April 2010. BP asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  of New
Orleans to sanction Halliburton last month, alleging the
cementing services firm hid or destroyed unfavorable testing
evidence.  Halliburton said in a filing today that engineers followed
company policy to discard the testing results and materials
because the tests were “performed on lab stock that remains
available today.” Halliburton also said tests on cement samples
like those used in the well showed the formula was stable.  Halliburton’s engineers turned over notes and testified
under oath that tests showed “a stable foam was observed after
the slurry was conditioned -- a critical fact that BP continues
to ignore,” Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s lead trial lawyer,
said in a filing in federal court in  New Orleans .  “At most, the post-incident testing showed how non-rig
ingredients performed when tested under lab conditions, not how
rig stock performed when pumped downhole,” Godwin said.  The companies jointly face more than 500 lawsuits by
thousands of coastal property owners and businesses claiming
damages from the massive oil spill.  Spill Litigation  In seeking sanctions, BP cited a Halliburton employee’s
testimony that the Macondo well’s cement formulation looked
“thin” when recreated during post-blowout lab tests.  “In fact, a ‘thin’ slurry can still be a stable slurry,”
Godwin said in today’s filing. Noting that the engineer
testified that the slurry might have been thin by design, Godwin
said the worker also “stated unequivocally that the slurry he
tested foamed all the way to fill up the container, and there
were no signs of gas break out, free fluid or streaking.”  Halliburton employee Rickey Morgan didn’t testify that he
intentionally avoided recording certain test results to prevent
lawyers from using the data against the company in court, Godwin
said. Those “are not even Morgan’s words,” Godwin said.  ‘What Morgan Feared’  “BP is doing exactly what Morgan feared: taking his words
and work out-of-context and manipulating them to serve BP’s
purposes in litigation,” Godwin said in the filing.  Halliburton also volunteered to give BP or third-party
forensic investigators duplicates of hard drives used to run
computer models of Macondo cement formulations that BP claims
were unfavorable to Halliburton. Godwin said the company offered
to provide all data inputs and employees to help BP recreate the
computer models, if needed.  “We stand by our motions and the arguments we made in
prior papers,”  Daren Beaudo , a spokesman for BP, said in an e-
mail in response to Halliburton’s filing.  BP and Halliburton have been fighting about the cement job
Halliburton provided to seal the well against leaks, based on
BP’s design specifications. Halliburton used an innovative
foaming cement formulation that critics claim wasn’t right for
the Macondo formation. As a result, BP claims the contractor’s
work was flawed, while Halliburton maintains BP provided faulty
information.  Government investigators have said both companies are
partly to blame for causing the blowout, which killed 11
workers.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ; 
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 