-- Manchester United Loses to Newcastle in Second Straight Premiership Defeat
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-05T00:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/manchester-united-loses-3-0-at-newcastle-in-premier-league-bolton-wins.html
Manchester United  missed a chance to
join Manchester City atop English soccer’s Premier League with a
3-0 defeat at Newcastle, its second straight loss.  Demba Ba and Yohan Cabaye scored the first two goals for
the home team last night and United’s Phil Jones added an own
goal late in the game as Newcastle ended the defending
champion’s unbeaten away league record this season.  “We won because we controlled the game in terms of what we
wanted to do, we wouldn’t let them play,” Newcastle manager
 Alan Pardew  told Sky Sports. “It was a great victory for us.”  City, which two days ago beat Liverpool 3-0, has 48 points,
followed by United with 45. Tottenham has 42, Chelsea 37,
Arsenal 36 and Liverpool 34, one more than Newcastle.  In yesterday’s other game, goalkeeper  Tim Howard  scored for
Everton before Bolton rallied to win 2-1 and climb off the
bottom of the league into 18th spot.  In the fourth minute at the Sports Direct Arena, Ba was
unable to make contact with a cross by fullback Danny Simpson as
Newcastle created the first scoring chance.  Anders Lindegaard, preferred in goal to David de Gea for
United, held a low 20-yard (18 meter) drive from Cabaye two
minutes later, then a long-range effort by Cheick Tiote.  United tested Newcastle keeper Tim Krul with a swerving
shot by Nani and a header from Dimitar Berbatov that deflected
against the foot of a post.  Opening Goal  Ba scored for a 15th time this season on 33 minutes.  Shola Ameobi  flicked on the ball and Ba volleyed past Lindegaard under
pressure from Rio Ferdinand. The Senegal striker is now set to
represent his country at the African Nations Cup.  Newcastle doubled its advantage two minutes after the
interval after Jones fouled Ba about 30 yards from goal. Cabaye,
who along with Ba is in his first season with the Magpies, bent
the free kick into the top corner of the net.  “They scored a fantastic goal which lifted everyone in the
stadium,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky Sports. “The
second one just after halftime, killed it for us.”  United was denied a goal in the 59th minute as Simpson, on
his 25th birthday, blocked  Wayne Rooney ’s attempt on the line.  Rooney and Berbatov were substituted in the second half,
with  Javier Hernandez  and  Danny Welbeck  coming on, as United
attempted to find a way back into the game.  Defensive Mix up  Newcastle’s defense held firm and the hosts got a third
goal when Jones headed the ball into his own net in the final
minute following a misunderstanding with Lindegaard.  The Magpies had won only once in their past eight games and
lost two of the last three at home. United is on a two-game
losing run after a 3-2 home defeat to Blackburn on Dec. 31.  Everton gave a start to Los Angeles Galaxy forward  Landon Donovan , who is on a two-month loan. The all-time top scorer for
the U.S. national team was upstaged by countryman Howard at
Goodison Park.  The goalkeeper put the home team ahead on 63 minutes when a
long clearance down the field bounced past Bolton’s Adam Bogdan
in the other goal and into the net. Howard is the fourth
goalkeeper to score in the Premier League.  Bolton recovered with a goal from David N’Gog four minutes
later before England center-back Gary Cahill got the winner
after 78 minutes.  Cahill, who has held talks with Chelsea about a move during
this month’s transfer window, fired past Howard from the edge of
the penalty area.  Blackburn drops to last place, with Wigan also below
Bolton, which is now one point behind  Wolverhampton Wanderers 
and Queens Park Rangers. Everton remains in 11th.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 