-- Antibiotic Use Restricted by U.S. in Livestock and Poultry
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-04T22:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/antibiotic-use-restricted-in-cattle-swine-poultry-by-u-s-regulators.html
U.S. regulators said they will
restrict certain antibiotics in livestock and fowl to prevent
humans from developing resistance to drugs such as  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Cefzil and Keflex from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   An order issued today by the  Food and Drug Administration 
bars most unapproved veterinary uses of the medicines in cattle,
swine, chicken and turkeys, the agency said in a  statement . The
rule will take effect April 5.  The antimicrobial drugs can only be used to treat animal
illnesses “under specific conditions,” and can’t be used for
disease prevention, said  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA spokeswoman,
in an e-mail. Cefzil and Keflex are available in generic form.
Antibiotic injections into unhatched chicken eggs are among uses
prohibited by the  order .  “We believe this is an imperative step in preserving the
effectiveness of this class of important antimicrobials that
takes into account the need to protect the health of both humans
and animals,” said Michael Taylor, the FDA’s deputy
commissioner for foods, in the statement.  The antibiotics known as cephalosporins are used to treat
pneumonia, skin infections, pelvic inflammatory disease,
diabetic foot infections and urinary tract infections in humans,
the agency said.  Rabbits, Ducks Exempt  Unlike a 2008 FDA order that would have banned all
unapproved cephalosporin use in food animals, today’s measure
provides exceptions. The restrictions don’t apply to “minor
species” of food animals such as rabbits and ducks, and
veterinarians can treat all livestock with an older type of
cephalosporin called cephapirin that the FDA said is unlikely to
fuel antibiotic resistance.  The July 2008 order, rescinded three months later, drew
more than 170 comments from the public, DeLancey said.  “We took a step back, revoked that order, looked at
comments and science and data, and we realized we could do
another order that was just as protective to public health but
allowed for some uses for treated animals,” she said.  Today’s action will help preserve the effectiveness of
antibiotics that treat severe childhood illnesses including
bacterial meningitis and bone infections, said Robert Block,
president of the  American Academy of Pediatrics  in  Washington .  “We really don’t have a wide range of antibiotics to use
for those, so we fall back to cephalosporins, which are reliable
and well tested in kids,” Block said today in an interview.
Pediatricians have pressed for restrictions on antibiotic use in
food animals for years, he said.  ‘Modest First Step’  The FDA’s move is “clearly warranted, but the question is,
is it really enough?” said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety
program director at the Center for Science in the Public
Interest, in an interview. “It’s not the last step they need to
take.”  The order is a “modest first step,” said Representative
Louise Slaughter of  New York , senior Democrat on the House Rules
Committee.  “We’re really just looking at the tip of the iceberg,”
said Slaughter, a microbiologist who introduced  legislation  in
2009 to prevent the overuse of antibiotics including
cephalosporins. “We don’t have time for the FDA to ploddingly
take half measures.”  Cephalosporins are important treatments for sick pigs and
the agency’s order preserves that use, said Liz Wagstrom, chief
veterinarian at the Washington-based  National Pork Producers
Council . The U.S. pork industry doesn’t use the drugs in  animal
feed , or “for production uses such as improving nutritional
efficiency,” she said.  Animal Health   “We are pleased that FDA considered the extensive comments
they received and that they also considered the need to protect
animal health while addressing the concerns they had with the
potential selection of resistant strains of bacteria,” Wagstrom
said today in an e-mail.  Antibiotics are used sparingly in U.S. chicken production,
and only if they are approved by the FDA, said Tom Super, vice
president of communications for the  National Chicken Council  in
Washington.  The new restrictions may “take medical decisions to treat
animals out of the hands of veterinarians,” Super said in an e-
mail. “We question any substantive link or scientific basis
between veterinary use of cephalosporins and antibiotic
resistance in humans.”  Science Questioned  There is no conclusive scientific evidence that
“judicious” use of antibiotics by the beef industry leads to
drug resistance in humans, said Kristina Butts, executive
director of legislative affairs at the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association  in Washington. The FDA’s 2008 cephalosporin
restrictions weren’t based on sound science, she said in an e-
mail.  “As the largest and oldest national organization
representing America’s beef producers, we will carefully analyze
this proposed order to ensure it is based on science and will
not negatively affect the ability of veterinarians and cattlemen
to work together to prudently care for animals,” Butts said.  The preponderance of scientific evidence suggests that
antibiotic use in livestock is “a big problem that is affecting
human health,” said Kathleen Young, executive director of the
 Alliance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics , a
research and advocacy group based at  Tufts University  in  Boston .  “It’s estimated that 75 to 90 percent of antibiotics used
on food animals are excreted into the environment and can be
found in soil and ground water at industrial farms, and in food
crops,” Young said in an interview. The FDA rule will help
ensure that lifesaving medications continue to work in humans,
she said.  The FDA and Agriculture Department have made “limited
progress” in addressing antibiotic use in food animals, the
Government Accountability Office said in a September  report . The
agencies should identify ways to collect detailed data on
veterinary uses, and obtain better statistics on resistance
trends, said the GAO, the investigative arm of Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  