-- Anwar Says Malaysia’s Opposition Has Election Backup Plan If He’s Jailed
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-01-04T12:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/anwar-says-malaysia-s-opposition-has-election-backup-plan-if-he-s-jailed.html
Malaysian opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  said his  People’s Alliance  coalition has a contingency
plan in place in the event he is found guilty of sodomy charges
and imprisoned ahead of elections that may come this year.  “We have prepared the groundwork for a manifesto for
Pakatan Rakyat and we are now in the final stages,” Anwar, 64,
said in an interview today, using the Malay name for the
opposition coalition. We have decided “on the leadership during
elections or post-elections in the event I’m imprisoned.”  The country’s  High Court  is scheduled to announce the
verdict on Jan. 9, with Anwar facing as many as 20 years in
prison if convicted of sodomizing a former aide. Prime Minister
Najib Razak said Dec. 3 that preparations had begun for
elections that he must call by June 2013.  An Anwar conviction may deprive the ideologically disparate
opposition of a unifying figure. The coalition is aiming to
build on advances it made in 2008 elections when it held the
ruling group to its narrowest victory since independence in
1957.  “There may be an immediate swing towards him and his
party” if Anwar is convicted, said  Ibrahim Suffian , a political
analyst at Kuala Lumpur-based Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research. “If Najib takes some months before calling an
election, this opens up room for weaknesses in the opposition
coalition to surface and any differences in opinion to be
exploited.”  Opposition Members  The People’s Alliance led by Anwar is comprised of his
People’s Justice Party, the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party and the
Democratic Action Party. Some Pan-Malaysian members espouse the
implementation of Islamic law, while the Democratic Action
Party’s secretary-general is Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng,
Malaysia’s only ethnic-Chinese state leader.  “Frankly, I don’t foresee this problem,” Anwar said of a
potential leadership vacuum, speaking from his office in the
headquarters of the People’s Justice Party in  Petaling Jaya ,
near  Kuala Lumpur . “We have anticipated this for the last three
years.”  While Anwar declined to detail any plan, he said he would
continue to play a role in Malaysian politics if he ends up
behind bars.  Still Around  “I’ll still be around, in jail or outside jail,” he said.  The trial began in February 2010 and stemmed from a police
report filed by Anwar’s former aide in 2008 detailing a sexual
encounter in a Kuala Lumpur apartment. In Malaysia the act of
sodomy, defined as “carnal intercourse against the order of
nature,” is illegal even between consenting adult men.  Anwar faced similar allegations in 1998 as deputy prime
minister. He was sentenced to nine years in jail for sodomy and
a separate corruption charge, before being released in 2004
after  Malaysia ’s highest court overturned the sodomy conviction.  Organizers of a rally planned for Malaysia’s capital on
Jan. 9 in support of Anwar should meet with police, Home
Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said today, responding to reports
that supporters were planning to gather outside the Kuala Lumpur
High Court as the verdict is delivered.  During today’s interview Anwar shifted uncomfortably in his
chair, the result of a back injury sustained while he was
imprisoned and that he takes pain medication for, he said.  Anwar didn’t run in March 2008 general elections because a
corruption conviction barred him from holding office until April
of that year. He still led the opposition coalition to win
control of five of Malaysia’s 13 states and denied the ruling
National Front coalition a two-thirds majority in Parliament for
the first time since 1969.  Wife’s Seat  Anwar returned to Parliament in August 2008 after winning
back a seat in the Permatang Pauh constituency in the northern
state of Penang. His wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, vacated the
seat so he could compete.  The Federal Constitution  stipulates  that a member of either
house of parliament will be disqualified if they have been
convicted by a court and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of
“not less than one year or to a fine of not less than two
thousand ringgit and has not received a free pardon.”  While Najib hasn’t said when he’ll call elections, his
budget announcement in October stoked speculation of an early
vote. The plan provides cash to low-income families, raises
civil servants’ pay and boosts spending on railways to spur
growth. Najib, 58, has rolled back decades-old protectionist
policies, opened up  service industries  to foreign investors and
eased rules on ethnic-Malay ownership in companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  