-- Apple Profit Margins Rise at Foxconn’s Expense: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/apple-profit-margins-rise-at-foxconn-s-expense.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s margins have widened at
the expense of its main supplier as Foxconn Technology Group
cuts prices to retain orders for iPhones and iPads.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the operating margins of
Apple, which has surpassed 30 percent, and Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., Foxconn’s Taipei-listed flagship. Hon Hai’s profit
spread narrowed after the iPhone debut in June 2007 and has
tightened further since April 2010, when the iPad tablet
computer went on sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Operating margin measures the profit a company makes from its
core business, excluding one-time items and investment gains.  Apple’s margin has more than doubled the past five years,
spurred by its smartphones and tablets, which now generate more
than half of the Cupertino, California-based company’s revenue.
Hon Hai has boosted its workforce, raised wages and expanded
factories to keep up with demand during the same period, though
not fully passing along its additional costs, the data show.  “Hon Hai is willing to sacrifice margins so it can get
volume and scale,” said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta
Financial Holding Co. in Taipei who has a “buy” rating on the
stock. “Apple is also getting so large that it needs a supplier
that can provide such scale.”  The iPad is “very difficult to make,” Hon Hai founder and
Chairman Terry Gou told shareholders in June. Gou’s strategy has
earned him the nickname “Low-Cost Terry,” according to Chen.
Foxconn Technology Group, which employs more than 1.1 million
people worldwide, also assembles Sony Corp. televisions,
Hewlett-Packard Co. computers and Microsoft Corp. game consoles.  Hon Hai’s operating margin declined in most of the quarters
in which Apple’s rose and widened when its main customer’s
narrowed, the data show. Taipei-based  Pegatron Corp. (4938) , the only
other supplier of iPhones, also has seen its operating margin
decline since getting orders for the handsets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 