-- Apple Is Said to Hire Adobe Executive Todd Teresi to Run IAd
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-04T23:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/apple-is-said-to-hire-adobe-executive-teresi-to-lead-iad-unit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hired  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) 
executive Todd Teresi to lead its iAd mobile-advertising
business, three people with knowledge of the matter said,
filling a role in an area where the company has struggled.  Teresi, who was vice president of Adobe’s media solutions
group, has already started at Apple as vice president of iAd,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the move hasn’t been announced. Teresi is reporting to Eddy Cue,
a senior vice president who also oversees Apple’s iTunes and the
 App Store .  The iAd business,  introduced in 2010 , has attempted to
parlay Apple’s leadership in consumer electronics into mobile-
advertising revenue -- with mixed results. While the system has
attracted ads from companies such as Walt Disney Co., some
marketers have complained that iAd costs more than other ad
services and only works on Apple devices. Apple trails  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  in the mobile advertising market, which may generate $4.4
billion by 2015, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.  “Charging premium prices and reaching only Apple devices
is a much harder sell,” said Noah Elkin, an analyst at
EMarketer. “That has been a huge stumbling block.”  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. Jodi Sorensen, a spokeswoman for
Adobe, confirmed that Teresi is no longer at the company.  Publishing Experience  Teresi, who joined Adobe last year, had worked at Yahoo!
Inc. for almost a decade, serving as a senior vice president in
charge of the company’s publishing network and vice president
responsible for worldwide sales, according to his  LinkedIn
profile . Before joining Adobe, he was chief revenue officer at
 Quantcast Corp. (0096172D)   At Adobe, a company Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  had chided
for making subpar products, Teresi managed Digital Publishing
Suite software, which let magazine and newspaper publishers
including  Conde Nast  put out digital editions of their
publications for Apple’s iPad and tablets running Google’s
Android software. Teresi also was involved making deals in this
area last year, including Adobe’s partnership with WoodWing
Software and the acquisition of Auditude.  Madison Avenue  The new job makes Teresi the main liaison between Apple and
Madison Avenue, the heart of the ad industry in  New York . The
role was vacated by Andy Miller, a founder of Quattro Wireless
Inc., which Apple  acquired (AAPL)  two years ago and used as the basis
for iAd.  In addition to generating revenue for Apple, the iAd
program was conceived as a way for application developers to
make money. When an iAd is carried within an app, Apple gives
the developer 60 percent of the revenue. When the system was
introduced in 2010, the ads were more interactive and
graphically rich than others being shown on phones at the time.  The more feature-heavy ads also cost more for marketers,
and Apple’s rivals have tried to lure customers by undercutting
it on price and letting campaigns be shown on a wider range of
devices. Google’s mobile-ad system works with Apple’s products
as well as devices running its own Android software.  Google leads the mobile display-advertising market with a
23.8 percent share, according to IDC.  Millennial Media  has 16.7
percent, and Apple ranks third with 15.1 percent.  Faced with this competition, Apple has become more
flexible. It trimmed the minimum ad purchase price required and
offered more help to companies in building effective promotions.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  also has been
searching for a new head of retail, a position vacated last year
by Ron Johnson, who is now the CEO of J.C. Penney Co.  Apple shares rose less than 1 percent to $413.44 at the
close in New York. The shares climbed 26 percent in 2011,
marking a third straight year of gains. Adobe shares dropped 1
percent to $28.28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  