-- Hard Times Waning as Recovery May Bring Bonuses to South Dakota
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/hard-times-waning-for-states-as-recovery-may-bring-bonuses-to-south-dakota.html
When  South Dakota (STOSD1)  Governor Dennis Daugaard proposed his $4 billion budget last month, the
Republican included something unthinkable in most capitols in
recent years: across-the-board bonuses for state workers.  As some governors continue to wage war on public employee
unions and four states including  New York  and  California  wrestle
with mid-year deficits, cost-cutting followed by higher-than-
expected revenue has officials in South Dakota and other states
looking to spend the first surplus dollars in years.  Fifteen report revenue exceeding projections for the
current fiscal year, according to the  National Association of
State Budget Officers . After four consecutive years in which
states closed cumulative budget gaps of $500 billion, most are
heading into the new year and the start of legislative sessions
with stable or growing revenue, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  “States have battled fiscal hardship for three or four
years in a row,” Arturo Perez, a fiscal analyst for the group,
said in a telephone interview from his Denver office. “This is
the first year in recent memory, since the recession began, in
which states will not necessarily be consumed with having to
balance their budgets or figure out what spending programs have
to be reduced or what revenue measures have to be considered.”  Tax revenue in the third quarter last year increased for 48
states from the same period a year earlier and fell in only two,
Wisconsin and  Delaware , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Connecticut  yesterday projected an $83.7 million year-end
surplus for fiscal 2012, an increase of $4.6 million from last
month, after raising taxes last year. Michigan will finish the
fiscal year with a $735 million surplus, David Zin, the Senate
Fiscal Agency’s chief economist, said yesterday.  Bonds Outperform  The improving state fiscal outlook is one reason why
municipal bonds outperformed every major asset class in 2011.
Munis earned more than stocks, Treasuries and commodities last
year as state and local governments cut spending while tax
revenue rose for eight straight quarters through September, the
longest string of gains since 2008, the U.S. Census Bureau said
Dec. 20.  While revenue is coming in higher than the conservative
estimates made in many states, it still hasn’t recovered to
levels before the 18-month  recession  that ended in June 2009.
Concerns also remain about the global economy and possible
federal funding cuts. Costs for Medicaid and other programs that
grow during downturns remain high.  “States are going to continue to have to make tough
choices,” said Brian Sigritz, director of state fiscal studies
for the Washington-based budget officers association, in a
telephone interview. “Even though we will see some spending
increases, it will still be a tough fiscal environment for
states going forward.”  Spending Cuts  Elizabeth McNichol, a senior fellow with the Washington-
based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , said officials
relied heavily on spending cuts, rather than revenue increases,
in most states during the downturn. She said it will take years
of growth for education, health care and other programs to fully
recover.  “They are coming out of a really deep hole,” McNichol
said in a telephone interview. “The growth we are seeing is too
small to get states to pre-recession levels or to fully restore
the cuts, given how severe they have been in the last couple of
years.”  In South Dakota, Daugaard is facing criticism from within
his own party that reductions made last year, including 10
percent cuts for most state agencies, were too steep -- leading
to the surplus. His office estimates that tax collections for
the current year will surpass expectations by $62 million,
Daugaard said in an interview last month during the Western
Governors Association meeting.  Additional Pay  Daugaard has proposed giving all state employees an
additional payment in April equal to 5 percent of their salary
and then raising pay by 3 percent in the fiscal year beginning
July 1. While that won’t make up for the last three years in
which state wages were frozen, “it does compensate the
employees for their patience during these years where inflation
has eroded their purchasing power,” Daugaard said.  South Dakota ’s economy has been boosted by higher prices
for corn, soybeans and other commodities. Corn futures have
risen more than 30 percent since Sept. 30, 2010, while soybeans
are up more than 9 percent in that period.  $89 Million  In  Colorado (STOCO1) , Governor John Hickenlooper announced Dec. 20
that he wants to restore $89 million in planned cuts to public
schools after the forecast for fourth-quarter tax revenue jumped
$231 million. The governor plans to submit an amended budget
request for the current and next fiscal years that will also add
$110 million to the State Education Fund, restore $30 million in
proposed cuts to higher-education financial aid programs,
increase grants to local communities by $8 million and add $8
million to a tax rebate for needy seniors, according to a press
release from his office.  “We are able to recommend all of this because the economy
has shown welcome improvement,” Hickenlooper, a Democrat, said
in  the statement .  In  Arizona (STOAZ1) , where state officials froze Medicaid enrollment
and made cuts aimed at saving hundreds of millions of dollars
per year, the governor’s office is now projecting a $600 million
surplus in the fiscal year that ends June 30 and $700 million
next year, spokesman Matthew Benson said.  Wish-List  On Republican Governor Jan Brewer’s wish-list for the extra
cash: repurchasing the capitol buildings sold last year as part
of a sale-leaseback agreement that netted more than $700 million
for the cash-strapped state. Brewer said she’d like to pay off
some of that debt and put aside money for when a voter-approved
temporary sales-tax increase expires in 2013.  “With the surplus dollars, of course, there is a lot of
need out there and people want it to be placed in lots of
different areas,” Brewer said in an interview at the Western
Governors Association meeting. “However, I am very concerned
about our debt.”  Brewer, who will present her spending plan for the next
fiscal year to lawmakers in mid-January, has also announced
plans to seek $7 million in additional tourism funding for a
national advertising campaign. The state’s reputation and
convention business suffered after the governor signed a
controversial immigration law in 2010.  Restoring Spending  Virginia (STOVA1)  Governor Bob McDonnell, a Republican, has asked
lawmakers to amend the current year’s budget to spend some of
the nearly $545 million surplus from the fiscal year that ended
June 30. The governor has proposed putting about $93 million of
the excess toward transportation projects while setting aside
$133 million into a rainy-day fund and $30 million to offset
possible federal funding cuts, spokesman Jeff Caldwell said.  “The surplus was coming in just as the budget battle in
 Washington  was taking place,” Caldwell said in a telephone
interview. “There is so much uncertainty there.”  In South Dakota, the governor’s budget plan includes
increased support for education and Medicaid reimbursements,
which were cut in the current fiscal year, Daugaard said.  “Those places that we cut, we are returning,” he said.
“It is certainly not putting it back to where they were, but it
is starting in that direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  