-- Asia Hedge Funds Face a Year of Attrition After Most Closures Since 2008
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-05T04:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/asia-hedge-funds-face-a-year-of-attrition-after-most-closures-since-2008.html
Asia ’s hedge-fund industry is set to
shrink in 2012 after a year in which growth stagnated,
performance faltered and managers struggled to raise capital.  There were 123 Asian  hedge funds  that closed in the first
10 months of 2011, compared with 125 in all of 2010 and a record
184 in 2008 when the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) 
roiled markets, according to Singapore-based data provider
 Eurekahedge Pte . Artradis Fund Management Pte, once Singapore’s
biggest hedge fund, shut, while managers returning money to
investors included CoreVest Partners and Kilometre Capital
Management Ltd.  Asia’s hedge funds are dwindling as most managers haven’t
made money as a business or for investors, said  Peter Douglas ,
principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte. Hedge funds in the region
manage $125 billion, lower than the peak of $176 billion in 2007,
according to Eurekahedge.  “2012 will be the year of major attrition,” said Douglas,
whose firm advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge
funds and runs a wealth-management business. “People’s stamina
will increasingly give out; regardless of your commitment and
personal wealth, the number of years that you can go pursuing
your dream without any kind of compensation is a stretch.”  Asian hedge funds  lost (EHFI38)  on average 8.7 percent in 2011
through November, their  second-worst (EHFI38)  year on record, according
to Eurekahedge. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 17 percent
during the same period amid concern that the European sovereign-
debt crisis would lead to a global slowdown.  Difficult Climate  About 32 percent of Asia-focused hedge funds tracked by
Eurekahedge generated positive returns in the first 11 months of
2011, down from 75 percent the year before.  Asian hedge fund startups also slowed. There were 122 new
hedge funds in the region last year through October, compared
with 183 in all of 2010, according to Eurekahedge.  “The investment climate is difficult with correlations
remaining stubbornly high across global markets,” said Ben Williams, a Hong Kong-based director of Asia-Pacific financing
sales at  Bank of America Merrill Lynch (MER) . The first half of 2012
“is not going to be easy performance for anyone.”  About 80 percent of Asia hedge funds are under their high
watermarks, the historical peak net asset value above which they
can charge performance fees on returns, Williams estimated based
on data from Merrill Lynch and hedge-fund databases. Some have
yet to rebound above their pre-2008 high watermarks.  Institutional Money  Institutional allocations have preferred bigger managers.
Most of the $18.2 billion in capital inflows since the second
half of 2009 went to larger funds, Eurekahedge said in a report
in October.  Managers that joined the expanding pool of billion-dollar
hedge funds in Asia last year included Dymon Asia Capital in
 Singapore , and Azentus Capital Management Ltd., the Hong Kong-
based fund set up by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. proprietary
trader Morgan Sze that raised about $2 billion.  Dymon, which started in 2008 with capital from Tudor
Investment Corp., plans to limit the size of its Dymon Asia
Macro Fund at $2.5 billion, after assets rose to about $2.1
billion in December, Willy Ballmann, the firm’s chief operating
officer said. The fund gained about 20 percent after fees last
year, he said.  “In Asia, we have a small number of managers that have
been able to generate positive returns during the 2008 crisis
and since then,” said Stephane Pizzo, founder of Singapore-
based hedge-fund investing firm  Lotus Peak Capital Pte . “Those
should be able to survive and possibly thrive in 2012, which
might be even more challenging than this year.”  Fortress Asia  Money is also flowing to the Asian desks of global hedge
funds. Global-mandated funds accounted for 19 percent of the
assets in Asia’s hedge-fund industry as of August, compared with
12 percent in 2007, according to Eurekahedge.  Fortress Investment Group LLC, the New York-based manager
of buyout and hedge funds, started an Asia-focused macro fund in
March that gained 0.4 percent through November, according to a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm
didn’t disclose the size of the Fortress Asia Macro Fund.  Artradis, which made $2.7 billion for investors as markets
seesawed in 2007 and 2008, said in January last year it would
close and return money to investors in its AB2 Fund and
Barracuda Fund. Artradis managed about $800 million as of Dec.
31, 2010, compared with assets of almost $5 billion in 2008.  Traders who used to profit from price swings are struggling
as record stock market volatility perseveres, making it more
expensive to employ the strategy. Swings in the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index rose to a record in the second
half of last year.  ‘Poor Risk-Reward’  “Playing  capital markets  has been a poor risk-reward,”
said Stephen Diggle, who set up Vulpes Investment Management
after liquidating Artradis’s volatility funds. “There has been
no obvious easy opportunity. Governments have intervened a lot
everywhere.”  Singapore-based RSR Capital, set up by a group of
derivatives traders from firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  Barclays Capital , is returning most of outside investors’
money in its hedge fund as bets on volatility are “not
profitable enough,” said Serge Handjian, one of the partners.
RSR will continue to trade mainly the founding partners’ money
as it shifts its investment strategy.  “The implied value of those options is so high that the
expected returns are not enough to offset the price that you
pay,” Handjian said.  RSR plans to open its Caerus Arbitrage Asia Fund to a small
group of investors, said Handjian. The fund has been flat since
it started trading in August 2010, and had assets of $62 million
in May before client withdrawals, including a “decent amount”
in July, ahead of the market’s collapse in August, he said.  ‘Disappointing Performance’  K.H. Paik, the Singapore-based chief investment officer of
CoreVest, decided to close down his fund at the end of last year
and return money to investors after setting up the business 13
years ago, according to an e-mail to investors in December.  “Disappointing performance the last few years and market
conditions that are not optimal for our strategy are the main
reasons for the fund’s closure,” said the firm, which manages
an Asian long-short equity fund focusing on  Korea .  Boyer Allan Investment Management LLP  told investors in
December that it will liquidate most of its funds and shut the
business set up by Jonathan Boyer and Nicholas Allan in 1998,
said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Funds shut include the $235.9 million flagship  Boyer Allan
Pacific Fund (BOYAPAC) , said the person who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The fund lost 19 percent in
the first 11 months of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kilometer, Pangu  The Pacific Fund returned more than 15 percent a year on
average in its 13-year history, based on data in a May document
distributed to potential investors. James Sweeney, Boyer Allan’s
Hong Kong-based chief executive officer, declined to comment  Kilometre Capital  founder Chris Hsu decided to return
investors’ money in the fourth quarter because of health reasons,
said a person with knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified as the information is private.  The Hong Kong-based hedge fund, which started trading in
May 2010 with backing of Paloma Partners LLC and oversaw as much
as $300 million, returned 47 percent in 2010 and lost 7 percent
in the first five months of last year, said two people with
knowledge of the matter. Steven Ho, Kilometre’s operations
manager, declined to comment.  Partners’ Money  Pangu Capital shut down  Pangu Opportunity Fund (PANGOPP) , whose
assets peaked at $23 million, after 22 months, said a person
with knowledge of the matter. Pangu decided to return all
capital in the fourth quarter after its main investor asked to
redeem a large portion of its money in October, having added
capital in August, the person said. After September, the
investor and the fund’s co-managers also differed on investment
philosophies, the person said  The Greater China-focused fund generated positive returns
in 2011 through August, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  LionRock Capital Pte, run by a founding partner of TPG-Axon
Capital Management LP, said in July it would stop seeking
outside investors for its hedge fund that will focus on managing
the partners’ money. The Singapore-based multistrategy fund had
about $100 million of assets under management from $75 million
of initial capital when founder Hari Kumar started it in 2009.  Nine Masts  “For smaller managers it’s simply a question that they
cannot afford the opportunity cost of continuing,” said  Paul Smith , chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset manager
and hedge-fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd. “I am
pessimistic on asset raising. I can’t see that things will
improve. There is too much global uncertainty which keeps
investors on the sidelines.”  Still, Hong Kong-based  Nine Masts Capital Ltd. , set up by
two former employees of Deutsche Bank AG’s Saba proprietary
trading desk and an ex-DKR Oasis Management Co., was one smaller
hedge fund that managed to grow assets during 2011.  Nine Masts stopped accepting new money in September after
assets hit $500 million, almost five times the beginning of the
year figure, said a person with knowledge of the matter. It is
expected to post a high single-digit return for 2011, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the information is private.
Elaine Davis, Nine Masts’ chief operating officer, declined to
comment.  “Both sizes of manager are finding asset raising in the
current climate impossible unless their  investment performance 
has been exceptional,” said Triple A’s Smith. “Business
conditions have never been more inimical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  