-- Lavish Homes of Emir, Gold Digger Star in Paris Show: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/lavish-homes-of-emir-gold-digger-flaunted-in-paris-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
He married the daughter of a U.S.
robber baron and, with her fortune, built the Palais Rose, the
most sumptuous mansion in Belle Epoque Paris.  In 1906, Anna Gould divorced Boni de Castellane, her
profligate and philandering husband, and in 1969, the Palais
Rose was demolished to make room for a dull luxury block.  An exhibition at the  Palais de Chaillot  in Paris revives
such bygone glories and invites you to explore a local
specialty, the “hotel particulier.”  Under the monarchy, Parisians reserved the honorary title
of “palais” to royal residences. Other mansions, even the most
palatial, were modestly called “hotels particuliers” or
private townhouses.  Unlike their Roman or Florentine peers, French aristocrats
didn’t flaunt their wealth: Most hid their residences behind
high walls. You had to be invited to discover the splendors
inside.  Some mansions are now museums and open to the public, such
as the  Musee de Cluny , the  Musee Carnavalet  or the  Musee
Picasso . Most, though, have morphed into ministries or embassies
and are off limits to tourists.  At the Cite de l’Architecture, a wing of the Palais de
Chaillot, you can have a look behind the closed doors even if
you don’t know anybody in the French administration or the corps
diplomatique.  The first section recreates the ground floor of an
archetypal hotel particulier with its traditional sequence of
rooms -- the entrance hall, the antechamber, the salon, the
dining room and the gallery.  Trendy Areas  After that introduction, you enter the historical part of
the show which relates how the fashionable neighborhoods changed
over time.  In the Middle Ages, a man of taste built his mansion near
the Louvre. Under Louis XIII, the fashionable quartier moved to
the Marais and the Ile Saint-Louis, under Louis XV to the Saint-
Germain and Saint-Honore suburbs, and in the 19th century to the
new neighborhood around Parc Monceau.  The changing styles are illustrated with maquettes,
paintings, photographs and architectural drawings of outstanding
specimens.  One of those, the Hotel Lambert on the Ile Saint-Louis,
made headlines in recent years after the Rothschild family sold
it to a brother of the emir of Qatar. His plans to modernize the
venerable building sparked a storm of protest: The authorities
were accused of sacrificing  France ’s national heritage to the
whims of Oriental potentates.  After a venomous debate, a compromise looks to be in the
works.  Great Cocotte  Another gem, the Hotel Beauharnais, was bought in 1818 by
the  King of Prussia  and is now the residence of the German
ambassador. Eugene de Beauharnais, son of Josephine who later
married Napoleon, almost went bankrupt decorating his
acquisition in the then fashionable Empire style.  It’s the most ravishing ensemble of that period in Paris.  The exhibition is discreet about the turbulent life of La
Paiva, the great cocotte who built the only surviving hotel
particulier on the Champs-Elysees.  Born Esther Lachmann in Moscow, the daughter of a Jewish
weaver, she decided that she wasn’t made for a life in poverty
and became the mistress of a series of rich men. One of these, a
Marquis de Paiva, married her only to discover that his fortune
couldn’t keep up with his wife’s lifestyle.  After inviting his creditors to an opulent last supper, the
marquis shot himself. The mansion now belongs to the Travellers
Club.  In niches, the show explores characteristic details of the
hotel particulier: facades, doors, wall decorations, ceilings,
gardens.  Boni de Castellane’s knowledge of those details and his
exquisite taste helped him survive in style after his divorce:
He became an antiques dealer, with mostly U.S. customers, and
titled his memoirs “L’Art d’Etre Pauvre,” or “The Art of
Being Poor.”  “L’Hotel Particulier: Une Ambition Parisienne” is at the
Cite de l’Architecture et du Patrimoine through Feb. 19.
Information:  http://www.citechaillot.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 