-- Bachmann Ends Presidential Bid After Iowa
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-04T18:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bachmann-ends-presidential-bid-after-iowa.html
U.S. Representative Michele Bachmann
of  Minnesota  ended her campaign for the Republican presidential
nomination after finishing sixth in yesterday’s Iowa caucuses.  “Last night, the people of Iowa spoke with a very clear
voice and so I have decided to stand aside,” Bachmann said in a
hotel ballroom in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa (BEESIA) . “We can leave this
race knowing that we ran it with utmost integrity,” said
Bachmann, who vowed to “continue fighting to defeat the
president’s agenda of socialism.”  Bachmann, who pitched her hometown connections in the state
where she was born and sought to appeal to evangelical
Christians who play a crucial role in the Republican caucuses,
had fallen in public opinion surveys after winning the  Iowa 
Straw Poll in August.  The  Minnesota (NFSEMN)  lawmaker won support from about 5 percent of
Iowans at the Republican caucuses. The leaders, former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum , each got about 25 percent.  Speaking with her husband and family members at her side as
she withdrew from the race, Bachmann kept her focus primarily on
President  Barack Obama  and continued her call for the repeal of
the health-care overhaul he pushed through Congress.  ‘Destructive’ Socialism  “I ran because I believe that, since day one, Barack
Obama’s policies, based on socialism, are destructive to the
very foundation of the republic,” said Bachmann, who often told
voters that she had a “titanium spine” when it came to
protecting Republican ideals.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who finished fifth in Iowa, said
via Twitter today that he is heading to  South Carolina , which
has its primary on Jan. 21, after the Jan. 10 New Hampshire
primary.  Bachmann’s victory in the straw poll, a non-binding contest
in Ames in which less than 17,000 votes were cast, had boosted
her into the top tier of candidates. “This is the very first
step towards taking the White House in 2012,” she told
supporters at the time. “This was a wonderful down-payment on
taking the country back.”  Momentum Waned  Her momentum waned after Perry entered the race on the same
day as the straw poll and swooped into Iowa where he grabbed the
media’s attention. As Perry’s support dwindled, the social
conservative voters Bachmann was banking on ultimately
gravitated to Santorum.  Bachmann, 55, made a point of visiting all of Iowa’s 99
counties -- an accomplishment Santorum beat her to -- as she
focused on the state as the best place to propel her candidacy.  She is serving her third term in the House, where she
organized the Tea Party Caucus shortly before the 2010 midterm
elections. Tea Party activists pressing for a significant
reduction in federal spending and strict adherence to the
Constitution helped Republicans win control of the House in 2010
and Bachmann sought to rally these voters to her candidacy.  “I look forward for the next chapter in God’s plan,”
Bachmann said as she was concluding her remarks today.  She declined to answer shouted questions from reporters on
whether she intends to endorse another presidential candidate or
run for re-election in her home district.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who didn’t compete
in Iowa and instead is focusing on the New Hampshire primary,
was among the first presidential candidates to issue a statement
about Bachmann’s departure.  “ Michele Bachmann  brought an energetic and passionate
voice to this race,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “She
should be proud of the ambitious solutions she offered to reduce
our national debt and rebuild our economy.”  Romney, in a statement, said Bachmann “ran a campaign to
advance the principles of limited government that I hold dear.”
The Minnesota congresswoman showed “tenacity” and “fierce
intelligence” during her campaign, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in West Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  