-- Hildebrand to Break Silence on Currency Trades After SNB Disclosure U-Turn
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-04T15:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bank-sarasin-says-fired-employee-passed-data-on-hildebrand-currency-trade.html
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand will tomorrow break his silence on  currency trading 
by his wife after a U-turn by officials led to the release of an
internal report on the transactions and rules governing them.  Hildebrand, 48, will “comment on the last days’ events and
respond to questions,” the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  said in an e-
mailed statement from Zurich today, calling some media reports
“partly incorrect.” It also released a report by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP conducted last year, saying the
transactions by the president and his spouse were in line with
central bank rules that were also disclosed today.  With its move, the Swiss National Bank yielded to growing
pressure by local media alleging that the central banker may
have used insider knowledge to his advantage. Two out of three
currency transactions that were investigated more closely and
conducted last year were cleared, while one dollar purchase
carried out by Kashya Hildebrand without her husband’s knowledge
was seen as “delicate” by investigators.  The affair cuts to the core of Swiss politics and finance.
Kashya Hildebrand’s currency purchase came about three weeks
before the  Swiss National Bank  rattled investors by imposing a
ceiling on the franc for the first time in three decades. In
addition, Bank Sarasin, a Basel-based private bank, said it
fired an employee who passed data on the trades to Christoph Blocher, vice president of the  Swiss People’s Party , who last
year called on Philipp Hildebrand to resign after the SNB’s
currency transactions led to a record loss.  Dollar Transactions  On Aug. 15, Kashya Hildebrand spent 400,000 francs to buy
$504,000 without informing her husband first. He was only told
of the transaction on the following day and instructed Bank
Sarasin only to act on his orders in future, according to the
report. In March, he had carried out a currency transaction
worth 1.1 million francs, following a Swiss property sale.  The  Bank Sarasin (BSAN)  employee, who wasn’t named, worked in
 information technology  and passed the data to a lawyer, who then
arranged a meeting with Blocher on Nov. 11, the bank said.  The employee went to Zurich’s police on Jan. 1 and admitted
criminal misconduct, according to the statement.  Criminal Complaint  Weltwoche magazine said that the Bank Sarasin employee has
filed a criminal complaint against Hildebrand for alleged
 insider trading . An official for the state prosecutor in the
Swiss canton of Zurich declined to comment on whether the
prosecutor received a complaint.  Philipp Hildebrand was first informed about the allegations
on Dec. 15, the day the central bank left the benchmark  interest
rate  at zero and maintained its franc cap of 1.20 versus the
euro. He then fully disclosed details about his own and his
family’s bank accounts.  The PricewaterhouseCoopers probe was commissioned by the
SNB Bank Council, the central bank’s supervisory body, who made
a statement on Dec. 23, exonerating Hildebrand and his family.  Kashya Hildebrand, a former hedge fund employee, said in a
statement published on Swiss Television’s 10 vor 10 program late
yesterday that she purchased dollars because “it was at a
record low and almost ridiculously cheap” at the time.  ‘Very Surprised’  “The day after the dollar purchase, the SNB’s general
counsel was informed for the sake of transparency, and there
were no objections to the transaction,” she said. “That’s why
I am very surprised about the current interest in the matter.”  Kashya Hildebrand was born in Rawalpindi,  Pakistan , to a
Pakistani father and an American mother. At the age of four, she
moved to the U.S. and later worked for hedge fund Moore Capital
Management in  New York , where she met her future husband,
according to Tages-Anzeiger. After moving to  Switzerland , Kashya
Hildebrand focused on the art business, opening galleries in
Zurich, New York and Geneva. The couple has one daughter and
live in Zurich.  Philipp Hildebrand joined the SNB’s governing board in 2003
after being chief investment officer at Zurich-based Vontobel
Group and Union Bancaire Privee in Geneva. He became SNB
president in January 2010.  Billionaire entrepreneur Blocher, 71, helped to transform
the Swiss People’s Party from an agrarian group to a populist
anti-immigrant party. He was ousted from the Cabinet in 2007.  After the central bank amassed a record loss of $21 billion
in 2010 through foreign-currency actions aimed to fight
deflation and help exporters, Blocher said Hildebrand should
resign, calling the moves “senseless speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  