-- Bank Earnings Jump 57% in Analyst Forecasts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bank-earnings-increase-57-in-analyst-forecasts-which-proved-wrong-in-2011.html
Analysts’ failure to foresee
declining earnings per share for the biggest U.S. banks last
year hasn’t stopped them from predicting an even bigger profit
surge for 2012.  The six largest lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , may post an
average profit increase of 57 percent this year, according to
184 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A year ago,
analysts predicted profit at the banks would climb 32 percent in
2011. Instead, earnings per share probably fell 18 percent as
the economic recovery analysts counted on never took hold.  Improved trading results, more investment-banking deals,
expense-cutting measures and lower credit costs will lead to the
increase in earnings that didn’t materialize last year, analysts
say. That may provide a boost to stock prices after financials
were the worst-performing industry in the U.S. in 2011.  “The banks could get some positive operating leverage in
2012 from trading normalizing and expenses normalizing,” said
Chris Kotowski, an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst in  New York  who
estimates at least an 18 percent earnings-per-share increase for
each of the six banks. “It’s not like all the news on the banks
was uniformly bad all the time. The market had a bigger freakout
than the companies did.”  ‘More Optimistic View’  Banks’ trading results were decimated as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis deepened, protests helped topple
governments in the  Middle East  and Africa, and an earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  triggered a nuclear meltdown. The  U.S. economy ,
measured by gross domestic product, probably expanded 1.8
percent last year, according to economists’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, instead of the 3.1 percent predicted a year ago.  “Everyone had a much more optimistic view of the
economy,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and an analyst with FBR Capital
Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia. “The banks need GDP
growth to grow loans. We all thought there would be loan growth,
and Europe didn’t help anybody.”  Bank stocks fell along with earnings last year and were the
worst performers among 10 industries tracked within the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. Financials dropped 18.4 percent, led by a 58
percent plunge for Bank of America. Goldman Sachs dropped 46
percent, while New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
both declined 44 percent. JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by
assets, was down 22 percent and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  11 percent.
The broader S&P 500 Index was unchanged for the year.  Global stock offerings plunged 29 percent from 2010 and
U.S. bond issuance fell 6.7 percent as companies delayed plans
to raise capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fixed-income trading likely dropped 27 percent and equities
revenue 3 percent at the 10 biggest investment banks, according
to industry consultant Coalition Ltd.  Goldman, Morgan Stanley  The increase in 2012 earnings will be led by Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs, which are most reliant on trading and
 investment-banking  revenue, analysts estimate. They predict the
New York-based firms will more than double earnings per share in
2012, after missing 2011 targets by the most of the six banks.  Revenue from trading and investment banking may rise about
8.5 percent for the industry, according to Kian Abouhossein, a
London-based analyst at JPMorgan. That may help reverse a two-
year slide in overall revenue as those areas account for about a
quarter of total revenue at the five biggest Wall Street banks.  Reducing Expenses  Any revenue growth may boost the profitability of banks as
they also seek to reduce expenses. Bank of America said last
year it would chop $5 billion in annual costs, and Morgan
Stanley and Goldman Sachs have targeted at least $1 billion. All
three firms say they will eliminate positions, part of a wave of
more than 230,000 job cuts announced by financial companies
worldwide last year.  “The earnings ramp-up is a return to some kind of normalcy
in trading activities and deal flow, as well as tighter control
on expenses,” said Fred Cannon, an analyst at KBW Inc. in New
York. “It would be kind of depressing to forecast financial-
market activity in 2012 as being like it was in 2011.”  Banks may also benefit for a third consecutive year from
improving credit quality, according to  Andrew Marquardt , an
analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York. Net write-offs
and loan-loss reserves will approach “normalized” levels in
2012, Marquardt estimated in a Jan. 2 note. A decrease in
reserves accounts for all of the expected 25 percent increase in
earnings per share at Bank of America, he wrote.  Loan Growth  While analysts see a bigger percentage jump in earnings for
2012, they aren’t as optimistic as they were a year ago. The
combined $27.84 per share the big banks are expected to earn
this year is less than the $34.21 analysts predicted they would
produce in 2011 and up from 2010 as the European debt crisis may
hurt results.  “I expect more of the same,” Miller said. “Bank
valuations could improve, but it’s going to be very slow loan
growth, if any at all. Earnings will remain under pressure.”  Jason Goldberg , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York,
wrote in a note yesterday that loan growth probably will
accelerate in 2012. Loans at the four largest U.S. banks, net of
loan-loss allowances, increased 0.3 percent in the nine months
ended Sept. 30, company filings show. That compared with
consensus estimates of 2 percent growth at the big banks, Brian Foran, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in March.  “The risk of not owning U.S. bank stocks is greater than
owning them,” wrote Goldberg, who projects an aggregate 21
percent increase in earnings per share for JPMorgan, Bank of
America, Citigroup and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo.
“Headwinds from 2011 should subside in 2012.”  Bank of America  Bank of America, which was the biggest decliner of 2011 in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , has been
hurt by rising costs tied to faulty mortgages. The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has said it plans to eliminate 30,000
jobs in the next few years.  Bank of America’s 2011 earnings estimates were chopped 54
percent as the lender, the second-biggest in the U.S. by assets,
spent more than $10 billion to settle soured-mortgage claims
with bond insurers and private-label investors. Morgan Stanley
may fall short of 2011 estimates by 72 percent and Goldman Sachs
may miss by 69 percent. Estimates for Wells Fargo rose 1 cent,
the only increase.  “What has been the biggest pressure is this drop-off in
capital-markets activity, and also the inability of BofA to get
its mortgage issues behind it,” KBW’s Cannon said.  Even with a projected earnings increase and low valuations,
investors should be “cautious” on financials because of
uncertainty about Europe, Joseph Tanious, a market strategist at
JPMorgan Asset Management in New York, said Dec. 29 on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  “If you look at where valuations are right now in
financials, it’s hard to ignore them,” Tanious said. “They are
very, very attractive. But if we talk specifically about 2012,
which we think will be another volatile year, financials, as
they performed this year, may in fact lag the broad market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  