-- Barclays Opposes Lehman Bid to ‘Rewrite’ Archstone Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-04T00:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/barclays-opposes-lehman-bid-to-rewrite-archstone-deal-option.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  holds 53 percent of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s biggest real-estate asset, Archstone, criticized Lehman’s
challenge of an option the banks gave to Equity Residential to
buy half of their stake at a still undetermined price.  Lehman hasn’t shown the banks’ contract with the Sam Zell’s
company caused it “irreparable harm” and is seeking to “avoid
paying a market price for complete control of Archstone,”
Barclays said in a court filing today.  “Plaintiffs attempt to use this court to rewrite the
parties’ contracts,” Barclays said in the filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . “Plaintiffs don’t want the
market to decide the price for defendants’ final 26.5 percent
stake in Archstone.”  Lehman, which is trying to gain control of Chicago-based
Archstone, plans to pay about $1.3 billion for the first 26.5
percent piece of Archstone held by the banks.  Equity Residential (EQR) 
had offered to buy the stake and retains an option on the banks’
remaining 26.5 percent stake, for which it would set a price.  ‘Missing Fact’  Bankrupt Lehman said in court papers last week that the
Zell company, Archstone’s biggest rival in the apartment
business, would be a “contentious” partner in Archstone and
impair the company’s value. The “missing fact” in Lehman’s
filings is that the former investment bank “expressly
approved” Equity Residential as an eligible investor in
Archstone in 2009, according to London-based Barclays.  “Plaintiffs expressly agreed that EQR could come off the
‘do not sell’ list and expressly agreed that any Archstone owner
could sell to EQR,” it said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on today’s filing.  A judge is due to hold hearings on the dispute later this
week.  Separately,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
filed its opposition to Lehman’s effort to intervene in the deal
with Zell, saying the banks would be harmed by any delay.  Lehman aims to sell or liquidate Archstone for $6 billion
to help pay creditors with claims of about $370 billion, and to
do that must gain control of the company, according to a person
familiar with the plan. Zell, with a 26.5 percent stake, could
thwart all of Lehman’s plans for Archstone, Jeffrey Fitts,
Lehman’s co-head of real estate, said in a filing.  Growth Decisions  Equity Residential could “single-handedly drive down the
value of Archstone and hinder the debtors’ ability to exit their
investment in Archstone,” he said. It would even have “power
to veto major financing and external growth decisions, formation
and approval of budgets.”  Equity Residential told the judge last week it urgently
needed to intervene in the court proceedings over Archstone to
protect its rights in the deal, including a so-called breakup
fee if Lehman buys the banks’ whole 53 percent stake. It also
filed papers today.  Lehman, which is trying to carry out a $65 billion
liquidation plan to pay creditors, expects to get back within 12
months and distribute to creditors “whatever estate funds are
used” to pay the banks for their Archstone stake, Fitts said.
Lehman will use equity partnerships, asset sales, joint ventures
and other means to “repatriate” the money, he said.  Secured Loans  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman, Bank of America, Barclays
and other lenders assumed or provided secured loans, according
to court papers.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  