-- Fed Study Says Greater Mortgage-Agency Losses May Aid U.S. Housing Revival
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bernanke-sends-congress-fed-study-of-options-to-lift-housing.html
A report from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called the weakness in the housing
market a “significant barrier” to U.S. economic health and
said  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  might have to bear greater
losses to stoke a broader recovery.  The study, delivered today to leaders of the Senate Banking
and House Financial Services committees, noted “tension”
between aiding the economy and minimizing losses of the failed
government-sponsored enterprises, which depend on taxpayer aid
for survival.  “Some actions that cause greater losses to be sustained by
the GSEs in the near term might be in the interest of taxpayers
to pursue if those actions result in a quicker and more vigorous
economic recovery,” according to the study.  That tension was a theme throughout the 26-page report,
which examined ways to clear the glut of  foreclosed (FORLTOST)  properties,
protect homeowners from  default (DLQTDLQT) , and help more borrowers take
advantage of record-low  mortgage rates . Doing nothing would
chill an already-tepid expansion, according to the report.  A policy of no action will lengthen the housing slump,
generate higher costs to the economy, push  home prices  lower and
prolong “downward pressure on the wealth of current homeowners
and the resultant drag on the economy at large,” the paper
found.  The study was meant to provide a framework for “thinking
about certain issues and tradeoffs,” Bernanke said in a letter
accompanying the report. “Restoring the health of the housing
market is a necessary part of a broader strategy for economic
recovery.”  $7 Trillion Wiped Out  Home prices on average have fallen by a third from their
2006 peak, wiping out $7 trillion in household wealth. About one
in four homeowners have homes valued at less than the size of
their mortgage and are unable to refinance into lower interest
rates.  The Fed has tried to jump-start lending by lowering its
benchmark rate to almost zero and promising to keep it there
until mid-2013. The central bank also has been trying to inject
liquidity into the market by buying mortgage-backed securities.
It currently holds more than $837 billion of the housing bonds.  Policy makers have pressed Bernanke for more fixes. In a
closed-door meeting in October,  Senate Democrats  urged him to
send them his ideas.  Obama Criticized  President  Barack Obama , too, has drawn criticism for not
doing enough to revive the housing market in the wake of the
2008 credit collapse, which pushed  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
toward insolvency and into government control. Since then, the
two companies have borrowed more than $153 billion from a U.S.
Treasury Department lifeline to continue operating.  Some economists have called for a federal refinancing
program that would allow borrowers to quickly and easily lower
the  interest rate  on their mortgages regardless of how much
their home values have dropped or how much debt they carry.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which is charged with
conserving Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  assets, has resisted such
a move. Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco has said forcing the
companies to lower interest rates on loans they own or guarantee
could require them to post even bigger losses. That in turn
would force them to draw more aid and raise the cost of the
bailout.  The agency in October did expand an existing program to
help some borrowers refinance regardless of how much their
houses have dropped in value, saying it might help those
homeowners avoid default.  More Solutions  More might be done, including streamlining the refinancing
process, lowering fees charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
and relieving lenders of the obligation that they might be
required to buy the loans back if they go bad, the report said.  Most of the issues raised by the Fed paper can be addressed
without legislation, said Sean Oblack, a spokesman for Senate
Banking Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat. Oblack
criticized the FHFA for focusing too much on the GSEs’ bottom
lines.  “It is particularly telling that the white paper calls for
regulators to evaluate their options on a more macro level
rather than simply base evaluations on short-term gains or
losses,” Oblack said.  The Fed report also focused on ways to prevent severe
delinquencies with “a broad menu” of loan modifications and
ease the conversion of foreclosed properties to rentals.  Easing borrowing requirements to allow investors to buy
single-family properties in bulk and giving banks regulatory
leeway to make loans on those purchases could boost the market,
according to the report.  “The challenge for policy makers is to find ways to help
reconcile the existing size and mix of the housing stock and the
current environment for housing finance,” the study reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net , or
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  