-- Biogen May Spend as Much as $299 Million on Isis Treatment for Children
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-04T21:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/biogen-may-spend-as-much-as-299-million-on-isis-treatment-for-children.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  will gain  Isis
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) ’s drug for an inherited muscle-weakening
disease that afflicts children, in a development deal that may
cost as much as $299 million.  Biogen, the world’s biggest maker of multiple sclerosis
drugs, will pay Isis $29 million now, plus $45 million in
possible milestone payments, and gain an option to license the
experimental medicine for spinal muscular atrophy after
completion of a successful efficacy trial, the companies said
today in a statement. If Biogen exercises the option, Carlsbad,
California-based Isis may get $225 million more, plus royalties
on sales if the drug is approved.  The deal vaults Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen to the
forefront of a race to develop the first medicine for the
inherited disease that afflicts 9,000 people in the U.S.,
according to the  Spinal Muscular Atrophy Foundation . Severe
versions of the disease kill children a few years after they are
born.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , both based in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , are also testing drugs for the disease.  “I am very, very excited about this compound,” said
Alfred Sandrock, a senior vice president at Biogen, in a
telephone interview. If successful, “it would be a
breakthrough, the first of its kind; it is exactly the kind of
thing we are looking for.”  Missing Gene  Isis declined less than 1 percent to $7.19 at 4:00 p.m. New
York time. Its shares had fallen 30 percent in the 12 months
before today. Biogen increased less than 1 percent to $113.72
today after jumping 69 percent in the last 12 months.  Children with spinal muscular atrophy lack a gene for a
protein called SMN that is necessary for proper nerve cell
development. The Isis drug, which began human trials in
December, is injected into the spinal fluid and seeks to boost
levels of the SMN protein, Sandrock said.  “This has the potential of being truly transformative, if
the preclinical data are in any way reflected in the outcome of
clinical studies,” said  Darryl De Vivo , a pediatric neurologist
at  Columbia University Medical Center , in a telephone interview.
Injections may only have to be given once every few months, he
said. De Vivo said he is a consultant to Isis.  Roche in November said it would pay as much as $490 million
for experimental treatments from PTC Therapeutics Inc. to treat
spinal muscular atrophy. Novartis also has been testing drugs
for the disease. Neither of these efforts have yet advanced to
human tests.  Roche and Novartis are working with the Spinal Muscular
Atrophy Foundation. The foundation, along with other SMA groups,
has also funded a researcher at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,
 Adrian Krainer , whose work helped lead to the Isis drug.  The charity was created in 2003 by  Dinakar Singh , who runs
the hedge fund TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, to find a
treatment for his sixth-grade daughter Arya and others with the
disease. He has spent almost $100 million on the effort since
then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  