-- Yields on BofA Trust Preferreds Tempt Investors
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bofa-trust-preferreds-tempt-investors-with-high-yields.html
Investors reaching for yield are
finding it in an unlikely place: battered financial companies.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the worst performer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  last year, has trust preferreds yielding 8.7
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities, known as TruPS, combine characteristics of debt and
equity.  Many TruPS, generally issued on behalf of banks and
insurance companies, are paying more than 7 percent, and some
trade below face value even though they’re usually redeemed at
par, said Joshua Siegel, managing principal of New York-based
StoneCastle Partners LLC, which oversees about $2 billion of the
securities. The high yields may be short-lived if banks start
redeeming TruPS in 2013 in response to regulatory changes, said
Jim Ulland, president of Ulland Investment Advisors.  “These are the best buy of any fixed-income in the
market,” said Minneapolis-based Ulland, whose clients are
getting an average yield of 7.75 percent on their trust-
preferred portfolios.  While TruPS sold to retail investors usually have 30-year
maturities and can’t be redeemed before five years, banks may
call them within 10 years. Their interest payments can generally
be deferred for as long as five years, yet need to be repaid.
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes were  1.95 percent (USGG10YR)  yesterday and
30-year bonds were at  2.98 percent (USGG30YR) , while below-investment-grade
bonds were  8.47 percent (H0A0) , according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index.  Caveat Investor  TruPS do carry risk amid the uncertain outlook for U.S.
banks. In a bankruptcy, trust-preferred investors are
subordinate to senior and subordinated bondholders, though they
are required to be paid before holders of common and preferred
shares.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the ratings of Bank of America,
 Citigroup (C)  Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to
A- from A in November.  Bank of America, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley have said
they may need to post billions of dollars of additional
collateral and termination payments on trades because of a one-
level downgrade in their credit ratings.  Although most TruPS for retail investors are set at a fixed
rate, there are some that may have floating rates tied to
different benchmarks, said Arthur Tetyevsky, a credit strategist
at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York , who’s focused on preferred
and hybrid securities for more than 10 years.  “We’re in a yield-starved environment,” with 10-year U.S.
Treasuries yielding less than 2 percent, said Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets.
“That type of return won’t help investors with their retirement
goals.”  Tax Advantages  Banks have used TruPS because they could count them as a
portion of their capital and deduct the interest payments from
their tax bills. About $141 billion of bank  trust-preferred
securities  were outstanding on banks’ balance sheets as of Sept.
30, 2011, according to data from the Philadelphia Federal
Reserve Bank.  In addition to Bank of America, firms such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have
outstanding TruPS. One set of Citigroup’s TruPS is yielding 7.8
percent, Bloomberg data show.  Warren Buffett , chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., invested $5 billion in  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America in exchange for preferred stock
that will pay a 6 percent dividend and warrants that give
Buffett the option to buy 700 million common shares at any time
in the next 10 years for $7.14 each, according to the bank’s
Aug. 25 statement. The  stock (BAC)  closed yesterday at $5.80 after
losing 58 percent last year.  Disappearing Benefit  Banks with more than $15 billion in assets will have to
phase out the inclusion of TruPS issued before May 19, 2010, in
their Tier 1 capital beginning in 2013, a change mandated by the
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law.  It’s likely that banks will be redeeming more TruPS in
2013, regardless of call schedules, because of provisions that
allow them to be redeemed when there are changes to their
capital treatment, said Phil Jacoby, chief investment officer at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Spectrum Asset Management Inc.,
which oversees $13.3 billion of preferred securities.  “What was a cheap form of regulatory capital is now just
an expensive form of long-term financing,” said Josh Peters,
editor of the newsletter Morningstar DividendInvestor. “The
advantages for big banks to have them are essentially going
away.”  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have already redeemed
some of their TruPS, saying passage of the Dodd-Frank rules in
July 2010 qualifies as a capital-treatment event that allows
them to call the securities early.  Diversified Portfolio  Even with the regulatory changes, not all TruPS will be
called immediately, said Janney’s LeBas. That would require a
big outlay of capital, he said. Since insurance companies aren’t
directly covered by the Dodd-Frank regulatory changes, it’s less
likely insurance companies will start redeeming their TruPS in
2013, Tetyevsky of Jefferies said.  Ulland recommends that clients who want to buy TruPS use a
portion of their cash allocation to invest in a diversified
portfolio of the securities backed by the largest  U.S. banks. (S15FINL) 
Investors can sign up for news alerts so they know when banks
may call their TruPS, since they’re generally required to file
regulatory notices in advance, he said.  Volatility Impact  The most attractive TruPS are those that are trading below
or just at par. If they’re trading above par, investors need to
figure out when they may be called to calculate whether the
yield will offset the  capital loss , said Ulland. TruPS can be
bought through conventional and electronic brokers, though they
may be difficult to find online because their symbols can vary
from system to system, he said. Since they’re nonqualified
dividends, investors generally pay ordinary income tax on the
interest payments.  LeBas of Janney said he recommended a 2 percent allocation
to TruPS in the third quarter, down from 7 percent in the second
quarter, because there’s too much volatility in the financial
industry and TruPS may not be a stable short-term investment.
His recommendation remained at 2 percent in the fourth quarter.  Price swings (XLF)  for U.S.  financial stocks (SPXL1)  were the widest
since 2009 last year, and the industry posted an 18 percent
retreat, the most among 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Europe ’s debt crisis has weakened investors’ willingness to
take risk in the financial sector, which means more recent
return performance by TruPS has suffered, LeBas said. In the
last six months of 2011, the securities’ fell about  3 percent (P0H0) ,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. One ETF
that contains the securities, iShares S&P U.S. Preferred Stock
Index fund, dropped almost  2 percent (PFF) , with dividends reinvested,
last year.  ‘Income Game’  Although TruPS investors do have to be aware of the risk of
banks failing, “there’s not likely to be a better income game
in town when comparing preferred yields relative to their
overall long run historical default characteristics,”
Spectrum’s Jacoby said.  If  interest rates  suddenly spike, it’s possible some banks
won’t call their TruPS, said Peters of Morningstar. That could
be harmful for investors since they may suffer capital losses if
the securities then trade at a discount, he said.  “When you reach for yield, you may be reaching into
trouble, so you have to be careful that what you see is actually
what you want,” Peters said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 