-- Bond Exotica Gains Favor in Era of Low Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-01-04T10:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bond-exotica-gaining-favor-as-bernanke-holds-rates-at-zero-credit-markets.html
Sales of bonds backed by everything
from timeshare rentals to shipping containers to entertainment
royalties are poised to rise this year as investors seek to
boost returns with  interest rates  at about record lows.  So-called esoteric asset-backed securities issuance may
soar 12.9 percent to $35 billion, compared with debt linked to
more traditional collateral such as auto and credit-card loans,
which will grow 8.75 percent to $87 billion, according to a
forecast from Credit Suisse Group AG.  Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co . are
directing investors toward the debt with  Federal Reserve (FDTR) 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledging to keep benchmark interest
rates, held at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008, “exceptionally
low” through mid-2013. Investors willing to hold BBB rated
bonds backed by franchise royalty fees of the  Sonic Corp. (SONC)  fast-
food chain may receive as much as 2 percentage points more
annually than similarly rated securities tied to auto loans,
according to  Barclays Capital ’s Cory Wishengrad in New York.  “The ability to pick up incremental yield while not taking
additional risk makes esoteric ABS attractive,” Wishengrad, co-
head of securitized products origination, said in a telephone
interview. “Given the low-rate environment, investors view
moving into less traditional asset classes as more attractive.”  Esoteric bonds make up 16 percent of the $620 billion
market for asset-backed securities outstanding, with debt tied
to credit card, student and auto loans accounting for the rest,
according to data from Wells Fargo.  Shipping Containers  Cronos Containers Ltd. boosted the size of its November
offering of bonds tied to shipping container lease payments by
$50 million to $200 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. An A rated $170 million portion maturing in five
years priced to yield 5 percent.  The sale marked the first issue of asset-backed notes for
the Marlow, U.K.-based provider of equipment services to ocean
carriers, Peter J. Younger, president and chief executive
officer, said in a statement on Dec. 7.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  sold $2.5
billion of notes in its biggest offering since 2009. A benchmark
gauge of U.S. company credit risk dropped to the lowest level in
more than two months on  evidence (NAPMPMI)  manufacturing is expanding.
Cardone Industries Inc. is seeking $300 million in loans to back
its buyout by TPG Capital LP.  Citigroup bonds were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers, with 204 trades of $1 million
or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Default Swaps Fall  The third-biggest U.S. bank by assets sold its five-year,
4.45 percent debt to yield 360 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. When Citigroup last
sold similar debentures in June, the New York-based lender paid
a spread of 200 basis points.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2 basis points from Dec.
30 to a mid-price to 118.1 basis points, the lowest level since
Oct. 28, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The gauge fell as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index rose to 53.9 in December from 52.7 a month
before, above the reading of 50 that signals growth and topping
the 53.5 median projection of economists in a survey.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index (ITRXEBE)  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 0.5 basis point to 169.25,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 10:30 a.m. in London  Loan Prices Rise  Both indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index (SPBDLLB) 
rose for a fifth session, advancing 0.35 cent to 91.1 cents on
the dollar, the highest level since Nov. 18. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, fell 2.16 cents last year to 90.75, after reaching 96.48
cents on Feb. 14, the highest since November 2007.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  The financing for Cardone, a remanufacturers of automotive
parts, will include a $250 million  term loan  due in six years
and a $50 million revolving  credit line  maturing in five years,
said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Brazil ,  Mexico   RBC Capital Markets , the investment-banking arm of the
Royal Bank of Canada, which is arranging the financing for the
Philadelphia-based company, will host a lender meeting on Jan. 5
in  New York , said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms are private.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 11 basis
points from Dec. 30 to 414 basis points, or 4.14 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
The measure ranged in 2011 from 259 on Jan. 5 to 496 on Oct. 4.  Brazil sold $750 million of 10-year, 4.875 percent notes in
an add-on to an existing issue as the biggest rally in Brazilian
dollar-denominated bonds in eight years prompted the government
to sell debt in international markets for the second time in
three months. Mexico sold $2 billion of 10-year, 3.625 percent
bonds.  Sales of esoteric asset-backed securities, which can be
linked to just about any asset that produces a revenue stream,
are forecasted to pick up as the  U.S. economy  shows signs of
strengthening. Economists forecast 2.1 percent growth this year
from 1.8 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Bowie Bonds  The market gained attention in 1997 when banks arranged $55
million of so-called Bowie Bonds, tied to royalties from rock
icon  David Bowie . Other musicians that have tapped the market
for cash include  James Brown  and the Isley Brothers, according
to Moody’s.  Top-rated asset-backed securities returned 2.8 percent last
year, following a gain of 4.3 percent in 2010, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Performance of asset-backed portfolios may be improved by
15 percent to 24 percent by adding a mix of esoteric securities
including bonds linked to shipping containers and aircraft
leases, Citigroup analysts led by Mary Kane wrote in a Dec. 8
report.  Such bonds offer a “collateralized play” on corporate
America, Kane wrote. Debt backed by shipping containers is
valued from 90 cents to 95 cents on the dollar, the analysts
wrote. Aircraft-linked securities range from about 76 cents to
91 cents.  Miramax Cut Offering  “These off-the-run sectors require in-depth analysis, yet
the attractive return is worth the extra effort,” they wrote.  Wells Fargo’s recommendations for 2012 include debt backed
by timeshare payments and fleets of rental cars, according to a
Dec. 6 report from analysts led by John McElravey in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina .  A disadvantage of esoteric bonds for investors is that they
can be hard to sell because they don’t trade frequently. As a
result, investors require the additional yield, said Barclays
Capital’s Wishengrad.  Miramax cut the size of its December sale of bonds backed
by a library of more than 700 films and 14 television series as
investors demanded higher yields, Bloomberg data show. The
producer of films such as “Shakespeare in Love” reduced the
offering by $50 million to $500 million.  Credit Card  Bonds  The offering by Miramax Film NY LLC included $350 million
of BBB rated debt that yielded 6.3 percent, according to a
person familiar with the deal.  The market for esoteric bonds is set to grow from $31
billion in 2011 even as some segments, such as credit-card debt,
shrink, Credit Suisse analysts led by Chandrajit Bhattacharya
wrote in a Dec. 7 report.  Credit-card bond sales have plunged as banks turn to
deposits for funding, with $19 billion of the debt issued during
the past two years, compared with $47 billion in 2009, Bloomberg
data show.  “The importance of esoteric ABS has been growing in the
primary market as the search for higher-yielding assets
continues and supply from other traditional ABS sectors remains
tepid at best,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  