-- BP’s Spill Fund Lifts Payout Freeze After Court Clarifies Order
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-04T23:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/bp-freezes-macondo-spill-payouts-as-plans-to-clarify-court-order.html
A fund set up by  BP Plc (BP/)  to compensate
victims of the worst U.S.  oil spill  said it lifted a freeze on
payments to victims after receiving a clarification on a court
order to set aside money to cover plaintiffs’ legal fees.  The Gulf Coast Claims Facility said yesterday that it had
“temporarily frozen all payments to claimants” after the court
in Louisiana overseeing litigation said in a Dec. 28 order that
the fund should withhold 6 percent of payments for the fees. The
facility stopped payments on Dec. 30 while seeking “a
confirmation of its interpretation of the order,” prior to
beginning the withholding process, David Pitofsky, a lawyer
representing the fund, wrote in a letter posted on the GCCF
website.  “The GCCF has received oral clarification from the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of  Louisiana ,”
which is overseeing the litigation, the fund said today in an
e-mail. “Effective immediately the GCCF will resume payment to
eligible claimants.”  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing the
litigation, said in a court filing today that the 6 percent
holdback should only be applied to “claimants who were not
issued a payment determination letter” from the fund as of
Dec. 30 and doesn’t apply to payments made before or on that
date.  BP had paid $7.4 billion to individuals, businesses and
government entities affected by the oil spill by Dec. 23, the
company said on its website. It’s setting aside $20 billion for
victims and to pay for environmental damage after the disaster
in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010.  David Nicholas, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined
to comment on the decision, saying it was a matter for the fund.  The lawsuits are combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  