-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Natural Gas Surges Most Since October
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-04T21:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/canadian-stocks-retreat-as-energy-materials-shares-decline.html
Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  rose for a fourth
day, led by energy producers, as natural gas futures gained the
most since October on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather
in the northern U.S.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest oil and gas producer,
advanced 1.5 percent. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the
world’s biggest fertilizer producer by market value, declined
1.9 percent after Citigroup Inc. removed it from a list of top
stock picks. Yoga-wear retailer  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU)  rallied
8.9 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added the company to
its Americas Conviction List.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  climbed 18.04
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,226.47. The index closed at the
highest level since Nov. 15 for a second day after rallying
yesterday when the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
manufacturing index rose more than most economists had forecast.  “The  U.S. economy ’s doing better than what people
thought,” Stephen Gauthier, a  money manager  at Fin-XO
Securities in  Montreal , said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees about C$600 million ($593 million). “That’s giving a
lift to commodities, which had a very difficult year last year.
There’s a little cold snap, natural gas going up. There’s crude
oil going up also, because of tensions in  Iran .”  The S&P/TSX rallied 2.1 percent yesterday, led by raw-
materials and energy stocks, after slumping 11 percent in 2011.
The  S&P/TSX Materials Index (STMATR)  fell to the lowest relative to
earnings since May 2009 last month as the spread of  Europe ’s
debt crisis led to the gains in the U.S. dollar and drops in
gold and copper futures.  Natural gas surged 3.4 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after AccuWeather Inc. said temperatures may fall to 6
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 14 Celsius) on Jan. 15. Natural gas
futures have declined 34 percent from a year ago.  Suncor, Penn West  Suncor rose 1.5 percent to C$31.45. Penn West Petroleum
Ltd., a western Canadian oil and gas producer, gained 2.3
percent to C$21.43.  Nuvista Energy Ltd. (NVA) , which produces natural
gas and oil in  Alberta , jumped 8.9 percent to C$5.86.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , which mines the power-plant fuel in
 Kazakhstan , increased 5.3 percent to C$2.38.  Potash Corp. lost 1.9 percent to C$43.42 after P.J. Juvekar, an analyst at Citigroup, replaced it with CF Industries
Holdings Inc. in his Top Picks Live list. Lower natural gas
prices should help U.S. nitrogen-fertilizer producers like
Deerfield, Illinois-based CF, Juvekar said in a note to clients.
Potash Corp. still has a “buy” rating at Citigroup.  Lululemon rallied 8.9 percent to C$51.82 after Michelle Tan, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, added the company to Goldman’s
Americas Conviction List. Lululemon “still offers one of the
most-compelling growth stories in retail” as evidenced by
Google searches during the holiday season, Tan wrote in a note
to clients.  Rare Element Resources Ltd. (RES) , which is developing a rare-
earths project in  Wyoming , soared 21 percent, the most since
March, to C$4.35 after reporting a resources increase.  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the maker of giant-screen movie-projection
systems, advanced 5.5 percent to C$19.02 after James M. Marsh,
an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., reiterated his “overweight”
rating on the shares. Marsh cited the company’s international-
growth prospects in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  