-- Canadian Dollar Drops From Highest in Almost a Month on European Concern
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-04T22:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/canadian-dollar-drops-from-highest-level-in-almost-month-as-oil-declines.html
The Canadian dollar fell from its
highest level in almost a month versus its U.S. counterpart as
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening made higher-yielding
assets including stocks less attractive.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, dropped for the first time in three days.
The Canadian dollar gained the most yesterday in two weeks as
evidence of U.S. and Chinese manufacturing strength spurred
speculation the global economy will weather the turmoil in the
European Union.  “The EU situation is again rearing its head, reminding
people of one of the key risks for 2012,” said  David Watt ,
senior currency strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit, in a telephone interview. “We’re
seeing a fading of the risk rally to start the year.”  The loonie depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0127 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. One Canadian dollar buys 98.75
U.S. cents. The Canadian currency advanced 0.8 percent yesterday
in the biggest gain in two weeks. It touched C$1.0077, the
strongest level since Dec. 8.  Canadian 10-year  government bonds (G0C0)  were little changed, with
the  yield (.USCAD10)  rising less than one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.99 percent, compared with 1.94 percent at the end of
2011. The price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June
2021 decreased 6 cents to C$110.75.  Bond Yield Spread  The 10-year securities  yielded (.USCAD10)  one basis point more than
equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with a spread of
32 basis points on Sept. 5, the most in 2011.  “It’s a risk-off day,”  Neil Mellor , a strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., said by phone from  London . “The
hurdles that the euro has to overcome over the next few weeks
are huge. It does point to a positive U.S. dollar view,” at the
expense of higher-yielding currencies such as the Canadian
dollar, Mellor said.  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, cited in a note to clients
weak demand for German bonds at auction today and record spread
levels in Hungarian credit-default swaps as reasons for the
latest bout of  risk aversion .  The euro dropped to the lowest in almost a year versus the
Canadian dollar after demand at the German auction of 10-year
bonds was below the average over the past five years. The
Canadian dollar appreciated as much as 0.8 percent to C$1.3080
versus the euro, the strongest since January 2011.  Loonie’s 2011 High  The Canadian dollar touched 94.07 cents per U.S. dollar on
July 26, the strongest level in more than three years, on
prospects for higher  interest rates (CABROVER)  and as investors sought
shelter from the U.S. debt-ceiling debate in Congress.  The loonie then fell, touching C$1.0658 on Oct. 4, the
weakest in more than a year, as the euro region’s debt crisis
sapped demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The U.S. dollar is underperforming to start the year
based on little other than hope -- which is now being squashed -
- that the EU situation is going to miraculously fix itself in
2012,” said RBC’s Watt. “Sovereign news out of  Spain  and
banking news out of  Italy  suggests that there’s still a lot of
difficult work that has to be done before we can have any
confidence of financial and sovereign stability.”  Italian Bank  The euro slid versus most major peers after El Pais
newspaper said the Spanish government helped the Valencia region
make an overdue payment to Deutsche Bank AG. Stock of UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s largest lender, slid the most in more than two
decades after the company set a 43 percent price discount for
shares in a rights offering to raise 7.5 billion euros ($9.7
billion).  With a drop of 3.3 percent over the past year, the Canadian
dollar is the biggest loser among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The loonie has gained 1.4 percent in the past month on
speculation the  U.S. economy  will recover from its torpor,
trailing the performance of the yen and the dollars of  Australia 
and  New Zealand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  