-- McCain Endorses Romney as Race Moves to N.H.
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-04T19:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/mccain-said-to-endorse-romney-after-iowa-win.html
John McCain , the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, endorsed Mitt Romney to be the party’s
standard bearer in 2012, lining up today behind a former rival
he defeated in  New Hampshire (NFSEIA) ’s primary four years ago.  McCain, the Arizona senator who won  New Hampshire ’s primary
in 2000 and 2008, announced his support a day after Romney won
the  Iowa (BEESIA)  caucuses by just eight votes over former Pennsylvania
Senator Rick Santorum. Romney, a former governor in neighboring
Massachusetts, is pressing to win New Hampshire’s Jan. 10
primary by a margin big enough to put him on the path to the
nomination.  “I am really here for one reason and one reason only, and
that is to make sure that we make  Mitt Romney  the next president
of the United States of America,” McCain told voters gathered
in a Manchester, New Hampshire, high school gym. “New Hampshire
is the state that will catapult him on to victory in a very
short period of time.”  When they competed for the 2008 Republican nomination,
McCain accused Romney of “consistently flip-flopping on every
issue,” and Romney said McCain held positions “out of the
mainstream” of Republican ideas.  Today, Romney described McCain as “one of America’s
heroes.”  Both men criticized President  Barack Obama , largely
ignoring attacks on Romney by his Republican competitors.  “Our message to President Barack Obama is: You can run but
you can’t hide,” McCain said.  In  Iowa  yesterday, Romney and Santorum each received about
25 percent of more than 122,000 votes cast.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Manchester,
NH at   llerer@bloomberg.net .
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  