-- Chavez Calls Exxon’s Venezuela Arbitration Demands ‘Crazy’
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-01-05T00:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/chavez-calls-exxon-s-venezuela-arbitration-demands-crazy-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
today that  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s demand for as much as $12 billion
in international arbitration for assets seized in the South
American country in 2007 was “crazy.”  Responding to the  International Chamber of Commerce 
arbitration court’s December decision to award Exxon a net
payment of $746.9 million, Chavez said on national television
that  Venezuela  is a sovereign nation and that Exxon has been
“arrogant” for not accepting a “friendly agreement.”  “The ICC only awarded Exxon 10 percent of what they
wanted,” said Chavez. “You can make your own conclusions.”  Exxon Mobil was the first international oil company to
abandon Venezuela after Chavez expropriated oil assets in the
Orinoco heavy crude belt. The World Bank’s International Centre
for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, is also due to
rule on Exxon’s claim for its nationalized Cerro Negro project
in a suit filed against the Venezuelan government.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA) , the state oil company, said on
Jan. 2 that it would pay $255 million in cash for the judgment,
after accounting for about $300 million in a frozen New York
bank account and $191 million of Exxon debt that the Venezuelan
company will cancel. The total amount of the ICC ruling was for
$907.6 million, minus a $161 million counterclaim by PDVSA.  Freeze Sought  “The ICC decision was very limited and was only a decision
based on the contract between PDVSA and Exxon written in 1997.
The $907 million award was solely for Exxon’s missed and
expected, and heavily discounted, future revenue streams on
1997-priced oil of $27 a barrel from the project through 2035,
and not about a valuation,” said Russ Dallen, a lawyer and head
bond trader at Caracas Capital Markets.  Exxon, the world’s largest  oil company  by market value,
originally sought to freeze $12 billion of PDVSA assets as
compensation for the nationalization of the Cerro Negro heavy-
crude project in the Orinoco belt. The freeze was overturned by
a U.K. court in March 2009, leading Exxon to reduce its
arbitration claim to around $7 billion in 2010.  “Given that the ICC award did not cover the actual
expropriation of Exxon’s investment -- merely the net present
value of its future discounted profit stream, minus Venezuelan
royalties and taxes -- I would expect the ICSID judgment to
easily come in for almost $1 billion minimum, rising to $3
billion if they use a more modest discount and higher real world
oil price than the $27 to $35 provided for in the 1997
contract,” Dallen said today in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The proceedings before the ICSID, as the  World Bank ’s
arbitration court is called, is “larger” than the ICC case,
Patrick McGinn, an Exxon spokesman, said on Jan. 2 in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  