-- Chesapeake Comes Up Short of Investment-Grade: Corporate Finance
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-04T16:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/chesapeake-energy-falls-short-of-exit-from-junk-status-corporate-finance.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  faces more
asset sales to reach an investment-grade rating after the most
active U.S. oil and natural-gas driller arranged transactions
that are generating $1.2 billion in cash.  Chesapeake bond yields imply a Ba1  rating (CHK) , one step below
investment-grade, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group. Chesapeake has an equivalent grade at  Fitch
Ratings , which has a “positive” outlook on the company, and at
 Standard & Poor’s . Moody’s Investors Service rates it one level
lower at Ba2, also with a “positive” outlook.  The cash is expected to help pay down as much as $4 billion
of revolving  debt (CHK)  in December 2015, which won’t be enough to
trigger an upgrade by Moody’s, said Peter Speer, a senior credit
officer and vice president at the ratings firm. Chesapeake,
which had $10.3 billion of outstanding long-term debt net of
cash at the end of last year, according to a statement today,
may save $18.3 million on annual interest for every $1 billion
in debt with an investment-grade rating.  “Management has stated they want to improve their credit
profile and expect to do so through executing a number of other
asset monetizations over the next year,” said Robert Gephardt,
a bond analyst at asset manager Neuberger Berman Group LLC in
 Chicago . “Their success in this effort over the next year will
be key to maintaining and possibly improving their credit
profile.”  Tender Offer  Similar deals may help boost the company’s credit standing,
Gephardt said. Chesapeake investors resisted a $2 billion bond
tender offer in April, expecting their securities to become more
valuable when the company reaches investment grade, a goal
reiterated at a March investor conference by Jeff Mobley, senior
vice president for  investor relations  and research. Chesapeake
reduced the amount of debt the company sought to repurchase and
increased the price it would pay for some of the bonds in May.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Chesapeake bonds
instead of government debt has increased 2 basis points since
the end of 2010, compared with a 90 basis point jump for all BB
rated bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
high-yield energy index has increased 74 basis points over that
period.  The company’s $660 million of 6.5 percent notes due August
2017 traded yesterday at 105.75 cents on the dollar, for a yield
of 5.31 percent, up from 100.5 cents at the end of 2010.  Credit-default swaps on Chesapeake declined 21.9 basis
points yesterday to 432.7 basis points, according to Bloomberg
data.  Asset Sales  The Oklahoma City-based energy company will get $600
million of cash from its sale of a pipeline subsidiary that was
expected to close Dec. 30 and $610 million from a divestiture of
shale drilling assets located in Utica,  Ohio , completed
yesterday, according to a note from Philip Adams, an analyst at
bond researcher  Gimme Credit . The sales totaled $3.2 billion,
including securities and other considerations.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, didn’t return a
telephone message or e-mails seeking comment.  Chesapeake had $111 million of  cash (CHK)  at the end of
September, down 87 percent from $849 million at the end of
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company spent $2.1 billion on 10 bond tender offers in
the second quarter of 2011, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing. The offers were part of Chesapeake’s
attempt to reduce indebtedness and accelerate a credit upgrade,
Mobley said at the conference.  ‘Positive Outlook’  Chesapeake had a  leverage ratio (CHK) , or debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 3.4 times as
of Sept. 30, up from its two-year low of 2.97 at the end of the
second quarter. The ratio was down from 3.78 at the end of 2010.  “Our positive outlook is tied to an expectation that
Chesapeake will be able to reduce their leverage metrics, partly
through paying down debt, but more so from growing their proved
reserves and production,” Speer of Moody’s said.  Chesapeake will reach the investment-grade category this
year by paying down debt and adding reserves, Domenic Dell’Osso,
the company’s chief financial officer and executive vice
president, told high-yield investors at a Dec. 1 conference. The
company also plans to raise production by 30 percent and cut
debt 25 percent in the two years through December 2012 without
raising new equity, he said.  The company reduced debt by $2.2 billion in the fourth
quarter of 2011 and intends to reach about $9.5 billion by the
end of 2012, according today’s statement.  Growth Opportunities  The company has stated that it has growth opportunities
that will exceed internally generated  cash flow . Asset sales
have long been a part of the company’s capital program, and 2012
will be no different, Dell’Osso said at the conference.  Chesapeake intends to raise $1 billion from new joint
ventures in 2012, according to an investor presentation on its
 website . The company expects to seek joint-venture partners to
develop fields in three regions, including the Mississippi Lime
located in Oklahoma and  Kansas , Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said on the Dec. 1 conference call.  Fellow Oklahoma City gas producer SandRidge Energy Inc.
announced on Dec. 23 its intention to divest land in the area
worth as much as $1.83 billion.  “Chesapeake is a very good land speculator,” said Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in New York, where he
oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds, including Chesapeake
bonds. “They buy land and then later they flip it. They gear
these sales to fund  capital expenditures . They’re almost better
at partnering than pumping gas wells.”  ‘Right Direction’  The company also plans to take its Chesapeake Oilfield
Services unit public, McClendon said in a Nov. 4 teleconference
to discuss third-quarter earnings with analysts and investors.
Doing so will help improve the company’s credit profile because
much of its debt is associated with the unit and its midstream
pipeline business, McClendon said on the call.  Chesapeake is the second-biggest overall producer of
natural gas in the U.S., behind only ExxonMobil Corp. Chesapeake
has high-quality gas assets, but with prices dropping to their
lowest levels in more than a year, a loss of profitability from
that segment could be a problem for the company in 2012, Gross
said.  The price of natural gas ended $2.98 per million British
thermal units yesterday after falling 1.3 percent on Dec. 30 to
$2.989, the lowest settlement since Sept. 11, 2009, on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. It rose 1.7 percent, to $3.04, at
11:39 a.m. in New York today.  If Chesapeake is able to withstand low gas prices and
achieve investment-grade metrics, it will be important for the
company to show a commitment to maintaining that balance sheet
for in different economic environments, Gross said.  “If you look at the assets they have and what they’ve
communicated they want to monetize, if they do what they say,
this will be an improved credit 12 months from now,” said
Gephardt. “It’s part of a longer-term process. Every deal is a
step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 