-- Chevron Bid to Dismiss $18 Billion Award Rejected in Ecuador
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-01-04T20:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/chevron-loses-bid-to-throw-out-18-billion-award-in-ecuador-pollution-case.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  lost its challenge to
an $18 billion judgment before an Ecuador appeals court in a
lawsuit alleging the company is responsible for chemicals
spilled in the Amazon River basin more than 20 years ago.  The decision upholding the lower-court judgment was issued
by a panel of three judges in the Provincial Court of Justice of
Sucumbios in  Lago Agrio , Ecuador, Chevron said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Chevron appealed a February ruling that it was responsible
for chemical-laden wastewater dumped in jungle land from 1964 to
about 1992 by Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001.  The appeals court’s decision “gives us the ability to go
ahead and enforce the judgment in any part of the world we see
legally fit,” Pablo Fajardo, an attorney representing 30,000
Ecuadorean Amazon residents who sued, said in a conference call
from  Quito . “We will investigate and look at various continents
around the world where Chevron has assets.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, has no
assets or operations in Ecuador. The plaintiffs must wait until
the appeals court makes its decision final, which could take at
least a two weeks, before moving ahead with enforcement actions
in foreign courts, Fajardo said.  The Ecuador appeals court could require  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron to post a bond equal to a percentage of
the $18 billion judgment, Fajardo said. Bond payment would block
the plaintiffs’ ability to enforce the judgment elsewhere
pending the outcome of a further appeal by Chevron to the
country’s highest court, he said. The bond should be at least $3
billion, Fajardo said; the amount is up to the appeals court.  ‘Glaring Example’  The “decision is another glaring example of the
politicization and corruption of  Ecuador ’s judiciary that has
plagued this fraudulent case from the start,” Chevron said in
yesterday’s statement. The company “does not believe that the
Ecuador ruling is enforceable in any court that observes the
rule of law.”  The appeals court ratified the February ruling “in all of
its parts, including the conviction for moral reparation or its
alternative and costs,” according to the decision.  Chevron is still reviewing the ruling and hasn’t decided
what it will do next, Kent Robertson, a spokesman for the
company, said yesterday in a phone interview. He said the
company “has a procedural right to seek clarification and
amplification from the court that issued this ruling.”  Chevron’s Options  Chevron can also appeal the decision to the next level of
Ecuador’s judiciary, Robertson said.  Karen Hinton , a spokeswoman for lawyers representing the
Ecuador residents who sued Chevron, said in an e-mailed
statement, “The decision by an independent appellate court is
yet further confirmation of Chevron’s extraordinary greed and
criminal misconduct in Ecuador.”  Chevron filed a claim in 2009 against Ecuador in the
Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague seeking orders that
it has no liability for the environmental pollution and that
PetroEcuador, the state-owned  oil company  that took over the
site, should pay the damage award. In those proceedings, Ecuador
was told in February to prevent enforcement of the judgment
until further order by the tribunal, Chevron said yesterday.  ‘Not Good’  In September, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York
overturned a lower-court decision blocking enforcement of the
award by the court in Ecuador.  “This is not good for Chevron, although it was expected,”
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a phone
interview today. “Chevron will exhaust all legal options, which
could drag for years.”  Gheit said that he expected Chevron to eventually pay $2
billion to $3 billion.  “We are going to have to watch this play out through the
international court system and the U.S. court system,” Brian Youngberg, an Edward Jones analyst in  St. Louis , said in a phone
interview.  “It is going to be dragged out,” said Youngberg, who
rates Chevron shares a “buy” and doesn’t own any.  ‘Very Content’  Investors still expect the ultimate outcome won’t “cost
the company,” Youngberg said. “There is really very little
that Ecuador can go after in the country and Chevron doesn’t
really have any material assets there.”  Hinton said that the plaintiffs will seek to enforce the
judgment in countries where Chevron has assets.  Ecuador President  Rafael Correa  said he was “very
content” with the ruling.  “I believe justice has been done,” Correa said on public
radio station Radio Publica. “More or less it’s like David
versus Goliath.”  Chevron fell 16 cents to $110.21 at 3 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  