-- China Telecom May Expand to France, Germany After U.K.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-05T01:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-telecom-to-start-first-u-k-mobile-virtual-network.html
China Telecommunications Corp. (728) , the
nation’s largest fixed-line phone company, plans to expand into
more European markets after starting its first overseas wireless
service in the U.K.  The service, aimed at Chinese residents, will begin in the
U.K. by the end of March and expand to Germany and  France  if
it’s successful, Ou Yan, managing director for  China  Telecom
 Europe , said in an e-mail yesterday. There are 2 million Chinese
living in western Europe, Liu Changhai, the China Telecom
executive responsible for regional development, said yesterday.  In the U.K., China Telecom will target the more than half a
million Chinese citizens living in the country and the tourists
that will flock to the Olympic Games in  London  in June. In
China, intensifying competition has led companies including
 China United Network Communications Group Co. (CHTZ)  to cut
international roaming fees by as much as 90 percent.  “Our target customers are the Chinese communities,” Liu
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We are exploring a
new market.”  London-based China Telecom Europe is a subsidiary of the
state-owned parent company and isn’t part of publicly traded
China Telecom Corp., said Jacky Yung, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for the listed unit.  The U.K. service will run on the network of Everything
Everywhere, the joint venture between  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the company said yesterday. The company
will become the first Chinese operator to start a mobile virtual
network outside China, Liu said.  Roaming Rates  Setting up a mobile virtual network will help China
Telecom, the nation’s third-largest wireless carrier, compete on
international roaming rates with China United, according to Neil Juggins, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI Asia Research Ltd.  China Telecom will lease capacity from Everything
Everywhere. It also held talks with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
wholesale business, people familiar with the matter said in
September.  China Telecom signed a strategic agreement with  France
Telecom  in October to provide services for business customers
across each other’s networks.  China Telecom’s wireless service ranks behind  China Mobile
Ltd. (941)  and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. in the world’s largest
mobile market by users. China had 975 million mobile subscribers
at the end of November, according to the Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  