-- China Says Local Governments Clear Up Some Debt Irregularities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T18:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-governments-clear-up-almost-half-of-debt-irregularities.html
China ’s audit office said local
governments have cleared up almost half the 531 billion yuan
($84 billion) of debt on their books that an investigation found
to have irregularities.  Local governments and the companies they set up to borrow
money have so far resolved 259 billion yuan of their bad debt
with measures including land sales and the offer of new
collateral, according to data released yesterday on the National
Audit Office’s website.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged last year to clean up surging
debt by local governments after an audit office investigation
found they had amassed 10.7 trillion yuan of debt by the end of
2010. Shares of Chinese banks have slumped on concern some of
the debt will sour as economic growth slows, leaving them
saddled with bad loans.  Local governments have taken responsibility for repaying
debts, set up reserve funds, improved the stock of debt, and
“actively corrected violations” the audit office said.  Barred since 1994 from issuing bonds and directly obtaining
bank loans, local authorities formed more than 6,500 financing
vehicles to fund the construction of roads, sewage plants and
subways, according to audit office figures. The central
government allowed  Shanghai , Shenzhen, Zhejiang and Guangdong
last year to issue bonds independently in a trial program to
help them access cheaper funding.  The audit office’s report yesterday said its investigation
found instances of funds being obtained improperly or diverted
to the capital and property markets.  Unauthorized Collateral  A total of 35.1 billion yuan was invested in the  capital
markets , real estate, or in energy intensive projects, it said.
Of that figure, 14 billion yuan has been rectified through
measures including the use of local governments’ own money, it
said.  In addition, 23 billion yuan out of 73.2 billion yuan of
debt obtained by the local governments’ financing vehicles
through the unauthorized use of assets as collateral has been
cleared up by means including increased land sales and the
provision of other collateral, the office said.  Five commercial banks were found to have been involved in
lending to “irregular” projects and the misappropriation of
loans totaling 58 billion yuan, the audit office said, without
identifying the lenders.  Seven provincial governments have drawn up or improved
rules to manage the debts of financing vehicles, the report
said, without specifying which authorities.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  