-- China to Hold Finance Work Meeting From Jan. 6, Business Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T04:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-to-hold-finance-work-meeting-from-jan-6-business-reports.html
China will hold its fourth national
financial work conference on Jan. 6 to discuss issues including
banks’ capital-replenishment mechanisms,  China Business News 
reported, without saying where it got the information.  To prepare for the meeting, 20 government ministries and
financial regulators started early in 2010 to study 15 key
issues that also included the prevention of systemic financial
risks, the management of state-owned financial assets and the
supervision of “too-big-to-fail” financial institutions, the
Chinese-language newspaper reported today on its website.  The authorities held three such meetings in 1997, 2002 and
2007, all of which set the tone for major financial reforms that
were started afterwards, the newspaper said. This year’s meeting
was originally scheduled for 2010, the report said without
specifying reasons for the delay.  Officials will only discuss 10 issues at this year’s
meeting, which will end on Jan. 7,  Caixin Online  reported on Dec.
25, citing unidentified people. A proposal to set up a committee
to oversee the nation’s state-owned financial assets had been
shelved due to lack of consensus among government agencies, the
report said.  The State Council has approved a draft plan to set up a
state-owned assets supervision and administration commission for
the financial sector, the China Times reported on Dec. 12,
without saying where it got the information. Li Yong, a vice
minister of finance, was recommended as chairman of the
commission.  Beijing-based press officials at China Banking Regulatory
Commission and China Insurance Regulatory Commissions declined
to comment. A phone call to the China Securities Regulatory
Commission went unanswered.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  