-- China’s Home Prices Slide Amid Speculation of Reserve Ratio Cut: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T08:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-home-prices-fell-for-fourth-month-in-december-on-curbs-soufun-says.html
China ’s home prices fell for a fourth
month in December after the government reiterated plans to
maintain property curbs, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Residential prices dropped 0.25 percent last month from
November, said SouFun, the nation’s biggest real estate website
owner. Prices slid in 60 out of 100 cities tracked by the
company, including all of the country’s 10 biggest cities such
as Shanghai and Beijing, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  The government said last month at an annual economic
planning meeting that it won’t back away from real-estate
industry curbs this year that are damping home sales and pulling
down prices. The nation’s financial center of Shanghai and some
other Chinese cities have also said they will continue to impose
the home purchase restrictions this year.  “ Home prices  extended the downward falling tendency, but
didn’t fall aggressively, because many developers have already
achieved sales targets,” said Peter Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-
based property analyst at China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank. “Property is likely to be
the last sector that the government will relax policies this
year.”  Average home values nationwide climbed 2.9 percent in
December from the same month in 2010 to 8,809 yuan a square
meter (10.76 square feet), the slowest year-on-year growth since
August, SouFun said.  Evergrande, China Vanke   Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s second-biggest
developer, said last month sales rose to 79.1 billion yuan
($12.6 billion) in the first 11 months, exceeding the 2011
target by 11 percent. Sales of  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest by
market value, stood above 100 billion yuan for a second year in
2011, according to the company.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , in a two-day trip to  Hunan
province  yesterday, said business conditions may be “relatively
difficult” this quarter and monetary policy will be fine-tuned
as needed.  China may avoid a hard landing of its  property market 
because of sustained high economic growth potential and a
sufficiently solid financial foundation, the state newspaper
Peoples’ Daily reported today citing researchers from a
government think tank.  “It’s actually very hard to tell whether China’s property
market will succeed a soft landing,” said China International’s
Bai, who expects home prices to bottom as early as in the third
quarter.  The government has said it will continue to increase the
supply of social housing. It plans to start the construction of
7 million homes this year, compared with 10 million in 2011. The
completion will at least keep pace with last year’s 5 million
units, People’s Daily reported today, citing Feng Jun, a housing
ministry official.  Price cuts will “steepen and spread” from major to
smaller cities in China in the coming months as developers
“strive to maintain a decent sell-through rate,” HSBC
Securities Asia Ltd. analysts led by Derek Kwong said in a
report today.  A  gauge (SHPROP)  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai  stock
exchange slipped 1.4 percent at the 3 p.m. local close, in line
with the decline in the benchmark.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  