-- China Cuts TV Entertainment Shows That Contradict Communist Party’s Dogma
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T06:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-cuts-television-programs-that-contradict-hu-s-party-line.html
China ’s government said broadcasters
must cut the number of entertainment shows during prime time by
more than two-thirds, culling a format that exposed a widening
 wealth gap (DFIGCN)  that contradicts the Communist Party’s core dogma.  The total number of entertainment shows, including dating
programs, game shows, talk shows and “emotional stories”
airing from 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. was cut to 38 as of Jan. 1,
from 126 at the end of last year, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported late yesterday, citing the State Administration
of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT.  China announced the plan in October as part of a broader
effort by the Communist Party’s  Central Committee  to assert more
control of the media and Internet as it grapples with rising
social unrest over  work conditions  and government corruption.
Reality TV can undermine the party’s line that China is becoming
more “harmonious,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor
of history at Chinese University of  Hong Kong .  “In the eye of the commissar, such dramas or shows tend to
spotlight socioeconomic ills, and exacerbate ordinary folks’
feelings of inadequacy and unhappiness,” Lam said. “The CCP
wants to nurture a society of decreasing contradictions and
increasing happiness.”  Harmonious Society  Promoting a “harmonious society” where riots, strikes,
and corruption decline and happiness and stability increase is a
key theme of President Hu Jintao’s decade-long tenure as China’s
top leader. Hu is due to step down from his post of Communist
Party General Secretary late this year with Vice President  Xi
Jinping  in line to succeed him as head of the party that has
ruled China since 1949.  The prime-time entertainment shows, viewed by millions of
Chinese both inside and outside of the country, often highlight
unhappiness, materialism and disharmony. A dating show “If You
Are The One” cited a woman saying she would rather cry in a BMW
after a male contestant offered her a ride on a bicycle. The
show made some changes after being told by censors to tone down
its programing, the New York Times reported Dec. 31.  Another program, “Snail Dwelling,” portrayed a fictional
urban couple’s efforts to buy  an apartment (CHRCCLIM) . One episode featured
a Communist Party official offering an envelope of cash to a
young woman to help with her sister’s down payment, and she
later becomes his mistress. The show was one of the most popular
in China in 2009.  Low Taste  The move to curb such programs is aimed at reducing what
SARFT called “excessive entertainment” and shows of “low
taste,” Xinhua reported. Channels must also broadcast at least
two 30-minute news programs between 6 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.,
Xinhua said. “If You Are the One,” produced by Jiangsu
Satellite TV, will continue, Xinhua reported, citing the SARFT
statement.  The Communist Party’s push to reassert control in
entertainment and the Internet also seeks to curb the influence
of foreign influences on Chinese culture.  “International forces are trying to Westernize and divide
us by using ideology and culture,” Hu said in an October speech
that was reprinted as a signed essay in Qiushi, a party
magazine, and published on the government’s website on Jan. 1.
“We need to realize this and be alert to this danger.”  Competitive Advantage  In a globalized world in which people are exposed to many
ideologies and values, the country with the most cultural
influence will gain a competitive advantage, Hu wrote.  The moves come as the Communist Party is seeking to
alleviate social unrest amid concerns protests over widening
inequality could undermine its grip on power. So-called mass
incidents, including strikes, riots and other disturbances,
doubled to at least 180,000 in 2010 from 2006, according to Sun
Liping, a sociology professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  China’s Gini coefficient, an income-distribution gauge used
by economists, has climbed to near 0.5 from less than 0.3 a
quarter century ago, according to Li Shi, a professor of
economics at the School of Economics and Business at Beijing
Normal University. The measure ranges from 0 to 1, and the 0.4
mark is used as a predictor by analysts for social unrest.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  