-- China’s ‘Demographic Tsunami’ Begins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/china-no-country-for-old-men-as-demographic-tsunami-begins.html
Wang Fuchuan lies in bed wearing a
quilted black jacket, with two comforters pulled up to his chin
to keep out the chilly November air. The heating at  Beijing
Songtang Caring Hospice  is broken and the 90-year-old’s nostrils
are stuffed with toilet paper to stop them dripping.  Cockroaches scurry across the floor of his room, which has
no running water or toilet. His possessions, a few articles of
clothing, are in a plastic bag under his bed next to a pink wash
bowl with a sliver of soap. His only entertainment is a
transistor radio.  Wang counts himself lucky. While he has no family or
savings, he fought against the Japanese and Kuomintang in the
1940s, so the government pays the clinic’s monthly fee of 2,000
yuan ($318). His 200-yuan pension buys food.  “A lot of people my age can’t afford to be here,” Wang
says. “The food isn’t too good, but I have nothing else to
complain about.”  Wang is in the vanguard of a looming demographic shift for
 China , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Jan. 9 issue. The
latest government census shows 178 million Chinese were over 60
in 2009. That figure could reach 437 million -- one third of the
population -- by 2050, the United Nations forecasts. While the
elderly were looked after in the past by their children,
urbanization and the nation’s one-child policy have eroded the
tradition of family care.  “It’s a demographic tsunami,” says Joseph J. Christian, a
fellow at the Asia Center at the  Harvard Kennedy School , and
former DLA Piper partner in Hong Kong, who specializes in senior
housing issues in China. “The whole multi­generational housing
model has disappeared.”  Japan’s Shadow  China’s challenge is similar to that faced by  Japan  in the
1990s, with one essential difference: China will grow old before
it gets rich. With tens of millions of parents left to fend for
themselves, the government set up a  National Committee on Aging 
to try to devise a comprehensive  strategy (CHGE7)  to ensure their health
and comfort.  The latest five-year plan still gives families primary
responsibility for elderly care. Even so, the government is
looking to the private sector, nongovernmental organizations,
and local communities for a more sustainable solution. So far
only a handful of companies provide service comparable to the
West, and even care like the kind offered by the clinic where
Wang Fuchuan lives is relatively rare.  “Elderly health care is in its infancy” in China, says
Ninie Wang, founder of Beijing-based  Pinetree Senior Care
Services , which employs 500 nurses providing in-home support to
20,000 seniors in Beijing.  Too Few Beds  China has about 38,000 institutions serving the elderly
with 2.7 million beds, enough for about 1.6 percent of the
population over 60, according to the  World Bank . That compares
with about 8 percent in developed countries, the bank says.  Some homes are fully staffed government clinics for senior
officials or private hospitals catering to the new urban elite.
Most are boarding houses with few medical facilities, mainly in
large cities. In towns and villages, the situation is far worse.  “If we can’t help people in Beijing, you can forget about
any opportunities for helping the rural old people,” says Jing
Jun, a professor of anthropology at  Tsinghua University .  A 2009 survey of 140 nursing homes in the eastern city of
Nanjing by a group of Chinese academics found that fewer than a
third employed a doctor or a nurse. Most of the staff were
unskilled rural migrant workers with minimal training.  “The goal at these homes is subsistence for residents
whose children can’t take care of them,” says Zhanlian Feng, a
gerontologist at  Brown University  who wrote a paper based on the
survey in the Journal of the  American Geriatrics Society . Many
clinics refuse people who require full-time nursing. Others may
force out residents once they become too needy, he says.  Open to Abuse  There are no industry standards and little government
oversight, much like the U.S. decades ago when the system was
open to abuse, Feng says. In August, the state-run China Daily
newspaper carried a  report  about a man in Anhui province who
discovered that staff at a local nursing home tied his father’s
hands to his bed for 11 hours a night.  At the other end of the spectrum, the facilities and care
rival many establishments in the West.  On a recent Friday at  Cherish-Yearn , a complex on the
outskirts of  Shanghai  with apartments for 1,600 seniors, silver-
haired couples shuffled to the strains of “Never on Sunday” in
the dance hall. In activity rooms nearby, others tried
calligraphy, computer games, and traditional ink painting.
Outside, there’s a miniature putting green.  Medical Facilities  It wasn’t dance classes, golf, or even the on-site
financial advice that prompted Luo Zhong Bao, 78, and his wife
to sell their apartment and move to Cherish-Yearn three years
ago. It was the medical facilities that offered peace of mind to
their four children.  “They work and have no time,” Luo says. “The hospital
here is good, and they don’t have to worry about anything.”  A handful of foreign companies are jumping into the
business.  China Senior Care , a venture with U.S. backers, is
building a 64-bed assisted-living center in Hangzhou aimed at
Chinese who can afford to pay more than 30,000 yuan per month.
Right at Home, an Omaha company that  introduced  home-care
franchises to China in June, aims to open dozens of affiliates
by 2017. The company charges about 100 yuan per hour of service
from caregivers trained in everything from vacuuming to CPR.  No Time  “I don’t want to be a burden,” says Du Li, an 85-year-old
former government accountant in Beijing with a daughter and son
living in the city. While she’s fit enough to climb four flights
of stairs twice a day to her three-bedroom apartment in the
leafy Sanlitun district, she’s grateful for the massages and
help with chores that her Right at Home caregiver offers.  “I don’t think my children have enough time,” Du says.
With her caregiver, “Life is more colorful. I have a
companion.”  Few of China’s growing ranks of elderly can afford those
services. “International players are looking for high-net-worth
clients,” says Mark Spitalnik, founder of China Senior Care.
“The true problem for the government is people who don’t have
money.”  China’s economic growth has given it the financial muscle
to provide for the growing number of elderly and the government
has been rapidly introducing pensions and health-care plans for
farmers and city-dwellers, said Li Zhihong, research department
director at the National Committee on Aging.  Wealth Care  “The aging of the population will be an issue in China
that runs through the 21st century,” said Li in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The Chinese government has all the
financial capabilities and capacity to protect the basic needs
of the elderly.”  Not everyone is convinced the government’s efforts will
succeed. In a 20 square meter (215 square feet) apartment
without heating or an indoor toilet in one of Shanghai’s few
remaining old neighborhoods, 81-year-old Luo Jinxiang says his
pension barely covers food and medication for his diabetes and
the occasional visit to a local clinic.  “Do you really believe that the government cares for us?”
he asks with a wry smile. “Don’t think about it too much. That
is the way the country runs.”  --Frederik Balfour and  Alfred Cang . With assistance by Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong . Editors: David Rocks, Chris Power, Adam Majendie.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  