-- Citigroup Sues Hedge-Fund Manager Rajaraman in Singapore Over Gold Losses
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-04T02:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/citigroup-sues-singapore-hedge-fund-manager.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s  Singapore  unit sued
Hong Kong-based hedge  fund manager  Raghavendran Rajaraman,
seeking to recoup $1.03 million in trading losses the bank says
he incurred after gold fell from a record high in September.  Rajaraman had $19.2 million worth of gold in his account on
Sept. 23 which the bank sold, along with other collateral, on
Sept. 26 “in the face of a rapidly deteriorating market,”
leaving a $1 million shortfall, according to a Nov. 18 lawsuit
filed with the Singapore High Court. The first closed hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 27.  Gold plunged 11 percent in September, the most since
October 2008, after futures reached a record $1,923.70 an ounce
on Sept. 6. The bank liquidated Rajaraman’s account after it
reached a so-called forced sell level and got his authorization,
according to court papers. Gold for February delivery in  New
York  was at $1601.30 an ounce at 9:55 a.m. Singapore time.  Rajaraman works with hedge fund 3 Degrees Asset Management
and was a currency options trader with Citigroup in Singapore
until 2007, according to the lawsuit.  He hasn’t filed his defense and didn’t return three calls
to his mobile-phone.  Richard Healy , Rajaraman’s lawyer at
Oldham, Li & Nie, declined to comment.  “We intend to pursue the case and it’s inappropriate for
us to comment further,” said Citigroup’s Singapore-based
spokesman Adam Abdur Rahman.  3 Degrees Plan  Rajaraman isn’t a 3 Degrees employee, Moe Ibrahim, founder
of the hedge fund, said in a phone interview. “There was a plan
to launch a fund together but it never came to fruition,”
Ibrahim said.  Citigroup breached its agreement by closing his account
without prior notice, according to an Oct. 7 letter from Oldham,
Li & Nie to the bank’s lawyers including  William Ong  at Allen &
Gledhill LLP.  “As a direct consequence of the bank’s breach,” Rajaraman
suffered a $1.7 million loss, representing his collateral,
according to the letter. He incurred a further $1.03 million
loss as the bank prematurely liquidated the account instead of
waiting for 24 hours after the account reached the force-sell
level, Rajaraman’s lawyers said in the letter.  The case is Citibank Singapore Ltd. v Raghavendran
Rajaraman S826/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  