-- Clarke Hits Career-Best 251 Against India as Ponting Ends Century Drought
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-04T09:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/clarke-s-103-ponting-s-97-give-australia-45-run-lead-over-india-in-test.html
Australia  captain  Michael Clarke  hit
a career-best 251 not out and predecessor  Ricky Ponting  ended a
two-year century drought to lift their team to a 291-run first-
innings lead over India in the second cricket Test.  Clarke batted through the second day to amass the highest
score by an Australian at the Sydney Cricket Ground, with  Mike Hussey  55 not out at stumps. Ponting made 134 after earlier
scampering a single for his first century in 34 Test innings.  Clarke and Ponting, who resumed today with the total at
116-3, shared a record 288-run partnership to help Australia
rack up 482-4 in reply to India’s 191 as the home team seeks a
2-0 lead in the best-of-four contest.  “It’s a nice start to 2012,” Clarke told reporters. “The
team is in a wonderful position at the moment, but the wicket
has flattened out a lot so the most important thing for us is
making sure there is enough time in the game to give ourselves a
chance to bowl  India  out. We’re a long way from being 2-0 up.”  The fourth-wicket stand by Clarke and Ponting, which began
with their team struggling at 37-3 yesterday, was Australia’s
highest partnership in elite Tests against India, eclipsing the
239 by Ponting and Steve Waugh in Adelaide in 1999.  The stand ended four overs before tea when Ponting, 37, cut
an Ishant Sharma delivery to  Sachin Tendulkar  at point.  First Double-Century  Clarke then shared an unbroken 157-run stand with Hussey,
receiving his second standing ovation of the day when he brought
up his first double-century in 78 Test matches. He struck two
consecutive boundaries to pass Doug Walters’s Australian-record
score of 242 at the SCG, which is staging its 100th Test match
this week.  “It’s fantastic to have a score like I do but if you don’t
win the Test match it means nothing,” added Clarke, who struck
31 fours and a six in his unbeaten 342-ball innings. “What
makes me proud is that I batted the whole day.”  The 30-year-old Clarke earlier reached three figures in the
last over before the lunch break, bringing up his 18th Test
century by driving Ishant to the boundary off the first ball.  Clarke kissed his helmet and waved his bat in the air after
scoring his fourth Test century since taking over as captain in
March. He then kept the strike for the rest of the over, leaving
Ponting on 97 and having to wait 40 minutes for the chance to
score a hundred for the first time since hitting 209 against
 Pakistan  in mid-January 2010.  Century Scramble  Ponting clipped two runs off  Zaheer Khan  to move to 99 and
reached his 40th Test century 14 balls later with a single.
Television replays showed a direct hit from Zaheer’s throw from
mid-on would have run out the diving Ponting.  After picking himself up from the turf and dusting himself
down, Ponting raised both arms above his soiled torso to a
standing ovation from the crowd at the SCG.  “I know that I was probably out by two yards if the ball
hit the stumps,” Ponting, who struck 14 fours in his 225-ball
innings, told reporters. “I got up and my shirt was pretty much
destroyed, my grill was pressed against my face and I was
spitting out bits of the wicket so I could try and smile.”  Clarke and Ponting had come together yesterday after fast
bowlers took all 13 wickets to fall on the opening day.  James Pattinson  led Australia with figures of 4-43, while
 Ben Hilfenhaus  and  Peter Siddle  each took three wickets as India
failed to reach 200 for the second straight innings after
slumping to 169 all out in the series opener in  Melbourne .  Australia won the first match by 122 runs to end an eight-
Test winless streak against India going back to January 2008.  India, which holds the Border-Gavaskar Trophy contested by
the teams after winning its last two home Test series against
the Australians, has never won a series in Australia since it
began touring there in 1947.  “We all felt it was important to repay the bowlers after
they bowled so well,” said Ponting. “We’re setting this game
up nicely at the moment and hopefully we can have another good
day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  