-- Copper Falls Most in Three Weeks on European Economic Concerns
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-01-04T19:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/copper-falls-as-societe-generale-says-prices-may-drop-almost-10-.html
Copper futures fell the most in three
weeks as signs of faltering European manufacturing and service
industries fueled concern that demand for industrial metals will
ebb.  Output  contracted (ECPMICOU)  in December for a fourth month in nations
that use the euro,  Markit Economics  said in a report. European
equities dropped from a five-month high as UniCredit SpA’s 7.5
billion-euro ($9.8 billion) share sale increased concern that
banks will need to raise more capital to weather the region’s
debt crisis.  “It is not easy to find positives for now,” Societe
Generale SA analysts including Ahmed Behdenna in  London  said in
a report. The euro zone is in a recession, the U.S. will reach a
“cyclical peak” in the current quarter, and growth is “sub-
normative” in  emerging markets , they said.  Copper futures for March delivery declined 2.7 percent to
close at $3.4345 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Dec. 14. The
metal gained 4.8 percent in the previous three sessions.  The euro touched $1.2898, approaching an 11-year low.  “Copper is down as investors reassess the major upside
moves in equities and base metals yesterday,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a market strategist at Archer Financial Services
Inc. in Chicago, said in an e-mail. “Seeing the euro back below
the critical $1.30 level leads to a ‘risk-off’ scenario.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 3.2 percent to $7,540 a metric ton ($3.42 a pound).  Lead, tin, zinc, aluminum and nickel also dropped in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  