-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb From About Two-Month Low
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-04T22:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-from-almost-lowest-in-2-months.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk climbed from about a two-month low on concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is harming the region’s banks.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 118.6 basis points at
5:19 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Credit-
default swaps on  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  jumped to a record after a
report that the imaging company may be preparing for a
bankruptcy filing.  The swaps gauge, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, increased as
much as 2.4 basis points after  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s plan to sell
shares stoked speculation that European financial institutions
will need to raise more capital. The  European Central Bank  said
overnight deposits from financial institutions rose to an all-
time high of 453.2 billion euros ($585.7 billion) yesterday,
underscoring banks’ reluctance to lend to each other.  UniCredit’s equity offering “highlighted” a need and
ability to access capital for banks in Europe,  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview
today. “Does that come back to haunt any financial institutions
in the U.S.?”  The index reached 117.6 basis points yesterday, the lowest
level since Oct. 31. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Record Protection  One-year credit-default swaps tied to Kodak’s debt surged
to a record, jumping 8.2 percentage points to 66.2 percent
upfront, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That means the upfront cost on a contract protecting $10
million of Kodak’s debt would be $6.62 million.  Rochester, New York-based Kodak, which lost 88 percent of
its market value last year, is preparing for a bankruptcy filing
this month or early February should its effort to sell patents
fail, the Wall Street Journal reported today, citing people
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  