-- A Crisis of Leadership, Not a Crisis of Capitalism: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-01-04T00:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/crisis-of-leadership-not-crisis-of-capitalism-commentary-by-clive-crook.html
With the world’s rich economies
struggling and the leaders of the European Union intent on
making things worse, the gravity of the economic crisis still
confronting the West is hard to exaggerate. Nonetheless, it can
be done.  According to what I read, we face not just the worst
recession since the 1930s, but a challenge to the West’s entire
economic order. The Great Recession exposes the poverty of
orthodox economics. It constitutes an ideological crisis. It
shows that capitalism itself is “fundamentally” flawed. If all
this were true, I’d be a lot more worried about the coming year
than I am -- which is saying something.  A new year’s corrective is in order. Reports of the death
of capitalism are greatly exaggerated.  What’s surprising is just how wrong those reports have
been. Perhaps, as I write, the revolutionaries are organizing in
secret, but I see no signs of a popular uprising. Please don’t
say Occupy  Wall Street , that risible stirring of the perpetually
discontented whose principal goal seems to be “a general
assembly in every backyard, on every street corner” (not all at
once, I assume). It is a movement, if you can call it that,
without an agenda, and as soon as it tries to get one, if not
before, it will sputter out.  Where’s the Left?  Where, meanwhile, is the revival of the organized Left?
America’s Democrats are not exactly riding a surge of support.
They are worried that Republicans -- who brought the country to
the brink of default last summer, and whose contest for the
presidential nomination has shown their party at its most
shambolic -- might regain control of the Senate and send Barack Obama packing. Recent Gallup polls show a fall to barely  41
percent  in the number of Americans who see their county as
divided into “haves” and “have-nots.” Some  64 percent  of
Americans -- and 48 percent of Democrats -- see “big
government” as a greater threat to the country than “big
business,” a number near record levels.  Across most of  Europe , left-leaning parties are in retreat.
The rule of thumb seems to be: The worse the economic mess, the
bigger the thrashing that voters hand out to the Left. The
latest instance is  Spain (SPNAGDPY) , where the ruling Socialists have just
suffered their worst electoral defeat since the death of Franco
in 1975.  I grant you, this trend is partly a matter of incumbents
getting the boot in bad times. Voters in America and Europe may
be wrong to blame their socialist, formerly socialist or tepidly
anti-capitalist parties (as the case may be) for the recessions
they are suffering -- but the rightward shift of electorates
since 2008 rather casts doubt on the idea that capitalism is
suffering a crisis of confidence. Where is the demand for a
bigger state, for industries to be taken into public ownership,
for domestic producers to be sheltered and imports blocked?
Surging support for protectionist trade policies was widely
predicted as the slump began. It hasn’t materialized.  This could change. The crisis, as I say, isn’t over. But
what is already the worst recession in seven decades hasn’t
destroyed or even much disturbed popular support for actually
existing capitalism -- by which I mean mixed-economy capitalism,
based on markets, profit-seeking and competition plus a good
strong dose of state intervention. Many countries have seen a
collapse of confidence in their political leaders, but not in
the prevailing economic order.  In this respect, by the way, popular opinion is exactly
right. It’s frivolous to argue that actually existing capitalism
is fundamentally flawed unless you compare it to relevant
alternatives. There are no relevant alternatives.  Choosing Capitalism  Cuba and  North Korea  leave a lot to be desired, don’t you
think? Bolivarianism, the school of  Hugo Chavez , lacks instant
appeal.  China  has opted for mixed-economy capitalism, and has
posted decades of miraculous growth as a result.  India  has done
the same. The global recession that started in 2009 wasn’t
really global at all: For billions of people outside Europe and
 North America , it was capitalism as usual -- still delivering
history’s fastest-ever improvement in  living standards .  Of course, there are varieties of capitalism, and choices
to be made. Among rich countries, the American version stands at
one extreme, parts of Europe at the other. Capitalism in America
is not the same as capitalism in, say, Sweden or  Canada  (both of
which, by the way, are currently led by center-right pro-market
governments). But the differences aren’t fundamental.
Disagreements about state provision of health care and other
benefits are important, to be sure, but fall well within the
scope of the prevailing, almost-universal and still-unchallenged
ideology.  Suppose, for the sake of argument, that I’m right and
actually existing capitalism isn’t going away. Is there
nonetheless a crisis of confidence in orthodox economics? A much
smaller claim -- laughably small, you might say -- but I
question even this. Proponents of this cliche are dealing mostly
in straw men.  Orthodox economics, according to recent reports, says
markets are always right. Really? The economics I was taught is
more or less obsessed with externalities, imperfect competition
and other forms of market failure, and the policies needed to
correct them.  Orthodox economics, according to its critics, says
investors are rational and prices embody all information, so
bubbles are impossible and the crash we just experienced never
happened. What nonsense. Orthodox economics does teach that
bubbles are difficult to spot in advance (which they are) and
that it is hard to consistently make money by betting against
the market (which it is). No economist ever denied that people
make mistakes, or that markets boom and then crash.  Behavioral Economics  The field known as behavioral economics, which explores
patterns in mistakes and not-quite-rational decisions, went
mainstream in the 1990s, long before the Great Recession. You
could argue that it is already part of orthodox economics. It’s
fascinating -- “ Thinking, Fast and Slow ” by  Daniel Kahneman , a
pioneer of the field, was the most interesting book I read in
2011 -- but how much it might change core beliefs about the way
capitalism works remains to be seen. So far, it has been useful
in designing more effective savings plans (let people opt out
instead of opt in) and faculty dining rooms (make the fresh
fruit easier to reach than the pastries). It’s too soon to call
this a paradigm shift.  The recession made plain the need for better, and in many
cases stricter, financial regulation. It highlighted the
weakness of economics in designing public policy and addressing
questions of fairness and burden-sharing. But here’s a surprise:
For the 99 percent, ideologically speaking, the only serious
framework for discussing any of these topics is orthodox
economics. Whether you are a critic or a champion of American-
style capitalism, you turn to the same literature and the same
basic ideas to make your case.  Capitalism comes in many forms -- and orthodox economics
encompasses them all. Heaven knows, we have a lot to learn and
lot to put right, but this is not an ideological crisis. The
West needs an intellectual revolution about as much as it needs
a dictatorship of the proletariat.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 