-- Croatians Seen Supporting EU Membership in Jan. 22 Referendum
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-01-04T13:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/croatians-seen-supporting-eu-membership-in-jan-22-referendum.html
Croatians probably will support next
year’s planned  European Union  entry as the new government
campaigns to persuade voters to back the plan, polling company
 IPSOS-Puls  said.  Sixty-percent of those likely to take part in the Jan. 22
referendum said they would back membership in a December survey,
compared with 61 percent in November, IPSO-Puls researcher Mirna
Cvitan said today in Zagreb. About 82 percent of respondents
said they would participate. Overall, support for EU entry
slipped to 51 percent from 54 percent in the previous month.  Croatia plans to be the second former Yugoslav nation to
join the Brussels-based union after neighboring Slovenia to help
it attract investment and bring an economy still bordering on
recession closer to western  Europe . Opponents argue entry would
weaken Croatian’s national interests at a time when the EU is
struggling with the effect of its own debt crisis.  “The results remain favorable for EU entry, especially as
supporters of the entry seem to be more motivated to vote at the
referendum,” said Cvitan. “But we cannot with certainty say
that Croats will vote to join the bloc.  The strongest overall support was recorded in June 2003,
when 82 percent said they favored the EU, Cvitan said. In 2011,
the highest support was recorded in November at 54 percent, and
the lowest in March, at 45 percent.  Croatia accession also needs to be ratified by the
parliaments of all 27 current member states.  The survey of 950 people of voting age was carried out from
Dec. 1 to Dec. 20 and has a margin of error of 3.3 percent. The
next IPSOS-Puls poll on the referendum is expected in the week
beginning Jan. 15, Cvitan said.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  