-- Cuomo Seeks to Revamp New York Agencies
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/cuomo-buoyed-by-record-ratings-seeks-to-revamp-new-york-agencies.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
riding record approval ratings, may use his second year to
consolidate agencies, raise the  retirement age  for new workers
and lower costs for local governments as he closes a $2 billion
budget gap.  The 54-year-old first-term Democrat has discussed his goals
for the year, though not specific legislation, in a series of
public appearances and interviews during the past month. Today,
he plans to outline his 2012 agenda in his State of the State
speech in Albany, the capital.  “He’ll talk about the success of Year One,” said  Steve Greenberg , a pollster for Siena College in Loudonville, New
York. “He’ll outline the budget in broad terms and discuss
everything in the context of creating jobs and improving the
economy.”  In his first year, Cuomo erased a $10 billion deficit, got
 New York ’s two biggest government-worker unions to agree to pay
freezes and furloughs, instituted a property-tax cap and pushed
through a bill legalizing same-sex marriage in the third-most-
populous state. In December, the Legislature passed a Cuomo-
endorsed tax package that raised rates on those earning $2
million or more, and cut them for the middle class.  A  poll  by  Quinnipiac University  conducted after the tax
changes put Cuomo’s approval rating at 68 percent, two
percentage points higher than the record set in July 2002 by
Republican Governor  George Pataki , the university said.  “He’s absolutely the most successful governor in his first
year in recent memory,” Greenberg said.  Halfway There  The extra revenue from the new tax brackets cut the
estimated fiscal 2013 deficit to $2 billion from $3.5 billion,
leading the governor to say “the budget is 50 percent done,”
at a press conference in Albany after the Senate approved the
measure.  Cuomo, whose father, Mario, served three terms as governor,
has said he now may turn his attention to streamlining the
government.  “Next year, I’m going to shift to more of an operational
front,” he said during a Dec. 16 interview on former Governor
 David Paterson ’s show on WOR radio in  New York City . “The whole
system was designed at a different time and a different place,
and it needs serious reorganization.”  Cuomo  convened  the 20-member Spending and Government
Efficiency Commission in April to find ways to consolidate
agencies. In a report released last month, the panel recommended
that the state centralize procurement, debt collection and human
resources to save almost $600 million over five years.  Union Opposition  The  Public Employees Federation , the state’s second-biggest
government-worker union, isn’t convinced the so-called SAGE plan
will create savings, President Ken Brynien said in a statement
e-mailed when the report was released.  The commission’s findings lacked details, “opening the
door to increased patronage and cronyism” because the proposals
could lead the state to rely more on private contractors,
Brynien said.  Cuomo also won’t find help from unions when it comes to
overhauling the state pension, which he has repeatedly described
as a priority for 2012.  “Our pension fund is fully funded,” Brynien said during a
Dec. 22 interview in his Latham, New York, office. “We’re
trying to fix a problem that doesn’t exist just because it’s a
politically popular thing to do.”  New York’s $133.8 billion  retirement plan , the third-
largest in the U.S., was 101.5 percent funded in 2010, better
than any other state, according to an annual study by Bloomberg
Rankings.  Pension Tier  Cuomo unsuccessfully pressed lawmakers last year for a  new
pension tier  for incoming state and local workers that would
save $93 billion over 30 years by raising the retirement age to
65 from 62, increasing employee contributions and stopping
workers from using overtime in their final years to boost
payouts.  Local governments and school districts have pressured the
governor to reduce the cost of state-required programs, such as
pension funding. The issue has taken on more importance as they
work to stay below the 2 percent property-tax cap that took
effect Jan. 1.  About 20 percent of local governments have voted to raise
property taxes above the cap, Kate Gurnett, a spokeswoman for
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , said in a Dec. 28 e-mail.  Cuomo has said he wants to find other ways of cutting
local-government costs, too.  ‘Too Much Government’  “We have too much government,” he said on Paterson’s
show. “The overhead is too high, and we don’t get enough for
it.”  One path would be to increase incentives for municipalities
and school districts to merge services with neighbors or
dissolve,  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, said in a December
interview in  Albany .  Since 2005, the  New York Department of State  has given more
than $51 million to 324 grant recipients to help local
governments share services or break up, saving more than $560
million over a decade, according to Chris Valens, a department
spokesman.  As state attorney general, the post he held before becoming
governor, Cuomo pushed through the Legislature a bill meant to
make it easier for villages to dissolve by lowering the number
of signatures needed to put such measures on the ballot.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  