-- Cuomo Rides Ratings in Plan for $4 Billion New York City Convention Center
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-01-04T23:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/cuomo-rides-ratings-in-plan-for-4-billion-new-york-city-convention-center.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  called
for replacing the Jacob Javits Convention Center in Manhattan
with a 3.8 million-square-foot complex in Queens to be built by
the Malaysian gambling company  Genting Bhd. (GENT)   Cuomo, who grew up in the New York City borough, said the
center at the Aqueduct Racetrack would be the largest in the
U.S., eclipsing  Chicago ’s McCormick Place. The $4 billion
“private investment” would include as many as 3,000 hotel
rooms, Cuomo said today in his State of the State speech in
Albany, the capital.  “The  Jacob Javits Center  is not competitive,” Cuomo said
before an audience of more than 2,000. “That hurts the New York
economy because we’re just not getting the shows here. It will
all be about jobs, jobs, jobs -- tens of thousands of jobs.”  The state would turn the site of the Javits Center, which
opened in the 1980s, into a mixed-use development -- possibly
with housing, hotels and museums -- to revitalize  Manhattan ’s
far west side. Genting, based in  Kuala Lumpur , opened the city’s
first casino at Aqueduct on Oct. 28.  2012 Agenda  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat entering his second year,
proposed the plan as part of a 2012 agenda that includes $25
billion in state, federal and private spending. He also called
for a constitutional amendment to expand casino gambling; a $1
billion development program for Buffalo, which suffers from the
third-highest poverty rate of any U.S. city; and raising the
 retirement age  for future workers.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  called the Aqueduct plan
“a great idea.” He also said he backed the governor’s plan for
pension overhaul. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the  Manhattan Institute ,
a nonprofit research group that favors lower taxes and reduced
 government spending , questioned the wisdom of a building a
convention center at Aqueduct.  “There’s no incremental business to be gained, even by the
top players in the business,” he said in an e-mail, noting
occupancy at McCormick Place is stuck at around 55 percent.
“Additionally, the lure of New York is of course the
attractions of Manhattan, but I question whether putting a big
facility in Queens would be effective in luring major
conventions.”  Education Commission  On education, Cuomo said he would appoint a bipartisan
commission to work with the Legislature to improve teacher
accountability, student achievement and school management.  “I’m taking a second job” as a lobbyist for students, the
only group in the education system without one, he said.  Cuomo called for improving or replacing more than 100
bridges, including a new Tappan Zee bridge, and 2,000 miles of
roads. He also said the state should stop requiring the
fingerprints of food-stamp recipients.  Appearing in his prepared text, though not in his spoken
remarks, was a call for independent redistricting and his
intention to wait for the Department of Environmental
Conservation’s review of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
before he decides how to proceed.  First Year  In his first year, Cuomo erased a $10 billion deficit, got
 New York ’s two biggest government-worker unions to agree to pay
freezes and furloughs, instituted a property-tax cap and
legalized same-sex marriage in the third-most-populous state.
Today, he pledged to work with the Legislature to close this
year’s $2 billion  budget deficit  with no new taxes or fees.  Last month, the Legislature passed a Cuomo-endorsed tax
package that raised rates on those earning $2 million or more,
and cut them for the middle class. The extra revenue from the
new brackets cut the estimated fiscal 2013 deficit to $2 billion
from $3.5 billion, leading the governor to say “the budget is
50 percent done,” at the time.  A poll by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
conducted after the tax changes put Cuomo’s approval rating at
68 percent, two percentage points higher than the record set in
July 2002 by Republican Governor  George Pataki .  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said
before Cuomo’s speech that his top priorities for the year
included raising the minimum wage, cutting taxes for the working
poor and boosting support to community colleges.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  Albany , New York, at  edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  