-- Toronto-Dominion Tops Canadian Stock Sales for First Time on Real Estate
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/td-tops-canadian-stock-sales-for-first-time-on-real-estate-deals.html
TD Securities was the top arranger of
Canadian stock sales for the first time in 2011, as the unit of
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  helped oversee some of the country’s
largest real estate and mining deals.  TD Securities helped lead 53 issues valued at $4.93
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
was fifth in the 2010 ranking, with 41 sales valued at $2.62
billion. The figures are current as of yesterday and subject to
change as more deals are recorded.  The Toronto-based investment bank said it tapped into
investors’ need for high-yield stocks while renewing its
investment in energy. TD helped arrange a $993 million sale for
 Intact Financial Corp. (IFC)  and led a C$410 million ($405 million)
initial public offering for  Dundee International Real Estate
Investment Trust (DI-U) ,  Canada ’s third-biggest IPO of the year.  “The new issue market has been all about yield,” said
Sante Corona, 45, head of  equity capital markets  at Toronto-
based  TD Securities , a unit of Canada’s second-biggest bank.
“The yield theme was a big driver (last) year, and it will
continue to be a big driver again looking into 2012.”  Sales this year will probably be “in the same strike
zone” as the $31.5 billion raised last year in IPOs, secondary
sales, and convertible bonds, said Patrick Meneley, TD
Securities’ head of global  investment banking . The figures
exclude preferred shares and so called “self-led” deals for
the banks’ parent companies.  “We feel pretty optimistic about the level of activity we
can expect in the year ahead,” Meneley said. “That’s all
dependent upon people in the market having some stability,
having a view that global macro forces are going to be
supportive of a decent economy and a constructive rate
environment.”  Issuance Down  Overall issuance was down 12 percent last year, the second
consecutive annual decline, from a peak of $41 billion in 2009,
according to Bloomberg data.  “There is a question of confidence,” said Darryl White,
40, global head of equity capital markets at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s
BMO Capital Markets. “Issuers are learning how to do deals in
volatile markets, and are accepting of the fact that it’s the
new normal.”  RBC Capital Markets , the investment-banking unit of
Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , ranked second for stock
sales last year, followed by BMO Capital,  CIBC World Markets  and
 Scotia Capital . RBC, which arranged seven more deals than TD in
2011, has been the No. 1 ranked underwriter five times in the
past decade, and led in 2010 and 2009.  ‘Active Year’  “It was an active year,” Kirby Gavelin, 53, RBC’s co-head of
global equity capital markets, said in a telephone interview.
“Certainly there were periods over the course of the year that
were slower than others; there was some caution in the
marketplace that wasn’t constructive for strong new issue
activity.”  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , the Calgary-based energy company, had
the largest transaction last year, raising $1.03 billion in a
secondary sale led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. with three other
banks. Intact Financial, Canada’s largest property and casualty
insurer, had the second-biggest deal, to help fund its C$2.6
billion takeover of Axa SA’s Canadian business.  Companies raised $2.56 billion in IPOs in 2011, according
to Bloomberg data. That’s down 58 percent from $6.14 billion in
2010.  “It’s not easy to call but nor do we think it’s a market
that will shut down as it did in 2008 where it was just very
difficult to get anything done as far as IPOs are concerned,”
BMO’s White said.  Gibson, Dundee  Gibson Energy Inc. (GEI) , the oil-services firm owned by
investment funds linked to Riverstone Holdings LLC, had the
biggest IPO, raising C$500 million in June. The stock rose 19
percent by year-end. Parallel Energy Trust was the second-
biggest, after closing its C$342 million sale in April. Parallel
fell 18 percent in 2011.  Some deals were postponed last year, including Renaissance
Lifestyle Communities Inc.’s C$260 million sale in November and
the C$375 million sale for North American Oil Trust in December.  “There is a decent backlog of IPOs waiting for better
market tone,” TD’s Corona said. “IPO activity in 2012 will be
driven by how markets do.”  TD Securities has bulked up operations in the last couple
of years in its energy business, including research
capabilities. It’s part of a plan that began in March 2005, when
Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  declared that TD Securities
would become a top-three investment bank within five years.  “In my mind, it’s an integrated message; it’s linked to
all parts of the firm,” Robert Dorrance, 58, the bank’s group
head of wholesale banking, said in an interview. “Five years
ago, our commitment was to be a top-three dealer and we’re
executing on that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  