-- Dalian Port to ‘Seriously Consider’ Protests Over Vale Vessel, Owners Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T05:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/dalian-port-to-seriously-consider-protests-over-vale-vessel-owners-say.html
China ’s main shipowners association
said Dalian Port agreed to “seriously consider” its objections
after the harbor last week became the first in the country to
handle a very large ore carrier for  Vale SA. (VALE)   The China Shipowners Association has reiterated opposition
to Vale’s use of the vessels on Chinese routes in letters to
Dalian Port and the government, Executive Vice Chairman Zhang
Shouguo said by phone today. Dalian said it would “seriously
consider” the protest, he said. Zhu Hongbo, board secretary at
the harbor’s listed unit,  Dalian Port PDA Co. (2880) , declined to
comment.  The shipowners have objected to Vale’s plans to build up a
fleet of 35 VLOCs because of concerns the vessels will worsen a
capacity glut that has already depressed rates to unprofitable
levels. The Brazilian  miner (VALE)  is spending at least $8.1 billion on
the shipping push as it seeks lower freight costs for shipments
to China, its biggest market.  The 388,000-ton Berge Everest, operated by BW Group,
arrived in Dalian on Dec. 28. It was fully loaded with  iron ore 
from Brazil. The vessel is now heading for  Singapore , according
to ship-tracking data on the Bloomberg terminal.  BW Group will operate four of the so-called Valemax ships
for Vale on long-term contracts. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale is
buying another 19 and leasing a further 12.  The first of the ships to enter service was diverted to
Italy from Dalian on its maiden voyage in June because of draft
restrictions at the port and a request from a European customer,
according to Vale.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  