-- Deloitte Optimistic for Turkey M&A After 2011 Deals Set Record
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-01-04T12:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/deloitte-optimistic-for-turkey-m-a-after-2011-deals-set-record.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP is
“optimistic” about mergers and acquisitions in  Turkey  in 2012,
mostly in medium-sized companies, and expects government plans
to sell assets to dominate activity.  Energy, retail, internet retail, food and banking will lead
Turkey’s M&A transactions this year, Deloitte Turkey’s
corporate-finance partner Basak Vardar said in an emailed
statement. The country had 241 M&A transactions last year, the
highest in Turkey’s history, valued at about $15 billion, and
foreign investors accounted for 74 percent of the total value of
those deals, Vardar said.  Turkey has been a popular target for deals in recent years
as companies seek to tap its $735 billion economy, which grew
8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2011, the fastest increase
among Group of 20 countries after  China .  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the London-
based distiller, bought the Turkish spirits maker Mey Icki
Sanayi Ltd. for $2.1 billion in February, while Jersey-based
 Vallares Plc (VLRS) , an oil investment company run by former BP Plc
Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , combined with the Turkish
oil field developer Genel Energy International Ltd. in a $2.1
billion all-share reverse takeover in September.  “We are optimistic for mergers and acquisitions in 2012
despite all the financial troubles in  Europe , a slowdown in
global investment appetite as well as risks at home about
inflation and the current account deficit,” Vardar said.  Government Asset Sales  Turkey’s government asset sales agency will auction off
toll roads and bridges over the Bosphorus, sugar plants, the
national lottery Milli Piyango and the natural-gas grid of the
capital city, Ankara, according to the agency’s  website . The
country will also see private equity investments in medium-sized
Turkish companies, Vardar said.  IC Ictas Insaat Sanayi & Ticaret AS bought the Trakya power
grid from the government for $575 million yesterday, and Limak
Holding, a Turkish builder, took over the port of Iskenderun for
$372 million last week.  The value of transactions involving Turkish targets fell to
$11.4 billion in 2011 from $13.6 billion in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That figure doesn’t include several
deals that haven’t closed, including the purchase last month by
 Khazanah Nasional Bhd (KNBZ)  and one of its units of a 75 percent stake
in the parent of Turkey’s largest hospital chain,  Acibadem
Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS (ACIBD) , which valued the company at
$1.68 billion.  Middle-capitalization transactions constituted 201 of the
total deals and made up 22 percent of the entire transaction
value last year in Turkey, Vardar said. Forty-six of the overall
transactions in 2011 were done by private equity firms, she
said.  Today,  Carlyle Group , a U.S. private-equity firm, said it
bought 48 percent of Bahcesehir Kolejleri, a Turkish education
group. Other deals announced this week include  Gazprombank OJSC (GZPR) 
unit Prima Energy Trading LLC’s plans to acquire 26 percent of
Avrasya Gaz AS, a Turkish wholesale gas trader. Eastgate Mena
LP, a private equity fund controlled by Eastgate Capital Group,
will also buy a 49.8 percent stake in Fabeks Dis Ticaret AS, a
Turkish textile maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 