-- Diamond Foods Accounting Probe Threatens Mendes Legacy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-01-04T17:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/diamond-foods-accounting-probe-threatens-legacy-of-chief-mendes.html
Diamond Foods Inc.’s (DMND)  investigation
into whether money paid to walnut growers in September violated
accounting rules has thrust Chief Executive Officer Michael Mendes into a role he’s unaccustomed to: Playing defense.  Mendes, the 48-year-old son of immigrants who settled in
California’s fertile Central Valley, has used a combination of
marketing, innovation and acquisitions to transform Diamond from
a walnut cooperative into a $1 billion purveyor of such snacks
as Kettle chips and Pop Secret popcorn. Diamond’s $2.35 billion
deal for  Procter & Gamble Co.’s (PG)  Pringles was to be Mendes’
crowning achievement, doubling sales to $2.4 billion and pushing
Diamond into  Asia  and  Latin America .  The investigation, since taken up by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, may scuttle the Pringles deal if it
leads to an earnings restatement of two or more years, according
to Thilo Wrede, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York. More
than half of Diamond’s market value has been wiped away since
questions about the payments emerged, which has led analysts
such as Wrede to question their faith in Mendes, who declined to
comment through a spokesman.  “There are not that many growth stories in the food
industry and this one was intriguing,”  Edward Aaron , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets , said in an interview. “This company was
on the verge of becoming a real global consumer-product company
with Pringles. I always said if they could make it work, it
could be a high flier. And it worked -- until it didn’t.”  Diamond’s board, along with external legal and audit firms,
are looking into so-called “momentum payments” Diamond sent to
walnut growers in September. Diamond said the money was a
prepayment for the current crop year, and as such should be
included in its 2012 fiscal year, which began in August.  Grower Payments  Some growers and short-sellers say the payment was to top
off growers who were underpaid last year, according to reports
in the Wall Street Journal and Barron’s. If so, the payment
belongs in Diamond’s 2011 fiscal year, which would have reduced
its annual profit to $1.14 a share from $2.61, according to an
analysis by Mark Roberts, president of Off Wall Street
Consulting Group Inc., a  New York  research firm.  That would make the exchange of Diamond  shares (DMND)  for Pringles
much less attractive to P&G shareholders, who will own 57
percent of Diamond under terms of the deal. P&G said Dec. 15
that the Pringles sale depends on the “favorable resolution”
of Diamond’s investigation. Diamond told the Journal its
agreements with growers are confidential.  Diamond  rose (DMND)  2.2 percent to $32.91 at 12:31 p.m. in New
York. The shares slumped 39 percent last year.  Walnuts Probe  While walnuts are the focus of the probe, they’re no longer
center stage at Diamond thanks to Mendes, whose parents came to
the U.S. from the North Atlantic’s Azores islands speaking no
English. Mendes was attracted to agriculture early on and
majored in agribusiness management at  California  Polytechnic
State University in San Luis Obispo, where he was student body
president.  Soon after earning his MBA at UCLA, Mendes joined Diamond
in 1991, working in sales and marketing. In 1997, Diamond’s
board chose Mendes to lead the cooperative, a collection of
growers who band together to process and market their products.
At the time, it was losing members and market share.  Ambitious and hard-working, Mendes threw himself into the
job, sometimes walking into factories at 3 a.m. to schmooze with
workers loading cases of walnuts, according to a former Diamond
Foods executive who has since retired. Mendes’s communication
skills were so admired, he was compared to President  Ronald
Reagan , known as “The Great Communicator,” the former
executive said.  Sleek Canisters  At the time, walnuts were mainly used by housewives for
baking brownies and other sweets. Mendes saw an opportunity to
boost sales by marketing walnuts to younger consumers as a
snack, while also expanding into other nuts like almonds and
cashews. He created a new nut brand, Emerald, backed by TV ads -
- including Super Bowl spots -- and sold in sleek green
canisters that fit into car cup holders. And Diamond pushed
walnuts as nutritious, chock full of heart-healthy Omega 3 fatty
acids.  “The essence of the Diamond growth story is the
development of the Emerald snack nut brand,”  Mitchell Pinheiro ,
an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
in a 2009 report entitled “Diamond is an Investor’s Best
Friend.”  Diamond’s Culture  Mendes also shook up Diamond’s culture, said two former
executives. He moved the headquarters from rural Stockton, the
cooperative’s home since 1912, to  San Francisco , where he could
attract more talented employees, including those from outside
the  food industry . He encouraged employees to wear ties everyday
-- unusual in the laid-back food industry -- and fostered a
demanding, entrepreneurial environment not unlike the technology
startups headquartered nearby. Mendes even got superstar
athletes, like San Francisco 49er legend Ronnie Lott, to pop by
for motivational talks.  “He really changed the culture,” said Mike Riley, who
joined Diamond in 1987 and rose to CFO before retiring in 2004.
“He had a big vision and confidence that we were going to be
the best. But if you did not perform, you would not last long.”  A year or so into the CEO job, Mendes pledged to grow sales
to $500 million from about $200 million in five years. With new
products like tasty glazed walnuts and snack mixes, which
encouraged retailers like  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and restaurants like
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to buy more of Diamond’s nuts, Mendes blew past
the target.  Kettle Deal  Successes like that enabled Mendes to secure backing from
the cooperative’s walnut growers to push for an initial public
offering in 2005. That gave Diamond capital to pursue the $190
million Pop Secret acquisition in 2008 and the $615 million
Kettle deal in 2010. With the ink on the Kettle deal not yet
dry, Mendes pursued Pringles, telling analysts who said he’d
bitten off more than he could chew that “you don’t get to pick
your time with good transactions.”  And it was a good deal, according to analysts, at least as
proposed. Now, Diamond’s plummeting stock might force it to
assume as much as $200 million more debt on top of the $850
million already baked in. And that’s if the deal -- originally
slated to close this month -- gets done at all. With the SEC now
investigating, “the probability of the Pringles acquisition
closing is now even less certain,” according to Wrede, who
recommends holding the shares.  The investigation may conclude by the middle of February,
Diamond said Dec. 12.  All those issues have kept Mendes on the defensive, huddled
with lawyers, accountants, and P.R. specialists instead of where
he usually is -- out on the road, selling his snacks and his
company. Now, he has to answer for Diamond’s explosive growth
and pull back the curtain on its often-obscure dealings with
growers, said Aaron, who is based in Denver and rates the shares
“sector perform.”  As the company’s CFO said during an earnings call in March,
“If there was one easy answer, it wouldn’t be Diamond Foods,
right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  