-- Disney, Comcast Sign Long-Term Accord for Programming Rights
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2012-01-04T21:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/disney-comcast-said-to-sign-10-year-accord-for-program-rights.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  reached a long-term
agreement with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  that provides cable TV subscribers
with programs on TVs, computers and mobile devices.  The agreement comes a year before existing accords expire
and will run for a decade, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Disney may receive $22 billion to $25 billion for ESPN
programming alone over the 10 years, said Derek Baine, an
analyst at SNL Kagan. The accord with Comcast, the largest U.S.
pay-TV company, averts fee disputes that can interrupt cable
service. For the first time, Comcast customers will be able to
watch ESPN, Disney and ABC shows live or on demand on multiple
screens, the companies said in a statement today.  “The consumer ultimately gets more utility,” said  David Bank , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “I think
it generally helps justify higher affiliate fees.”  The agreement will deliver 70 separate services from
Disney, ABC and ESPN to customers of Philadelphia-based Comcast
and includes new technologies that may arise over the period,
the companies said in the statement. Financial terms of the
arrangement weren’t disclosed.  Analyst Baine estimates ESPN program fees will rise 6
percent to 8 percent annually. Payments for Disney channels,
mobile applications and other services will add to the total, he
estimated.  All Inclusive  The accord includes Disney cable channels and ABC broadcast
stations owned by the Burbank, California-based company,
according to the statement. Comcast will introduce Disney
Junior, a new 24-hour basic cable channel for preschoolers, the
companies said.  “We see this deal as a template for other deals we’re
negotiating, although there aren’t many that have the breadth
and scope that Disney brings,” Neil Smit, president of  Comcast
Cable (TCOMA) , said in an interview.  The agreement marks the first time Disney cable channels
will stream content to authenticated pay-TV customers using
mobile devices and computers. ESPN already had such agreements
with 40 million pay-TV homes, George Bodenheimer,
executive chairman of the sports network, said in an interview.  “We’re working on more of them,” Bodenheimer said  Disney, the theme-park and media company, rose 1.4 percent
to $38.85 at the close in  New York . The shares were little
changed last year. Comcast, which had 20.3 million video
subscribers at the close of the third quarter, gained 1 percent
to $24.73 after rising 8 percent in 2011.  In August 2010, Comcast signed a 10-year accord with  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  for access to the company’s Showtime premium cable network
and its TV stations.  “We have similar deals in structure that we will be
pursuing,”  Anne Sweeney , co-chairman of Disney Media Networks,
said in an interview. “We think that this is the future of how
viewers will be watching their TV and consuming content.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  