-- DuPont Teams With NexSteppe to Develop Biofuel Feedstocks
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-01-04T21:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/dupont-teams-with-nexsteppe-to-develop-biofuel-feedstocks.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S.
chemicals company by market value, has invested in closely held
energy-crop company NexSteppe Inc. to develop feedstocks for
biofuels and other bio-based products.  DuPont didn’t disclose the size of its equity investment,
Jane Bachmann, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
NexSteppe, which last month received $14 million in a round of
funding led by Braemar Energy Ventures, will partner with
Pioneer Hi-Bred, DuPont’s seed unit.  “There’s going to be some information and data exchange,”
Bachmann said.  NexSteppe , based in Malibu,  California , develops breeding
programs for sorghum and switchgrass, which can be converted
into biofuel or burned at power plants. The company has
developed sweet sorghum that’s now being used in commercial
trials at ethanol mills in  Brazil , Chief Executive Officer Anna
Rath said in a telephone interview today.  Ethanol mills that crush sugar cane seven to nine months a
year can remain operational an additional one to two months by
using sweet sorghum, Rath said.  “By adding sweet sorghum alongside sugar cane, they will
now be able to run those mills more months out of the year and
improve the costs of ethanol production,” Rath said. “It can
be harvested with the same equipment, it can be crushed with the
same equipment, it can be fermented with the same yeast, so it’s
a drop-in into their existing process.”  The collaboration with Pioneer begins immediately, said
Rath, who declined to elaborate on specific projects or target
dates for future products.  DuPont shares gained 1.1 percent to $47.02 at the close in
 New York . DuPont in June acquired Copenhagen-based Danisco A/S,
the second-largest maker of industrial enzymes, which are used
to make biofuels. DuPont plans to start construction of a
cellulosic ethanol plant this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  