-- Alibaba $4 Billion Bank Group Said to Seek More Lenders
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-01-04T08:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/lead-banks-on-4-billion-alibaba-loan-said-to-seek-more-lenders.html
The four lead banks preparing a loan
for  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . are considering bringing in as
many as four more lenders to help arrange the facility,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. are arranging the loan, three people
familiar with the matter said on Dec. 15. The loan may be about
$4 billion, one of the people said at the time.  The banks aim to expand the size of the lead group to a
total of five to eight lenders to spread the risk of the
facility, said the person who spoke today, declining to be
identified because the details are private.  Alibaba and Softbank Corp. are considering acquisition
options related to  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. internet
portal, three other people familiar with the matter said on Dec.
1. Yahoo owns about 40 percent of Alibaba, the top e-commerce
site in China, and 35 percent of Yahoo  Japan  Corp.  Alibaba may seek to buy back the stake Yahoo owns, while
Softbank may seek to acquire the stake in Yahoo Japan, one of
those three people said last month. Alibaba and Softbank are
also considering a full buyout of Yahoo and are in talks with
Blackstone Group LP and Bain Capital LLC about making a bid for
the whole company, the three people said on Dec. 1.  Alibaba hired  Washington  lobbying firm Duberstein Group
Inc. last year as it explored potential transactions involving
Yahoo. John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Hangzhou-
based Alibaba, declined to comment when contacted today by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  