-- Health Effects of Fracking for Natural Gas Need Study, Says CDC Scientist
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/health-effects-of-fracking-for-natural-gas-need-study-says-cdc-scientist.html
The U.S. should study whether
hydraulic fracturing used to free natural gas from wells is a
hazard to people or food sources, a top official at the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention  said.  The Environmental Protection Agency, which is preparing
regulations to govern fracking with the Interior Department,
plans to study the effect of the drilling procedure, also known
as fracking, on drinking water. Additional studies should
examine whether wastewater from the wells can harm people or
animals and vegetables they eat, said Christopher Portier,
director of the CDC’s National Center for  Environmental Health 
and Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.  “We do not have enough information to say with certainty
whether shale gas drilling poses a threat to public health,” he
said in an e-mail sent by Vivi Abrams, a spokeswoman.  President  Barack Obama  has lauded increased natural gas
drilling as a way to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil and
on coal, which is more damaging to the environment when burned.
Officials in his administration have been cautious when
discussing possible health effects of hydraulic fracturing.  The EPA “will use its authorities to protect local
residents if a driller endangers water supplies and the state
and local authorities have not acted,” the agency’s
administrator,  Lisa Jackson , told Congress in May. Obama, she
said, “has made clear that we need to extract natural gas
without polluting our water supplies.”  Monitor Exposure  The fracking process injects water, sand and chemicals into
deep shale formations to free natural gas. The compounds used
should be monitored,  Portier  said, and drinking water wells
should be tested before and after drilling. Studies also should
address “all the ways people can be exposed” to fracking
products, including through air, water, soil, plants and
animals.  Increased use of the process has raised gas production,
reduced prices 32 percent last year and spurred questions about
the environmental effects.  The U.S. has sought to dismiss a lawsuit brought by New
York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman against federal
agencies, seeking stronger regulation of fracking at as many as
18,000 wells in his state. The  petroleum industry  says the
lawsuit could shut down drilling in the Delaware River Basin
“for many years to come” if successful.  ‘Effective’ Regulation  “Measures required by state regulatory agencies in the
exploration and production of deep shale natural gas and oil
formations have been very effective in protecting drinking water
aquifers from contamination attributable to fracking,”
 Chesapeake Energy (CHK) , the second-largest producer of natural gas,
said in a document in September explaining the process.  Portier wouldn’t say whether fracking should be stopped or
more tightly regulated until studies are completed.  “Our role is to determine what the risks are, and it is up
to the public to decide if they are OK with that risk,” he
said.  U.S. natural gas production rose to a record 2.5 trillion
cubic feet in October, a 15 percent increase from October 2008,
the month before Obama was elected, according to an Energy
Information Administration report issued Dec. 28.  Some “data of concern” are showing up at fracking sites,
Portier said. Fluids used in drilling contain “potentially
hazardous chemical classes” including petroleum distillates,
volatile organic compounds and glycol ethers. Wastewater may
also contain salts and be radioactive, he said.  In December, the EPA said for the first time that it had
found chemicals consistent with those used in drilling in
groundwater near wells in  Wyoming . The driller,  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,
has disputed the agency’s findings.  Methane, Earthquakes  Pennsylvania regulators warned residents near Scranton not
to drink well water in September 2010 after methane was detected
in the Susquehanna River and in wells near drilling sites.  Youngstown, Ohio residents say they’ve experienced
earthquakes since D&L Energy Inc. began injecting fracking
wastewater into a 9,300-foot disposal well. Ben Lupo, president
and chief executive officer of the company, said he doesn’t
think his well is causing the temblors.  While the federal government prepares fracking regulations,
states also monitor the process, which has led the industry to
complain of unnecessary supervision.  The Obama administration is pursuing “an incoherent
approach to natural gas development” by promoting its benefits
while “ratcheting up pressure for new layers of duplicative
regulations,” said  Jack Gerard , president of the  American
Petroleum Institute , in remarks prepared for a speech today.  The institute represents more than 490 energy companies
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest company by
market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  