-- Heating Oil Gains on Speculation Europe Diesel Imports to Rise
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-04T20:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/heating-oil-gains-on-speculation-europe-will-import-more-diesel.html
Heating oil jumped to a seven-week
high on speculation that  Europe  will import more diesel from the
U.S. after three regional refineries close this month and on the
prospect of a European ban on Iranian oil.  Futures rose as  Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) , Europe’s largest
independent refiner by capacity, will temporarily shut three of
its five plants. Heating oil increased gains when Brent crude
surged on reports that European governments will ban imports of
Iranian oil.  “Refiner shutdowns could create a diesel shortage in
Europe and should increase demand for imports,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“There’s also a concern that  Iran  will lash out at the ban and
that this also reduces the supply of oil.”  February-delivery heating oil rose 5.17 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $3.0899 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Nov. 16.
Prices have gained 6.8 percent in four days.  Heating oil’s premium over gasoline widened 1.51 cents to
30.47 cents, the largest difference since Dec. 16. The heating
oil crack spread increased to $26.56 a barrel, a five-week high,
from $24.64 yesterday  The three Petroplus refineries that are shutting in France,
Belgium and  Switzerland  have a combined capacity of 337,300
barrels a day.  The U.S. exported a record 1.07 million barrels a day of
heating oil and diesel in October, the Energy Department
reported Dec. 29. About 18 percent, or 196,000 barrels a day,
went to the Netherlands, the top destination for U.S. distillate
cargoes, department data show.  Prices widened gains after  Brent crude  for February
settlement rose as much as 1.6 percent on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  EU Sanctions  European Union governments are working to sanction Iran’s
oil exports and banks, with final decisions due on Jan. 30, EU
spokesman  Michael Mann  said.  Prices also rose after the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S. factory index climbed to 53.9 last month from
52.7 in November, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed
yesterday. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction.  “Heating oil gained more than WTI and gasoline because
it’s winter and there’s better manufacturing news out of Europe,
 China  and the U.S.,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner
at the Energy Management Institute in  New York .  German Manufacturing  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted less
than initially estimated in December, led by  Germany , the
region’s largest economy, where output reached a four-month
high. A  composite index (ECPMICOU)  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 48.3 from 47 in November, London-
based  Markit Economics  said today.  “We’re in the middle of winter here and some of the
manufacturing news yesterday is pretty bullish for heating oil
as an industrial fuel,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Orders to American factories rose in November by the most
in four months. Bookings for  factory goods (TMNOCHNG)  rose 1.8 percent
after a revised 0.2 percent drop the prior month, data from the
Commerce Department showed today.  U.S. heating oil and diesel inventories probably rose 1
million barrels last week, according to the median estimate of
13 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.  Supplies (DOESDIST)  were 13
percent below year-earlier levels in the week ended Dec. 23,
according to Energy Department data.  The department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories tomorrow. Gasoline stockpiles probably increased 1
million barrels, according to the survey.  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand at the pump sank 14 percent from the
prior week to the lowest level in more than seven years of
records, according to MasterCard Inc.  Drivers bought 8.16 million barrels a day of gasoline in
the week ended Dec. 30, down from 9.46 million the week before,
according to MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report. MasterCard’s
data goes back to July 2004.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 3.66 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $2.7852 a gallon on the exchange, the
highest settlement since Oct. 14.  Regular gasoline (3AGSREG)  at the pump, averaged nationwide, climbed
0.9 cent to $3.288 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
Prices were 7 percent above a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  