-- Medco No Botched AT&T Deal as Drugs Create a Windfall: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-04T21:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/medco-no-botched-at-t-deal-with-drug-takeover-creating-windfall-real-m-a.html
Even as U.S. regulators take a
tougher stance on takeovers, traders are convinced they can reap
the biggest return in America by betting  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) 
will win antitrust approval to buy  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)   Medco climbed to within $9 of Express Scripts’ cash-and-
stock agreement valued at $67.50 a share today, the closest to
the offer price since it was announced on July 21, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. While  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s deal for  T-Mobile
USA  collapsed last month after the  Justice Department  sued to
block it, shares of both Medco and Express Scripts have rallied,
signaling that arbitragers can still reap a 14 percent profit
betting the transaction will close.  The attempt to create the largest U.S. manager of
prescription drug benefits can withstand scrutiny from the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission because the combination will have more
leverage to negotiate lower prices for consumers, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. Unlike AT&T’s failed bid, which would have
given the two biggest U.S. mobile-phone carriers 70 percent of
the market,  Express Scripts ’ purchase of Medco still leaves
rivals managing plans for seven of every 10 insured Americans.  “The return is clearly off the charts,” Bill Kavaler, a
New York-based special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc., said in a telephone interview. Express Scripts and Medco
are “making a very strong argument that between cost savings,
or the savings that will get passed on to customers, and their
ability to negotiate with the pharmaceutical manufacturers --
this is good for the country,” he said.  Today’s Trading  Today, Medco rose  1.7 percent (MHS)  to $58.99 in New York, the
 third-biggest gain (S5HLTH)  among 52 companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Health Care Index. Express Scripts advanced 1.6 percent to
$47.78. The discount to Express Scripts’ offer price narrowed to
$8.51, the closest since the deal was announced.  Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for Medco, said that the
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based company continues to “expect
the transaction will close during the first half of this year.”  Brian Henry , a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, said in an e-mail the company also anticipates the deal
will be completed in the first half of 2012.  Mitchell Katz , a spokesman at the Washington-based FTC,
said the commission doesn’t comment on ongoing investigations.  In July, Express Scripts agreed to pay Medco holders $28.80
a share in cash and 0.81 Express Scripts share for each Medco
share held, the companies said in their statement at the time.  CVS Caremark  Including net debt, the acquisition was valued at $34.3
billion, exceeding the $21.7 billion deal that formed  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  in 2007 as the largest in the industry, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Without taking into account when the deal will close, the
difference on a percentage basis is currently the widest of any
billion-dollar deal in the U.S., indicating the acquisition
offers the biggest arbitrage profit among comparable takeovers.  If the transaction is completed by the end of June, as both
companies project, traders betting on the takeover yesterday
stood to make at least a 31 percent return on an annualized
basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I definitely think it’s an opportunity for investors,”
Jon Green, an analyst at Murphy & Durieu LP in  New York , said in
a telephone interview.  While the deal spread has narrowed from as much as $15.44 a
share, Medco is still trading below the offer on concern among
some investors that regulators will block or delay the takeover.  ‘Political Football’  Two trade groups -- the  National Community Pharmacists
Association  and the National Association of Chain Drug Stores --
opposed the deal in a Senate hearing last month, saying the
merged company would reduce consumer choice and steer patients
to its own mail-order prescription services.  “The regulatory environment on this one has become quite
heightened,” Will Harrington, a New York-based merger arbitrage
analyst at Wall Street Access, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s become almost a political football.”  Increased antitrust scrutiny from U.S. regulators has
already scuttled two of 2011’s biggest proposed acquisitions.  Dallas-based AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, said
last month it was ending the $39 billion deal for T-Mobile USA
following a lawsuit from the Justice Department and opposition
from the Federal Communications Commission.  Nasdaq’s Failed Bid  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped its $11.3 billion hostile bid
for NYSE Euronext in May after the Justice Department, citing
concerns about the potential for monopolies in combining the New
York-based exchanges, indicated it would block the proposal.  Oscar Gruss’ Kavaler says that Express Scripts’ bid for
Medco doesn’t present the same level of antitrust concern as
AT&T’s failed takeover of T-Mobile USA because the prescription-
benefits management industry is more vulnerable to new entrants
and existing rivals still provide enough competition to counter
the increased market share.  Together, Express Scripts and Medco will have less than a
30 percent share among companies that handle drug benefits for
corporate and government clients, George Paz, Express Scripts’
chief executive officer, said in Senate testimony last month.  While AT&T’s deal for T-Mobile USA failed over concern that
combining the second- and fourth-largest U.S. mobile-phone
companies could result in higher prices for consumers, Express
Scripts and Medco can probably convince regulators they will cut
health-care costs by negotiating with pharmaceuticals companies
to drive down drug expenses, said  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon.  ‘Tooth and Nail’  “The FTC cares about customers, but this isn’t going to
hurt customers -- it’s a net benefit to customers,” he said in
an interview. “They’re going to be bigger, but not a juggernaut
that can push people around. They’ll still have to fight tooth
and nail.”  The health-care industry is also under increased pressure
to reduce medical expenses after a debt-ceiling agreement in
August required cuts on Medicare, the federal health program for
the elderly and disabled. That may create more demand from the
government for larger benefits managers that can win the biggest
price reductions for  prescription drugs , Shah said.  “The merits of the transaction make sense with regard to
potential public benefits,” Roy Behren, who co-manages the $5
billion Merger Fund at Westchester Capital Management Inc. in
Valhalla, New York, said in a telephone interview. The fund
owned Medco shares as of the end of September, based on its
latest regulatory filing. “We think that there’s a greater than
market-implied chance that the deal is successfully completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 