-- Mobius Buys Argentine Frontier Stocks at Cheapest Since 2009
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-04T20:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/templeton-s-mobius-buying-argentine-frontier-stocks-at-cheapest-since-2009.html
Mark Mobius , who manages $45 billion
at Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, is buying Argentine stocks
that are trading at their cheapest levels in almost three years.  “Although the political environment is not very good, the
companies are very cheap so we’re looking closely,” Mobius, the
firm’s executive chairman, said by telephone from Santiago. “We
continue to add selectively as more money comes into the fund.”  Argentina’s  Merval stock index (MERVAL)  fetches 6.9 times estimated
earnings, the lowest level since May 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge plunged 30 percent last year,
compared with the MSCI EM  Latin America  Index’s 22 percent drop,
as gross domestic product increased 8.3 percent, more than other
major Latin American economy, according to the median estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  So-called frontier markets such as  Argentina , Nigeria and
 Kenya  offer faster growth than other emerging markets, Mobius
said during a trip to Latin America this week.  “There’s lots of volatility and lots of problems in trying
to get your research done, but I think these frontier markets
are really interesting,” he said.  The Merval surged 5.7 percent today, the most among major
global indexes and the steepest gain since May 2010, as the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent. The Argentine index has
rallied 10 percent in the past five days.  Frontier Demotion  Argentina became the only major Latin America market
classified as “frontier” in June 2009 when MSCI Inc. removed
the country from its benchmark emerging-market index, citing
 capital controls . The demotion also followed President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s seizure of about $24 billion in assets
held by private pension funds, the country’s biggest
stockholders. New York-based MSCI classifies its markets based
on size, liquidity and economic development.  The  Templeton Emerging Markets Fund (EMF)  returned 15 percent in
the past three months compared with a peer average of 9.6
percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 11 percent gain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year the fund lost
23 percent versus the index’s 18 percent decline, the data show.  Mobius is also adding Brazilian, Chilean, Peruvian and
Colombian stocks, he said, declining to give examples. In
Santiago he has meetings scheduled with management at  Lan
Airlines SA (LAN)  and  Banco Santander Chile. (BSAN)   Latin Consumer  “We are very interested in the Latin American consumer
because in almost every measure they have incredible potential
to grow,” he said. “Latin American growth will be very good
this year, with expansion between four and five percent.”  Templeton Emerging Markets Group isn’t adding to its
Mexican holdings on prospects that South American countries will
be less affected from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a protracted U.S.
economic recovery, he said.  Chinese demand for consumer goods and commodities will
continue unabated “for some time,” he said.  “People are always asking me if  China  is going to have a
soft or a hard landing, and I’m telling them it’s not going to
land,” Mobius said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  