-- Tenet Declines on Concern About Inability to Overcome Health-Care Cuts
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-04T21:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/tenet-declines-on-concern-about-inability-to-overcome-health-care-cuts.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  the third-
largest U.S. hospital operator, fell the most in a month on
investor concern that the company will be hurt by reduced
government health-care spending.  Tenet declined 5.4 percent to $4.69 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day drop since Dec. 2. Shares of the
Dallas-based company decreased 3.3 percent yesterday after
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  reduced its rating to “sell.”  Tenet was one of at least eight hospital companies and
health-service providers downgraded by Citigroup as federal and
state governments face tight budgets and begin a cycle of cuts.
Tenet is one of the “worst-positioned” to negotiate payment
rates, because it has on average only about 7 percent of the
share in its primary markets, the Citigroup report said.  The downgrade yesterday has “weighed on investor
psychology,” said Whit Mayo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird &
Co. in Nashville with a “neutral” rating on Tenet. “We’re in
a period right now of the most hypersensitivity I have ever seen
for investors in this space.”  Hospital stocks are falling, with the Bloomberg Industries
 hospital index (BRUSHOSV)  down 3.1 percent today. Vanguard Health Systems
Inc. fell 7.6 percent, while HCA Holdings Inc. fell 3.9 percent.
Both are based in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “We have a new year, and people are starting to see things
with fresh eyes,” said Dave Shove, an analyst with Bank of
Montreal in New York.  Health-Care Overhaul  The overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in 2010 will
trim $157 billion in U.S. payments to hospitals through 2019,
according to estimates by the  Congressional Budget Office . The
hospital industry agreed to the cuts, figuring the loss would be
offset by about 32 million potential patients who are expected
to gain insurance coverage after 2014.  Medical providers, though, didn’t count on further
reductions as Congress tackled the growing national debt this
year. In 2013, Medicare payments will be trimmed 2 percent.
Initiatives in Medicare, the U.S. health program for the poor
and disabled, to reduce medical errors and preventable
readmissions also threaten payments if hospitals can’t improve
service.  Rick Black, a spokesman for Tenet, didn’t respond to a call
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Rule at 
 brule1@bloomberg.net  