-- Merkel Can ‘Live Very Well’ With Ex-Aide Asmussen Taking ECB Liaison Role
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-01-04T13:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/merkel-can-live-very-well-with-ex-aide-asmussen-taking-ecb-liaison-role.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may have
gotten exactly what she wanted when European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  passed over one of her top debt-crisis
aides and named the ECB’s first non-German chief economist.  Merkel can “live very well” with Joerg Asmussen as head
of international and European relations on the ECB’s executive
board and “in no way sees this as a defeat,” Georg Streiter,
deputy government spokesman, said in Berlin today. “The
chancellor always knew that there are no fiefdoms in the ECB and
that there can’t always be a particular country that holds a
particular post.”  Draghi named Belgium’s Peter Praet to the economics job
yesterday rather than opting for either of the frontrunners
Asmussen or  France ’s Benoit Coeure, sidestepping a potential
conflict between the euro region’s two biggest economies. In
doing so, he put a non-German in the post for the first time
since the ECB was founded in 1998.  As deputy finance minister, Asmussen has been one of the
policy makers at Merkel’s side during the debt crisis that began
more than two years ago in  Greece  and is tugging at the euro
area’s core. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
Nov. 29 that Asmussen, 45, would be the “best person” to
succeed chief economist  Juergen Stark , who quit last year in
protest at the ECB’s bond-buying.  Summit Role Reprised  Asmussen will represent the ECB at crisis meetings of euro-
region finance officials in Brussels and will attend European
leaders’ summits along with Draghi. In his former role, he
attended European and Group of 20 summits with Merkel. As head
of markets, Coeure takes charge of the refinancing operations
that are central to the ECB’s effort to stem the debt crisis.  From the German government’s perspective, Asmussen is now
installed in a “key position,” Streiter told reporters.  “The post that Asmussen has now taken on is of
extraordinary importance and great significance,” he said.  Asmussen is the second member of Merkel’s inner circle to
move to an executive position at the Frankfurt-based ECB. Jens Weidmann, previously her chief economic adviser, joined the
central bank’s council in May after becoming the youngest head
of the German Bundesbank at age 43.  Weidmann and Asmussen studied with economist  Axel Weber ,
who pulled out of the race for the ECB presidency in February
and quit as Bundesbank president to return to academic life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  