-- EU Governments Moving Closer to Iran Oil Embargo as Greece Lifts Objection
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-04T19:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/eu-governments-moving-closer-to-iran-oil-embargo-as-greece-lifts-objection.html
European Union governments moved
closer to halting oil purchases from  Iran , stepping up the
confrontation over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program.  EU foreign ministers are aiming to announce harsher
sanctions on Iran’s energy and banking industries at their next
meeting on Jan. 30 after Greece lifted its objections to an oil
embargo.  “We want to tighten sanctions on Iran -- the things that
have been mentioned are the oil sector and the financial
sector,” EU spokesman  Michael Mann  said by telephone in
Brussels today.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said in Lisbon today
that he hopes a decision about an embargo on Iranian oil exports
may be adopted at the Jan. 30 meeting of foreign ministers.  Oil fluctuated near an eight-month high after the European
Union said it’s working to sanction oil imports from Iran and
its banks and on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will affect
consumption market. Crude for February delivery rose 29 cents to
settle at $103.25 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The U.S. today welcomed the push toward an embargo.  “This is consistent with tightening the noose around Iran
economically,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said at a briefing in  Washington . “The place to get Iran’s
attention is in the oil sector.”  Iranian ‘Bluster’  Nuland also dismissed as “bluster” a threat by Iran to
require permission for foreign warships to enter the Strait of
Hormuz, a shipping channel from the Persian Gulf for about a
fifth of the global crude oil supply.  “This is the kind of bluster that indicates they’re
feeling pressure,” she said. The U.S. will “continue to play a
global role” in ensuring freedom of navigation in international
waters such as the  Strait of Hormuz , she said.  A French-British push for an oil embargo was deflected last
month by Greece, which relied on Iran for 14 percent of its oil
imports in the first half of 2011, according to U.S. data.  Greece has since decided to abide by any EU-imposed
embargo, an official at the Greek environment, energy and
climate ministry said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  Iran, the world’s third-largest oil exporter, denies
Western contentions that it is seeking to build atomic weapons
and says it’s pursuing nuclear technology to generate
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  