-- EU Pension Funds, Bank Capital, WJB Capital, KPN Departures: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-04T13:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/eu-pension-funds-bank-capital-kpn-departures-compliance.html
European Union proposals to make
pension funds bolster their capital may trigger a flight from
private-equity firms, the  European Private Equity and Venture
Capital Association  said.  The EU is considering plans to apply capital adequacy rules
designed for insurers to pension funds, a move that will
penalize investments in private-equity funds because they are
illiquid, said the Brussels-based lobby group, which represents
about 850 firms.  Regulators are forcing insurers and  banks (SX7P)  to put more
capital aside for investments considered risky to avoid a repeat
of the 2008 financial crisis. Pension funds, which have
accounted for a third of funds raised by European firms since
2006, would follow insurers and lenders in selling private
equity assets because those holdings would become too expensive
to hold under the new rules, the EVCA said.  “In their efforts to minimize systemic risk, regulators
are in danger of negating the stabilizing effect of long-term
investors,” the EVCA said in a statement yesterday.  Banks have sold about 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of
holdings in private-equity funds in recent years for discounts
of as much as 20 percent because of the “exaggerated” risk-
weightings applied to the asset class, the EVCA estimated.  Compliance Policy  Banks Must Hold Capital for Sovereign Risk, EU Lawmaker Says  Banks (SX7P)  should be forced to hold reserves to guard against
possible losses on sovereign debt, according to a lawmaker
overseeing  Europe ’s implementation of Basel capital rules.  The region’s fiscal crisis, which has involved bailouts of
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland has shown that a zero capital
requirement for sovereign debt “no longer corresponds with
economic reality,” said  Othmar Karas , an Austrian member of the
European Parliament, in a draft report published on the EU
assembly’s  website .  His demand echoes international calls to toughen rules that
allow lenders to apply zero risk-weightings to  government bonds 
issued in a bank’s home currency when calculating  capital
ratios . Lenders don’t need to hold any capital against possible
losses on the securities, even after the cost of insuring
government bonds against default rose to a record last year.  The European approach “is not in line with the spirit” of
global measures endorsed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, Herve Hannoun, deputy general manager of the Bank
for International Settlements, said in October. The U.S.
“situation regarding the treatment of sovereign risk is also
unsatisfactory,” he said. The BIS is the Basel committee’s
parent institution.  Karas is in charge of drafting the parliament’s opinion on
last year’s proposals by the European Commission to implement
the Basel capital and liquidity measures in the EU. The
lawmaker’s office in Brussels didn’t respond to a call seeking
comment on the plan.  Indian Bid to Lure Investors May Be Undermined by Europe  India ’s bid to lure overseas capital by loosening curbs on
stock investments may be undermined by Europe’s debt crisis,
according to a strategist who predicted a year-end drop for the
nation’s equities.  Indrajit Sen, a Mumbai-based derivatives strategist at
 Fortune Financial Services India Ltd. (FFSI)  described the proposed
change in rules as a “desperate attempt by the government to
bring dollar flows to stabilize the rupee. Overseas retail
investors may not invest aggressively.”  India’s government said on Jan. 1 it will allow overseas
individual investors to buy local equities directly in a move to
broaden foreign flows into the nation’s $1 trillion stock
market. The new policy may take effect by Jan. 15, the
government said. Currently, overseas retail investors can only
buy Indian shares through participatory notes, derivative
products held offshore by investors or  hedge funds  not
registered with the regulator.  Foreign institutional investors (FIINDRGP)  pulled out $512 million
from local equities last year, compared with a record inflow of
$29.4 billion in 2010, as Europe’s debt crisis threatened the
global economy and reduced demand for emerging-market assets.
The withdrawals contributed to a 25 percent slide in the  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and the  S&P CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  in 2011, the
second worst annual decline for both gauges, and helped send the
rupee to an all-time low.  While individual foreign investors may not rush in, the new
rule allows them to take bets on small and medium-sized
companies usually overlooked by large investors, Chokkalingam G,
chief investment officer at Centrum Broking Pvt., said by phone
from Mumbai Jan. 2.  Indian equities are influenced by  offshore (FIINNET)  flows.  For more, click here.  Derivatives, Credit-Rating Rules Delayed in SEC Dodd-Frank Plan  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is delaying
action on rules for regulating derivatives and credit-rating
firms until the second half of 2012, according to an updated
calendar.  The agency’s revised  schedule  shifts expected approval of a
number of Dodd-Frank Act rules from a January-June time frame to
July-December. The revision also removed two items from the
calendar: a proposal on defining the fiduciary duty of broker-
dealers and adoption of a conflicts-of-interest ban in asset-
backed securities deals. Those rules moved to an undetermined-
date category.  Besides shifting the bulk of its derivatives and credit-
ratings rule adoptions, the SEC will also be later than it had
previously predicted for adopting rules for permanent
registration of municipal advisers and for disclosing and
clawing back executive pay, planning both for sometime between
July and December 2012.  The timetable for implementing Dodd-Frank rules has slipped
for the SEC and other agencies because of the number and
complexity of rules tightening financial regulation in the wake
of the 2008 financial crisis.  China CSRC May Ease Purchases of Stakes in Publicly Traded Units  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRZ)  may allow
investors to increase their stakes in publicly traded
subsidiaries without receiving prior approval to make capital
markets more stable.  A shareholder with at least 30 percent of a listed company
would no longer need approval from the regulator to boost its
stake by 2 percentage points in a year, according to  draft rules 
posted on the regulator’s website on Dec. 30.  The new rule would “encourage controlling shareholders of
listed companies to increase their interests in the company at
reasonable prices, further improving the inherent stability of
the  capital market ,” the regulator said. Investors who make
such purchases might be barred from selling shares for six
months, according to the statement.  Shareholders with 50 percent or more may be allowed to
increase their stakes without seeking approval, according to the
draft rules.  Thailand’s Regulator to Curb Bill of Exchange Sales by Banks  Thailand will curb the sale of bills of exchange by
commercial banks to protect individual investors from investing
in the short-term debt securities, according to the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The new rules, which will take effect July 1, are aimed at
limiting bill of exchange sales by commercial banks, Vorapol
Socatiyanurak, secretary-general of the SEC, told reporters in
Bangkok today. Thai companies must sell at least 10 million baht
of the debt securities to each investor, he said.  Separately, Thailand may scrap a tax on dividend income to
help attract overseas investment into the stock market, Vorapol
said. The regulator has asked the  finance ministry  to consider
the proposal, Vorapol said. Shareholders of Thai-listed
companies currently pay a 10 percent withholding tax on their
dividend income, he said.  Compliance Action  Regulators Fleeing Credit Raters Embrace Zero-Risk Greek Bonds  U.S. regulators, required by Congress to remove credit
ratings from banking rules, have devised a plan anchored in a
Paris-based group’s rankings that assign zero risk to most
European government debt.  The  Federal Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  proposed rules
last month to set bank capital levels using classifications made
by the  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ,
or OECD. The intergovernmental group, two-thirds of whose
members are European Union countries, considers most EU
sovereign bonds risk-free, including those of Greece and
Portugal.  The proposal undermines the intent of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, which sought to eliminate the use of ratings by companies
such as  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service that are
paid by the entities they rate, said Luigi De Ghenghi, a partner
at law firm  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP  in  New York . Regulators
are just replacing one set of conflicts with another, De Ghenghi
said, noting that the OECD represents the member governments.  The proposed rules could be revised after a public comment
period that ends Feb. 3. A final version may be published a few
months later, regulators say.  For more, click here.  MF Global U.K. Staff May Not Get Bonuses Pledged Before Failure  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s U.K. employees owed bonuses by
the failed broker were placed behind most other creditors in the
bankruptcy process and may never receive their money.  KPMG LLP, the administrator of MF Global’s U.K. unit, said
cash bonuses would be treated as unsecured claims, near the
bottom of the creditor pile. Unvested share awards and stock
options for the unit’s 700 employees, valued at about $62
million for the year ending in March 2011, are virtually
worthless with the stock trading at less than 8 cents yesterday.  MF Global, based in New York, was the fifth-largest
financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after placing losing bets on European
sovereign debt. KPMG was appointed to supervise the
administration of the broker’s London unit.  Under the U.K. Financial Services Authority’s new
compensation rules, as much as 60 percent of bonus payouts for
managers and senior staff must be deferred for at least three
years, and half must be in shares.  Including wages, options, shares and bonuses, MF Global’s
U.K. unit paid $232 million to its employees in the last fiscal
year, according to accounts filed at Companies House. One U.K.
director received $7 million.  KPMG said bonus claims for all employees, including those
let go after the company collapsed and the 300 retained to work
on the administration, would be treated the same.  KPMG partner Richard Heis said the remaining staff had been
offered a retention bonus to work with the administrators,
without commenting on how much the bonuses would be.  Courts  WJB Capital Group Sued in New York State for Alleged Fraud  WJB Capital Group Inc. (0115414D) , the Wall Street firm that said it’s
shutting down its brokerage operations, was sued in New York by
an investor over fraud allegations.  WJB Capital and Chief Executive Officer Craig Rothfeld were
accused of fraud, breach of contract and other claims over a
$250,000 investment in the company, according to a lawsuit filed
Dec. 31 in New York State Supreme Court.  James McNally said that in exchange for a $250,000
investment he was promised “compensation for the duration of
the investment.” WJB Capital failed to pay and used the money
“for fraudulent purposes,” according to the complaint.  Rothfeld didn’t return a message seeking comment.  WJB Capital  Group is shutting its brokerage operations amid
“financial issues,” according to its main attorney.  Mark Skolnick, general counsel for the company at law firm
 Platzer, Swergold, Karlin, Levine, Goldberg & Jaslow LLP  said
“a very painful decision” was made to terminate the company’s
broker-dealer operations. The firm has some non-brokerage
operations and is exploring “other possibilities,” Skolnick
said.  WJB Capital, founded in 1993, has offices in five cities
across the U.S. and operates live trading desks for all of the
nation’s major equities and options exchanges, according to its
website.  The case is James McNally v. WJB Capital Group Inc.,
650005-2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Life Partners Sued by SEC in Disclosure Case; Shares Fall 20%  Life Partners Holdings Inc. (LPHI) , an acquirer of life-insurance
policies, was sued by U.S. regulators along with three of its
executives over allegations of fraudulent statements, improper
accounting and insider trading.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said the Waco,
Texas-based company underestimated life expectancies used in its
transactions, according to a  statement  issued yesterday by the
agency. The SEC named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brian
D. Pardo; R. Scott Peden, who is president and general counsel;
and David M. Martin, the chief financial officer.  The faulty statements and improper accounting were used to
overvalue assets and create the appearance of “a steady stream
of earnings,” the SEC said.  Life Partners fell 20 percent in extended New York trading
yesterday after the SEC announcement. It had declined more than
60 percent in the past 12 months at the close of regular
trading.  “It is very disappointing that the SEC has chosen to
pursue litigation over issues that we believe have no merit and
financial presentation issues that we do not believe are
material,” Pardo said in a statement. “We intend to vigorously
defend ourselves against these meritless claims.”  Life Partners buys the right to receive death benefits from
life-insurance policyholders, who get lump-sum cash payments up
front. The firm continues to pay premiums, betting it will
eventually collect more than it spends. The profit decreases if
the insured lives longer than expected.  A call to the company for comment wasn’t returned. Peden
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message left at a
listing under his name, in Woodway,  Texas . A listing couldn’t be
found for Martin.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Life
Partners Holdings, Inc., 12-cv-00002, Western District of Texas
(Waco).  Interviews/Speeches  PwC’s Gray Says European Banks’ Main Concern Is Economy  Andrew Gray, a partner and U.K. financial services
consulting leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, talked about
the outlook for the European banking industry.  He spoke with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  KPN CFO Smits-Nusteling Departs on Governance Disagreement  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the largest Dutch phone company, said Chief
Financial Officer Carla Smits-Nusteling has stepped down because
of disagreements about governance, the second departure of a
board member in two months.  Eric Hageman, KPN’s head for Belgium, and Steven van
Schilfgaarde, chief of the Dutch corporate business, will become
interim CFOs with immediate effect, the Hague-based operator
said in a statement yesterday, adding that it’s looking for a
permanent replacement as soon as possible. Smits-Nusteling, 45,
will leave April 1. In November, KPN said that another board
member, Baptiest Coopmans, will also leave on April 1.  Under the new executive structure, announced in May,
management board members meet directly with unit chiefs on
matters that concern their respective business in an executive
committee, said Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman. The changes,
which took effect this year, allow for more direct control and
decision-making than the previous procedure, where various unit
boards reported to the management board, he said.  Smits-Nusteling “has informed the supervisory board that
she has ultimately come to the conclusion that she does not
agree with the internal governance of the company in the new
executive structure,” KPN said in the statement. Simons
declined to specify the nature of the disagreement with Smits-
Nusteling.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  