-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Contract Less Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-04T09:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/euro-area-manufacturing-services-contract-less-than-initially-estimated.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted less than initially estimated in December, led
by  Germany , the region’s largest economy, where output reached a
four-month high.  A euro-area  composite index (ECPMICOU)  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 48.3 from 47 in November,
London-based Markit Economics said in an e-mailed report today.
That’s above an initial estimate of 47.9 on Dec. 15. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction. The German composite output
gauge rose to 51.3 from 49.4.  Europe’s economy is edging toward a recession as
governments toughen budget cuts to contain the region’s debt
crisis just as global demand for exports falters. The
 International Monetary Fund  may cut its 2012 global growth
forecast this month after lowering it to 4 percent in September,
when it predicted “severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails to
contain its crisis.  “The uplift in the euro-zone PMI in December does little
to dispel fears of the region sliding back into recession,”
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in today’s
report.  “Despite the upturn, the fourth quarter saw the steepest
contraction since the spring of 2009, and forward-looking
indicators suggest that a further decline is on the cards for
the first quarter of 2012,” he said. “In particular, orders
for goods and services continued to collapse, suggesting that
output and employment will be cut as we move into the new
year.”  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing (PMITMEZ)  rose to 46.9 in
December from 46.4 in the previous month. A measure of services
climbed to 48.8, a three-month high, Markit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  