-- Euro-Area Stocks to Beat Biggest Markets on ECB Action, ING Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   M a r k   B a r t o n
-- 2012-01-04T10:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/euro-area-stocks-to-beat-biggest-markets-on-ecb-action-ing-says.html
Euro-area (SX5E)  stocks will rally more than
the world’s biggest markets this year if the European Central
Bank increases purchases of government debt and a deal is struck
to limit spending, according to ING Investment Management.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index has rallied 19 percent through
today from its lowest level last year as speculation mounted
that the euro area would make available greater financial
assistance for indebted countries that sign up to tougher budget
rules, according to Adrian Van Tiggelen, the chief equity
strategist at ING in the Hague, which manages $163 billion in
assets. The 17 percent slump last year has left the measure
trading with a price-earnings ratio of 8.8, compared with a
multiple of 12.1 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The value is mostly in the euro zone,” Van Tiggelen said
in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Mark Barton . “That’s
where stocks are the cheapest and where the most upside is when
politicians follow this path. That would cause the euro zone to
outperform most major markets in the world.”  The results of a summit in December, at which 26 of the 27
 European Union members  agreed to sign up to or consider tighter
deficit limits and sanctions against offenders, would have been
“unthinkable” a few months ago and “can’t be overstated,”
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a speech last month.  Investors need to see government “increasing packages
further or straight money printing by the ECB,” said ING’s Van
Tiggelen. “ Germany  is dead against it, but as things progress
they may warm up to the idea -- they are slowly warming up
already. If the ECB would continue in that fashion --
quantitative easing, buying up  government bonds  under strict
plans to control these governments -- that would be a very good
case for the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  