-- Slowing Inflation May Give ECB Room to Maneuver on Interest Rates: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-04T12:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/european-inflation-slows-giving-ecb-room-to-lower-rates-to-boost-economy.html
Euro-region inflation (ECCPEMUY)  slowed for the
first time in five months in December, giving the European
Central Bank room to lower borrowing costs further as the
economy edges toward a recession.  The  inflation rate (ECCPEMUY)  in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.8
percent from 3 percent in November, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted
less than initially estimated last month and French  consumer
spending  unexpectedly declined in November from October,
separate reports showed.  Europe’s economy (EUGNEMUQ)  is showing increasing signs of a slowdown
as governments struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis,
adding pressure on the ECB to lower the benchmark  interest rate 
from the current 1 percent, which matches a  record low (EURR002W) .
Economists at IHS Global Insight and ABN Amro forecast the
central bank will cut borrowing costs as low as 0.5 percent to
fight a recession.  “Euro-zone inflation has now passed its peak and is likely
to fall further in the coming months to levels clearly below 2
percent in the second half of this year,” said  Nick Kounis ,
head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “The favorable
medium-term inflation outlook is a green light for further ECB
rate cuts over the coming months.”  The euro traded at $1.2981 at 12:45 p.m. in Frankfurt, down
0.3 percent on the day. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.5
percent. U.S. Treasury 10-year securities fell for a second day,
pushing yields up the most in a week.  ‘Downside Pressure’  In the  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, factory orders
probably rose 2 percent in November from the previous month,
when they fell 0.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
Commerce Department will publish the report at 10 a.m. New York
time today.  Signs of a strengthening American economy contrast with
indications of a global slowdown.  China ’s home prices fell for a
fourth month in December,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s
largest real-estate website owner, said today. Chinese Premier
Wen Jiabao said yesterday that there is “downside pressure” on
the economy and also cited “problems of weakening external
demand and rising costs for companies.”  In the euro region, inflation may average 2 percent this
year and 1.5 percent in 2013, the ECB forecast on Dec. 8. In
2011, consumer prices probably increased 2.7 percent on average,
it estimated. The economy may expand just 0.3 percent this year
after growing 1.6 percent in 2011, according to the ECB.  Waning Confidence  While crude-oil prices have increased 11 percent over the
past year, companies may find it difficult to pass on higher
costs as governments toughen austerity measures and the economy
cools. Euro-area unemployment rose to 10.3 percent in October,
the highest in more than a decade, and  consumer confidence  fell
to the lowest in more than two years last month.  “Europe is on the brink of a recession,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in Luxembourg today. “One has
to react adequately to it.”  Euro-region  economic confidence (EUESEMU)  probably dropped to the
lowest in more than two years in December, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The European Commission will release the
report measuring confidence of households, builders and
manufacturers on Jan. 6.  Consumer Spending  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, said on
Nov. 7 that Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain held back growth
in the third quarter, leaving the Paris-based company
“cautious” for the rest of 2011. The situation remains
“difficult in southern Europe,” Chief Executive Officer Jean- Paul Agon said in a statement.  In  France , consumer spending dropped 0.1 percent in
November from the previous month, when it rose 0.1 percent,
national statistics office Insee in Paris said today. Euro-
region services industries contracted for a fourth month in
December, a separate report by Markit Economics showed.  While the ECB was forced to reverse last year’s two rate
increases, expand provisions of unlimited cash to banks and
widen the pool of collateral to secure the funds, it has
rejected stepping up purchases of  government bonds .  ECB council members will hold their next rate meeting on
Jan. 12 in  Frankfurt . President  Mario Draghi  said on Dec. 8
that, while risks to the price outlook are “broadly balanced,”
inflation will remain above 2 percent for “several months to
come before declining” below the ceiling.  Overall Inflation  “With energy price inflation set to tumble further over
the next few months and the recession expected to push  core
inflation  lower, overall inflation should drop below 2 percent
around the middle of this year,” said Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “There’s a decent chance
of the ECB delivering at least one additional 25 basis point cut
over the next few months.”  The statistics office will release a breakdown of December
consumer prices on Jan. 17. Euro-area  core inflation (CPEXEMUY) , which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, held at 1.6 percent in
November from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  