-- Teva Climbs to Five-Month High as EZchip Drops: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-01-05T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/teva-climbs-to-five-month-high-as-ezchip-drops-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
led gains among the biggest Israeli companies traded in New York
yesterday on reports a partner of the world’s largest generic
drug maker boosted its market share for cholesterol-lowering
drugs.  Shares of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva rose 1 percent to
$43.55 in New York yesterday, after  jumping (TEVA)  6.8 percent on Jan.
3 following the announcement that Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s
Jeremy Levin will replace Shlomo Yanai as chief executive
officer. The advance pushed the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of
the largest Israeli companies traded in New York 0.1 percent
higher. Teva gained 1 percent in  Tel Aviv  today to 167.5
shekels, or the equivalent of $43.54, at the 4:30 p.m. close.
The country’s benchmark index, the TA-25, gained 0.2 percent.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , based near  New Delhi , boosted
sales of the generic version of Lipitor to 26 percent from 20
percent this week, according to DS Securities & Investments.
Teva, whose shares sank 23 percent  last year (TEVA) , will receive a
portion of the profit for the first six months, under the terms
of an agreement between the two companies. Lipitor had $10.7
billion in revenue in 2010.  “With the latest news of CEO changes, everything positive
that is happening with the company is getting a lot more
attention,” said Gilad Alper, a Tel Aviv-based analyst for
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. “Teva has reached a
dead end and its only chance is a new strategy.”  Marvell (MRVL)   EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  fell 1.4 percent to $28.99 after
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. bought a Swedish competitor.
EZchip’s Tel Aviv shares lost 0.5 percent today to 111.10
shekels, or the equivalent of $28.88.  Marvell completed yesterday the purchase of processor maker
Xelerated AB, four months after Broadcom Corp. said it plans to
acquire semiconductor company NetLogic Microsystems Inc. EZchip
jumped 11 percent on Sept. 12 on speculation Marvell will buy
the company to stave off growing competition.  “EZchip is down because people are looking at it and
wondering whether there’s anybody who will buy it,” said  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of equity research at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC. “It’s a tough business to become a major
player so that’s why investors are a little bit concerned.”  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  Ranbaxy  While Ranbaxy’s market share rose,  Watson Pharmaceutical
Inc. (WPI) ’s fell to 33 percent and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  maintained its 41
percent holding, according to DS Securities.  “They are strengthening their share,” Natali Gotlieb, an
analyst at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said yesterday. “If the trends continue, it is obviously
good.”  At Bristol-Myers, Levin helped oversee partnerships and
acquisitions to replace revenue expected to be lost when the
blood thinner Plavix, Bristol-Myers’ top-selling drug, faces
generic competition this year.  On a conference call with analysts Jan. 3, Levin declined
to discuss strategy changes and said he will take a “deep
dive” into Teva’s drugs and research pipeline.  “We are confident in Dr. Levin’s ability to refocus and
revitalize Teva,” Shibani Malhotra, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in New York, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.
Levin will “identify the key requirements for success within
the increasingly challenging global pharmaceutical industry,”
Malhotra said.  Check Point  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-
largest network-security company, dropped the most in two weeks,
retreating 2.3 percent yesterday to $51.73.  “We expect Check Point’s growth to decelerate in 2012 and
2013,” Tal Liani, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in New York, who restarted coverage of the company with a
“neutral” rating, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.
“Competition is increasing. Check Point’s investment case is
predicated on its ability to grow revenues beyond current
expectations.”  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the maker of homemade soda
machines, climbed 8.3 percent to $37.75, after rising 6.6
percent on Jan. 3.  The company sold more machines than anticipated during the
holiday season, according to a Jan. 3 report from Monness,
Crespi, Hardt & Co. based on a survey of retailers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  