-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Director Gupta Seeks Dismissal of Some ‘Improper’ Counts
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-01-04T05:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ex-goldman-sachs-director-gupta-seeks-dismissal-of-some-counts-against-him.html
Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director charged with  insider trading  as part of the
Galleon Group LLC probe, asked a judge to dismiss some of the
counts against him.  The government’s indictment focuses on two instances in
which the U.S. said Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam traded on
information he allegedly received from Gupta, though it
“improperly uses those two instances to create five purportedly
separate substantive  securities-fraud  charges,” according to
Gupta’s filing in federal court in Manhattan.  “The five substantive securities fraud counts in the
indictment, because they stem from just two purported unlawful
acts, repeatedly charge what are, at most, two alleged
offenses,” according to the filing yesterday. Gupta asked the
judge to consolidate the charges or order prosecutors to choose
which to pursue.  In a separate filing yesterday, Gupta asked that
prosecutors be barred from using wiretap evidence. The
government intends to present a “circumstantial case”
based on the timing of alleged telephone calls between Gupta
and Rajaratnam and recordings the U.S. obtained by wiretapping
Rajaratnam’s cell phone, according to the filing.  Gupta’s lawyers said the court’s rejection of a similar bid
by Rajaratnam to bar the intercepts as evidence during his trial
was incorrect. Federal laws restricting use of wiretaps don’t
permit them in investigations of suspected insider trading,
according to Gupta’s filing.  P&G (PG) , McKinsey  Gupta, who also sat on the board of Procter & Gamble Co.
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury in
October on five counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta also faces a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
on the filings after regular business hours yesterday.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of directing the
biggest insider-trading ring in a generation. His 11-year prison
term was the longest sentence ever handed down for such a crime
and the culmination of a four-year nationwide probe of insider
trading.  He reported to a federal medical prison in Ayer,
 Massachusetts , on Dec. 5 to begin serving his term A three-judge
panel rejected Rajaratnam’s request to remain free while he
appeals his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  