-- Ex-LyondellBasell Employee Gets 7-Year Sentence in Kickbacks
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-05T01:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ex-lyondellbasell-industries-worker-gets-7-year-prison-term-for-kickbacks.html
Ex- LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) 
employee Jonathan Paul Barnes was sentenced to seven years in
prison on fraud and money-laundering charges in a kickback
scheme involving oil shipments to the company’s  Texas  refinery.  Barnes, 56, was sentenced today in Houston federal court by
U.S. District Judge Sim Lake, who also ordered Barnes to pay $82
million in restitution, federal prosecutors said in a statement.  Barnes pleaded guilty in March to accepting about $20
million in kickbacks while managing marine chartering for
Lyondell’s Houston refinery from 2007 to early 2010.  He acknowledged running a scheme that overcharged
Lyondell’s Houston subsidiary roughly $82 million on oil
shipments from Venezuela, according to court papers. He was
assisted by two oil traders, Bernard Langley, 54, of the U.K.,
and Clyde Meltzer, 65, of Houston and Livingston, N.J. Both have
pleaded guilty to funneling kickbacks to Barnes and are awaiting
sentencing in April.  “The  United States  has already seized assets purchased
with proceeds from the kickback fraud that are valued at
approximately $20 million,” Kenneth Magidson, the U.S. Attorney
for Houston, said in the statement.  The seized assets included real estate in Houston, Florida
and upstate  New York  and “more than 15 luxury and classic
vehicles including a 1957 Cadillac once owned by Frank Sinatra,
a boat and numerous pieces of high-end jewelry,” Magidson said.  “The kickback scheme was uncovered during an internal
audit, which raised questions about certain marine chartering
costs which appeared to deviate from the industry norm,”  David Harpole , Lyondell’s Houston spokesman, said in an e-mail in
response to today’s sentencing.  He said that when an internal
investigation disclosed apparent kickbacks, the company “took
immediate steps to address the matter,” including firing Barnes
and referring the matter for criminal investigation by the
 Justice Department ’s Houston division.  Rusty Hardin , Barnes’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to a call seeking comment on today’s sentence.  A fourth defendant, Alireza Etessami, 37, of Venezuela, was
recently arrested and is currently scheduled for a February
trial on his alleged role in the scheme. Three other alleged co-
conspirators remain at large, according to court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Barnes, 4:10-cr-0787, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  