-- MF Global Judge Urges Lawyers Suing Corzine, Brokerage to Get Organized
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-02-24T18:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/mf-global-plaintiffs-compete-to-lead-lawsuit-against-corzine-over-collapse.html
The judge who may oversee investor
lawsuits against  Jon Corzine , MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s former
chief executive officer, and separate cases filed by customers
of the firm suggested that plaintiffs’ lawyers organize
themselves to push the suits forward.  “Something big happened at MF Global last December,” U.S.
District Judge  Victor Marrero  said at an initial conference
today in  Manhattan  federal court, where dozens of lawyers in at
least three set of lawsuits gathered. “Whether the case is in
New York or  Chicago  or somewhere else, you’re going to need a
leadership structure.”  A panel of judges from federal judicial districts across
the country will hear arguments on March 29 on where lawsuits
stemming from the collapse of MF Global will be heard. The suits
name Corzine and other executives. Separate bankruptcy
litigation is proceeding in  New York .  At least three sets of cases are pending: a class action,
or group, suit by holders of MF Global securities; a group of
suits claiming violations of commodities laws by customers of
brokerage MF Global Inc.; and another customer case by Sapere
CTA Fund LP, which says it lost $90 million at the brokerage.  Law Firms  Law firms  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L)  and
 Labaton Sucharow LLP  are taking the lead in the securities cases
on behalf of investors. Attorneys for clients who lost money at
the brokerage are still negotiating over leadership. The Sapere
case was filed by firms in New York and Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Marrero today said he wouldn’t issue orders until the
multidistrict litigation panel determines where the cases will
proceed. He made recommendations as to how lawyers might
organize matters.  “The allegations will be substantially overlapping,” he
said.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 