-- MF Global’s London Employees May Not Get Bonuses Promised Before Collapse
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-04T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/mf-global-s-london-employees-may-not-get-bonuses-promised-before-collapse.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s U.K.
employees owed bonuses by the failed broker were placed behind
most other creditors in the bankruptcy process and may never
receive their money.  KPMG LLP, the administrator of MF Global’s U.K. unit, said
cash bonuses would be treated as unsecured claims, near the
bottom of the creditor pile. Unvested share awards and stock
options for the unit’s 700 employees, valued at about $62
million for the year ending in March 2011, are virtually
worthless with the  stock trading  at less than 8 cents yesterday.  “It’s most unlikely they will get anything that’s deferred
such as share options, stock units or other incentives,” said
Jo Keddie, an employment lawyer at law firm Winckworth Sherwood.
“The directors and everybody else will suffer significant
losses since administrators have very little discretion as to
wages, let alone contractual bonuses and other hard-earned
incentives.”  MF Global, based in  New York , was the fifth-largest
financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after placing losing bets on European
sovereign debt. KPMG was appointed to supervise the
administration of the broker’s London unit, in the first use of
a U.K. regime designed to quickly unwind failing firms.  Lehman Administration  Keddie said treating bonuses as unsecured claims was
standard practice for the administration of financial firms such
as MF Global and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   A former MF Global employee in London, who declined to be
identified because of a confidentiality agreement, said he
didn’t expect to find out the progress of his claim on a cash
bonus for at least 18 months.  Under the U.K. Financial Services Authority’s new
compensation rules, as much as 60 percent of bonus payouts for
managers and senior staff must be deferred for at least three
years, and half must be in shares.  Including wages, options, shares and bonuses, MF Global’s
U.K. unit paid $232 million to its employees in the last fiscal
year, according to accounts filed at  Companies House . One U.K.
director received $7 million.  KPMG said bonus claims for all employees, including those
let go after the company collapsed and the 300 retained to work
on the administration, would be treated the same. “Any
contractual deferred bonuses that were in place prior to the
appointment of the administrators rank as unsecured claims
against their employing company,” it said in an e-mailed
statement.  KPMG partner Richard Heis said the remaining staff had been
offered a retention bonus to work with the administrators,
without commenting on how much the bonuses would be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  