-- MF Global Creditors to Discuss Rights in Brokerage Case
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-04T16:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/mf-global-creditors-to-discuss-rights-in-brokerage-case-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s creditors
will discuss their right to be heard in the liquidation of the
brokerage unit, MF Global Inc., under a schedule agreed upon
with the trustee of MF Global Inc.  A committee of creditors in the case will file arguments
about their rights in the separate but related brokerage wind-
down of MF Global Inc. on or before Jan. 18, according to court
papers filed today. Under an agreement with James Giddens, a
trustee overseeing the former operating unit under the
Securities Investor Protection Act, Giddens will file a reply on
or before Feb. 17.  The papers concern the “right of the committee to appear
and be heard in the SIPA liquidation of MF Global Inc.,”
lawyers for the creditors and the trustee wrote.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman Jon Corzine, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  While it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy to apportion
returns to creditors, including bondholders and lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Giddens, appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act, is overseeing distributions to
customers missing an estimated $1.2 billion from their
segregated accounts.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has said in a
letter filed with the bankruptcy court that creditors can’t put
their private interests ahead of customers. A lawyer for the
agency wrote that creditors of the brokerage’s bankrupt parent
company have used an “erroneous interpretation of the law”
that would privilege creditors over customers of the failed
operating unit.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 