-- J&J, C.R. Bard Must Study Safety of Vaginal Mesh, FDA Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-05T14:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/fda-orders-safety-studies-for-vaginal-implants-made-by-j-j-and-c-r-bard.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) 
must study rates of organ damage and complications linked to
vaginal mesh implants, U.S. regulators said, responding to
patient advocates who say the devices have harmed women.  The  Food and Drug Administration  wrote J&J, C.R. Bard and
31 other manufacturers, telling them to conduct three years of
trials on safety and effectiveness, the agency’s  William Maisel 
said yesterday in a telephone interview. An FDA report in July
found a fivefold jump in deaths, injuries or malfunctions tied
to the products.  Almost 300,000 synthetic meshes were implanted in U.S.
women in 2010 to treat incontinence or shore up pelvic muscles,
the agency estimates. The devices’ alleged failures have spurred
more than 650 lawsuits against manufacturers and heightened
scrutiny of the FDA program that cleared the products for sale
without human testing.  “Now these companies are going to have to tell the
truth,” said Lana Keeton, a mesh recipient and patient advocate
from Austin, Texas. While companies say implants are safe, “up
until now, there’s been no data,” she said. “It’s all been
marketing.”  J&J, the biggest maker of vaginal mesh,  fell (JNJ)  less than 1
percent to $65.09 at 9:38 a.m. in New York. C.R. Bard also
 declined (BCR)  less than 1 percent to $86.01. J&J is based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and C.R. Bard in  Murray Hill , New Jersey.  The  letters  ask each manufacturer to collect data on the
results and potential complications of transvaginal procedures,
in which the hammock-like meshes are threaded in place through
an incision in the vagina. The FDA said in July that it wasn’t
clear from available studies whether the devices provided a
benefit over older methods in certain cases.  Guiding Doctors  “We believe there are certain uses of mesh where we need
additional data to help guide the clinical community,” said
Maisel, deputy director of science for the agency’s device-
approval center. “Our goal is to make sure the right women use
it at the right time.”  The meshes were approved through the FDA’s 510(k) system,
which allows products to reach the market without human testing
if the agency decides they’re similar to devices already for
sale. In October, Bloomberg News reported many implants can
trace their approvals back to a  Boston Scientific (BSX)  Corp. mesh
recalled for safety concerns in 1999.  Yesterday’s letters covered only devices already on the
market. Consumer groups say they want the action to be just a
first step toward requiring studies before the products can
reach the market, said Amy Allina, a policy director at the
 National Women’s Health Network in Washington .  ‘The Right Thing’  “It would have been better if the products that had hurt
women had never gone out in the first place,” she said in a
telephone interview. “But now that they’re out there, we’re
encouraged to see the FDA doing the right thing and requiring
the companies to provide more information.”  Even before the studies are done, they will serve to warn
off patients, said Keeton, the  Texas  woman and founder of the
group Truth in Medicine.  “What woman’s going to sign up for a study when they
know” the potential complications, she said by telephone.  Keeton sued J&J over injuries she blamed on a 2001 implant.
The case was dismissed by a federal judge in 2007. She has also
worked as a paid consultant to lawyers suing mesh makers.  Matthew Johnson , a spokesman for J&J’s Ethicon unit that
makes the devices, said the company was reviewing the
correspondence from the FDA.  ‘Most Studied’  “Ethicon’s transvaginal mesh devices are already among the
most studied devices on the market, and we will continue to
support their use in surgical repair with clinical evidence,
through investigator-initiated and company-sponsored trials,”
he said in an e-mail.  The FDA letters also went to companies including  Endo
Pharmaceuticals Holding Inc. (ENDP)  of  Chadds Ford ,  Pennsylvania , and
Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts . The companies
have 30 days to respond.  Kevin Wiggins from Endo Pharmaceuticals and Eric Olson from
Boston Scientific didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.
Scott Lowry, a C.R. Bard spokesman, also didn’t return a
message.  The edges of mesh fibers can constrict or cut into internal
organs after they’ve been implanted, studies have found. The
procedure is also prone to infection because the vagina through
which the devices are inserted isn’t a sterile environment, said
Clifford Wheeless, an emeritus associate gynecology professor at
 Johns Hopkins University (43935MF)  School of Medicine, in a telephone
interview last year.  High-Risk  In September, an advisory panel recommended the FDA
reclassify mesh used for  pelvic organ prolapse , a condition in
which weakened muscles fail to support internal organs, as
“high-risk” devices that require human testing. The FDA hasn’t
made a decision yet, Maisel said. The agency isn’t likely to
heed the call of some patient advocates for a complete recall,
he said.  “There’s strong support in the clinical community that
mesh serves a role for certain patients,” Maisel said. “Our
goal is not to completely remove these products from the
market.”  Manufacturers sell about $175 million worth of prolapse
mesh worldwide and another $295 million for incontinence
treatments, C.R. Bard executives estimated on a conference call
in 2010. Even for the top sellers, the products make up only
about 1 percent to 2 percent of sales, said Michael Matson, a
Mizuho Securities USA analyst in  New York .  “Patients are already well aware of these issues and the
markets have been declining already,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  