-- Bond Dealers in Fed Survey Predict Rate Increase in Second Quarter of 2014
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-04T20:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/fed-primary-dealer-survey-predicts-rate-increase-in-second-quarter-of-2014.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York ’s survey of primary dealers conducted before policy makers’
Dec. 13 meeting showed the firms expected the Fed to raise its
benchmark  interest rate  during the second quarter of 2014.  Respondents saw a 45 percent chance the first rate increase
would occur in the second quarter of 2014 or later, according to
the results  posted  today on the New York Fed’s website. The
median among the predictions for the timing of the first
increase was the second quarter of 2014, the bank said in a
statement. The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate near
zero since December 2008.  The December survey asked primary dealers the probability
that central bankers would make changes to their public
communications within the next year. Fed officials decided at
the last meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to start
publishing their own forecasts for the central bank’s key
interest rate, according to minutes of the gathering released
yesterday.  “While most dealers did not expect any policy changes at
the December meeting, some suggested the FOMC could change its
communication strategy, and a few saw a change in the guidance
on the future path of the federal funds rate as likely,” the
New York Fed said in a statement.  The questions for the December survey and its predecessors
for the seven other Fed policy meetings in 2011 were published
last month as part of “ongoing efforts to increase
transparency,” the regional Fed bank said in a statement at the
time.  Tightening Tools  The 21 dealers were asked about the probability the Fed
would use each of 11 easing or tightening tools at the FOMC
meeting in December, and within one year or two years.  The median respondent saw a 60 percent chance that the Fed
would expand its balance sheet through securities purchases
within one year, and 40 percent odds the central bank would
“provide guidance” within a year on the timeframe for the
central bank’s portfolio to remain at its current size, the
results showed.  Primary dealers also saw a 25 percent likelihood that the
 U.S. economy  would be in a recession within six months,
according to the median response. They saw a 10 percent chance
that the U.S. economy was currently in a recession.  The question on the communications changes was one of two
major differences in the December survey from the prior survey
ahead of the Fed’s Nov. 1-2 policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  