-- Fidelity, Och-Ziff Seek Stiffer Collateral Rule Before CFTC Vote
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/fidelity-och-ziff-seek-stiffer-collateral-rule-before-cftc-vote.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may complete rules next week that set protections for
swap traders’ collateral as some hedge funds and mutual funds
push for additional safety measures in the wake of the collapse
of MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The CFTC may approve its rule, required under the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act, on Jan. 11, according to four people briefed on
the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
schedule hasn’t been made public. The new requirement seeks to
insulate swaps traders from a brokerage’s default while allowing
customer funds to be pooled.  The investment companies, including  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC  and  Fidelity Investments , are asking the
commission to reconsider its rulemaking until it can offer them
the option of keeping their money in a separate account that can
be independently monitored. They cited the $1.2 billion in
customer funds that has gone missing at MF Global.  “The prolonged delay in determining both the amount and
location of missing customer funds in the wake of MF Global’s
collapse highlights the need for stringent measures,” Scott C. Goebel, senior vice president and general counsel at Fidelity,
wrote in a Dec. 8 letter to the CFTC. The company asked for
“full physical segregation” for the collateral they put up for
swap trades.  The debate highlights a divide in the financial industry
between those investment companies and others that support the
CFTC’s proposal, including BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
asset manager. The Managed Funds Association, which represents
 hedge funds , has been holding weekly industry conference calls
to attempt to find consensus on the issue, according to people
who’ve been part of the discussions.  Possible New Measures  In a nod to the political sensitivity of the issue, the
agency’s commissioners are expected at the Jan. 11 meeting to
raise the possibility of additional measures that could give
firms more options to protect their money, people briefed on the
matter said.  The CFTC rule would set up new procedures for protecting
collateral in trades guaranteed by clearinghouses, entities that
stand between buyers and sellers of derivatives. The final plan,
which could still change, is expected to closely track a
proposal the CFTC issued in April that prohibits clearinghouses
from drawing on the collateral of a non-defaulting client when
another client’s downfall results in their broker’s default.  The plan could offer less safety than some investors in the
non-regulated over-the-counter  derivatives market  enjoy today.
Traders in those markets often negotiate agreements where their
collateral is held by an independent third party such as a
custody bank.  State Street  One such firm, State Street Corp., wrote the CFTC on Dec.
14, urging that the commission at least allow investment firms
the option of negotiating their own deals, citing “the recent
challenges in recovering funds from customer accounts following
the bankruptcy of MF Global.”  The CFTC proposal exposes clients to risk when brokers
don’t keep adequate records of their clients’ funds, Jeffrey C. Blockinger, chief legal officer at Och-Ziff, wrote to the CFTC’s
five commissioners. Boston-based Fidelity and Och-Ziff, a New
York hedge fund with $28.8 billion under management, urged the
CFTC to allow for swap buyers to have their collateral fully
segregated in separate accounts rather than operationally
commingled.  Federal authorities including the CFTC, the  Securities and
Exchange Commission , U.S.  Justice Department  and the bankruptcy
trustee are reviewing whether MF Global misused clients’ funds.
James W. Giddens, the trustee, has estimated that as much as
$1.2 billion in customer funds are missing.  ‘Liquidity Issues’  MF Global used about $700 million of customer funds to
“meet liquidity issues” at its broker-dealer in the days prior
to its Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, according to CME Group Inc.,
which was MF Global’s auditor.  Before MF Global’s collapse, support had coalesced around
the CFTC’s proposal after more than a year of debate, two
daylong CFTC roundtables, 40 meetings between industry and
agency officials and more than 40 letters commenting on how to
protect collateral in the $708 trillion over-the-counter swaps
market.  The proposal, known as “complete legal segregation,”
would require clearinghouses and brokers to keep records
tracking each client’s collateral while allowing it to be
managed in a single account. If a broker defaults, the
clearinghouse couldn’t tap the collateral of a broker’s non-
defaulting client in an effort to guarantee the trades.  The plan was “the most appropriate choice” and “an
important first step in arranging appropriate customer
protections,” Robert Pickel, executive vice chairman at the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., said in an
Aug. 8 letter to the CFTC. The association represents the
world’s largest swap dealers, including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  