-- Ford Unveils Compact SUV in India Ahead of Global Introduction
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-01-04T13:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ford-unveils-compact-suv-in-india-ahead-of-global-introduction.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, unveiled a compact sport-utility vehicle in
India ahead of introducing the model in about 100 markets across
the world.  The automaker plans to target production of more than 2
million units of so-called B-segment small cars, including the
EcoSport SUV, by the middle of this decade, Ford said in a
 statement  as Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  introduced the
vehicle in  New Delhi  today. Ford will manufacture the EcoSport
at its plant in  Chennai , in southern India, the company said.  The South Asian nation may become one of Ford’s three
biggest markets by 2020, Joe Hinrichs, president for Asia-
Pacific, said in New Delhi today. Mulally, who has revived Ford
by focusing on quality and fuel economy in new models such as
the Fiesta subcompact and redesigned Explorer SUV, expects the
EcoSport to win it more customers.  “The Indian market is a tremendous market for us,”
Mulally said at press conference. “This vehicle offers the
flexibility, reliability and quality of a compact car with the
gait and roominess of an SUV.”  Ford’s  India  unit will have a capacity to make 440,000
vehicles annually by 2014, Hinrichs said. The local unit will
spend $142 million on making EcoSport available in India, he
said, without providing the price of the SUV or saying when
sales will start.  Eight New Models  Ford will be showcasing the EcoSport at the New Delhi auto
show this week. This is the second of eight new models the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker plans to introduce in India
by 2015 in a bid to boost its presence in  Asia ’s second-fastest
growing major economy.  The EcoSport will feature a 1-liter, three-cylinder direct-
injected EcoBoost engine, according to a  statement .  Ford, which got  58 percent (F)  of its third-quarter revenue
from  North America , is adding more models and expanding its
sales network in India to boost growth. The automaker has 220
outlets in the country, up from about 170 in June, Michael Boneham, the president of Ford’s India unit said today.  The company introduced its first small car in India in
2010. The 1.2-liter Figo helped almost triple deliveries to
95,395 in the year ended March 31. That ranked Ford behind
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , Hyundai Motor Co. and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
in passenger car sales, according to data from the manufacturers
group.  In 2011, Ford’s local sales rose 15 percent to 96,270
units, the company said Jan. 2 in an e-mailed statement.  New Factory  In July, Ford announced it would spend 40 billion rupees
($757 million) on a second car factory in India to cut shipment
time to the northern part of the country and access ports on the
nation’s west coast.  The factory, which will be ready by 2014, will have an
initial capacity to make 240,000 cars and 270,000 engines
annually in the western state of Gujarat. Ford has a plant near
Chennai in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , where it makes the
Figo hatchback, the Fiesta sedan and Endeavour SUV models.  Sales of cars in India have slowed as higher borrowing
costs deterred buyers in a country where industry researcher IHS
Automotive estimates almost 80 percent of car purchases are
funded with bank loans.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  may cut its
annual domestic passenger-car sales target as higher borrowing
costs and fuel prices sap demand, Sugato Sen, a senior director
for the group, said on Dec. 8. The group had earlier forecast
sales growth of 2 percent to 4 percent, compared with 30 percent
expansion in the year ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  