-- Ford Vies With Renault for India’s Deeper Pockets With SUVs
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-01-05T06:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ford-competes-with-renault-for-india-s-deeper-pockets-with-suvs.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  are
among automakers unveiling at least 15 sport-utility vehicles
and vans in India this week as they count on larger autos to
spur demand in a market traditionally dominated by small cars.  “As the customers’ incomes grow, they want to upgrade to a
bigger car,” said Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president for Asia
Pacific and  Africa , after introducing the EcoSport SUV in  New
Delhi  yesterday. “A lot of people, when they want to upgrade,
may upgrade to an SUV that gives you extra space and height.”  Automakers are focusing on faster-growing  emerging markets 
to make up for reduced demand in  Europe  as the region’s economy
slows with the sovereign-debt crisis.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Nissan Motor Co. are also introducing new or revamped SUVs at
this week’s  New Delhi auto show  after India’s record pace of
interest-rate increases damped demand for small cars accounting
for more than two-thirds of sales in the country.  “People buying SUVs have deeper pockets,” said  Deepesh Rathore , managing director for IHS Automotive in New Delhi.
“Even if they buy it with a loan, they won’t wait for the
 interest rates  to come down. But a person buying a small car may
hold off the purchase until the rates decline.”  Higher Sales  Sales of SUVs rose 11 percent during April to November,
while car sales fell 3.5 percent, according to the latest data
by the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Total car
sales may expand as low as 2 percent in the year ending March
31, after surging 30 percent last year to 1.98 million units,
according to the automaker’s group, which said last month it may
again lower the forecast.  SUV and van sales in India will triple to 1.3 million units
a year by 2020 from 434,000 at present, IHS forecasts. About 80
percent car purchases in the country are funded with bank loans,
according to IHS.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest carmaker, unveiled
a concept van, Hexa Space, at the show today. The automaker
currently sells the Santa Fe SUV in India, along with seven
other cars.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest,
displayed XA Alpha, a compact SUV concept. It will unveil the
Ertiga van tomorrow, according to a statement.  “When customers move up the value chain, they want to move
from a small car to a small SUV,” said Mayank Pareek, the head
of sales at New Delhi-based Maruti, a unit of  Japan ’s  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269)  “As the Indian car market grows, we find that
customers in urban and semi-urban areas want SUVs to project a
sporty and rugged sort of image.”  Ertiga Van  Maruti expects sales of such vehicles to expand at about 15
percent annually for the next five years, according to Pareek.
He declined to disclose the sales target for the Ertiga, a
vehicle with three rows of seating. Petrol and diesel variants
will go on sale in the second quarter of 2012.  Automakers are also introducing more SUVs as such pricier
models may offer higher profit margins, said  Mahantesh Sabarad ,
an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai.  “With rising competition in the small car space, the
margins are getting lower and manufacturers don’t have any
pricing power,” Sabarad said. “In the SUV space, there is a
wider price bracket and lower competition. So the margins are
likely to be better.”  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest SUV and tractor
maker, had an earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization  margin (MM)  of 20.5 percent in the year ended in March,
compared with 9.45 percent for Maruti, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mahindra’s net income in the year rose 24
percent, while Maruti’s declined 9 percent.  Rexton, Korando  Mahindra will display for the first time in India a range
of SUVs from  Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620) , the South Korean company it
acquired last year. The vehicles include the Rexton and Korando
models that the Mumbai-based automaker plans to start selling in
the country this year, it said in a statement.  In October, Mahindra began selling its XUV500 model to
compete with  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Aria and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Captiva. Priced between 1.1 million rupees ($20,721) and 1.3
million rupees, the XUV500 received 8,000 orders in 10 days,
equivalent to four months’ production.  “People are willing to pay a little more for an SUV rather
than have the same small car that their neighbors own,” said
 Sanjeev Varma , a Michigan-based senior automotive adviser at
Duff & Phelps LLC. “In India, image is important and everyone
wants to have something different.”  Fuel Price  Rising demand for diesel-powered vehicles in India is also
helping SUVs as most of such models run on the fuel. The
nation’s fuel pricing policy has pushed the difference between
diesel and gasoline to 60 percent, compared with the 28 percent
gap in June 2010. Gasoline is 28 percent higher in New Delhi.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (PEUG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, will
display a range of vehicles at the auto show as it prepares to
return to  India  after a 15-year absence. The Paris-based company
is setting up a 650 million-euro ($841 million) factory in the
western state of Gujarat with a plan to sell as many as 170,000
vehicles in India by 2016.  Renault is showcasing the  Duster  SUV, which will go on sale
in the country later this year. Its affiliate Nissan said today
it will start selling the Evalia van in India this year.  The New Delhi show, in its eleventh edition, will see 1,500
exhibitors displaying products at the Pragati Maidan trade fair
ground, according to a  statement . More than 50 new models,
including 32 passenger vehicles, 9 two-wheelers and 6 trucks,
will be unveiled at the event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  