-- Foreigners Cut South Korean Bond Holdings by Most in a Year, Buy Stocks
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/foreigners-cut-korea-bond-holdings-by-most-in-a-year-buy-stocks.html
Overseas investors cut their holdings
of  South Korea ’s local-currency bonds last month by the most in
a year, according to data released today by the financial
regulator.  The amount of the securities they owned fell 3.9 trillion
won ($3.4 billion) to 83 trillion won, sliding from a record
high at the end of November, the  Financial Supervisory Service 
said in an e-mailed statement today.  U.S. investors were the biggest sellers, reducing their
ownership of the notes by 2.5 trillion won, the regulator said.
Funds based in Luxembourg and Thailand together cut their
holdings by 2.4 trillion won. Kazakhstan investors were the
biggest net buyers, adding 1 trillion won, while funds in  Hong
Kong  boosted ownership by 198.5 billion won, FSS data show.  For the whole of 2011, overseas investors’ holdings of
Korean bonds increased by 7.1 trillion won, the regulator said.
Funds in  China  and  Malaysia  were the biggest net buyers.  Overseas investors bought 113.4 billion won more Korean
stocks than they sold in December, FSS data showed. Funds based
in Singapore were the biggest buyers, followed by those in
Canada and Sweden, the regulator said. Foreign ownership of the
nation’s shares fell by 9.6 trillion won last year.  The won weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar in December,
contributing to a 2.2 percent retreat for the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark five-year bond yield
fell five basis points last month to 3.44 percent and the  Kospi (KOSPI) 
Index of shares lost 1.2 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  