-- Former News of the World Editor Colin Myler to Join New York Daily News
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-01-04T22:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/former-news-of-the-world-editor-myler-to-join-n-y-daily-news.html
Colin Myler , former editor of the
Rupert Murdoch-owned News of the World tabloid shuttered amid a
hacking scandal in July, was appointed editor-in-chief of The
New York Daily News, according to an internal memo.  Myler, 59, will succeed Kevin Convey Jan. 10, the newspaper
said. Convey had been editor of the New York tabloid since
August 2010.  “The New York Daily News is a great institution of
American journalism which will only get better under the
leadership of Colin,” Chairman and Publisher Mort Zuckerman
said in the memo.  Myler was editor of the 168-year-old London-based News of
the World newspaper before parent company News Corp. closed it
in July after revelations it hacked into the phones of a
murdered schoolgirl, celebrities and politicians.  The editor remains at the center of a dispute with his
former boss,  News Corp. (NWSA)  Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch , who said Myler and the newspaper’s lawyer, Tom Crone,
failed to inform him how widespread hacking was at the
newspaper.  Myler contradicted that statement when testifying before
U.K. Parliament in September, saying he had fully informed
Murdoch of the brewing scandal prior to reports in the  Guardian
newspaper .  Myler, who previously was managing and executive editor of
Daily News competitor New York Post from 2001 to 2007, takes
over as newspapers suffer big declines in advertising revenue.  “Colin Myler will lead our print and digital platforms
into the next generation of newspaper publishing,” Bill Holiber, chief executive of the Daily News, said in the message
to staff.  “I am immensely proud and honored to be leading one of
America’s great newspapers into a new era,” Myler said in the
memo to Daily News staffers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  