-- France Seeks Lower Yield at Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-04T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/france-seeks-lower-yield-at-bond-sale.html
France plans to sell as much as 8
billion euros ($10.4 billion) of debt today in the country’s
first test this year of investor appetite for its bonds as
credit companies threaten to cut the nation’s AAA rating.  “It’s going to be a tough one,” said  Michael Leister , a
fixed-income strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The rating
is an evergreen topic. France has been suffering since the
second half of December against its AAA peers. But given the
importance of the signal from this first auction, I guess it
will go alright.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold French bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds rose to 204 basis points on
Nov. 17, the most since 1990, as concern deepened the region’s
debt crisis was spreading. While the gap narrowed to 139 basis
points yesterday, it compares with a premium of 46 basis points
for AAA rated Finland and 38 basis points for the Netherlands.  The French sale comes a day after Germany sold 4.1 billion
euros of bonds, getting more bids than its maximum target of 5
billion euros. The German sale kicked off a rush for funding
that may determine whether euro-area leaders can save the 13-
year-old single currency. Italy and Spain are among countries
that in the coming weeks will sell debt that may reach 262
billion euros in the first quarter, according to Deutsche Bank
AG forecasts.  Longer Maturity  France  plans to sell securities maturing in October 2021,
October 2023, April 2035 and April 2041 today. It sold 4.3
billion euros of debt on Dec. 1, with its benchmark 10-year
bonds yielding 3.18 percent. French 10-year bonds fell on each
of the past six days, pushing the yield as high as 3.37 percent,
the most since Dec. 9, and widening the spread with bunds.  The 10-year yield rose 3 basis points to 3.31 percent
yesterday. It climbed to a high last year of 3.82 percent on
Nov. 17 and fell to a low of 2.44 percent on Sept. 12.  The longer maturity of the bonds being put up for sale may
make it a riskier auction, although it will probably go “fairly
well” because of French debt’s recent underperformance relative
to bunds, said Norbert Aul, a fixed-income strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  London .  “We do not expect nasty surprises,” he said. The offer
from the French debt-management body, Agence France Tresor, of
long-term bonds is considered “a sign of actual investor demand
in this maturity segment,” he said.  The success of the sale of longer maturing debt will be an
indication of investors’ faith in the government’s ability to
manage its debt load, said  DZ Bank ’s Leister.  Sarkozy Efforts  “France needs to sell longer-term debt because that’s what
investors and ratings agencies are watching in terms of a signal
of confidence,” he said. “The market is wary of the financing
agency going for the easy option.”  The sale comes as President  Nicolas Sarkozy  -- who faces
re-election in about four months -- seeks to protect France’s
creditworthiness with tax increases and spending cuts.  France has also shrunk its 2012 bond-sale plan, with the
debt-management body saying last month it will need 177.9
billion euros in financing this year, down from the 182 billion
euros estimated on Sept. 28.  To be sure, the average financing costs of medium and long-
term French debt remains low. Last year, it was 2.8 percent, the
second-lowest since the creation of the euro, after the 2.53
percent in 2010, according to AFT. The bid-to-cover ratio, or
the number of bids received for each unit of debt sold, at
auctions last year was 2.4, up from 2.1 in 2010.  Ratings Cloud  Still, concern remains as ratings companies review the
sovereign credit rating of  Europe ’s second-largest economy.  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it will review the
ratings of all EU countries after a summit on Dec. 9 in Brussels
failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end the
region’s debt turmoil.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including AAA rated  Germany  and France, on review for possible
downgrades on Dec. 5.  Fitch Ratings  cut France’s credit outlook
on Dec. 16 on the “heightened risk of contingent liabilities”
from the euro-region crisis.  Euro-area leaders are struggling to solve the region’s
sovereign debt crisis that is now in its third year. The push
continues with a Jan. 9 meeting between Sarkozy and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin. Euro area finance chiefs
convene in Brussels on Jan. 23, with government leaders
gathering a week later.  Slowing Growth  France’s woes, like those of other euro-area countries, are
compounded by an economy that’s edging toward recession as
budget cuts to contain the fiscal crisis bite.  The French economy is probably already in a recession that
will last through March, national statistics office Insee said
last month. The European Commission reduced the region’s 2012
growth forecast by more than half to 0.5 percent in November.
The euro has for the first time in a decade recorded two
consecutive annual losses against the dollar.  France has the biggest debt burden of the six top-rated
euro nations, at 85 percent of gross domestic product. After
 Italy , it has the most amount of debt coming due this year in
Europe at $367 billion, followed by Germany at $285 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Governments of the world’s leading economies have more than
$7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, with most facing a
rise in borrowing costs. Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the
U.S.’s $2.8 trillion, the amount coming due for the Group of
Seven nations and  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  is up from
$7.4 trillion at this time last year, according to the data.  France’s financial institutions also have the largest debt
holdings in the five crisis-hit countries --  Greece , Portugal,
Ireland, Italy and  Spain  -- at $681 billion as of June,
according to data from the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel, Switzerland.  European banks have about $665 billion of debt coming due
in the first six months, according to Citigroup Inc., based on
Dealogic data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  