-- French Debt Costs Rise at Bond Sale as AAA Decision Looms
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-05T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/france-takes-market-pulse-with-bond-offering-as-aaa-rating-decision-looms.html
France  sold 7.96 billion euros ($10.2
billion) of debt, with 10-year borrowing costs rising in the
country’s first bond auction of the year as credit-rating
companies threaten to cut the nation’s AAA grade.  The government sold 4.02 billion euros of the bonds
maturing in October 2021 at an average yield of 3.29 percent,
from 3.18 percent on Dec. 1. The euro fell to its weakest level
against the dollar in 15 months, and the extra yield investors
demand to hold French 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German
bunds widened to the most in about six weeks.  “There’s still the threat of a downgrade hanging over
France and until we get that situation cleared up you can’t
signal the all-clear,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London .  France has the biggest debt burden of the six top-rated
euro nations, at 85 percent of gross domestic product. Its 10-
year yield spread to German debt widened to a 21-year high of
204 basis points on Nov. 17 amid concern Europe will struggle to
contain the region’s debt crisis. Today, it reached 151 basis
points, or 1.51 percentage points, the most since Nov. 25. It
was at 149 basis points at 5:39 p.m. Paris time compared with a
premium of 47 basis points for AAA rated Finland and 39 basis
points for the Netherlands.  The 17-nation common currency fell as much as 1.3 percent
to $1.2780 as the region’s rescue fund boosted the extra yield
it offers over the benchmark rate to sell three-year notes.  Other Sales  Hungary , meanwhile, raised less than planned at a Treasury
bill auction, pushing the forint to a record low. European
stocks fell for a second day as UniCredit SpA led banks lower on
concern more lenders may be forced to raise capital.  France, which also auctioned 2023, 2035 and 2041
securities, had aimed to sell a maximum of 8 billion euros. The
bid-to-cover ratio, or the number of bids for each unit of debt
sold, for the 10-year-bond fell to 1.64 from 3.05 on Dec. 1. The
nation drew bids for 1.82 times the 2.17 billion euros of 2041
bonds sold, and had bid-to-cover ratios of 3.22 and 2.02 for the
2023 and 2035 securities respectively.  “This is proving to the market again that they can still
raise finance without too many difficulties,” said Wand.  The French sale came a day after  Germany  sold 4.1 billion
euros of bonds, getting more bids than its maximum target of 5
billion euros. The rush for funding may determine whether euro-
area leaders can save the 13-year-old single currency. Italy and
 Spain  are among countries that in the coming weeks will sell
debt that may reach 262 billion euros in the first quarter,
according to Deutsche Bank AG forecasts.  Sarkozy Efforts  “It’s the first French auction of the year and it has
broadly gone as expected,” said Peter Goves, a fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Where France is
trading, a lot of negatives are in the price, especially
downgrade concerns. Spanish and Italian sales will be more of a
litmus test for the market.”  The yield on five-year Spanish notes jumped 25 basis points
today to 4.73 percent after the government said it will sell a
new three-year benchmark security and 2016 debt on Jan. 12.  Today’s sale by the French debt-management body, Agence
France Tresor, comes as President  Nicolas Sarkozy  -- who faces
re-election in about four months -- seeks to protect France’s
creditworthiness with tax increases and spending cuts.  France has also shrunk its 2012 bond-sale plan, with AFT
saying last month it needs 177.9 billion euros in financing this
year, down from the 182 billion euros estimated on Sept. 28.  Low Cost  French 10-year bonds fell for a seventh-straight day today,
with the yield climbing as high as 3.38 percent, the most since
Dec. 9. It reached a peak last year of 3.82 percent on Nov. 17
and fell to a low of 2.44 percent on Sept. 12.  The average financing costs of medium and long-term French
debt remains low. Last year, it was 2.8 percent, the second-
lowest since the creation of the euro, after the 2.53 percent in
2010, according to AFT. The bid-to-cover ratio at auctions last
year was 2.4, up from 2.1 in 2010.  Ratings companies  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service are reviewing the sovereign credit grade of  Europe ’s
second-largest economy, while  Fitch Ratings  cut France’s credit
outlook on Dec. 16 on the “heightened risk of contingent
liabilities” from the euro-region crisis.  S&P placed the ratings of 15 euro nations, including AAA
rated Germany and France, on review for possible downgrades on
Dec. 5, saying it may cut the French grade by as many as two
steps. Moody’s said Dec. 12 it will review the ratings of all EU
countries after a summit on Dec. 9 in Brussels failed to produce
“decisive policy measures” to end the region’s debt turmoil.  Slowing Economy  Euro-area leaders are struggling to solve the region’s
sovereign debt crisis that is now in its third year. The push
continues with a Jan. 9 meeting between Sarkozy and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin. Euro area finance chiefs
convene in Brussels on Jan. 23, with government leaders
gathering a week later.  France’s woes, like those of other euro-area countries, are
compounded by an economy that’s edging toward recession as
budget cuts to contain the fiscal crisis bite.  The French economy is probably already in a recession that
will last through March, national statistics office Insee said
last month. The European Commission reduced the region’s 2012
growth forecast by more than half to 0.5 percent in November.
The euro has for the first time in a decade recorded two
consecutive annual losses against the dollar.  After  Italy , it has the most amount of debt coming due this
year in Europe at $367 billion, followed by Germany at $285
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government Borrowings  Governments of the world’s leading economies have more than
$7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, with most facing a
rise in borrowing costs.  Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the U.S.’s $2.8 trillion,
the amount coming due for the Group of Seven nations and  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India  and  China  is up from $7.4 trillion at this time
last year, according to the data.  France’s financial institutions also have the largest debt
holdings in the five crisis-hit countries --  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland, Italy and Spain -- at $681 billion as of June,
according to data from the Bank for International Settlements in
 Basel ,  Switzerland .  European banks have about $665 billion of debt coming due
in the first six months, according to Citigroup Inc., based on
Dealogic data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  