-- Funny, Forgotten ‘Diary’ Explores NYC Voyeurism, Trekkies: Peter Rainer
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/funny-forgotten-diary-explores-nyc-voyeurism-trekkies-dvd.html
Before “This Is Spinal Tap” and
“Best in Show,” before the term “mockumentary” was even
coined, there was “ David Holzman’s Diary .”  The 1967 film by Jim McBride, now available on DVD from
Kino, is one of the funniest underground movies ever made. It’s
also a marvelous time capsule capturing the look and feel of  New
York City  in the late 1960s.  L.M. Kit Carson plays urban layabout David Holzman, who
decides to make a cinematic diary of his life. He hopes that
confessing his thoughts to the camera will reveal some kind of
inner truth.  “Diary” opens with David in his cramped living room,
surrounded by old movie posters and his precious filmmaking
equipment. He refers to his Eclair 16mm camera and Nagra tape
recorder as “she,” as if they were his romantic partners.  It soon becomes apparent that David doesn’t have a great
deal of inner truth to reveal. His girlfriend Penny (Eileen
Dietz) comes over and feels uncomfortable being filmed.  “Ignore the camera,” he tells her.  “If you don’t turn it off I’m leaving,” she retorts.
Eventually that’s exactly what she does.  David is blithely unaware that filming people invariably
changes their behavior. He is fond of quoting Jean-Luc Godard’s
statement that “cinema is truth 24 times a second,” but he
doesn’t seem to realize that his reality isn’t real.  Apartment Voyeur  He tries to get his friend Pepe (Lorenzo Mans) to open up
on camera and instead gets reproached.  “Your life is not a very good script,” Pepe says. “Some
people’s lives are very good movies. Some people’s lives are bad
movies.”  With Penny gone, David declares that “masturbation is an
improvement on the real thing because you can think of anything.
Think of trains going in tunnels. Think of bagels. You’re not
limited to women.”  He becomes a voyeur of the mystery woman in the apartment
across the way, a la  Jimmy Stewart  in “Rear Window.” David
sets his camera in front of his television and then gives us a
rapid-fire mashup of his viewing habits, including “The
Twilight Zone,” “ Star Trek ” and the nightly news.  Radio reports about the  Vietnam War  periodically crowd the
soundtrack, functioning less as social commentary than as a way
of highlighting David’s cluelessness.  He occasionally brings his camera outdoors. In long
tracking shots taken from his car, he records the homeless,
mothers with strollers, cops and frolicking children.  Subway Riders  Gorgeous, sweeping shots of two Upper West Side landmarks,
the Ansonia and the Dakota, are interspersed with languorous
images of life in the New York subways, which are reminiscent of
Walker Evans’s Depression-era photos of the subterranean city.  Godard had already been making experimental “New Wave”
films in  France , but McBride gave his hero’s fantasy/reality
games a very American spin. (Years later McBride directed a
misguided remake of Godard’s “Breathless” starring  Richard Gere .)  Included in the Kino DVD are three other McBride films:
“My Girlfriend’s Wedding” (1969), a sad and lovely documentary
about his then-girlfriend Clarissa; the wonderful “Pictures
From Life’s Other Side” (1971), where he, Clarissa and her
young son drive across the country; and the short “My Son’s
Wedding to My Sister-in-Law” (2008).  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2e@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  