-- Gates, Elton John, Carlos Slim Boost Clinton Foundation in 2011
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/gates-elton-john-carlos-slim-boost-clinton-foundation-in-2011.html
Bill Gates  and Elton John were
behind some of the biggest contributions to the William J.
Clinton Foundation in the past decade.  Since its start in 2001, the former U.S. president’s
nonprofit has received more than $25 million each from the
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; the Children’s Investment
Fund Foundation;  Unitaid , which fights the spread of
malaria, tuberculosis and HIV; and Frank Giustra, mining
executive and philanthropist, according to the Clinton
Foundation.  All of those top donors also gave last year. Spokesman
Matt McKenna said the foundation doesn’t disclose the
specific amounts individual donors or organizations
contribute in any year or the total of donations received.  In the $10 million to $25 million range, the past
decade’s donors include Tom Golisano, founder of  Paychex
Inc. (PAYX) , and the governments of Norway and  Saudi Arabia .  The Elton John AIDS Foundation, a donor last year, has
given between $5 million and $10 million over the years,
according to the Clinton foundation. The charity started by
art collector  Eli Broad  and his wife, Edythe, and Carlos Slim’s  Fundacion Telmex  have donated between $1 million and
$5 million, which includes gifts made in 2011.  More than 17,000 of the 20,400 donations in 2011 were
less than $250, with the median gift about $50.  “Each of them has helped improve lives and
communities all over the world, proving that gifts of any
amount can make a significant impact,” Clinton said in a
statement.  Lehman Gap  To expand support in recent years, Clinton has been
seeking a broader range of donors, including those making
smaller gifts. The collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings (LEH) 
Inc. in 2008 cost the foundation $17 million in commitments
from the company.  Over the years, donors to the nonprofit, which is
based in  Little Rock , Arkansas, have included a mix of
businesses, corporations and celebrities, ranging from the
state of Kuwait to film director  Steven Spielberg .  A breakdown of the foundation’s spending isn’t
available. the budget in 2010 was about $140 million,
according to a tax filing. It has given more than $5
million to support pro bono programs in Haiti, helped more
than 10,500 small farmers in Malawi and bolstered child
nutrition, entrepreneurship and health programs in Latin
America, according to a press release.  The Clinton Global Initiative, which used to operate
under the foundation’s umbrella, now functions as a stand-
alone nonprofit and is funded separately by donors and
corporate sponsors.  Match Makers  Its annual summits match businesses and
philanthropists with nonprofits and nongovernmental
organizations to solve global issues including education,
disease prevention and the empowerment of women and girls.
Since 2005, the CGI has secured more than 2,100 commitments
matching businesses and nonprofit programs affecting the
lives of more than 400 million people in 180 countries.  Other donors to Clinton’s foundation in 2011 include
Pfizer Inc.,  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. and foundations tied to
 Anheuser-Busch (ABI) , and  Bank of America (BAC) , which have each given
between $500,000 and $1 million during the past decade.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 