-- German Bund Yields Rise to One-Week High on Growth Signs; Spain Bonds Drop
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-04T16:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/german-10-year-bond-yields-approach-one-week-high-before-today-s-debt-sale.html
German bund yields climbed to a one-
week high after a report showed European service and
manufacturing industries contracted less than economists
forecast, damping demand for the region’s safest assets.  Spanish  bonds (GSPG10YR)  dropped for a third day amid speculation the
nation will seek assistance from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . German 10-year bonds pared declines
after bids at a sale of the securities exceeded the maximum
target for the first time in three auctions. Economic data this
week showed factory output in the U.S. and China improved, and
German unemployment dropped more than forecast. Portuguese two-
year yields fell the most in eight weeks.  Rising German yields are partly due to “decent global
macro data,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “The
sovereign crisis will ease off from the heights of last year,
which should allow long-dated core yields to rise modestly,” he
said, referring to debt from nations such as  Germany .  The 10-year bund yield climbed three basis points to 1.93
percent at 4:21 p.m. London time, after rising to 1.94 percent,
the highest level since Dec. 28. The 2 percent security due in
January 2022 fell 0.28, or 2.8 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,293)
face amount, to 100.63.  A euro-area  composite index (ECPMICOU)  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing industries rose to 48.3
from 47 in November, London-based Markit Economics said today.
That was above an initial estimate of 47.9 on Dec. 15. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Global Growth  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
expanded at the fastest pace in six months, the group said
yesterday.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing
increased to 50.3 last month from 49 in November, the logistics
federation said Jan. 1.  Germany attracted bids for 5.14 billion euros of debt at
its auction of 10-year securities, exceeding the maximum target
of 5 billion euros. The Debt Agency accepted 4.06 billion euros
of the bids. The average yield was 1.93 percent, versus 1.98
percent at the previous auction of 10-year bonds on Nov. 23.  “It went OK,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior
European economist at Jefferies International in London. “The
real stress points will likely come when you get issuance from
countries outside the core. And of course, when rating agencies
have another round of sovereign downgrades investors will get a
reminder that this crisis just carries on and on.”  German bonds returned 9.7 percent in 2011, the most since
the financial crisis of 2008, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Spanish Bonds  Spanish bonds fell after the Expansion newspaper cited
unidentified people as saying the government is considering
applying for loans from the EU’s rescue fund and the IMF. Deputy
minister for communication, Carmen Martinez Castro, said there
are no plans to seek external aid.  Spain ’s 10-year  yield (GSPG10YR)  rose 14 basis points to 5.43 percent,
after increasing 18 basis points yesterday. The difference in
yield, or spread, over similar maturity bunds widened 12 basis
points to 350 basis points.  The region of Valencia said it paid a loan owed to Deutsche
Bank AG a week late and denied a report in El Pais that it had
received a guarantee from the Spanish Treasury in order to
facilitate the payment.  Portuguese two-year notes snapped a three-day decline after
the nation sold three-month bills at an average yield of 4.346
percent, down from 4.873 percent at the previous sale of the
securities on Dec. 7.  The  European Central Bank  bought Portuguese government
bonds, according to two people with knowledge of the
transactions, who declined to be identified because the deals
are private.  The two-year yield dropped 152 basis points to 14.57
percent, the biggest intraday decline since Nov. 8.  Austria’s 10-year bonds fell for a fourth day, with the
yield rising 13 basis points to 3.25 percent.  The extra yield, or  spread (.AUSTGER) , that investors get for holding
the securities instead of German bunds widened nine basis points
to 132 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  