-- German Stocks Decline From Two-Month High on Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-04T17:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/german-stocks-retreat-from-two-month-high-before-debt-sale.html
German stocks (SXXP)  dropped, with the  DAX (DAX) 
Index falling from a two-month high, as a debt auction failed to
assuage concern that the fiscal crisis will spread.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  followed declines in
European banking shares.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  retreated 4.5 percent as
competitor Vestas Wind Systems A/S cut its 2011 revenue
forecast.  Qiagen NV (QIA)  rose 3.2 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
raised its recommendation on the stock.  The DAX slid 0.9 percent to 6,111.55 at the close in
Frankfurt, its first retreat in five days. The gauge fell last
year, its first full-year loss since the 40 percent plunge in
2008, amid speculation that the euro area’s fiscal crisis will
force at least one nation to default on its debt. The broader
HDAX Index slipped 0.8 percent today.  “The whiff of optimism from yesterday’s session dissipated
today, as the concerns over euro-zone debt came to the
foreground again,” said Anita Paluch, a senior sales trader at
Gekko Global Markets Ltd. in  London . “The fears are especially
well reflected in the performance of banking shares with
exposure to euro-zone debt.”  Germany received bids for 5.14 billion euros ($6.7 billion)
of 10-year bunds at an auction, more than its maximum sales
target of 5 billion euros, the Bundesbank said in a statement
today.  German stocks (SXXP)  maintained their decline even as a report
showed euro-area  services and manufacturing output (ECPMICOU)  contracted in
December less than was initially estimated. German output
reached a four-month high.  Spain  Considers Loans  Spain’s new government has considered applying for loans
from the European Union’s rescue fund and the  International
Monetary Fund  to finance the restructuring of the country’s
financial industry, Expansion reported, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the matter.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
factory orders climbed 1.8 percent in November, falling short of
the 2 percent median projection of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Orders dropped 0.4 percent in October.  Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank (CBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lenders,
dropped 3.4 percent to 29.63 euros and 5 percent to 1.28 euros,
respectively. Banking shares were the worst performers in the
benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  today, declining 1.6 percent.  Italy’s largest lender, UniCredit SpA, said it will sell
new shares for 43 percent less than their theoretical value
excluding rights in a 7.5 billion-euro offer to strengthen its
capital position. The sale starts on Jan. 9.  Nordex (NDX) , a Hamburg, Germany-based wind-turbine maker,
retreated 4.5 percent to 4.10 euros. Vestas, the biggest wind-
turbine maker, cut its revenue and profit forecasts and said it
plans to change its corporate structure.  Qiagen jumped 3.2 percent to 11.21 euros as JPMorgan
upgraded the biotechnology company to “overweight” from
“neutral.”  -- Editors: Will Hadfield, Srinivasan Sivabalan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  