-- GM’s Chevy Volt Misses 2011 U.S. Sales Goal as Safety Probed
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-04T17:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/gm-s-chevy-volt-misses-2011-sales-target-as-safety-probe-goes-on.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt
missed its U.S. sales target of 10,000 cars in 2011, the company
said. Chevy dealers sold 1,529 of the plug-in hybrids last
month, leaving the brand 2,329 shy of its goal.  A slow production increase kept dealers in short supply
until December, and a federal investigation of three fires that
occurred after Volt crash tests lowered demand for the car,
according to Bandon, Oregon-based CNW Marketing Research Inc.
U.S. dealers sold a total of 7,671 Volts last year.  While the Volt had its best sales month yet, its December
tally was less than half of the 3,750 a month GM plans to
produce starting this month. Even fatter Volt inventory in
December didn’t help GM get near its sales target for the car.  “The story that GM gave us that Volt sales were
constrained by supply doesn’t hit the nail on the head. It was
constrained by demand,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of
Edmunds.com, an automotive research website based in  Santa
Monica ,  California . “GM asked the dealers to sell the
demonstration models but it didn’t seem to make a difference.”  GM is expanding production to 60,000 Volts this year with
45,000 of them earmarked for the U.S. The Volt is being
investigated by the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  because its batteries caught on fire in the weeks
following three government crash tests. NHTSA announced a safety
probe of the Volt Nov. 25.  Leaf Misses  Nissan Motor Co. also fell short of its target of 10,000 to
12,000 sales of its Leaf electric car. Nissan sold 954 of the
Leaf in December to finish the year at 9,674 units.  The Leaf and Volt both will struggle to find many buyers
when  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has the Prius plug-in hybrid, which is
cheaper than the Volt and requires no charge like the Leaf,
Anwyl said. Also, gasoline-powered cars are getting more
efficient and putting pressure on plug-in vehicle sales, he
said.  “For most consumers, the category is defined by the Prius
and the Prius is serving it pretty well,” Anwyl said.  December was the third month that Chevy dealers sold the
Volt in all 50 states. GM allowed dealers to sell as many as
2,300 demonstration models to retail buyers starting in late
November, helping spur a 2.8 percent increase from October and
the model’s previous best month at 1,139.  Tough Sell  Chevrolet dealers may struggle to convince mainstream
buyers that the car’s gasoline savings justify the $31,645 price
after federal tax credits, said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953
Analytics Inc., a consulting firm.  “It takes a tremendous amount of thought for buyers to
understand the value of the Volt,” said Hall, who is based in
Birmingham, Michigan. “The value is there but it’s a hard thing
for Chevy to sell.”  The Volt investigation has the potential to harm the
reputation of electrified vehicles. Lithium-ion batteries, such
as those used in the Volt, are also installed in all-electric
cars, such as  Nissan (7201) ’s Leaf and models made by  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   A Volt caught fire three weeks after a May 12 side-impact
crash test while parked at a NHTSA testing center in  Wisconsin ,
leading regulators to conduct more tests.  The Volt can go about 40 miles on electricity before its
gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator to recharge the
battery. The car has a range of 379 miles with electric and
gasoline power combined. The Volt’s battery can also be
recharged at an electrical outlet.  Extended Range  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimated the Volt
would average 60 miles per gallon in combined gasoline-electric
driving, compared with 50 mpg for Toyota’s Prius. Volt’s range
is about four times what Nissan’s Leaf travels on a single
charge.  GM is trying to reassure customers. North America President
 Mark Reuss  sent a letter to Volt owners on Nov. 28 saying that
if they have concerns about their safety, the Detroit-based
company will provide them with another model as a loaner until
the U.S. investigation concludes. GM also is willing to buy back
Volts from any owners who are concerned for their safety.  The Volt was the highest-ranked car in  Consumer Reports ’
owner-satisfaction survey, taken before the U.S. probe was
announced. The magazine said 93 percent of Volt owners who
responded said they would buy the car again. The plug-in hybrid
finished ahead of the Dodge Challenger and Porsche 911 sports
cars, each of which had 91 percent owner-satisfaction scores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  