-- Greece’s Least Bad Option Looks to Be Internal Devaluation: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/greece-s-least-bad-recovery-option-looks-to-be-internal-devaluation-view.html
Greece  and some other euro-area
economies face years of financial struggle even if they manage
to restructure their debts. Their prospects are so bleak that,
according to one school of thought, they would be better off
outside the euro system, despite the immediate costs of leaving.  We disagree, and not just because the immediate costs of an
exit would be enormous. Even after that penalty was paid,
resurrecting national currencies and regaining control of
monetary policy would create as many problems as they solved.  The euro secessionists’ reasoning goes like this: Suppose
Greece somehow resolves its short-term debt problems through
default or other means and brings its budget deficits back under
control. It will still have to deal with a crippling lack of
competitiveness.  Labor costs in Greece have risen much faster in recent
years than in  Germany  and the rest of the euro core, making its
exports expensive and imports cheap. The result is chronic trade
deficits, which must be financed through continued borrowing.  If Greece still had a drachma to devalue, it could cut the
price of its exports and raise the price of its imports that
way. Because it doesn’t, it has to restore competitiveness more
brutally: by cutting wages, which in turn requires persistently
high unemployment to suppress workers’ bargaining power. The
present recession is bad enough, goes the argument. Extending it
indefinitely would be politically impossible and an economic
disaster. That leaves an exit from the euro system as the only
choice.  The trouble is, leaving the euro would be an even bigger
economic disaster. It would cause a run on Greek banks as
depositors rushed to move their euros abroad before the balances
could be converted to drachmas. Also, Greek borrowers would
still owe euros to foreigners. Because the new drachma would
instantly depreciate, the borrowers would have a diminished
capacity to service those debts, causing new waves of
bankruptcies.  On balance, debt restructuring plus “internal” or “fiscal”
devaluation -- difficult as it may be -- looks preferable.
Explicit wage cuts, and the recession needed to induce them,
don’t have to carry the whole burden of cost adjustment. A
combination of increased value-added tax and lower  payroll tax 
(Greece could easily do both) mimics a  currency devaluation  by
raising the price of imports relative to the price of exports,
lowering real wage costs by stealth. They should be part of the
mix.  True, once the accumulated cost gap has been closed in this
way, Greece would have to maintain competitiveness by keeping
wages under tight control. In this ongoing effort, a floating
 exchange rate  might look helpful, but in practice it would be a
mixed blessing.  In theory, persistent cost inflation can be smoothly offset
by a steady devaluation of the currency, but many countries have
found controlled depreciation hard to achieve. The typical
result is high and variable inflation, recurring currency
crises, fluctuating competitiveness and needless economic
uncertainty. This experience is what commended the euro to many
countries to begin with.  Inside the system, the peripheral countries have learned a
harsh lesson: They must hold growth in wages to the euro area’s
rate of inflation plus any increase in national productivity. In
countries such as Greece, this demands a new approach to wage
bargaining by employers and unions. Overall, though, it should
be no more difficult than managing a floating currency. And on
this path the reward for success is greater: lower inflation
rates and, with luck, faster economic growth.  None of this alters the fact that Greece, so slow to learn
the new rules, would have been better off not joining the euro
system in the first place. But it did join, and its best bet now
is to make it work.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 