-- Glimpse of Recovery Spotted Amid Equipment Sales: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/green-shoots-sprout-from-software-investment-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
It’s been a hard slog for the  U.S.
economy  since the financial crisis of 2008. Yet the type of
investment most closely correlated with productivity growth has
been booming.  That’s right: Despite widespread concern about weak
business investment, companies have been pouring money into
equipment and software -- everything from tools and tractors to
word-processing programs.  In the third quarter of 2011, private-sector investment in
equipment and software accounted for more than 60 percent of
total growth in gross domestic product. Since the official end
of the recession in the spring of 2009, the share of GDP devoted
to such investment has risen more rapidly than in any recovery
in the post-World War II era.  The boom is occurring only in equipment and software, which
have a relatively short shelf life. Investment in nonresidential
structures, which have a longer lifespan, plummeted in the
downturn and has not come back as strongly. That’s why, even
with the boom in equipment and software, total private, fixed
nonresidential investment has remained below its pre-recession
peak.  Within equipment and software investment, however, all
categories have risen rapidly. Transportation equipment, in
particular, has more than doubled in inflation-adjusted terms
from the trough of the recession in the second quarter of 2009
to the third quarter of 2011 (the most recent data available).
Information-processing equipment and software, along with
industrial equipment, are up more than 20 percent. Overall,
equipment and software investment has risen more than 30
percent, after adjusting for inflation.  Investment Boosts Growth  Some studies suggest equipment and software investment is
particularly beneficial for economic growth. In the early 1990s,
for example, economists Brad DeLong of the  University of
California , Berkeley, and  Larry Summers  of Harvard  examined  the
strong cross-country connections between this type of investment
and economic growth. They concluded that “a high rate of
equipment investment is a key cause of rapid growth.” (Other
economists have challenged that strong conclusion, but the
debate is about magnitudes; no one disagrees that investment
helps boost economic growth.)  So what’s driving the equipment- and software-investment
boom?  Part of it is simply a bounce back from the depths of the
recession. Investment of all kinds is highly cyclical. As the
economy weakens, companies cut back drastically on their  capital
expenditures . Then, as the economy reaches bottom, investment
tends to grow more rapidly than other components of GDP. But
given all the discussion today about how and why the investment
cycle in general is not occurring, the rebound in equipment and
software investment is striking.  Tax policy  has also played a role in the boom, though
perhaps only a modest one. Congress has  allowed  more rapid
write-offs of investments, but generally only for those with a
depreciation period of 20 years or less. These tax breaks have
effectively allowed companies to write off immediately -- rather
than depreciate over time -- 50 percent of equipment and
software investments made from 2008 to the summer of 2010, and
100 percent of those made from September 2010 through the end of
2011. This year, bonus depreciation returns to 50 percent, then
expires at the end of the year.  Evidence suggests that earlier rounds of bonus depreciation
boosted investment a bit, so it’s reasonable to assume some
effect from these recent provisions also. Temporary provisions
are particularly effective at creating an incentive to invest
now, in order to capture the tax benefit. But a company’s
savings --and therefore the tax’s impact on investment -- depend
on  interest rates : When interest rates are high, the tax savings
from immediate write-offs are large, whereas when rates are low,
as they are today, the tax savings are more modest. One would
therefore expect the  effect  on investment to be more modest
also.  Short-Term Spending  Those low interest rates spur investment all by themselves,
however. Given sluggish growth in demand and substantial
uncertainty about the economy over the next few years, companies
appear to be tilting away from long-term investments in favor of
spending on equipment and software.  What is the future for this bright spot in the U.S.
economy? Most forecasters expect its growth to remain strong,
but nonetheless to be lower this year than it was in 2010 or
2011. A recent report from Bridgewater Associates suggests that
significant slowing already occurred in the fourth quarter of
2011.  My discussions with chief executives at major U.S.
companies suggest they will exercise restraint in their 2012
capital budgets. Uncertainty about policy in 2012 could depress
investment; for example, farmers may postpone spending on
agricultural equipment until Congress is done wrangling over the
farm bill, which is up for reauthorization this year. And the
reduction in the bonus depreciation this month from 100 percent
to 50 percent can be expected to slow investment somewhat.  Because of these forces, a recent  report  from the Equipment
Leasing and Finance Foundation predicted that growth in
equipment and software investment will be two to three
percentage points lower this year than in 2011. If that’s
correct, equipment and software investment will still be a
source of support for the economy, but will contribute about 0.2
percentage points less to growth this year than last.  Even if it slows a little, equipment and software
investment will probably remain one of the bright spots for
2012. Growth in exports is likely to remain subdued, as is
 government spending . Although consumption looks to have grown
strongly during the fourth quarter of 2011, that partly
reflected a decline in the saving rate, which is unlikely to be
sustained throughout 2012.  So, to monitor how strong the economy will be in 2012, keep
a close eye on equipment and software investment.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 