-- Gross Backs Away From “New Normal” Outlook
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-04T18:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/gross-says-new-normal-morphing-into-credit-zero-rate-risks.html
Bill Gross  is backing away from
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s outlook for a “new normal”
after lagging behind the majority of his peers during the
biggest bond-market rally in nine years.  The period of muted growth in developed economies, high
unemployment and “relatively orderly” deleveraging that
Mohamed El-Erian, who shares the title of chief investment
officer with Gross, coined in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis appears to be morphing into a world of credit
and zero-bound interest-rate risk, said Gross, the founder of
Pimco and manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “It’s as if the earth now has two moons instead of one and
both are growing in size like a cancerous tumor that may
threaten the financial tides, oceans and economic life as we
have known it for the past half century,” Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website  today. “Welcome to 2012.”  Most developed economies have not, in fact, deleveraged
since 2008 and credit remains resilient because of the multitude
of monetary stimulus packages being made available through
central banks in the U.S. and  Europe , Gross wrote. This risks
leading to unraveling of financial markets if policy makers are
unable to foster growth and inflation accelerates, he said.  Hedging Bets  Until the outcome is clear, Pimco is advising investors to
consider ways to hedge their bets, including U.S. Treasuries,
long-term inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , high-quality corporates,
senior bank debt and municipal securities.  “He’s obviously needing to address his mis-steps last year
on Treasuries and suggesting that for a period of time, he’s
wanting to hide from the rest of the fixed-income marketplace,”
said Geoffrey Bobroff, a mutual-fund consultant based in  East
Greenwich ,  Rhode Island . “It’s quite a negative piece.”  The recommendations mark a departure from Gross’s call last
year, when he advised buying higher-yielding emerging market
debt as part of the “new normal” and cautioned investors to
stay away from the U.S., noting that growth would be higher in
developing economies, while excessive borrowing here, the U.K.
and  Japan  would lead to inflation. To that end, Gross eliminated
his holdings of Treasuries in February and had a net bet against
the securities in the $244 billion Total Return Fund, missing
the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2008. Gross issued a “ Mea
Culpa ” to investors in October and boosted the debt to 23
percent of the portfolio by the end of November.  Investor Withdrawals  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had $5 billion in client
redemptions last year, its first year of withdrawals in records
going back to 1993, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Clients pulled
$1.35 billion from the fund in December, according to the
Chicago-based research firm.  Pimco Total Return in December 2009 became the biggest
mutual fund in the history of the industry after beating most
rivals and attracting a record $50 billion in deposits that
year. In the five years through Dec. 30, the fund advanced at an
annual rate of 8.1 percent, outperforming 97 percent of
competitors.  “The bulk of sovereign bond holdings should be in the
U.S.,” Gross wrote in today’s investment outlook. “As long as
Euroland credit implosion is possible investors should gravitate
to the ‘cleanest dirty shirt’ sovereigns with the least
encumbered balance sheets. Focus on five- to nine-year Treasury
maturities to guard against inflation which create opportunities
to take advantage of roll-down  capital gains .”  Bond Markets Rally  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, while Gross’s
Total Return Fund gained 4.2 percent, underperforming about 70
percent of its rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “He’s very frustrated by the lack of delevering and he’s
right,” said Bobroff. “His thesis is the same as it has been,
but he’s very negative more-so on the next six to 12 months.”  Bonds worldwide returned 5.9 percent last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.
That was the biggest increase since the index gained 8.9 percent
in 2002. Meanwhile, securities firms are predicting the smallest
return on U.S. stocks than any time in seven years, forecasting
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will rise 6.4 percent in 2012 as
budget deficits around the world limit gains. The index was
unchanged in 2011.  “Investors must lower return expectations,” Gross wrote.
“The financial markets and global economies are at great risk.
Two to five percent for stocks, bonds and commodities are
expected long-term returns for global financial markets that
have been pushed to the zero bound, a world where substantial
real price appreciation is getting close to mathematically
improbable.”  ‘Cost of Money’  Minutes released yesterday of the  Federal Reserve ’s Dec. 13
policy meeting said policy makers for the first time will make
public their own forecasts for the federal funds rate beginning
at the Jan. 24-25 meeting. Fed officials will show investors
their forecast for the benchmark  interest rate  in the fourth
quarter of 2012 and the next few calendar years, the minutes
said.  “I expect the January Fed meeting to mirror in some ways
what we have first witnessed from the ECB,” Gross wrote. “It
won’t take the form of three-year financing by a central bank,
but will give assurances via language that the  cost of money (FDTR) 
will remain constant at 25 basis points for three years or more
-- until inflation or unemployment reach specific target levels.
If and when that doesn’t work, then a specific QE3 may be
announced, probably by mid-year.”  “The financial markets are slowly imploding -- delevering
-- because there’s too much paper and too little trust,” Gross
wrote. “Goodbye ‘old normal,’ standby to redefine ‘new normal’
and welcome to 2012’s ‘paranormal.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  