-- No Deal of the Day for Groupon Investors
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-01-04T18:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/groupon-s-drop-reflects-daily-deal-risks.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s shares, which have
fallen below the company’s initial public offering price, show
that both merchants and investors are having second thoughts
about the nascent daily-deal industry.  About half the businesses that have offered an online deal-
of-the-day in the past aren’t planning to do so again in the
next six months, according to a survey published on Jan. 2. The
study, by Susquehanna Financial Group and daily-deal aggregator
Yipit, showed that merchants were concerned about a low rate of
repeat business from new customers gained through such offers.  “The risk factors are enormous” for daily-deal companies,
said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “Their cost of merchant acquisition
is going to get higher over time.”  To keep growing, the industry, which researcher  BIA/Kelsey 
estimates may more than double to $4.17 billion by 2015, will
probably agree to charge businesses less. Groupon, in fact, said
in a June IPO filing that offering merchants more favorable
terms may cut into its profits.  Margins are already shrinking. The amount of billings
Groupon booked as revenue narrowed to 37 percent in the third
quarter from 42 percent in the prior period and 44 percent in
the first quarter. Chicago-based Groupon attributes the decline
to getting into new products, such as travel and event tickets.  The company’s shares slipped 2.6 percent to $18.77 at 1:01
p.m. New York time. Yesterday, Groupon dropped 6.6 percent after
the release of the Susquehanna and  Yipit  survey, which collected
data from more than 100 merchants. This week marks the second
time that Groupon stock has fallen below the $20  IPO (GRPN)  price since
its Nov. 3 debut.  Merchant Feedback  Groupon is the biggest Internet-deal provider, delivering
discounts on restaurants, hotels, spa treatments, and other
goods and services. Rivals include Washington-based LivingSocial
and Seattle-based Amazon.com Inc., and Groupon also lists Google
Inc. and Microsoft Corp. as competitors in its prospectus.  While 80 percent of the survey’s respondents were satisfied
with daily-deal companies, about 52 percent of merchants said
they’re not planning to offer a discount through such sites in
the next six months.  “People are scrutinizing it a little more because of all
the merchant feedback,” said  Herman Leung , a Susquehanna
analyst based in San Francisco. He has a “neutral” rating on
Groupon’s stock. “About 76 percent of the merchants plan to do
zero or one deal over the next six months. They’re seeing
sufficient demand on their own as the economy is getting
better.”  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment.  Small Business Market  Groupon created the online daily-deal market in 2008 and in
the first three quarters of 2011 featured deals from more than
190,000 merchants worldwide, according to its prospectus. That
leaves plenty of room for growth, as there were 5.9 million
businesses with employees in the U.S. alone in 2009, according
to the  U.S. Small Business Administration .  Brendan Lewis, a spokesman for LivingSocial, said that even
within the Susquehanna and Yipit survey, the numbers are
encouraging.  “It shows the vast majority of merchants who have run
deals are happy with their experience, and nearly half plan to
run another deal in the immediate future,” Lewis said in an e-
mail. “You’d be hard-pressed to find an 80 percent satisfaction
rate among merchants for any other marketing channel in use
today.”  Still, LivingSocial put off its IPO plans last year as
Groupon and other Internet companies faced turbulent debuts in
the public markets. The company instead lined up $400 million in
private funding at a valuation of about $6 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said in December.  Post-IPO Scrutiny  Staying private has allowed LivingSocial to shore up its
finances without the scrutiny of the public markets. Groupon,
meanwhile, has been criticized for its ballooning  marketing
expenses (GRPN) , which have led to rising losses.  The company has more than 10,000 employees, up from 37 in
June 2009. It spent $613.2 million on marketing in the first
nine months of last year, resulting in a net loss of $238.1
million. Marketing costs will increase in the coming months as
stores become less inclined to offer Groupons because they
aren’t seeing users return, Mulpuru said.  “It’s been like a marketing blitzkrieg that’s grown the
business to the size that it is,” Mulpuru said. “They were
using investor money to subsidize these offers for so long. Then
what merchants start recognizing is, ‘We’re just not getting new
customers.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  