-- IBM Promotes Di Leo, Van Kralingen as New CEO Makes Changes
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2012-01-04T21:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ibm-promotes-di-leo-van-kralingen-as-ceo-makes-first-changes.html
International Business Machines Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty named Bruno
Di Leo as sales chief and Bridget Van Kralingen as head of
consulting, her first promotions after taking over Jan. 1.  Di Leo’s title will be senior vice president of sales and
distribution,  IBM (IBM)  said yesterday in a memo to employees. He was
previously general manager of IBM’s growth markets unit, while
Van Kralingen was formerly the general manager of IBM’s North
America sales and distribution unit.  Rometty, the first woman at the helm in IBM’s 100-year
history, is starting to form her management team after taking
the reins from  Sam Palmisano . By expanding in areas such as
 emerging markets , cloud computing and analytics, she’s trying to
meet a goal of adding $20 billion in new revenue between 2010
and 2015. Analysts on average estimate IBM will report $107.2
billion in sales for 2011.  “They make sure that people understand all aspects of the
company as part of the management mentoring process,” Laura D. Tyson, a business professor at the  University of California ,
Berkeley, said in a phone interview before the promotions were
announced. “They develop their own talent, and my sense is that
it’s done in a collegial or camaraderie fashion -- as opposed to
a very competitive, intense sort -- to keep the team together.”  Van Kralingen is replacing Frank Kern, who is retiring
after 35 years at the Armonk, New York-based company. IBM also
appointed James Bramante senior vice president of the growth
markets unit.  IBM fell 0.4 percent to $185.54 at the close in  New York .  Van Kralingen, the new senior vice president of IBM Global
Business Services, the company’s consulting unit, is a South
African who has led turnarounds in global business services in
northeast  Europe , IBM said.  Di Leo, a native of Peru, joined IBM in 1975 as a software
engineer. His replacement, Bramante, will be based in  Shanghai 
with the elevated title of senior vice president as IBM seeks to
boost its growth markets unit to 30 percent of sales by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  