-- Microsoft, Tilaknagar, Macy’s, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-04T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/microsoft-tilaknagar-macy-s-apple-intellectual-property-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Datel Design and
Development Inc. settled patent-infringement and antitrust
litigation, according to Dec. 30 court filings.  The suits were related to the Xbox 360 video-game system.  Datel, based in Staffordshire,  England , sued Microsoft in
federal court in San Francisco in November 2009, claiming that
an upgrade issued by Microsoft was intended to disable Datel
products.  Microsoft then sued Datel in federal court in  Seattle  in
December 2010. The Redmond, Washington-based company claimed
Datel infringed patent 7,787,411, which covers a protocol for
peripheral devices used with a wireless gaming console.  Datel then redesigned its controllers and stopped importing
versions known as TurboFire2 Xbox 360 Wireless that were at the
heart of a complaint before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington . In August, Microsoft withdrew its
infringement case, while still pursuing compensation for past
infringement.  Microsoft spokesman  Kevin Kutz  confirmed the confidential
settlement of the litigation, saying the terms were “to the
satisfaction of both parties.”  The patent case is Microsoft Corp. v. Datel Design and
Development Inc., 2:10-cv-02065-JLR, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Washington (Seattle).  The antitrust case is Datel Holdings Ltd. v. Microsoft
Corp., 3:09-cv-05535-EDL, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tilaknagar Industries Defeats Label Trademark-Infringement Claim  Bombay’s  High Court  dismissed a trademark-infringement case
against Mumbai’s  Tilaknagar Industries Ltd. (TLNGR)  by a Dutch
distiller,  India ’s Economic Times  reported .  The lawsuit was related to artwork depicting a London
building on a label used by Tilaknagar, according to the
Economic Times.  UTO Nederland BV and Distilleerderji en Likeurstokerji
Herman Jansen BV had sued the Indian distiller saying its label
infringed their “Mansion House,” “MH,” “MHB” and “Savoy
Club” labels, Economic Times reported.  The court said that there was no similarity between the
labels, and the depiction of the building didn’t constitute
infringement, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Bloomingdale’s, Varvatos Accused of Infringing Musician Photos  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s Bloomingdale’s unit and clothing designer
 John Varvatos  were sued for copyright infringement by the estate
of photographer James Marshall.  The suit is related to a series of photos of rock music
performers the estate claims are used in Bloomingdale’s and
Varvatos’s stores without authorization.  According to the complaint filed Dec. 29 in federal court
in Oakland, California, photo subjects include the Beatles, Ray
Charles,  Jimi Hendrix , the  Rolling Stones , John Coltrane, Jim
Morrison, Grace Slick, Janis Joplin and  Miles Davis .  Varvatos bought proof copies of these photos and is accused
of making unauthorized copies to display in his store in  New
York .  When Marshall learned of this while he was still alive, he
put Varvatos on notice that it wasn’t acceptable and “did
Varvatos a favor and allowed him to keep the reproductions on
the wall in the one store and the one store only,” according to
court papers.  After Marshall’s death, Varvatos is accused of making “new
infringing reproductions” to display in additional stores.  The estate says it’s harmed by these actions and asked the
court for an order barring future use of the images by the
defendants, and awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Bloomingdale’s spokeswoman Marissa Vitagliano said in an e-
mail that her company doesn’t comment on litigation. Varvatos
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The estate is represented by Lawrence G. Townsend of the
Law Offices of Lawrence G. Townsend in San Francisco.  The case is Estate of James J. Marshall v. John Varvatos of
California Inc., 3:11-cv-06702-DMR, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  Apple Loses Bid to Keep Software Information Under Seal  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s bid to keep under seal information it called
“ trade secrets ,” even though it’s already available on the
Internet and in print, was denied by a federal judge.  Because much of the information about Apple’s Mac OS X
operating systems is publicly available by examining the
software itself or through websites and a book on the
technology, it can’t be given trade-secret protection, U.S.
District Judge William Alsup said in a ruling yesterday in San
Francisco.  The ruling came in Apple’s successful copyright-
infringement lawsuit against Psystar Corp., a maker of Macintosh
computer clones that was barred in 2009 by Alsup from selling
copies of Apple’s operating system.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the ruling. Kiwi Camara, an attorney for
Psystar, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is Apple v. Psystar Corp., 08-cv-3251, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Court Lets 17 Insurers Off Hook to Cover Infringement Verdict  A Pennsylvania state court judge said a group of 17
insurers has no obligation to indemnify two defendants who were
ordered to pay a $30 million judgment in a copyright-
infringement lawsuit, Pittsburgh’s Post-Gazette  reported .  The $30 million is to be paid to the William A. Graham Co.
insurance brokerage, which sued USI MidAtlantic Inc. and Thomas
P. Haughey for unauthorized use of the company’s documents,
according to the newspaper.  Montgomery County Common Pleas Court Judge Stanley Ott said
the infringement defendants’ actions didn’t fall within their
insurance policy’s “advertising injury” coverage, according to
the Post-Gazette.  The defendants had argued their actions fell within their
policy’s coverage of “an offense committed in the course of
advertising your goods, products or services,” the Post-Gazette
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Sheppard Mullin Lures Trademark Specialist Pietrini from Manatt  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (1215L)  hired Jill M.
Pietrini for its IP practice group, the Los Angeles-based firm
said in a statement.  Pietrini (1293L) , a trademark specialist, joins from  Manatt, Phelps
& Phillips LLP (1293L)  of  Los Angeles . She headed the firm’s IP practice
group.  She has done both trademark acquisition work and litigation
involving trademarks, copyrights and patents, appearing in
federal court and before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
and the Copyright Office. Among the clients she has represented
are  Summit Entertainment LLC (SUET) ,  CafePress Inc. (CPRS) , and performers
Gwen Stefani, Metallica and Will Smith.  Pietrini has an undergraduate degree from the University of
 California  at Berkeley and a law degree from  Santa Clara
University (78110MF) .  Panitch Schwarze Hires IP Litigator Frederick A. Tecce  Panitch Schwarze Belisario & Nadel LLP  hired Frederick A.
Tecce, the Philadelphia-based IP specialty firm said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Tecce joins from Philadelphia’s  McShea & Tecce . A former
assistant U.S. Attorney, he has represented clients in IP
disputes involving theft of trade secrets, antitrust,
restrictive covenants and unfair competition, as well as
maintaining a general litigation practice.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
Pennsylvania  and a law degree from  Pennsylvania State
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 