-- Life Partners Sued by SEC Over Disclosures, Accounting; Shares Plunge 20%
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-04T23:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/life-partners-sued-by-sec-over-disclosures-accounting-shares-plunge-20-.html
Life Partners Holdings Inc. (LPHI)  and three
top executives are facing U.S. regulatory claims that they
defrauded shareholders by systematically understating risk
related to the firm’s purchases of insurance policies.  Shares of Waco, Texas-based Life Partners fell $1.10, or 17
percent, to $5.27 in  New York , a day after the Securities and
Exchange Commission said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Brian D. Pardo, President and General Counsel R. Scott Peden and
Chief Financial Officer David M. Martin engaged in a scheme that
misled investors about the firm’s profit potential.  “The senior-most executives at Life Partners concealed
significant risks to the business, manipulated financial
statements with improper accounting, and knowingly profited from
their misconduct by executing insider trades based on
information that was not available to the public,” David
Woodcock, director of the SEC’s Fort Worth Regional Office, said
in a statement yesterday.  The company, which buys rights to death benefits from
policyholders in exchange for lump-sum payments, knowingly
underestimated life expectancies used in transactions from 2007
to 2011, the SEC said in its  statement . Pardo sold $11.5 million
of stock and Peden sold shares valued at $300,000 while privy to
inside information, the agency said.  Life Partners opened at $4.07, 36 percent below yesterday’s
close. The shares peaked at $28.10 a share three years ago.  ‘No Merit’  “It is very disappointing that the SEC has chosen to
pursue litigation over issues that we believe have no merit and
financial presentation issues that we do not believe are
material,” Pardo, who owns more than 50 percent of the firm’s
shares, said in a statement. “We intend to vigorously defend
ourselves against these meritless claims.”  Life Partners generates revenue by buying and selling
fractional interests of insurance policies in the secondary
market, the SEC said. The firm duped shareholders “by employing
an unqualified medical doctor to assign baseless  life expectancy 
estimates to the underlying insurance policies,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in the agency’s
statement.  “This deception misled shareholders into thinking that the
company’s revenue model was sustainable when in fact it was
illusory,” Khuzami said.  Calls to the company seeking further comment yesterday and
today weren’t returned. Peden didn’t respond to a telephone
message left at a residential listing under his name in Woodway,
 Texas . A listing couldn’t be found for Martin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 