-- Hildebrand Fights Reputation Risk After Wife’s Franc Trades
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-05T07:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/hildebrand-battles-reputation-risk-as-wife-s-trades-hurt-guardian-status.html
Philipp Hildebrand is under pressure
to explain how he can act as guardian of the Swiss franc and
allow his wife to trade the currency at the same time.  Hildebrand, head of the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) , will today
break his silence on his wife’s purchase of dollars in August,
the SNB said. That trade came three weeks before policy makers 
announced their biggest franc intervention since the 1970s. 
While an SNB probe cleared him of wrongdoing, some lawmakers 
and academics say the 105 year-old institution must do more to 
move away from a culture of bank secrecy.  “The SNB’s information policy was not very fortunate and
they underestimated the momentum,” said Georg Lutz, a political
scientist at the University of Lausanne,  Switzerland . “If
Hildebrand can’t break free from this media mess, he must
consider his resignation. The loss of confidence is so dramatic
that he might become a reputation risk for the central bank.”  Hildebrand’s central bank only agreed to publish rules on
personal financial ethics yesterday following days of
speculation and local media alleging the former hedge fund
manager of using insider knowledge to his advantage. While all
three currency transactions that were investigated more closely
were cleared, a dollar purchase over $504,000 carried out by
Kashya Hildebrand without her husband’s knowledge was considered
“sensitive,” according to an investigation carried out by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP last year.  Political Opponents  The SNB president will hold a press conference at 4 p.m. in
Zurich today.  The controversy is giving ammunition to Hildebrand’s
political opponents led by billionaire Christoph Blocher from
the  Swiss People’s Party , who have tried to undermine tougher
financial capital rules and have called for his resignation over
2010 attempts to stem the franc’s record ascent.  “Any central banker must be willing to pay the price of
full transparency,” said Hannes Germann, a lawmaker in the
upper house of parliament from the Swiss People’s Party. “The
last thing the SNB needs right now is an erosion of credibility
or doubts in its leadership.”  The SNB last month published a statement, saying an
external probe into the conduct of Hildebrand showed he didn’t
use privileged information for his personal enrichment and
unspecified rumors were “unfounded.” While the central bank
called the case closed,  Bank Sarasin (BSAN) , a Basel-based private
bank, said 10 days later it fired an employee who passed
confidential data on Hildebrand’s transactions to Blocher.  Dollar Transactions  Hildebrand was first informed about the allegations on Dec.
15, the day the central bank left the  benchmark interest rate (SZLTTR)  at
zero and pledged to defend its minimum exchange rate of 1.20
francs versus the euro with unlimited currency purchases.  Documents released by the SNB yesterday show that Kashya
Hildebrand spent 400,000 francs ($517,000) to buy dollars on
Aug. 15 without informing her husband first, two days before the
SNB stepped up liquidity provisions to the money market and
three weeks before the currency cap was introduced.  Weltwoche magazine reported that Kashya Hildebrand reaped a
gain of 75,000 francs on the transaction.  In March, the SNB president had carried out a currency
transaction worth 1.1 million francs, following a Swiss property
sale, with the report saying that “there’s no evidence of
misuse of privileged information.” Under SNB compliance rules,
board members are forced to maintain currency positions for at
least six months. The investigation was carried out on
transactions from Jan. 1 through Dec. 15.  ‘Stupid’  The SNB’s policy until yesterday of withholding its ethics
code contrasts with rules of other global central banks. The
 European Central Bank ’s internal rules prevent council members
from using “confidential information to which they have
access” for “private financial transactions,” according to
the bank’s website.  Federal Reserve Board members including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are subject to U.S. ethics laws governing conflicts of
interest and financial transactions. The Fed also has internal
guidelines saying governors and regional reserve-bank
presidents, along with their spouses, should avoid transactions
that give “even the appearance of acting on confidential
information.”  “It would be a scandal” if Bernanke’s spouse traded
currencies, said Mark Calabria, director of financial-regulation
studies at the  Cato Institute  in  Washington . “There would be
calls for him to resign. But what’s illegal and what’s stupid
aren’t always the same thing.”  Criminal Complaint  Kashya Hildebrand, a former hedge fund employee, said in a
statement published on Swiss Television’s 10 vor 10 program on
Jan. 3 that she purchased dollars because “it was at a record
low and almost ridiculously cheap” at the time. She also said
that up to 80 percent of transactions at her art gallery in the
center of Zurich are in dollars.  Weltwoche magazine said that the Bank Sarasin employee has
filed a criminal complaint against Hildebrand for alleged
 insider trading . An official for the state prosecutor in the
Swiss canton of Zurich yesterday declined to comment on whether
the prosecutor received a complaint.  Blocher, a former justice minister who had called the SNB’s
2010 currency interventions “senseless speculation,” declined
to comment. The Swiss government late yesterday reiterated its
confidence in Hildebrand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  