-- IMF: Latin America Faces ‘Toxic’ Threat in Europe Crisis
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-04T17:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/imf-latin-america-faces-toxic-threat-in-europe-crisis.html
The European debt crisis and falling
commodity prices may become a “toxic mix” for Latin American
economies, the  International Monetary Fund  said today.  Latin America  may suffer from tighter credit because Euro
area banks account for a quarter of bank assets in the region’s
“larger” countries, Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the
Washington-based lender’s Western Hemisphere department, said in
a  blog . If Euro banks become “starved” for short-term dollar
funds, they may further limit lending in the region.  “We will not be immune if the risks move to the
foreground,” Eyzaguirre wrote on the IMF website about the
impact of the European crisis on Latin America. “Fewer external
credit lines available to banks could trigger a credit crunch in
Latin America” that, along with falling commodity prices, may
create “a toxic mix for growth and stability.”  The IMF’s forecasts for the region haven’t improved since
 October , when the lender forecast economic growth of 4.5 percent
for 2011 and 4 percent this year, Eyzaguirre wrote. Latin
American countries may need to increase public spending to
stimulate growth if the crisis deteriorates further, the
director wrote.  Europe, Weaker Growth  Peru’s government already has boosted spending to sustain
growth while  Chile  has created a contingency plan that may
entail tapping into a $15 billion offshore fund to help improve
employment, investments and liquidity if the global downturn
worsens.  “There may come a time to spend public money to fight a
downturn,” wrote Eyzaguirre, who was Chile’s finance minister
from 2000 to 2006. “To be sure, we don’t see a recession coming
in Latin America if the European crisis remains contained, but
weaker growth is clearly in the cards, not least because
confidence and commodity prices have been falling.”  The price of commodities, which account for more than half
of the region’s exports, declined 7.8 percent last year,
according to the Bloomberg commodity index, which calculates the
mean of indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals
and livestock.  Many Latin American countries learned to protect liquidity
during the 2008 and 2009 crisis, when the region posted 4.3
percent growth before contracting 1.7 percent, respectively,
Eyzaguirre wrote. Some already are taking proactive steps to
ease monetary policy.  Central bankers in  Brazil  cut their Selic lending rate 150
basis points last year to 11 percent to shore up the economy.
 Banco Central  do Brasil’s next two-day policy meeting starts
Jan. 17.  And in a bid to boost liquidity, Chilean policy makers last
month started a 91-day repurchase operation in which lenders can
sell assets to the bank before buying them back for a fee.  “For the most part, banks are sound, monetary policy
frameworks are increasingly credible, international reserve
coverage is adequate, and public finances are strong,”
Eyzaguirre wrote. “The key will be to hold that position.
Overall, as 2012 kicks off, our advice is to hope for good news,
but prepare for the bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 