-- Increasing Rates for Less-Common Cancers Spur Call for More Research
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-01-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/increasing-rates-for-less-common-cancers-spur-call-for-more-research.html
There’s been an unexpected rise in
seven types of less-common cancers in the U.S., in some cases
linked to growing obesity rates, says an  American Cancer Society 
report urging more study to determine the underlying causes.  The warning comes as overall cancer death rates dropped
between 2004 and 2008, by 1.8 percent per year in men and 1.6
percent in women, according to the study. Better prevention --
including anti-smoking campaigns, added screening and improved
nutrition -- helped decrease mortality from the most-prevalent
malignancies, in lungs, breasts and colons.  While higher incidences of pancreatic, liver and esophageal
cancers may be the result of added testing or rising obesity,
it’s not clear why other less-common cancers are growing in
prevalence, the report said. People are living longer so
lifestyle choices at earlier ages and viruses they were exposed
to, such as hepatitis or the human papillomavirus, may spur
tumors as people get older, the report suggested.  “All of the viruses we’ve ever been exposed to are viruses
that we may see again later in life,” said  Diana Contreras ,
director of Gynecological Oncology at Long Island Jewish Medical
Center in  New Hyde Park , New York, who was not involved in the
report, in a telephone interview.  Other cancers with increasing prevalence rates include
kidney cancer, melanoma and different types of oropharyngeal
tumors, according to the report, which will appear today in the
journal  CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians .  The rising rates of less-common tumors may exacerbate the
growing health-care burden linked to an aging population, the
Cancer Society said in a statement that called for added
research into their cause.  Death Rate Drops  There was also good news in the report. A decline in lung
cancer accounted for 40 percent of the drop in the cancer death
rates in men, while a decrease in  breast cancer  cut women’s
death rates by a third. The data, the most-recent available,
reflected a trend seen since the early 1990s, according to the
society, which said that fewer people smoking, better treatments
and technology, and more regular cancer screenings probably
contributed.  The report shows that a little more than a million cancer
deaths have been averted since the 1990s when the mortality
rates for the disease were higher,  Elizabeth Ward , national vice
president for Intramural Research at the  American Cancer Society 
in Atlanta, in a telephone interview.  Reduce Risk  “It’s hugely important to know you can do a lot to reduce
your own risk by avoiding tobacco, by good nutrition and
physical activity and by getting the recommended screening tests
for cancer,” Ward said.  The most rapid declines in death rates occurred among black
and Hispanic men, according to the report. Still, black men have
a 15 percent higher incidence rate and a 33 percent higher death
risk than white men, the study found.  “You have to have a doctor that you’re working with
annually to give you the proper screening, and you have to
report symptoms that might be indicative of problems,” said  Len
Horovitz , an internist and pulmonary specialist at Lenox Hill
Hospital in  New York  who was not involved in the report, in a
telephone interview. “That’s where most people fall down. They
don’t have an annual physical. That’s where much can be found.”  Cancer remains the second-most common cause of death in the
U.S. behind  heart disease , accounting for about one of every
four deaths in the country, the report. More than 1.64 million
Americans are expected to be diagnosed with cancer this year and
577,190 people are expected to die.  Most Encouraging  Contreras said the findings that showed lung cancer
declining are the most encouraging from this report. About
173,200 of the expected cancer deaths this year will be from
tobacco use, while one third will be related to obesity,
physical inactivity and poor nutrition, the report said  “The fact that  lung cancer  is reducing in numbers is
probably the most important thing that can be achieved in cancer
control,” she said. “If you affect a very common cancer you’ll
see the biggest results.”  At the same time, malignancies related to infectious
diseases may be avoided by changes in behavior, vaccines or
antibiotics, the study said. And using sun block, limiting sun
exposure and not using indoor tanning may prevent the more than
two million skin cancers that are diagnosed each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  