-- China, India Mount Opposition Against EU Aviation Carbon Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T13:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/india-china-mount-opposition-against-eu-imposing-carbon-curbs-on-airlines.html
The European Union faced increased
pressure to scale down its plan to impose carbon curbs on
airlines after China’s carriers said they won’t comply with the
rules and  India  signaled it may attempt to scupper the EU plan.  Europe should either scrap or delay its initiative to
include flights to and from the region’s airports in its
emissions trading system as of this year, according to the China
 Air Transport Association , or CATA. India may ask airlines to
withhold emissions data, a civil aviation ministry official
said, a move that would undermine the first expansion of the EU
carbon cap-and-trade program beyond its borders.  “What we need to do now is co-operate together and
pressure them to scrap this,” Chai Haibo, vice secretary
general of Beijing-based CATA, said in a phone interview.
Members of the association include Air  China  Ltd., China
Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp.  The warnings by China and India follow a declaration
adopted in November by the  United Nations ’ International Civil
Aviation Organization calling on the EU to exempt international
aircraft operators from its curbs on carbon. The non-binding
ICAO statement was supported by 26 countries, including the
U.S., Russia and  Japan , who said that the expansion of the EU
program was inconsistent with international law.  The EU, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , decided that aviation should become a part of
its carbon program after airline discharges in Europe doubled
over two decades and international organizations failed to enact
emission curbs.  European Limits  Started in 2005, the European emissions trading system,
known also as the EU ETS, imposes pollution quotas on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturers. Emitters that produce less
carbon dioxide than their quota can sell surplus allowances, and
those exceeding their limits must buy additional permits or pay
a fine of 100 euros per ton of CO2.  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, has repeatedly said that while its preferred choice is a
worldwide solution to cut  greenhouse gases  from aviation, it
won’t give up the expansion of the ETS to cover airlines. The EU
law offers a possibility of exempting incoming flights from a
particular country if that nation implements equivalent measures
to cut pollution from its air transport sector.  EU law envisages penalties in case an operator doesn’t
comply with the rules and foresees the possibility of imposing
an operating ban on an airline if it persistently fails to meet
its legal obligations, said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate
spokesman for the commission.  “We hope, however, that this very last resort will never
need to be applied,” he said today by e-mail.  ‘Actions Are Unilateral’  “Europe’s actions are unilateral,” Chai said. “Measures
to tackle emission control should be decided as an industry
globally, and not just by one party alone. It’s not right for
one party to insist on charges.”  The Indian government hasn’t yet decided whether to proceed
with the plan because of concerns about the possible impact on
transportation, said the civil aviation ministry official, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Carriers aren’t required to provide environmental information
under the  bilateral pacts  with EU members that govern India-
Europe flight rights, he said.  P.K. Mohanty, a spokesman at the civil aviation ministry,
declined to comment. Only three Indian carriers, state-owned Air
India Ltd.,  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest, and
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  operate services to Europe.  The EU Court of Justice on Dec. 21 ruled that international
airlines must comply with the EU carbon limits in a lawsuit
filed by  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines  and the Air Transport Association of America.  U.S. Prohibition  The ruling followed a bill passed by the U.S. House of
Representatives in November prohibiting the country’s airlines
from participating in the ETS after the industry estimated that
participation in the system would cost U.S. airlines $3.1
billion from 2012 to 2020. The  measure  needs backing from the
Senate and President Barack Obama to become law.  Last month, the U.S. Department of Transportation asked
U.S. carriers to provide information on the impact of the ETS.  International carriers will be given emission permits
making up 85 percent of the industry cap in 2012 and will have
to buy the remaining 15 percent at auction. EU permits for
delivery in December rose 1.1 percent to 6.67 euros as of 11:56
a.m. on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London , down 55
percent from a year ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  