-- Insurers’ 2011 Catastrophe Losses Reached Record on Japan, Munich Re Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-01-04T10:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/insurers-2011-catastrophe-losses-reached-record-on-japan-munich-re-says.html
Japan ’s earthquake and U.S. storms
helped make 2011 the costliest year on record for insurance
companies in terms of natural-disaster losses, according to
 Munich Re (ARN) .  Several “devastating” earthquakes and a large number of
weather-related catastrophes cost insurers $105 billion, more
than double the natural-disaster figure for 2010 and exceeding
the 2005 record of $101 billion, the world’s biggest reinsurer
said in an e-mailed statement today. Competitor Swiss Re earlier
estimated that the industry’s claims from natural catastrophes
reached $103 billion.  Global economic losses jumped to $380 billion last year,
surpassing the previous record of $220 billion in 2005, with the
quakes in  New Zealand  in February and Japan in March accounting
for almost two-thirds of the losses,  Munich Re  said.  “We had to contend with events with return periods of once
every 1,000 years or even higher at the locations concerned,”
 Torsten Jeworrek , Munich Re’s board member responsible for
global reinsurance, said in the statement. “We are prepared for
such extreme situations.”  Japan’s earthquake and subsequent tsunami may cost insurers
as much as $40 billion and the quake in New Zealand may cost $13
billion, the reinsurer said. Floods in  Thailand  were the third-
costliest event at about $10 billion.  Other catastrophes included  Hurricane Irene , causing $7
billion in insured losses, and severe storms and tornadoes in
the U.S. in April, costing $7.3 billion.  For the first time, the U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration classified a low-pressure system over
the Mediterranean as a tropical storm, Munich Re said. Tropical
storm Rolf made landfall on the French Mediterranean coast in
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  