-- Iowa Result Muddled as Fractured Republicans Fail to Unite
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2012-01-04T08:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/iowa-republican-result-muddled-as-fractured-party-fails-to-unite.html
From his perch in  New Hampshire , Jon Huntsman Jr. offered a political assessment of the Iowa caucuses
that only fellow Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
may want to embrace.  “Welcome to New Hampshire,” Huntsman, the former Utah
governor who didn’t compete in Iowa, said at a town meeting in
Peterborough yesterday. “Nobody cares.”  Iowa Republicans delivered a muddied result, giving almost
equal votes to candidates who represent different poles of the
party in Rick Santorum and Romney, and providing a respectable
third-place showing to Texas Representative Ron Paul, a
libertarian seen as having no chance of winning the party’s
nomination.  Santorum, 53, who spent more time and less money in Iowa
than any other candidate, trailed Romney by just eight votes,
the state party said. A former Pennsylvania senator, Santorum
built support among lower-income evangelicals in rural areas,
CNN entrance polls showed. Romney, 64, the former Massachusetts
governor, ran well in Iowa’s more prosperous suburbs yet drew a
percentage of the overall vote that was roughly equal to what he
got when he finished second in 2008.  Paul, 76, drew votes from an unusual coalition of young
voters who are antiwar and favor drug legalization and fiscal
conservatives who oppose the  Federal Reserve .  On top of that, Iowans gave a double-digit, fourth-place
finish to  Newt Gingrich , 68, who called Romney a liar in an
interview on CBS yesterday and vowed to attack him in New
Hampshire.  New Hampshire Rematch  “Now the story is going to be ‘who in the hell is Rick
Santorum’ and will he be the lead challenger to Romney?” said
Mike Murphy, a Republican consultant who isn’t affiliated with a
campaign. “Let’s have a rematch in New Hampshire and see where
we are. Now, winning in New Hampshire means something to
Romney.”  Murphy said he sees “a tension between social conservative
purists and Republicans who want somebody who can beat Obama;
it’s purity versus winnability.”  Santorum leaves Iowa with the momentum of a top-tier finish
yet without the money and organization in primary states that
follow. He and Romney also appeal to different brands of
Republicans.  ‘Different Constituencies’  J. Ann Selzer, who conducts the Iowa Poll in the  Des Moines 
Register that detected Santorum’s late rise, said the former
senator and Romney are “very different candidates and have very
different constituencies.”  “Romney represents the affluent, well-educated, well-
heeled, and Santorum is more of the working class, ‘the economy
has been bad to me’ Christian conservative guy,” said Selzer,
who also conducts polls for Bloomberg News.  Social conservatives typically anoint a favorite in Iowa.
This time, their failure to coalesce around a single candidate
cost Santorum a more decisive victory and will likely winnow
others from the race.  Tea Party activists, who have been the animating force
within the  Republican Party  since delivering historic victories
in the 2010 election that changed the balance of power in
Congress, were split between Santorum and Paul, entrance polls
showed. Romney trailed badly among those voters.  Paul also drew support from the climate of voter anger at
establishment politicians in both parties, Selzer said. It
showed in his results. In 2008, when he won 10 percent of the
caucus vote, Paul carried only Jefferson County in southeastern
Iowa, home to Maharishi University in Fairfield, a school
founded to use transcendental meditation to foster a
“consciousness-based” learning.  Tapping  Tea Party   Since then, Paul has continued to build his following, and
tapped into the Tea Party movement, which in turn led to the
election of his son, Rand, to the  U.S. Senate  from  Kentucky .  In the presidential nominating process so far, the Tea
Party, like social conservatives, hasn’t bonded with a single
candidate. The unifying energy among Republicans was their
opposition to President  Barack Obama .  “It is less a result of pragmatism and more the result of
how the evangelical vote is splintered,” said  Linda Fowler , a
professor of government at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover, New
Hampshire, site of the next primary Jan. 10.  “That makes Romney look much better than he would
otherwise,” Fowler said. “What it means is if there had been a
Mike Huckabee or only a Perry or Bachmann or Santorum, then
Romney would not be looking like he is the inevitable nominee.”  Perry to Reassess  Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , 55, leaves  Iowa 
limping, along with Texas Governor  Rick Perry , 61, who said he
will return to his home state today to reassess his candidacy.
Both had hoped that evangelical voters in Iowa would propel
them.  Romney and his supporters used millions of dollars in ads
to knock down the challenger who may have been the most serious
long-term threat, former U.S. House Speaker Gingrich.  Gingrich signaled last night that those attacks will be
answered in New Hampshire.  “There will be a great debate in the Republican Party
before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack
Obama,” he said. He also congratulated Santorum.  “He waged a great, positive campaign. I wish I could say
that for all the candidates,” said Gingrich, who criticized
Romney as a “Massachusetts moderate who in fact will be pretty
good at managing the decay of  Washington .”  And Huntsman may be right. New Hampshire rarely takes its
cues from Iowa.  In 1988 Bob Dole won Iowa and George H.W. Bush won New
Hampshire; in 2000,  George W. Bush  captured Iowa and lost New
Hampshire to  John McCain ; and, in 2008,  Mike Huckabee  took Iowa
then lost to McCain in New Hampshire by 26 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Tackett in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  