-- Republican Candidates Make Final Iowa Push
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-04T00:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/iowa-caucuses-spur-final-push-by-romney-against-santorum-paul-challenges.html
Mitt Romney  looked beyond tonight’s
Iowa caucuses and sought to display his campaign’s national
reach and fundraising strength as aides said he plans to start
advertising in  Florida .  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, is vying with U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas 
and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  for the
top spot in tonight’s party contest. Some of their rivals in the
Republican presidential race face the possibility of an abrupt
end to their White House bids.  After months of campaigning, the caucuses were to open at 8
pm Eastern Standard Time, with early returns of voting expected
within an hour and the Iowa Republican Party promising a final
tally tonight.  The six Republicans competing in  Iowa  made last-minute
campaign stops today and appeared on local and national
television and radio as they sought to spur turnout by
supporters.  Romney’s campaign said in a news release that it plans to
start running television ads in Florida, joining those it
already has airing in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. It
was meant as a show of strength that he can afford to advertise
in the first four states to vote in the nominating contest.  “It’s good to be among the clump at the top,” Romney said
today on  Fox News , taking a more cautious approach than he did
yesterday when he predicted a win in Iowa.  January’s Primaries  After Iowa, Romney plans to head to  New Hampshire  tomorrow
and South Carolina later in the week. New Hampshire holds its
primary on Jan. 10, followed by South Carolina’s on Jan. 21 and
Florida’s on Jan. 31.  Romney has consistently led, usually by large margins, in
polls of likely voters in the New Hampshire primary. No
Republican who has won both  Iowa (BEESIA)  and New Hampshire has failed to
become the party’s nominee.  Newt Gingrich , in an interview on CBS, said “yes” when
asked if he was calling Romney a liar in how he talks to voters
on matters as varied as fundraising and policy positions.  “He ought to be candid; I don’t think he’s being candid,”
the former U.S. House speaker said. “Do you really want a
 Massachusetts  moderate who won’t level with you to run against
 Barack Obama , who frankly will just tear him apart?”  Responding on Fox, Romney shrugged off the attack.  “I understand Newt must be very angry and I don’t exactly
understand why, but, look, I wish him well,” he said. “It’s a
long road ahead. He’s a good guy.”  Obama’s Position  Looking ahead to the general election, “President Obama is
in much better shape today than he was about six months ago,”
David Gergen, director of Harvard University’s Center for Public
Leadership in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Although that doesn’t “mean he is not vulnerable, he is,”
Gergen said, adding that the infighting among Republicans has
benefitted the incumbent by making him “look a little more
presidential.”  “The Republicans need to get a clear front-runner and
someone who’s going to be anointed fairly soon if they hope to
beat Obama,” Gergen said.  ‘Tsunami of Negativity’  On CNN, Gingrich blamed his drop in polls on a “tsunami of
negativity” created by millions of dollars in advertising
against him. The ads have been paid for by a political action
committee backing Romney, as well as by Paul’s campaign.  Romney, 64, said Gingrich has had “just as much
difficulty” in polls in New Hampshire, where negative
advertising hasn’t yet become prominent. He also said he is
ready for the more aggressive campaign approach Gingrich has
promised.  “If the speaker decides to come after me, why, that’s part
of the process,” Romney said on Fox. “If I can’t handle this
kind of attack, why, how in the world would I handle the attack
that’s going to come from President Obama?”  Gingrich, 68, contended that he is regaining his footing as
the voting nears.  “I think it’s going to be a very big turnout tonight,” he
said on CNN. “I think we could win.”  That was a reversal of what he said a day earlier when he
told reporters in Independence, Iowa: “I don’t think I’m going
to win.”  Targeting Obama  Romney made his final pitch in a  Des Moines  theater today,
before a few dozen voters, more than 40 television cameras and a
crush of media. Ignoring his Republican rivals, he escalated his
attacks against Obama.  “He went on the ‘Today Show’ shortly after being
inaugurated and said that, if he’s not able to turn around the
economy in three years, he’d be looking at a one-term
proposition,” Romney said. “I’m here to collect. He’s out.”  Romney faces a growing challenge from Santorum, 53, who is
the latest candidate to gain popularity in  Iowa (BEESIA)  polling.  Santorum is urging Republicans not to settle for someone
who doesn’t share their beliefs on such issues as ending
abortions and cutting  government spending  just because they
think that person can beat Obama this year.  “Ten days ago, the polls said I was going to finish
last,” he told a crowd gathered yesterday in the lobby of a
hotel in Perry, Iowa. “Polls change; convictions shouldn’t. And
that’s what I bring to the equation.”  Republican voters have spent much of the past year
searching for a more fiscally and socially conservative
alternative to Romney, who has been unable to break a ceiling of
roughly 25 percent support in most surveys. Yet after a campaign
characterized by the rise and fall of several challengers, none
has kept a lead over him.  ‘Record Turnout’ Predicted  Iowa Governor Terry Branstad said on Bloomberg Television
today that he expects a “record turnout” tonight.  “It’s a wide open race,” he said. “It’s going to come
down to turnout.”  Four years ago, about 120,000 Republicans attended caucus
meetings, a record.  Democrats slightly outnumber Republicans in voter
registration in Iowa, while independents outnumber both parties.
In 2008, roughly twice as many Democrats as Republicans turned
out for their caucuses, also a record. Four years ago, then-
Senator Obama of  Illinois  defeated then-Senator  Hillary Clinton 
of  New York ; he faces no challenge in the Democratic caucuses
tonight.  Building Momentum  In the Republican race, campaign volunteers are working the
phones today to urge supporters to attend tonight’s meetings.
While the caucus results aren’t binding on delegates to the
party’s nominating convention, they can give a candidate
momentum going into the New Hampshire and  South Carolina 
primaries and eliminate those who do poorly.  A barrage of ads continued to play on local television. The
candidates and their affiliated outside groups have spent $5.8
million on advertising in the state, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG; of that, $3.7 million has gone toward
negative ads.  Prospective caucus-goers saw three negative ads for every
two positive ones, according to the latest CMAG data available
before the caucuses.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who has
fallen in the polls since winning the Iowa Straw Poll in August,
appeared today at “Rock the Caucus,” a multicandidate event at
a West Des Moines high school designed to encourage
participation among students of voting age.  “Tonight is your night to weigh in and make a
difference,” she said.  ‘Omaha Beach’  At a separate appearance in West Des Moines,  Rick Perry 
used war analogies to motivate his backers to turn out.  “You are on the front lines,” he said. “This is Concord.
This is Omaha Beach.”  At an afternoon event, Perry told employees at the
Principal Financial Group in Des Moines that he would make
 Washington  as inconsequential in their lives as he could.  “Have my back tonight and I’ll have your back for four
years in Washington,” he said.  The  Iowa Poll  by the Des Moines Register newspaper,
released Dec. 31, showed Romney with the support of 24 percent
of likely Republican caucus-goers. Paul, 76, had 22 percent and
Santorum 15 percent after a surge in the final two days of
sampling.  Paul’s campaign is being fueled by a cadre of well-
organized, devoted supporters drawn to his libertarian, pro-
state rights positions. Yesterday in Des Moines, he said the
Iowa caucus results might be “small in numbers” but will
“send a very big message.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in West Des Moines, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  