-- IPod of Thermostats Saves Energy With Pizzazz: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-01-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ipod-of-thermostats-saves-energy-with-pizzazz-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Apple (AAPL)  engineer Tony Fadell was as
responsible as anyone short of  Steve Jobs  for introducing the
iPod and iPhone to the world. Now he’s turned his attention to a
device as commonplace as it is boring: your home thermostat.  Fadell’s Silicon Valley startup,  Nest Labs , has introduced
a $249 thermostat designed to learn your habits and preferences
and program itself to save energy without sacrificing comfort.  I’ve been testing two Nests in my home for a month and have
come away impressed with their ease of use and the intelligence
behind them. Boring, they aren’t.  In size and shape, the Nest resembles the familiar round
thermostats made by  Honeywell (HON) , but the similarity ends there.
The Nest is gorgeous, with a silvery outer ring that seems to
complement every paint job. Instead of an analog dial, it has a
multifunction digital display, black in repose, that comes to
life when you touch or even just wave your hand in front of it.  You can adjust the temperature by turning the dial, while
pushing it opens an array of settings and data, such as the
current schedule the Nest has designed to heat and cool your
home. A Wi-Fi connection lets you control it remotely, using the
Nest website or apps for the iPhone, iPad and phones using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Apple DNA  There are other super-smart thermostats on the market, but
none so overtly aimed at the gadget-buying consumer, as opposed
to contractors or HVAC professionals. As befits Nest’s Apple
DNA, even the packaging and accoutrements are an experience.  Accompanying the thermostat, for instance, is an off-white,
vaguely egg-shaped object that, upon further inspection, proves
to be an ingeniously designed screwdriver with four
interchangeable bits -- all you should need to install your Nest
if you’re a modestly confident do-it-yourselfer.  If you aren’t, Nest has partnered with  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , which
will dispatch its Geek Squad to install one for $119. In my
case, an installer from the company put in one of my Nests, with
me hanging over his shoulder. I did the other myself, with him
hanging over mine.  The process was pretty straightforward. After removing the
old thermostat, I attached the Nest’s base to the wall with two
screws. I then attached the wires from the furnace to the
stereo-speaker-style terminals in the thermostat (there are
terminals for air conditioning, if you have that, as well). Then
I popped the thermostat onto the base, went through the one-time
Wi-Fi set-up and was done. The process took about 45 minutes.  Taking Time  The problem with many programmable thermostats is that they
never get programmed, either because of their complexity or our
own laziness. Nest sidesteps those issues by having you treat it
essentially like a dumb thermostat for the first couple weeks,
adjusting it manually until you’re comfortable.  To devise its schedule, Nest then marries this data to
information gathered by its sensors, which register your comings
and goings as well as conditions inside and outside the house.  The thermostat learned that I get up at 5:45 on weekdays
and now begins warming the house then. On weekends, when we
sleep in a bit, it waits longer to click on the furnace.  When the Nests weren’t cooling the house as much as I
wanted overnight, it was easy to set a new temperature. I was
rewarded for my extra energy savings by a small green leaf on
the screen. When we went out of town for the weekend, the Nests
sensed our absence and after a few hours automatically put
themselves into “Auto Away” mode, saving even more energy.  One Glitch  One Nest twice presented me with messages saying it wasn’t
properly wired, along with diagrams of the allegedly faulty
connections. (Let the record show this was the unit the Nest
installer hooked up.)  The thermostat continued to operate normally. A Nest
engineer concluded that it may have misinterpreted how my
furnace shuts itself off to prevent overheating. If that’s the
case, perhaps Nest Labs will address the bug in an over-the-air
software update -- another advantage of the thermostats’
connection to the Internet.  It’s too soon to tell whether and by how much Nest is able
to shave my utility bills. But it already deserves credit for
bringing some welcome innovation, not to mention pizzazz, to a
product category in serious need of both.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 