-- Iran’s Nuclear Fuel Rod Doesn’t Pose Military Threat, U.S. Analysts Say
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/iran-s-nuclear-fuel-rod-isn-t-a-military-threat-u-s-energy-analysts-say.html
Iran ’s development of a nuclear fuel
rod for medical research isn’t a milestone in a quest for atomic
weapons, according to energy analysts in the U.S.  “This has some diplomatic significance and virtually no
military significance,” James Acton, a senior associate in the
Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington , said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Although Iran’s announcement sends a signal that the
country may have the ability to develop fuel for research uses
without external help, such units need uranium that’s less
concentrated than what’s needed to make weapons, he said.  The first fuel rod was inserted into the core of Tehran’s
atomic research reactor, which makes isotopes used in cancer
treatments, Iranian state news agencies reported Jan. 1. The
disclosure triggered alarms among U.S. and European Union
leaders who say Iran may be developing a covert nuclear-weapons
program and are seeking to thwart development.  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 signed into law sanctions
to deter dealings with Iran’s central bank, and the EU may
decide by Jan. 30 whether to extend its sanctions.  Iran, the world’s third-largest oil exporter, denies
pursuing atomic weapons and says it’s developing nuclear
technology for civilian purposes. The country’s first nuclear-
power plant, a Russian-built 1,000-megawatt facility, was
connected to the national  power grid  on Sept. 12 and then closed
for testing in October.  Revolution Milestone  The head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization said the
plant may operate at full capacity in February, to coincide with
the anniversary of the 1979  Islamic Revolution , the Iranian news
agency Mehr reported Nov. 23.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency , a Vienna-based
organization that promotes the peaceful use of atomic energy,
didn’t have a comment on Iran’s announcement, Gill Tudor, a
spokeswoman, said by telephone.  Iran is running out of the 19.75 percent enriched uranium
needed to power Tehran’s research reactor, Sharon Squassoni,
director of the Proliferation Prevention Program at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said in a
phone interview.  Only Argentina and  France  make this type of fuel, she said.
Weapons-grade uranium is at least 90 percent enriched and power-
plant fuel is enriched about 3 percent to 5 percent, she said.  Making Medicine  Iran can produce 20 percent enriched uranium, according to
Acton, who said he thinks it is pursuing a nuclear-weapons
program.  “Twenty-percent-enriched uranium is only for the needs of
a reactor that produces medicine,” Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said at a Sept. 23 news conference in  New York . He
has said Iran will cease enrichment activities if it can receive
a guaranteed source of 20 percent enriched uranium.  Iran’s fuel-rod announcement may lessen the likelihood that
the country will participate in such a deal, Squassoni said.  “If fuel fabrication succeeds now, there’s one fewer
incentive” to negotiate, she said in an e-mail.  Iran’s announcement “provides political cover for their
continued enrichment of uranium” to just less than 20 percent,
according to Squassoni. “It has no connection to a nuclear
weapons timeline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  