-- Irish Growth to Fall Short of Noonan’s Forecast
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-04T08:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/irish-growth-to-fall-short-of-noonan-s-forecast-economists-say.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan ’s forecast for faster economic growth this year may prove
too optimistic, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Gross domestic product will rise by 1 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Last month, Noonan forecast expansion of 1.3 percent,
quickening from an estimated 1 percent last year.  Cooling global growth is already hampering Ireland’s hopes
of an export-led recovery. The nation’s economy shrank at the
fastest pace in more than two years in the third quarter, as the
euro-region crisis spread beyond Ireland, Greece and Portugal.  “The most worrying impact of the debt crisis on the Irish
economy will be through reduced export demand,” said Conall Mac Coille, an economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy.
“It’s likely to have a significant impact.”  The euro-region’s economy will shrink 1 percent this year,
as  Europe ’s leaders struggle to end the region’s debt deadlock,
according to economists at HSBC Holdings Plc led by  Janet Henry .
Exports of everything from Kerry Group Plc dairy products to
 Kingspan Group Plc (KSP)  insulation amounted to about 101 percent of
Ireland’s gross domestic product in 2010.  “It looks like the euro zone is heading for a recession,”
said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in
Dublin. “Given what is going on in the world as a whole, the
risks are to the downside.”  Bailout  Prime Minister Enda Kenny’s government is relying on
exports to revive the economy, which shrunk about 15 percent
between 2008 and 2010.  In November 2010, Ireland sought an international bailout
after the country’s financial  system (ISEF)  came close to collapse in
the wake of a real-estate bubble imploding.  Home prices , which
have dropped 46 percent since their 2007 peak, will fall 9
percent this year, according to the median estimate of seven
economists.  Irish unemployment will probably average 14.2 percent this
year, little changed from last year, according to the median
forecast of economists, as Noonan presses ahead with a fourth
year of austerity.  Noonan aims to reduce the country’s budget deficit to 8.6
percent of GDP this year from an estimated 10 percent in 2011.
Exchequer returns for last year are due for release at 4:30 p.m.
in Dublin today.  “What Ireland is doing is necessary but not sufficient for
its recovery,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at  KBC Bank
Ireland. (KBC)  “It can’t be sufficient because that is going to be
determined by events outside our control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  