-- J&J AIDS Vaccine Protects Monkeys in Study as Testing in Humans Begins
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-04T21:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/j-j-aids-vaccine-protects-monkeys-in-study-as-human-trials-begin.html
An experimental vaccine developed by
a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit and the U.S. military protected monkeys
against an animal version of the AIDS virus, a study found.  Monkeys that got the vaccine were as much as 83 percent
less likely than those that got a dummy shot to become infected
with simian immunodeficiency virus, or SIV, researchers from
 Harvard Medical School  and the U.S. Military HIV Research
Program said in a study published online in the journal Nature
today. They now plan to test the vaccine in humans.  While previous vaccine trials have helped to keep AIDS at
bay by controlling the virus in infected monkeys, this is the
first to prevent monkeys from becoming infected, said  Dan
Barouch , a professor of medicine at Harvard’s Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center who led the study.  “There’s more hope now than ever before that the
development of a safe and effective HIV vaccine is indeed
possible,” Barouch said in a telephone interview today.  The research builds on the first partially successful HIV
vaccine trial in  Thailand  in 2009, which showed that two
inoculations that hadn’t worked on their own offered some
patients protection when given in combination. The first prompts
the immune system to produce so-called killer T-cells that are
primed to hunt and destroy infected cells, and antibodies that
go after the virus itself. The second repeats the dose, boosting
the body’s defenses.  The results in that trial showed about a 31 percent
reduction in infections compared with placebo, though the
benefit waned after a year.  Elusive Vaccine  The search for a vaccine to prevent HIV has eluded
scientists since the early 1980s. While there are treatments for
HIV that limit the virus in the body, holding AIDS at bay for
years, there is no cure. AIDS, which is caused by HIV, killed
1.8 million people in 2010, and new infections with the virus
fell to 2.7 million, according to a November report by the Joint
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.  Barouch and colleagues experimented with four different
combinations of the so-called prime-boost approach, using
disabled cold viruses and pox viruses as Trojan horses to ferry
SIV proteins into the monkeys. Unlike other vaccine trials, they
then exposed the animals to a strain of the virus that was
genetically different to the one used to design the vaccine.  ‘Stacking the Cards’  “That’s called stacking the cards against yourself,” said
 Anthony Fauci , director of the U.S. National Institute of
Allergy and  Infectious Diseases , part of the  National Institutes
of Health , which helped to fund the research.  After the first of six exposures, as few as 12 percent of
the vaccinated monkeys became infected, compared with 75 percent
of those that got a placebo. While most of the animals were
infected by the sixth exposure, that doesn’t mean the same would
be seen in humans because the virus used in the trial was about
100 times more infectious than that to which humans are
typically exposed, Barouch said.  The scientists also found that the vaccines worked best
when they contained a viral protein called Env, which is used to
build the outer shell of the virus.  The most promising of the combinations was one that
featured a prime vaccine developed by Crucell NV, the Leiden,
Netherlands-based company that Johnson & Johnson, of  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , bought last year, and a booster developed
by the U.S military and NIAID. The researchers plan to test that
combination in people “in the near future” Barouch said.  The research was funded by the National Institutes of
Health, the U.S. military, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
and the Ragon Institute at Harvard, the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  and  Massachusetts General Hospital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  