-- Japan Stock Futures Drop on Signs European Crisis Is Worsening
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-01-04T23:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/japan-futures-australia-stocks-drop-on-signs-european-crisis-is-worsening.html
Japanese  stock (MXAP)   futures (TPX)  and Australian
shares fell after Italy’s biggest bank said it needs to raise
more capital, fueling concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender by market value, sank 1.5
percent from the last close in Tokyo. Those of  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , an
electronics maker that gets almost 20 percent of its sales in
Europe, slid 1 percent after the euro weakened, cutting the
earnings outlook for the exporter. BHP Billition Ltd, the
world’s largest mining company, fell 1.2 percent after metal
prices slid.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
March closed at 8,520 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 8,530
in Osaka, Japan. The contracts were bid in the pre-market at
8,520 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index fell 1.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped
0.4 percent in Wellington.  “Problems sparked by the European debt crisis are
reigniting and people in the market have reaffirmed that the
situation has not changed,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “That’s weakening the euro and hurting exporters with a
heavy reliance on Europe.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The gauge closed little changed yesterday in  New
York , paring an earlier loss of as much as 0.7 percent, as
improving sales at retailers and carmakers helped offset lower-
than-forecast factory orders.  U.S. equities fell earlier as a report showed bookings for
 factory goods (TMNOCHNG)  rose 1.8 percent, less than the median economist
forecast for a 2 percent gain in Bloomberg News survey.  Europe Concerns  Global stocks also declined as  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
largest bank, said it will sell new shares in a 7.5 billion-euro
($9.8 billion) offer to strengthen its capital position. The
 European Central Bank  reported overnight deposits from financial
institutions rose to an all-time high, and Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the European Union is facing a
recession of unknown scope.  The euro dropped toward an 11-year low against the yen as
the share offer from UniCredit spurred concern European banks
may struggle to raise more capital. The 17-nation currency fell
to as much as 99.05 yen today in  Tokyo , its lowest level since
December 2000. A weaker euro cuts the value of European income
at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Copper futures for March delivery declined 2.7 percent
yesterday in New York, the biggest drop for a most-active
contract since Dec. 14, as signs of faltering European
manufacturing and service industries fueled concern that demand
for industrial metals will ebb.  Metal Prices  Manufacturing and services output contracted in December
for a fourth month in nations that use the euro,  Markit
Economics  said in a report.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum fell 2.2 percent yesterday.  The Bloomberg  China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-actively traded
Chinese equities lost 1.2 percent to 97.75 yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 17 percent last year.
The S&P 500 broke even and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 11
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  