-- Japan Premier’s ‘Biggest Hurdle’ Is Passing Social Welfare and Tax Bills
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-01-04T08:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/japan-premier-s-biggest-hurdle-is-passing-social-welfare-and-tax-bills.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said revamping the country’s tax and social welfare system is
his top legislative priority of the year as he struggles to
overcome opposition to doubling the sales tax by 2015.  “Our biggest hurdle is the unified reform of social
security and taxes,” Noda said in  Tokyo  at his first press
conference of the year. “This is something we can no longer
postpone.”  Noda’s  Democratic Party of Japan  last week proposed raising
the 5 percent  consumption tax  to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10
percent in October 2015 to help pay for soaring welfare costs as
the population ages. Nine DPJ lawmakers left the party in revolt
and the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  called for an
election before considering legislation on the issue.  Japan is struggling to rein in the world’s largest debt
while rebuilding from the March earthquake and tsunami that
caused the meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Noda’s
popularity has fallen since he became the country’s sixth
premier in five years in September, and polls show voters are
divided over whether to raise the consumption tax.  Noda, who intends to submit the sales tax bill to
parliament before the fiscal year ends in March, said today he
wants to open negotiations with opposition parties next week. He
told a former prime minister last week that he will dissolve the
lower house and call an election should his  sales tax  bill fail,
the Sankei newspaper reported yesterday, citing unidentified
sources close to Noda.  Aging Society  The world’s most rapidly aging society and two decades of
low growth have saddled Japan with debt projected to exceed 1
quadrillion yen ($13 trillion) in the current fiscal year.
 Standard & Poor’s  said in November it was considering lowering
the country’s sovereign rating, already cut in January, 2011 to
AA-, given the lack of progress in tackling the debt burden.  Noda today also said he aims to improve cooperation with
the Bank of Japan to defeat deflation.  The nine DPJ defectors today announced the formation of the
new Kizuna Party. Party head Akira Uchiyama said Kizuna will
work with the DPJ “on a case-by-case” basis.  Noda’s approval rating dropped to 31 percent from 40
percent last month, according to an Asahi newspaper poll
published Dec. 13. The phone survey of 1,655 voters taken Dec.
10-11 didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  