-- Japan’s Interest Won’t Slow Pacific Trade Talks, Froman Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-04T16:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/japan-s-interest-won-t-slow-pacific-trade-talks-froman-says-1-.html
President Barack Obama’s
administration won’t let Japan’s interest in joining Pacific
trade talks slow progress made with eight other nations,  Michael Froman , deputy national security adviser, said.  “We’re not going to slow down the negotiations for the
accession process” to accommodate new nations, Froman said
today in a Washington speech. “We’re not going to rush the
negotiations to meet an artificial deadline. Our objective is to
make as much progress” as possible toward completing an
agreement this year, he said.  Obama is pursuing a deal with eight Pacific nations that
would be the biggest for the U.S. since the North American Free
Trade Agreement with  Canada  and  Mexico  that took effect in 1994.  The talks include Australia, Chile, Peru and Singapore,
which have separate  free-trade agreements (USTBTOT)  with the U.S., as well
as Malaysia,  New Zealand , Vietnam and Brunei.  Japan , Canada and
Mexico have expressed interest in joining. If they do, it would
be the largest free-trade deal ever for the U.S.  While the U.S. Trade Representative’s office welcomes
Japan’s interest, the administration needs to consult with
lawmakers and interest groups to determine whether Japan’s
commitment is strong enough to merit joining discussions,
Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said last
month at a House Ways and Means committee trade panel hearing
in Washington.  Froman said the Obama administration has no timeline for
asking Congress to renew trade-agreement negotiating authority.
Fast-track authority, a legislative guarantee that bans
amendments, limits debate and ensures an up-or-down vote on
trade deals, expired after Democrats won control of Congress
under President George W. Bush in 2007.  The U.S. has no additional bilateral trade talks with
individual Asian nations on its agenda, Froman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  