-- John Lewis Has ‘Outstanding’ Holiday as Chain Gains Share
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-04T11:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/john-lewis-has-outstanding-holiday-as-chain-gains-share.html
John Lewis , the U.K.’s largest
department-store chain, reported “outstanding” growth in
Christmas revenue as a pledge to match competitors’ prices and
online sales fueled market-share gains for all product groups.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 6.2 percent in
the five weeks ended Dec. 31, the London-based company said
today. Total revenue at the employee-owned operator of 35 stores
jumped 9.3 percent to 596 million pounds ($933 million).  Market-share gains in departments including electrical
goods, fashion and home furnishings were helped by John Lewis’s
“Never Knowingly Undersold” policy, which was introduced in
1925 and was extended in 2010 to match online rivals such as the
Comet electronics chain. Next Plc, the second-largest U.K.
clothing retailer, today reported what it termed
“disappointing” sales after avoiding pre-holiday discounts.  “They are impressive numbers,”  Simon Irwin , a retail
analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London , said of John Lewis’s
sales. “Still, we know they promoted very hard and post-
Christmas clearance has been big for everyone.”  The chain, a unit of John Lewis Partnership Plc which also
operates Waitrose grocery stores, will focus on better service
and competitive prices to attract customers as 2012 will
“undoubtedly be challenging and economic conditions volatile,”
Managing Director Andy Street said in the statement.  VAT Effect  The retailer’s “click and collect” service, which lets
customers order items online for delivery to 129 John Lewis or
Waitrose outlets, posted 90 percent growth in usage in the five-
week holiday period, Street said.  Revenue in the final week of December, the first week of
John Lewis’s annual clearance, fell 4.8 percent to 101.3 million
pounds. Business in the year-earlier period had been boosted by
consumers making purchases in advance of a value-added tax
increase, so “it was always going to be a challenge to match
sales, particularly with ‘big ticket’ items,” Street said.  Next today reported total sales rose 3.1 percent in the 21
weeks ended Dec. 24, while forecasting slack profit growth in
the financial year through January 2013 as the euro countries’
debt crisis and a credit squeeze restrict  consumer spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  