-- BofA, Wegelin, JPMorgan, WJB Capital, BP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-04T11:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/jpmorgan-wjb-capital-bp-stanford-exxon-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost a ruling
in a court fight against  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that will help the bond
insurer as it tries to recover losses on home loans made by the
bank’s Countrywide Financial unit.  MBIA, which says it was duped into guaranteeing payment on
Countrywide mortgage bonds, needs only to show the lender made
misrepresentations about the loans backing the bonds, instead of
establishing they caused the losses the insurer is seeking to
recover,  New York  state Judge Eileen Bransten said in a decision
issued yesterday.  “No basis in law exists to mandate that MBIA establish a
direct causal link between the misrepresentations allegedly made
by Countrywide and claims made under the policy,” she wrote.  The ruling is among legal disputes with bond insurers and
investors that “could significantly impact” the potential
costs from loans made before the collapse of the U.S. housing
market in 2008, Bank of America said in a regulatory filing in
August.  Defeats on such matters may add as much as $9 billion to
what Bank of America owes bond insurers, according to an August
estimate by hedge fund Branch Hill Capital, which has bet
against the lender’s stock and has invested in MBIA.  MBIA, which sued Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments
to investors that bought securities backed by pools of the
lender’s loans. The insurer says the loans were riskier than
Countrywide promised, and as they defaulted, the Armonk, New
York-based company was forced to make payments. Through
September 2010, MBIA had paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage
securities sponsored by Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay
Brown told a New York State Assembly committee in February.  Brown said in an e-mailed statement that the company is
“very pleased” with the decision.  “The ruling provides us with a straightforward path to
recovery of our losses,” he said.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America is still
reviewing the ruling, spokesman Lawrence Grayson said in a phone
interview. He pointed out that the judge denied a ruling
requested by MBIA in connection with Countrywide’s obligations
to repurchase loans.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Wegelin Bankers Said to Be Charged by U.S. in Tax Crackdown  Three Swiss bankers charged with conspiring to help U.S.
clients hide more than $1.2 billion from American tax
authorities worked at Switzerland’s Wegelin & Co., a person
familiar with the matter said.  Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller told clients
that they were less vulnerable to a U.S. crackdown on offshore
tax evasion because their bank didn’t have offices outside
Switzerland, according to an indictment filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan.  The bank was Wegelin, according to the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak about the matter and didn’t want to be
identified. The indictment refers to “Swiss Bank A” and said
all three worked at its Zurich branch. No one answered calls
after regular business hours at Wegelin, Switzerland’s oldest
private bank. Wegelin Bank’s Thomas Tschudi didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The indictment comes amid U.S.-Swiss talks to resolve a
U.S. probe of offshore tax evasion. Officials are trying to
conclude negotiations on a civil settlement with Swiss banks, as
well as criminal probes of 11 of them, including Wegelin, based
in St. Gallen.  Prosecutors have filed tax charges against more than three
dozen former U.S. clients of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s two biggest banks, and London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank. At least 24 bankers, advisers and
attorneys also have been charged.  The indictment details how Berlinka, Frei and Keller helped
23 U.S. clients open undeclared accounts at their bank. Kenneth
Heller, a disbarred New York maritime attorney who pleaded
guilty on June 27 to hiding more than $26.4 million in accounts
at UBS and Wegelin, is also referred to in the indictment. He is
scheduled to be sentenced Jan. 20.  The case is U.S. v. Berlinka, 12-cr-00002, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Sued for $95 Million Over Mortgage Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued for about $95 million over mortgage loans bundled into
securities.  JPMorgan “materially breached” representations about
loans backing the securities, a mortgage-securitization trust
said in a summons filed Dec. 30 in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan.  The Bear Stearns trust is seeking damages of at least $95
million, according to the court filing. Bear Stearns Cos., which
was acquired by New York-based JPMorgan, and EMC Mortgage Corp.
are also named as defendants.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Bear Stearns Asset Backed Securities Trust
2005-4 v. EMC Mortgage Corp., 650003-2012, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  WJB Capital Group Sued by Investor Alleging Fraud  WJB Capital Group Inc., the Wall Street firm that said it’s
shutting down its brokerage operations, was sued by an investor
over fraud allegations.  WJB Capital and Chief Executive Officer Craig Rothfeld were
accused of fraud, breach of contract and other claims over a
$250,000 investment in the company, according to a lawsuit filed
Dec. 31 in New York State Supreme Court.  James McNally said that in exchange for a $250,000
investment he was promised “compensation for the duration of
the investment.” WJB Capital failed to pay and used the money
“for fraudulent purposes,” according to the complaint.  “We deny the allegations,” Rothfeld said about McNally’s
complaint. “They are baseless and without merit.”  An attorney for McNally didn’t reply to a message seeking
comment.  WJB Capital  voluntarily ceased broker-dealer operations
yesterday, Rothfeld said. The company was “unable to raise
capital in a manner that would have allowed the firm to continue
its operations given the current climate and the constraints
that would have been placed on everyone,” the CEO said  The case is James McNally v. WJB Capital Group Inc.,
650005-2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan May Know Soon If Lehman Lawsuit Will Be Dismissed  JPMorgan Chase & Co., fighting  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  over billions of dollars in claims and damages, may know
soon whether its bid to dismiss the defunct firm’s $8.6 billion
lawsuit will succeed, a district judge said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in New York said he is
“working on” a decision on whether Lehman’s suit against the
biggest U.S. bank belongs in district court, according to court
papers. However, a bankruptcy judge may be ready to rule soon on
JPMorgan’s move to dismiss the case, and should do so first,
Sullivan told both sides, according to a transcript of a Dec. 30
court session.  “I don’t want to be in a situation where the bankruptcy
court is just doing nothing because they’re waiting for me to
rule,” Sullivan said. “They got this thing all teed up, maybe
just ready to press a button on it.”  Lehman’s suit alleges the New York-based lender helped
cause its 2008 collapse by demanding $8.6 billion in collateral.
JPMorgan has argued that the case needs a district judge because
it raises legal issues beyond the jurisdiction of a bankruptcy
judge, who can’t rule on matters including Lehman’s allegation
that JPMorgan caused monetary damage to failing Lehman in 2008.
Lehman says the suit confines itself to bankruptcy matters.  Separately, JPMorgan is defending $6 billion in claims that
Lehman says are “significantly overstated.”  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  JPMorgan, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage
around the time of the bankruptcy, sued Lehman back after the
$8.6 billion suit, alleging Lehman defrauded its lender into
making the loan.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The district case is
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase  Bank, 11-
cv-6760, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  BP Seeks Recovery of All Gulf Spill Costs From Halliburton  BP Plc (BP/)  seeks to have  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , its cement contractor
for the Macondo well project whose blowout set off the 2010 Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, pay all of the oil company’s related costs
and damages.  BP had paid more than $21 billion in cleanup costs and
economic damages to individuals, businesses and governments
harmed by the spill as of Dec. 1, the company said on its
website. BP reserved more than $40 billion to cover costs
related to the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling  rig (RIG) .  The oil company seeks “the amount of costs and expenses
incurred by BP to clean up and remediate the oil spill, the lost
profits from and/or diminution in value of the Macondo prospect,
and all other costs and damages incurred by BP related to the
Deepwater Horizon incident and resulting oil spill,”  Don
Haycraft , BP’s lead trial attorney, said in a filing Jan. 2 in
federal court in New Orleans.  BP and Halliburton accuse each other’s employees of making
critical mistakes that caused the blowout of the London-based
oil company’s well off the Louisiana coast in 2010. The
explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon killed 11 workers and
caused the worst offshore spill in U.S. history.  BP, which owned the Macondo lease, and Halliburton, which
provided well-completion services for the project, jointly face
more than 500 lawsuits by coastal property owners, businesses
and governments claiming billions of dollars in damages from the
drifting oil. The lawsuits have been combined for pretrial
processing in federal court in New Orleans, where a judge is
scheduled to begin a trial in February to determine liability
for the spill.  Halliburton, based in Houston, has said in court papers
that its cementing-services contract requires BP to indemnify it
from all damage claims, even if its employees were found to have
shared blame for the disaster.  BP, rejecting that argument, accused Halliburton in the
Jan. 2 filing of gross negligence. That level of misconduct
“will suffice to eliminate any indemnity obligation for damages
of any kind,” Haycraft said in the filing.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Coal Producers Rise on Court’s Delay of EPA Pollution Rule  U.S. coal producers including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and
 Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  rose after a federal court ruled
that the Environmental Protection Agency must delay implementing
air-pollution regulations.  Peabody, the largest U.S. coal-mining company, rose as much
as 10 percent.  James River Coal Co. (JRCC) , which operates mines in
Kentucky, gained as much as 13 percent while  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX) 
advanced as much as 9.1 percent.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington  on Dec. 30 granted a
request by electric power producers and other challengers to
delay the deadline for some plants to start reducing some
polluting emissions.  The EPA’s Cross-State Air Pollution Rule seeks to impose
caps on sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid rain, and
nitrogen dioxide, a component of smog, in Texas and 26 eastern
states.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Seeks Trial Delay After Court Puts Expert Pay on Hold  R. Allen Stanford, accused of running a $7 billion
investment fraud, seeks a three-month delay in his Jan. 23 trial
date after his expert witnesses quit because they weren’t being
paid.  Stanford’s experts haven’t been paid for four months, Ali
Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense lawyer, said in court
papers filed Dec. 30 in federal court in Houston. They quit last
week after the U.S. Court of Appeals, which controls budgets for
Stanford’s publicly funded defense, ruled that it will “modify
and limit the expert budget moving forward” and withhold
payments to them until after the trial, Fazel said.  Stanford, 61, has been in custody since he was indicted in
June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors through bogus
certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank.  Stanford was declared mentally fit for trial on Dec. 22,
after completing eight months of rehabilitation at a federal
prison hospital in Butner,  North Carolina . U.S. District Judge
David Hittner found the former financier had sufficiently
recovered from head injuries suffered in a September 2009
jailhouse assault and an addiction to anxiety drugs prescribed
by prison doctors following the attack.  Fazel said in the Dec. 30 filings that prosecutors didn’t
oppose a one-week delay in yesterday’s deadline for filing
expert reports in the case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa told Hittner last month
that the government doesn’t oppose a delay of six to eight weeks
in Stanford’s trial to give him more time to review documents
with his attorneys.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the request for a three-month delay, citing a gag
order issued by the judge.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Exxon’s Pursuit of Venezuelan Cash ‘Not Over Yet’ After Ruling  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s four-year hunt for billions of dollars
in nationalized Venezuelan oil profits isn’t finished after an
international panel slashed the U.S. oil company’s claim by 89
percent.  Venezuela’s state-controlled oil producer, known by the
acronym  PDVSA (PDVSA) , was ordered to pay Exxon $746.9 million for the
2007 seizure of oil wells, crude-processing facilities and
related equipment, according to a copy of the International
Chamber of Commerce’s Dec. 23 ruling obtained by Bloomberg News.
The award represents 11 percent of the $7 billion sought by
Exxon, the world’s  largest company (XOM)  by market value.  Exxon, the first international energy explorer to abandon
Venezuela 4 1/2 years ago when Hugo Chavez consolidated control
of the nation’s oil industry, is counting on a separate
 arbitration case  overseen by the World Bank to win billions in
potential profits the company says were lost as a result of the
nationalization, said Lysle Brinker, director of energy equity
research at  IHS Inc. (IHS)   “Initially, this looks like a pretty low number because it
does not fully reflect the value of the assets Exxon lost,”
Brinker said Jan. 2 in a telephone interview from Norwalk,
Connecticut. “But this is not over yet.”  Exxon and the Venezuelan government are scheduled to resume
arguments before the World Bank panel in February.  Exxon sought arbitration with PDVSA and the Venezuelan
government in 2007, a decade after Mobil Corp. began drilling
wells in the Orinoco River basin and building facilities to
process the region’s thick, tar-like crude. Exxon  acquired (XOM)  Mobil
and assumed operations of the Cerro Negro venture in 1999.  PDVSA said yesterday on its website that it will pay $255
million in cash for the judgment, after accounting for about
$300 million in a frozen New York bank account and $191 million
in Exxon debt that the Venezuelan company will cancel. The total
amount of the International Chamber of Commerce ruling was for
$907.6 million, minus a $161 million counterclaim by PDVSA.  The separate proceeding before the World Bank’s
International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
is “larger” than the ICC case, Patrick McGinn, an Exxon
spokesman, said Jan. 2 in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  U.K. Plans Appeal to Court Ruling Against Solar Subsidy Cut  The U.K. government will appeal a High Court ruling against
its decision to cut subsidies for solar power, a spokeswoman for
the Department of Energy and Climate Change said.  Lawyers for the government will submit the appeal today,
the spokeswoman said by phone yesterday, asking not to be named
in line with the department’s policy.  The High Court in  London  ruled on Dec. 21 that a government
decision to cut a feed-in tariff for solar energy starting on
Dec. 12 was “unlawful.”  The court decision was a victory for companies including
Solarcentury Holdings Ltd., which challenged the plan to reduce
rates paid for solar by as much as 55 percent before a
consultation with the industry finished on Dec. 23.  Barker said on Twitter yesterday he planned to publish
proposals to reform the feed-in tariff scheme this month to make
it “more like Germany.” The spokeswoman said the government
aimed to publish the proposals, a second consultation that would
consider tariffs for non-solar photovoltaic technologies, “as
soon as possible.”  Lawmakers in both the ruling Conservative Party and the
Labour opposition say cuts are necessary to prevent a surge in
solar power from jacking up electricity bills. Climate Change
Minister  Greg Barker  wrote on his Twitter feed yesterday that he
would appeal the decision.  “The current high tariffs for solar PV are not
sustainable, and changes need to be made in order to protect the
budget, which is funded by consumers through their energy
bills,” Barker said in a statement in December.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Union Carbide Asbestos Verdict Erased by Mississippi Judge  A $322 million jury verdict in an asbestos case against  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide unit and  Chevron Phillips  Chemical
Co. was overturned by a Mississippi judge.  The companies asked the state Supreme Court to overturn the
verdict, saying Smith County Circuit Judge Eddie Bowen had a
conflict of interest because his parents had asbestos legal
claims, including one against Union Carbide.  The state’s high court removed Bowen from the case last
year. His replacement, Special Judge William F. Coleman, said on
Dec. 22 that the companies’ request to remove Bowen and vacate
the verdict were “well taken and should be granted.”  The May 4, 2011, verdict was the largest ever made to a
single asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State punitive-damages restrictions would have
reduced the verdict by at least $260 million. Coleman’s order
doesn’t include information on a new trial. The jury award was
the ninth-largest in the U.S. overall in 2011, according to
Bloomberg data.  Dow Chemical spokesman Scot Wheeler wasn’t available to
comment on the judge’s order. Bowen’s court administrator, Judy
Herrington, said he was out of the office and wouldn’t comment
on the case.  Plaintiff Thomas Brown claimed he developed asbestosis
after being exposed to the toxic fibers while mixing drilling
mud on oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. He claimed Union Carbide
and Chevron Phillips knew asbestos is toxic and didn’t warn him.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 