-- JPMorgan Topples Morgan Stanley From Top Spot in Chemical Deals
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-04T12:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/jpmorgan-topples-morgan-stanley-from-top-spot-in-chemical-deals.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  supplanted
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the leading adviser of mergers and
acquisitions last year in the $3.1 trillion  chemical industry .  JPMorgan, based in  New York , participated in 16
transactions last year with a combined value of $22.7 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, based on announced
deals and including financing and underwriting roles. Morgan
Stanley was fourth after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Morgan Stanley was No. 1 in 2009 and 2010.  Transaction volume fell by 25 percent to $91.7 billion in
2011 from a year earlier as  Europe ’s debt crisis led chief
executive officers to avoid multi-billion-dollar deals in the
second half. JPMorgan’s tally includes advising potash producer
 Mosaic Co. (MOS)  when investor Cargill Inc. sold its stake. It worked
with  DuPont Co. (DD)  on its takeover of food-additives maker Danisco.  “Once the wait-and-see mode has changed we might see some
positive surprises,” said Ken Oliver Fritz, head of  investment
banking  in  Germany  at Credit Suisse. “CEO confidence is the
most important factor and will have to improve if we want to see
more transactions in 2012.”  Consolidation is waiting to happen in several industries
and getting the right timing is important, Fritz said.
Opportunities abound for companies with cash on their balance
sheets as valuations are low compared to historical levels, he
said.  Last year’s biggest chemical deal was  Warren Buffett ’s
$9.22 billion acquisition of Lubrizol Corp. where advisers
included  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  DuPont paid
$7.1 billion for Danisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  