-- Kenya Shilling Falls to Three-Week Low on Higher Dollar Demand
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-01-04T15:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/kenya-shilling-falls-to-three-week-low-on-higher-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
second trading day, depreciating to its lowest in three weeks,
as importers bought dollars to pay for fuel shipments amid tight
supplies of the U.S currency.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy retreated 2.5
percent to 87.70 per dollar by 5:06 p.m. in Nairobi, its weakest
level since Dec. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Buyers are coming back into the market after the
holidays, especially from the energy sector,” Solomon Alubala,
a trader at Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd., said by phone from
Nairobi. “As the tea auctions resume after the holidays, we
should start see the selling of dollars again back in the
market.”  The Ugandan shilling appreciated 1.3 percent against the
dollar to 2,453, heading for its steepest gain in three weeks.
The country’s central bank is selling today 95 billion shillings
($38.7 million) of  government bonds  maturing in 2015.  “Today’s bond auction attracted some dollars from offshore
investors and yet people are short of the shilling locally to
buy the dollar,” Abby Mutabali, a currency trader at Centenary
Bank Ltd., said by phone from Kampala, the capital.  Tanzania’s currency depreciated for a fourth trading
session, weakening 0.1 percent to 1,586.90, posting its longest
streak of declines versus the dollar since October.  “The shilling depreciated on the back of customer demand
from the manufacturing sector seeking dollars to import
industrial inputs,” Fred Siwale, a dealer at CRDB Bank Plc,
said today by phone from the commercial capital of Dar es
Salaam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam 
at   dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  