-- Kodak Drops on Report It Is Preparing for Bankruptcy Filing
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-04T21:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/kodak-drops-after-report-it-is-preparing-for-bankruptcy-filing.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the imaging
company that lost 88 percent of its market value last year, fell
after a report that the company is preparing for a bankruptcy
filing should its effort to sell patents fail.  Shares of the Rochester, New York-based company  declined (EK)  28
percent to 47 cents at the close in New York. The company may
file for  bankruptcy protection  this month or early February if
it can’t sell digital patents, the Wall Street Journal reported
today, citing people familiar with the matter.  Bloomberg News reported in September that Kodak was
weighing options including a bankruptcy filing, according to
people with knowledge of the matter. Its  revenue (EK)  has tumbled
because of slowing demand for traditional film and competition
in digital cameras and printers from Canon Inc. and Hewlett-
Packard Co. Kodak’s cash and equivalents fell to $862 million at
the end of its third quarter from $1.4 billion a year earlier.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who
took the helm in 2005, is trying to turn around the money-losing
company by focusing on the printing business. He is seeking to
raise cash by selling a portfolio of more than 1,100 digital
imaging patents, and some other business units.  Kodak doesn’t comment on market rumors or speculation, said
 Christopher Veronda , a spokesman for the company.  Shrinking Board  The New York Stock Exchange yesterday warned the company it
needs to get its share price back above $1 within six months to
continue trading, under listing standards rules.  Three board members resigned last month, including Laura D. Tyson, a director since 1997, and Adam H. Clammer and Herald Y. Chen, two directors from private-equity firm KKR & Co. who were
elected in September 2009.  Kodak’s board decided early last year to reduce the number
of directors, Tyson said yesterday in a telephone interview. Her
2012 schedule made it “virtually impossible” to continue to
serve, and she resigned last week to help the company reach an
“optimal board size.”  “It’s not a statement about the firm’s strategy or the
firm’s leadership,” Tyson said. “I was part of the board for a
long time, I was part of the strategy to transform the company,
then part of the strategy of choosing the company CEO, I’ve
worked closely with him and with the other members of the
board.”  Tyson, a professor at University of California Berkeley’s
Haas School of Business, declined to comment on Kodak’s next
steps. She was an adviser to the administrations of Presidents
 Barack Obama  and  Bill Clinton  and sits on the boards of at least
five companies, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   KKR’s Clammer and Chen got board seats after the firm
invested $300 million of senior bonds and warrants for 40
million shares with an exercise price of $5.50. Kodak refinanced
KKR’s bonds in March 2010 via private placement.  Credit-Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Kodak’s debt jumped
2.9 percentage points to 70.4 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $7.04 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of Kodak’s debt.  One-year protection surged to a record, adding 8.2
percentage points to 66.2 percent, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rise as
investor confidence deteriorates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  