-- Korean Won Strengthens, Bonds Decline After Pickup in U.S. Manufacturing
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-04T00:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/korean-won-strengthens-bonds-decline-after-pickup-in-u-s-manufacturing.html
South Korea ’s won rose to a three-
week high and  government bonds  fell after a pickup in U.S.
manufacturing brightened the outlook for exports and spurred
demand for riskier assets.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index in
the climbed to a six-month high of 53.9 in December, figures
showed yesterday. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
a reading of 53.5. Output in  China  and India also gathered pace
in December, according to data this month.  “Manufacturing data from major economies are easing global
economy slowdown concerns, supporting the won,” said Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Daeshin Securities Co.
“Currency gains may be limited due to lingering European debt
problems.”  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,146.65 per dollar as of 9:41
a.m. in Seoul, after a similar-sized advance yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,144.49 earlier, the strongest level since Dec. 12. The  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  of shares climbed 0.3 percent, headed for its best close
in three weeks.  South Korea and China will announce the beginning of free-
trade agreement talks “soon” when President Lee Myung Bak and
Chinese counterpart Hu Jintao meet in Beijing, the Dong-a Ilbo
newspaper reported today, citing unidentified Korean government
officials.  South Korea will strengthen monitoring of the economy and
financial markets to deal with possible risks including the
European debt crisis and a rise in raw-material prices, the
 finance ministry  said yesterday. Policy makers will also seek
measures to ease volatility of capital flows to ensure stability
in the foreign-exchange market, the ministry said.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.50
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  