-- N.Y. Philharmonic Names Matthew VanBesien as Executive Director
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-04T18:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/n-y-philharmonic-names-vanbesien-as-executive-director-replacing-mehta.html
The  New York Philharmonic  named
Matthew VanBesien, a 42-year-old former French-horn player and
managing director of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, as
executive director.  VanBesien will succeed Zarin Mehta, who has held the top
administrative post at the oldest U.S. orchestra since 2000.  Mehta presided over an attempt to move the orchestra from
 Lincoln Center  to  Carnegie Hall  in 2003. The orchestra soon
canceled those plans and remains at Avery Fisher Hall,
periodically issuing complaints about the acoustics and plans to
improve them.  According to a statement from the orchestra, VanBesien will
join the Philharmonic as interim executive director early this
year. The statement says he and Mehta will work together during
a “transitional period.” Mehta has said he will step down at
the end of this season.  The Philharmonic’s four-year  contract  with the musicians
expired on Sept. 20. Soon after, players voted to authorize
their union,  Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians ,
to strike. Such a vote can preface a stoppage, but doesn’t
always.  The Philharmonic’s loss from playing music -- orchestra
expenses over income -- was $23.1 million in the year ending
August 2011, according to its annual report. That excludes
contributions, investment income and management expenses. Net
assets increased by $19.6 million to $196.2 million, after
declining by $1.5 million the previous year.  Tough Search  The Philharmonic, founded in 1842, struggled to find a
replacement for Mehta. (The  New York  Times reported that at
least six candidates turned the job down.) Mehta earned $860,210
in pay and benefits in 2009-10. Katherine Johnson, a spokesman,
declined to comment on VanBesien’s pay.  Philharmonic minimum musician salaries increased by 4
percent annually for the past five years, starting last season
at about $140,000, according to a  summary  posted by the
 International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians . That’s
slightly below the minimums at the  Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
and the  Los Angeles Philharmonic .  The Philharmonic’s chairman,  Gary Parr , is vice chairman of
the investment bank  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  VanBesien previously ran the
Houston Symphony and was second French horn player at the
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra.  To contact the writer of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 