-- Netflix Surges Most in a Year on Jump in Online Viewing
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-01-04T21:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/netflix-surges-most-in-a-month-on-viewing-gains.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , owner of the streaming
and DVD-by-mail service, jumped the most in almost a year after
reporting online viewing that surpassed an analyst’s estimate.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, gained 11 percent
to $80.45 at the close in New York, the  biggest gain (SPX)  among S&P
500 members. The shares rose the most since a 15 percent advance
on Jan. 27, 2011.  Users of the company’s online movie and TV-streaming
service watched more than 2 billion hours of content in the last
three months of 2011, Netflix said today in a statement.  The number exceeded the 1.2 billion-hour estimate of  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG LLC in  New York . Netflix Chief
Executive Officer Reed Hastings in December said fourth-quarter
streaming hours would be “well over” 1 billion.  “It now appears our interpretation was far too
conservative,” Greenfield wrote in a blog post.  Netflix would be the 15th most-watched U.S. TV network when
compared to traditional cable and broadcast channels, Greenfield
estimates. The company has more than 20 million streaming
members globally.  At $7.99 a month, Netflix’s online service is eating into
traditional television viewing, Greenfield said.  Hastings, 51, said on Dec. 6 that Netflix sees no quick
return to profitability after alienating customers with changes
in pricing and subscription terms. The company forecasts losses
for 2012 because of costs to start service in the U.K. and
Ireland.  New Shows  The company is adding to its streaming library to keep
users and restart growth, including current movies such as
“Hugo” and “Margin Call,” and is commissioning exclusive
content that competes with premium cable channels like Time
Warner Inc.’s HBO.  “Lilyhammer,” starring guitarist and actor Steven Van Zandt of “The Sopranos” and Bruce Springsteen’s E Street Band
as a New York gangster in Norway, premieres on Netflix in the
U.S., Canada and Latin America on Feb. 6. “House of Cards,”
another original series, also makes its debut this year.  Netflix is set to lose online access to films from  Sony
Pictures (SNE)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  after its contract with John Malone’s  Starz (LSTZA)  LLC cable network ends in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  