-- Next Sees Tough Year Ahead After Holiday Sales Disappoint
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-04T09:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/next-sees-tough-year-ahead-after-holiday-sales-disappoint.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, reported “disappointing” holiday sales and
forecast slack profit growth next year as the euro-debt crisis
and a credit squeeze restrict  consumer spending .  Total sales rose 3.1 percent in the 21 weeks ended Dec. 24,
the Leicester, England-based  retailer (NXT)  said today. That missed
the 3.7 percent median estimate of 12 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. A 17 percent gain in revenue at the Directory home-
shopping unit was offset by a 2.7 percent drop at Next stores.  Next fell as much as 5.7 percent in London trading, the
 steepest drop (NXT)  since August 2010. Warm winter weather and
increased discounting by competitors contributed to “subdued”
sales in the final quarter, the retailer said. Pretax profit in
the fiscal year through January 2013 will be “slightly up,”
Next also said, causing some analysts to trim estimates.  “Trading over the peak period appears to have been weaker
than feared in retail,”  Matthew McEachran , an analyst at Singer
Capital, said by e-mail. The company’s “cautious guidance” may
lead to reductions of about 3 percent in consensus profit
estimates for next year, according to the London-based analyst,
who has a “fair value” recommendation on the stock.  Before today’s statement, analysts were  estimating (NXT)  growth
of about 5 percent in Next’s pretax profit for fiscal 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cautious Outlook  “We’re probably slightly more cautious than we were two or
three months ago,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said
in a phone interview.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, a squeeze
on credit for businesses and consumers, and weaker employment
are the main “negatives” for this year, the retailer said.  Next  shares (NXT)  were down 3.5 percent at 2,644 pence as of 9:18
a.m. in London. The stock rose 39 percent in 2011.  Sales in November and December were “disappointing” given
that business in the prior year was affected by snow, Next said.  “We were expecting some kickback from the snow last year,
but it was almost as if the snow hadn’t happened,” Wolfson
said. “We’re being very cautious about our sales budget,” he
said, adding that Next assumes “similar” revenue to last year.  The retailer held off on pre-holiday discounting even as
competitors offered bigger promotions to clear inventory. The
total amount of stock in the end-of-season sale was 10 percent
up on last year, Next said, adding that final clearance rates
will be “slightly ahead” of last year and company budgets.  Profit Forecast  “Of the stock we put into the sale, we have sold more of
it than at the same point last year,” with discounts of 50
percent being offered across all clearance items, the CEO said.  Next, which gets almost a third of  sales (NXT)  from the Directory
unit, said it expects “modest growth” in sales next year.  The retailer narrowed its  forecast (NXT)  of pretax profit for the
financial year ending January 2012 to between 558 million pounds
($874 million) and 572 million pounds, compared with a previous
target of 550 million pounds to 585 million pounds.  The drop in 21-week retail sales compared with an average
estimate for a decline of 1.2 percent. Analysts had expected
Next Directory to show a 15 percent increase for the period.  Directory sales are benefiting from a shift by customers
toward Internet shopping. Industry association Interactive Media
in Retail Group forecast in November that Britons would spend
about 14 percent more online at Christmas as they made increased
use of smartphones and tablet computers to place orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  