-- Nigeria Defends End of Fuel Subsidies as Workers Plan Strike
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-05T15:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/nigeria-pushes-ahead-on-fuel-plan-as-workers-threaten-strike.html
Nigeria ’s government vowed to stick
to its decision to end fuel subsidies as protests against the
doubling of gasoline costs mounted and workers vowed to shut
ports and oil operations in  Africa ’s largest crude producer.  While it’s a “difficult decision,” the government will
proceed with its action, Information Minister Labaran Maku told
reporters in Abuja, the capital, yesterday. A nationwide strike
from Jan. 9 will cause “greater harm” to people, he said.  The labor action “could have the potential to
significantly slow oil output and disrupt much of the country’s
transport infrastructure and services,” Sebastian Boe, a
political analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London , said in an e-
mailed note.  President Goodluck Jonathan abolished 1.2 trillion naira
($7.5 billion) of subsidies on Jan. 1, promising to use the
savings to boost investment in  power plants  and roads in
Africa’s most populous nation. Nigeria imports more than 70
percent of its fuel because of a lack of refining capacity.  “We believe the scrapping of the subsidy makes sense from
a macroeconomic point of view,”  Leon Myburgh  and Coura Fall,
Africa strategists at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, wrote in
an e-mailed note today. “But politically the government needs
to prove it will be able to improve service delivery if it wants
popular support for the decision.”  Debt Situation ‘Unsustainable’  Maintaining fuel subsidies would leave Nigeria’s debt
situation “unsustainable” and make it “impossible” for
investors to build refineries, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi told the British Broadcast Corp. yesterday.  “Subsidies should be subsidies for production and not for
consumption,” he said. “If we are going to borrow, it is
better to invest that borrowing in infrastructure, in power, in
production or in subsidizing productive capacity like
refineries.”  Oil workers will join the strike called by the Trade Union
Congress and Nigerian Labor Congress, Babatunde Ogun, president
of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of
Nigeria, said in a phone interview yesterday. The Conference of
Nigerian Political Parties, which represents more than 30
political bodies, supports the action, Osita Okechukwu, a CNPP
spokesman, said in a statement today.  Nigeria produced an average 2.2 million barrels of crude a
day in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is
the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports. At least 90
percent is pumped by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  MTN Shares Fall  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
posted its biggest two-day decline since January 2009 and fell
5.4 percent at the close of trading today in Johannesburg
trading, on concern the end of the subsidy will cut consumer
spending power in the company’s largest market.  “People will have to choose between buying phone airtime
and paying for transportation,” said Khulekani Dlamini, head of
research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital. The end of the
subsidy “is the major issue” for the stock price, he said.  Almost two-thirds of Nigerians live on less than $1.25 a
day, according to data from the  United Nations . Inflation was
unchanged at 10.5 percent in November, the statistics office
said on Dec. 19.  Tangible Benefits  “Cheap petrol is viewed by many Nigerians as the only
tangible benefit they receive from the state, hence the
widespread anger,” Ashley Elliot, a Nigeria analyst at London-
based Control Risks, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  About 300 protesters in the northern city of Kano were
injured when the police dispersed them using tear gas today,
according to Abubakar Ibrahim, a student leader.  “We will continue with the struggle protesting against the
barbaric action, and the crackdown will not deter us unless we
achieve our goals,” Ibrahim said in an interview.  Kano Police Commissioner Ibrahim Idris said in a phone
interview that his forces dispersed the protesters because
“hoodlums” had infiltrated the demonstrations at the city’s
Silver Jubilee Square.  Excessive Force  London-based  Amnesty International  today urged the Nigerian
authorities in a statement to end the use of excessive force
against protesters after one person was killed in the central
state of Kwara and the police were reported to have used tear
gas and have beaten demonstrators.  The  strike action  comes as Nigeria’s government battles
Islamic militants in the north, who killed at least 43 people
and wounded 73 in a Christmas day bombing of a church near
Abuja. Jonathan declared a state of emergency in some northern
regions on Dec. 31.  Two suspected Boko Haram militants were shot dead after
they attacked and killed two civilians yesterday in Maiduguri,
capital of Borno State, said Hassan Mohammed, a military
spokesman in the region. Three bombs were detonated in separate
attacks yesterday in northeast Nigeria, including one targeting
the Nigeria Customs Barracks in Maiduguri, he said.  Boko Haram, a group which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, today claimed responsibility for
the attacks in an e-mailed statement, saying they marked the
expiration of a three-day ultimatum for Christians to leave the
north.  “President Jonathan, already under fire for his
purportedly weak response to ongoing violence wreaked by Boko
Haram in parts of the country, faces further popular wrath from
his constituents, many of whom see the subsidy decision as
acquiescence to foreign organizations, such as the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank , at the expense of the ordinary
Nigerian,” Boe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  