-- Nordea, ABN Sell First Unsecured Europe Bank Debt in Month
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-01-04T16:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/nordea-abn-amro-sell-first-unsecured-europe-bank-debt-in-month.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, joined ABN Amro Bank NV and Rabobank Nederland
in selling the first senior unsecured debt in more than a month
as European banks in top-rated countries seek to satisfy
investor demand for yield.  ABN Amro, which is owned by the Dutch state after a 2008
bailout, and  Rabobank (RABO) , which is graded Aaa at Moody’s Investors
Service, are helping re-open a market all but closed to European
lenders since mid-2011 because of the region’s deficit crisis.
The Netherlands, like  Sweden , where Aa2 rated Nordea is based,
holds top grades from the ratings firms.  Investors are shunning senior unsecured debt from lower-
ranked banks amid concern their governments may default,
bringing down financial systems. That wariness is forcing
lenders to turn to secured borrowings, including covered bonds
and  repurchase agreements , as well as borrowing 489 billion
euros ($636 billion) from the  European Central Bank  for as much
as three years in the central bank’s longest-ever refinancing
operation.  “The banks have got to take advantage of any solidity in
the markets because the level of funding they have to do is
scary,” said Alison Murdoch, a credit strategist at Ria Capital
in Edinburgh. “From an investor’s perspective, these deals are
a steal.”  Nordea sold two-year floating-rate notes that were priced
to yield 95 basis points more than the benchmark  euro interbank
offered rate (EU0003M) , as well as 4 percent fixed-rate bonds due in July
2019 that priced at 195 basis points over the mid-swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rabobank Bonds  Utrecht-based Rabobank’s unsecured 10-year bonds were
priced to yield 175 basis points more than swaps, according to
Bloomberg data.  ABN Amro  priced 1.25 billion euros of two-year
floating-rate notes yielding 150 basis points more than Euribor
and 1 billion euros of seven-year bonds with a spread of 275
basis points over swaps.  Spain ’s Banco Santander SA issued the last benchmark senior
unsecured bond in euros on Nov. 24 in an exchange for existing
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The window is basically open for senior unsecured and
Rabobank and the Scandinavians are obvious names,” said Oliver Judd, a credit analyst at Aviva Investors in London, which
manages about $257 billion in fixed-income assets. “The ECB has
definitely helped sentiment by showing there’s a funding
backstop for the banks.”  The Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance
units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 after the
company, now named Ageas, ran out of short-term funding. The
government plans to sell ABN Amro shares in 2014 at the
earliest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  