-- Obama Opens Election Year Focused on Pitching Message on Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-opens-election-year-focused-on-pitching-message-on-economy.html
President  Barack Obama ’s first trip
of the election year puts him at a crucial juncture for his
chances to win a second term: talking about the economy in Ohio,
a key swing state that was battered by the recession.  As Republicans running for the chance to challenge Obama 
in November move today from Iowa to  New Hampshire , the president
will kick off his 2012 re-election bid at a high school in
Shaker Heights, just outside Cleveland, repeating themes he has
laid out over the past two months, including his struggles with
congressional Republicans who have blocked his agenda.  Obama “will be focused on the economy and on what he can
do as president to deliver on his promise to do everything he
can to help the middle class, grow the economy and create
jobs,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Obama’s political advisers are increasingly concerned about
winning Ohio’s 18 electoral votes in 2012. When campaign manager
 Jim Messina  and chief strategist  David Axelrod  last month laid
out five paths for Obama to get the necessary 270 Electoral
College votes needed to win re-election, only one of them
included Ohio.  Obama last visited Ohio on Sept. 22 to urge Congress to
pass his $447 billion jobs bill to boost a sputtering economy.
Since then, the state’s economy has improved. The Buckeye State
showed an overall increase in its economic health of 0.7 percent
in 2011, one of 13 states showing a gain, according to a
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses
employment, real estate, taxes and local stocks to track the
direction of state economies.  Jobs Picture  The state, which is second only to  Michigan  in the
percentage of jobs lost in the last decade, has added 75,600
positions during the 12-month period ending in November. The
 unemployment rate , at 8.5 percent in November, has fallen
steadily from its peak of 10.6 percent in February 2010 and is
lower than the 8.6 percent rate when Obama took office in
January 2009.  The improvements in Ohio have mirrored the national
economy. The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday its
U.S. factory index climbed to 53.9 last month from 52.7 in
November, the fastest pace in six months and higher than
forecast. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed factory
orders and production grew at the strongest rates in eight
months while inventories were cut.  Combined with a Commerce Department report showing
 construction spending (CNSTTMOM)  climbed in November, the figures indicate
the world’s largest economy accelerated in the final months of
2011.  Better Shape  “President Obama is in much better shape today than he was
about six months ago,”  David Gergen , director of Harvard
University’s Center for Public Leadership in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  “That does not mean he is not vulnerable; he is.” Gergen
said. Still, the fractured Republican primary campaign has
helped make Obama “look a little more presidential at this
point.”  Ohio has been a bellwether in modern presidential politics,
voting for the winner in every election since 1964.  No
Republican has won the presidency without also winning Ohio,
though four Democrats -- James Buchanan in 1856, Grover  Cleveland  in 1884 and 1892,  Franklin Roosevelt  in 1944 and  John Kennedy  in 1960 -- have won election without the state.  Republican Gains  While Obama won Ohio in 2008 with 51.5 percent of the vote,
Republicans swept statewide offices in the 2010 midterm
election, won the U.S. Senate race and replaced five Democrats
in the  House of Representatives . Messina’s scenarios include the
possibility of losing the state and several others that Obama
took in 2008, when he garnered 365 electoral votes.  On balance, Republicans are a bit more dependent on Ohio in
the presidential election than Democrats, said  John Green ,
director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute for Applied Politics at
the University of Akron.  “Very few Democrats have been elected without carrying
 Ohio , but history shows it’s a little less crucial,” Green
said.  The concern for Obama’s campaign, he said, is that some of
the Republican-leaning states Obama won in 2008, such as Indiana
and Virginia, may this year swing back to Republicans.  “So Ohio becomes really very important” Green said.  Obama’s battles with Republicans in Congress include his
nomination of former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  as
head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created by the
Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry.  Blocked in Senate  Cordray’s confirmation was blocked last month by Senate
Republicans who object to the bureau’s structure. Obama and his
advisers are debating whether to attempt a recess appointment of
Cordray as soon as today, a move that probably will invite an
election-year court battle, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Obama has said the bureau is critical to protecting middle-
income Americans from “unscrupulous” lenders, a pitch that may
appeal to voters in Ohio where the median  household income  is
$45,467 compared with the national figure of $50,221.  Ohio, along with neighboring Pennsylvania, has been a
frequent stop for Obama, who has made 16 previous visits to the
state since taking office. Only  New York , where Obama goes for
the annual opening of the United Nations General Assembly and
Sept. 11 commemorations, and  Virginia , the location of the
Pentagon and other Washington-area federal facilities, have seen
the president more often.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  