-- Obama Rallies Iowa Democrats as Republicans Caucus on Nominee
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-04T01:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-rallies-iowa-democrats-as-republicans-caucus-on-nominee.html
President  Barack Obama  told his Iowa
supporters they need to “maintain the same determination, the
same energy” they had during the 2008 campaign to ensure his
re-election in what is likely to be a close 2012 race.  On the same night Republicans in Iowa were caucusing in the
first contest to select their party’s presidential nominee,
Obama spoke to Democrats in the state via a teleconference. He
thanked them for their work in 2008 and reminded them he kept
promises to end the war in Iraq, enact an overhaul of the
health-care system, invest more in public education and end the
ban on openly gay men and women from serving in the military.  “Think about the change that was accomplished because of
those caucuses four years ago, because of those caucuses we
ended the war in  Iraq ,” Obama said in a link from a hotel in
 Washington  to 250 Democratic caucus sites across Iowa. “Because
of you we’ve been able to end the policy of ‘don’t ask, don’t
tell’” in the military.  Obama’s win in the Democratic caucuses four years ago
helped propel him to his party’s nomination. He also carried the
state in the 2008 general election.  Answering a question from his audience, Obama said his
campaign message will center on “this larger debate about what
kind of country we’re leaving” behind for future generations,
which will require investing in education and infrastructure.  “The other party has a fundamentally different
philosophy,” he said.  Ohio Trip  With the campaign season fully underway, Obama tomorrow
will be making his 17th trip since taking office to  Ohio , a
state that has picked the winner of every election since 1964.
He’s scheduled to deliver a speech on the economy at a high
school in a Cleveland suburb.  The Obama campaign is using Iowa, where they have eight
campaign offices, and other early voting states to test their
field organization and mobilize volunteers ahead of the general
election. The campaign has three offices in  New Hampshire  and is
planning on opening four more in time for the state’s Jan. 10
primary. They have two in  South Carolina , which holds its
primary Jan. 21.  The most recent surveys show that former Massachusetts
governor  Mitt Romney , U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  and
former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania are contending
to win today’s Iowa Republican caucus. Obama isn’t facing a
challenge for the Democratic nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  