-- Obama to Make Recess Appointments to Labor Relations Board
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-01-04T22:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-to-make-appointments-to-labor-board.html
President  Barack Obama  is appointing
three of his nominees to the  National Labor Relations Board 
while the Senate is out of town, bypassing lawmakers who’ve
blocked his choices for federal agencies.  Obama is appointing Sharon Block, Terence Flynn and Richard
Griffin to the labor board, which has been in the middle of a
partisan fight over the role of government in regulating
business. The labor board started this year with two members,
too few to make decisions or issue rulings.  Union groups, led by the AFL-CIO and the  Service Employees
International Union , applauded Obama’s action and urged the
five-member board to make changes that would make it easier for
employees to organize a union.  “If Senate Republicans had their way, the NLRB would be
unable to operate indefinitely,” Mary Kay Henry, president of
the 2.2 million member SEIU, said in an e-mailed statement. “In
these economic times, shutting down or hobbling an independent
federal agency charged with protecting workers’ rights is simply
not an option.”  Fred Wszolek, a spokesman for the Workforce Fairness
Institute, which oppose unions, said the appointments were a
“giveaway to Big Labor.” Obama is more focused on helping
unions than worrying about workers and small businesses, he
said.  Paying Back Bosses  “This White House has demonstrated beyond question that it
places greater importance on paying back union bosses than
creating jobs and turning around the economy,” Wszolek said in
an e-mailed statement.  The president earlier announced he’s appointing  Richard
Cordray  as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency
after Senate Republicans blocked his confirmation.  Block is the Labor Department’s deputy assistant secretary
for congressional affairs. From 2006 to 2009, she was senior
counsel for the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee under the late Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy of
 Massachusetts . Griffin is general counsel for the International
Union of Operating Engineers and was on the board of the Lawyers
Coordinating Committee at the AFL-CIO since 1994.  Flynn is currently chief counsel to the one Republican
member of the labor board.  “Taxpayers deserve a fully functioning government,”
Representative  George Miller  of  California , the top Democrat on
the House committee that deals with labor issues, said in an
emailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  