-- Obama Says Cordray’s Naming Will Protect Consumers From Financial ‘Abuses’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-04T20:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-says-cordray-s-naming-will-protect-consumers-from-financial-abuses-.html
President  Barack Obama  bypassed the
Senate to make Richard Cordray the U.S. consumer financial
watchdog and name three members to  National Labor Relations
Board , escalating an election-year fight with Republicans he
accuses of obstructing efforts to help the middle class.  “When Congress refuses to act and as a result hurts our
economy and puts people at risk, then I have an obligation as
president to do what I can without them,” Obama said in remarks
at a high school in Shaker Heights, Ohio.  Obama nominated Cordray to be the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s first director in July, almost a year after
enactment of the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law creating
the agency. Senate Republicans blocked Cordray’s confirmation
last month. Republican congressional leaders criticized Obama’s
decision and said it may threaten confirmation of other
nominees. The move may also set up a court fight.  Obama made the announcement in  Ohio , where Cordray was
attorney general from 2009 to 2011 and treasurer before that.
The state will be a key battleground in the 2012 presidential
race, and Obama is using his confrontations with congressional
Republicans and a populist economic message as part of his
campaign strategy.  “Financial firms have armies of lobbyists in Washington
looking out for their interests,” Obama said with Cordray on
stage with him. “You need someone looking out for you, fighting
for you.”  Labor Board  Obama later appointed three members to the NLRB, which has
been in the middle of a partisan fight over the role of
government in regulating business. The board last month lost the
quorum needed to make decisions because only two of its five
positions were filled.  The three are Sharon Block and Richard Griffin, who Obama
nominated last month, and Terence F. Flynn, whose nomination has
been stalled in the Senate since last January.  Republicans in Congress have vowed to curb the NLRB’s
authority after complaint filed in April by its acting general
counsel said Boeing Co. violated laws protecting striking
workers when it decided in 2009 to build a factory in  South
Carolina . The complaint was withdrawn last month.  The administration argues that Obama has authority to make
such appointments because the Senate isn’t conducting business
even though it’s in a so-called pro forma session. Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said Obama was
breaking with “long-standing” practice.  ‘Uncertain’ Territory  “Breaking from this precedent lands this appointee in
uncertain legal territory, threatens the confirmation process
and fundamentally endangers the Congress’s role in providing a
check on the excesses of the executive branch,” McConnell said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, called the
appointment an “extraordinary and entirely unprecedented power
grab” by the president.  Obama accused Republicans of blocking Cordray because they
don’t like the Dodd-Frank law, which intended to provide more
oversight and regulation of the financial industry. “They want
to water it down,” he said.  Even before Cordray received the nod last year, the bureau
became ensnared in a fight over demands by Senate Republicans
for changes in the agency’s structure and funding. In May, 44
Republicans -- a 45th later joined them -- said they wouldn’t
confirm a director without the changes, and on Dec. 8 they
blocked the nomination on a procedural vote.  Limits on Bureau  Without a director in place, the consumer bureau can’t
supervise and regulate non-bank financial firms, such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders. On July 21, it acquired
the authority to supervise and regulate deposit-taking banks.  The Constitution gives a president the power to make
appointments when the  U.S. Senate  is in recess. To keep Obama
from appointing officials after Congress started a holiday break
last month, congressional Republicans refused to adopt a
resolution to formally adjourn and senators have appeared every
three days for a brief pro forma session.  The  Congressional Research Service , in a 2001 memo, said
congressional practice and Justice Department opinions have
backed the position that the Senate should be out of session for
more than three days before the president can make a recess
appointment.  Potential Challenge  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is considering whether to
challenge the appointment in court, according to David
Hirschmann, president of the chamber’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness.  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer , in a post
on the White House website, said Senate Republicans made an
“overt attempt” to block the president from using his
constitutional authority to make recess appointments by
insisting the chamber remain in pro forma session.  “Gimmicks do not override the president’s constitutional
authority to make appointments to keep the government running,”
Pfeiffer wrote. Lawyers who advised President  George W. Bush  on
recess appointments have said the Senate “cannot use sham ‘pro
forma’ sessions to prevent the president from exercising a
constitutional power,” he wrote.  One of those lawyers, John P. Elwood, now a partner in the
firm of Vinson & Elkins in  Washington , said in an interview it
was “just a matter of time that some president” would
challenge the Senate on pro forma sessions.  ‘High-Roller Move’  Making Cordray the test case is “a high-roller move,”
said Elwood, who was deputy assistant attorney general in Bush’s
administration, because Cordray is likely to take high-profile
actions that can be challenged in court.  Elwood said if he were advising Obama he would have urged
the president to make several other recess appointments during
pro forma sessions first, to posts with less interaction with
the public, to set a precedent. He said it’s difficult to
predict how courts would rule if Obama’s action is challenged.  “The alternative would be giving the Senate the unilateral
power to prevent the president from making recess
appointments,” Elwood said. “I think he has the better of the
argument here.”  Democratic Support  Obama was backed by congressional Democrats, including
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat.  Reid said in a statement that filling the job will give
middle-income families “the advocate they deserve to fight on
their behalf against the reckless practices that denied so many
their economic security.”  The appointment heightens a clash between Obama and
Congress, including December’s showdown over a two-month
extension of a  payroll tax (FFSTEMPL)  cut for workers. Obama will need
Congress to pass a full-year extension, which is “essentially
the last must-do item of business on the president’s
congressional agenda” in 2012, White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said Dec. 31.  The president also may need Congress’s cooperation on
pending nominations to the Federal Reserve Board and judgeships
and on his proposals in a jobs bill.  The Senate is scheduled to stay symbolically open for
business until lawmakers resume work Jan. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Shaker Heights, Ohio, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  