-- Obama Installs Richard Cordray as Consumer Head in Defiance of Republicans
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-04T17:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-said-to-name-cordray-as-consumer-bureau-chief-in-recess-appointment.html
President  Barack Obama  installed
 Richard Cordray  as head of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau with a recess appointment today, testing the limits of
his executive authority to fill the post without Senate
approval.  “I am now the director and my work will be to protect
American consumers,” Cordray said at the airport in  Cleveland ,
where he was accompanying the president to a speech on the
economy. “I’m going to be 100 percent focused on that.”  Obama nominated Cordray to be the bureau’s first director
in July, almost one year after enactment of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory law creating the agency. Republicans
blocked Cordray’s confirmation by the Senate last month. Putting
him in the job today may set up an election-year court fight
between the White House and Congress.  The president’s decision drew quick criticism from Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , who said in a statement that
Obama “arrogantly circumvented” the American people and
upended “long-standing” practices that limited recess
appointments.  “Breaking from this precedent lands this appointee in
uncertain legal territory, threatens the confirmation process
and fundamentally endangers the Congress’s role in providing a
check on the excesses of the executive branch,” said McConnell,
of  Kentucky .  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, called the
appointment an “extraordinary and entirely unprecedented power
grab” by the president.  Ohio Announcement  Obama, who is making confrontation with congressional
Republicans a part of his re-election strategy, has said filling
the consumer bureau post is critical to protecting middle-income
Americans from “unscrupulous” lenders. He plans to make the
announcement this afternoon in  Ohio , a key battleground for the
2012 presidential election.  Cordray is the former attorney general of Ohio and
accompanied Obama on Air Force One for the trip to the state.  The Constitution gives a president the power to make
appointments when the U.S. Senate is in recess. To keep Obama
from appointing officials after Congress started a holiday break
last month, congressional Republicans refused to adopt a
resolution to formally adjourn and senators have appeared every
three days for a brief pro forma session.  Senate Recess  The  Congressional Research Service , in a 2001 memo, said
congressional practice and Justice Department opinions have
backed the position that the Senate should be out of session for
more than three days before the president can make a recess
appointment.  Pfeiffer, in a post on the White House website, accused
Senate Republicans of making an “overt attempt” to block the
president from using his constitutional authority to make recess
appointments by insisting the chamber remain in pro forma
session.  “Gimmicks do not override the president’s constitutional
authority to make appointments to keep the government running,”
Pfeiffer wrote. Lawyers who advised President  George W. Bush  on
recess appointments wrote that the Senate “cannot use sham ‘pro
forma’ sessions to prevent the president from exercising a
constitutional power,” he wrote.  Obama’s press secretary,  Jay Carney , cited a legal opinion
by the White House counsel’s office that determined the Senate
was in recess and not conducting any business.  Legal Justification  “When the Congress refuses to act, the president will,”
Carney told reporters traveling with the president. “The fact
of the matter is that the Senate has been in recess and will
continue to be in recess.”  In making the appointment, Obama is going beyond the power
asserted by previous administrations to install officials
without Senate action. In a 1993 court case involving the Postal
Service Board of Governors,  Justice Department  lawyers argued in
court papers that presidents can make recess appointments when
the Senate is out of session for more than three days.  The brief suggested that a president might lack that
authority during shorter breaks. Pointing to the constitutional
requirement that the Senate and House get one another’s consent
before adjourning for more than three days, the Justice
Department said the constitutional framers might not have
considered shorter recesses to be significant.  “If the recess here were of three days or less, a closer
question would be presented,” the Justice Department argued.  Support from Democrats  Obama was backed by congressional Democrats, including
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat.  Reid said in a statement that filling the job will give
middle-income families “the advocate they deserve to fight on
their behalf against the reckless practices that denied so many
their economic security.”  In choosing Cordray last July, Obama passed over  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University professor who set up the bureau
and is running for the  U.S. Senate  from  Massachusetts .  Even before Cordray received the nod, the bureau became
ensnared in a partisan fight over demands by Senate Republicans
for changes in the agency’s structure and funding. In May, 44
Republicans -- a 45th later joined them -- said they wouldn’t
confirm a director without the changes, and on Dec. 8 they
blocked the nomination on a procedural vote.  Consumer Bureau  Without a director in place, the consumer bureau can’t
supervise and regulate non-bank financial firms, such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders. On July 21, it acquired
the authority to supervise and regulate deposit-taking banks.  The appointment heightens a clash between Obama and
Congress, including December’s showdown over a two-month
extension of a  payroll tax (FFSTEMPL)  cut for workers. Obama will need
Congress to pass a full-year extension, which is “essentially
the last must-do item of business on the president’s
congressional agenda” in 2012, White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said on Dec. 31.  The president also may need Congress’s cooperation on
pending nominations to the Federal Reserve Board and judgeships
and on his proposals in a jobs bill.  The Senate is scheduled to stay symbolically open for
business until lawmakers resume work on Jan. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  