-- Fracking Rules Show Obama on ‘Wrong Track,’ Oil Group Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-04T21:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/obama-s-fracking-rules-show-policy-on-wrong-track-api-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s energy
policy is on the “wrong track” by promoting natural gas while
drafting restrictions on the hydraulic fracturing process that
produces the fuel, the biggest  energy industry  group said.  “We are on the wrong track,”  Jack Gerard , president of
the  American Petroleum Institute , the largest energy trade group
in Washington, said in remarks prepared for a speech today. “We
see it in an incoherent approach to natural gas development:
lauding it’s obvious benefits while ratcheting up pressure for
new layers of duplicative regulations that could stop energy
development dead in its tracks.”  A boom in gas production using hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, increased production of the fuel, cut prices 32
percent last year and raised environmental concerns about
tainted drinking water supplies. Further development of shale
resources using fracking may add more than 1.6 million jobs by
2035, according to API.  U.S. natural gas production rose to a record 2,483 billion
cubic feet in October, according to the Energy Information
Administration report issued Dec. 29, a 15 percent increase from
October 2008, the month before Obama was elected.  While Obama said in a March 30 energy speech that fracking
enabled the U.S. to tap “a century’s worth of reserves,” he
also said the production must be done safely and without
polluting drinking-water supplies.  The Environmental Protection Agency and the Interior
Department are drafting regulations aimed at ensuring drinking
water supplies are protected, while states, such as West
Virginia and Colorado, impose rules on operators.  The Interior Department is seeking comment from the energy
industry to ensure that the agency’s rule  “does not push back
on the bright future for natural gas,” Interior Secretary  Ken
Salazar  told the House Natural Resources Committee on Nov. 16.  The American Petroleum Institute represents more than 490
energy companies, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  