-- Ohio Mayor Buys Quake Insurance as He Seeks Answers on Fracking
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-04T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ohio-mayor-buys-quake-insurance-as-he-seeks-answers-on-fracking.html
The mayor of Youngstown,  Ohio , says
he wonders whether a well used to dispose of wastewater from oil
and natural-gas drilling is making his city shake. Just to be
safe, he’s bought earthquake insurance.  “You lose your whole house, that’s your life savings, and
if you have no money or no insurance to replace it, then what do
you do?” Mayor Charles P. Sammarone said in a telephone
interview today. “Information is needed to make the homeowner
and the residents feel safe.”  There have been 11 earthquakes in this northeastern Ohio
city since D&L Energy Inc. began injecting drilling brine, a
byproduct of hydraulic fracturing, 9,200 feet (2,804 meters)
underground in December 2010. The strongest, magnitude  4.0 , hit
last week on New Year’s Eve.  Sammarone said he has asked the City Council to pass a
resolution tonight supporting state Representative Robert F. Hagan, a city Democrat who has called for a moratorium on so-
called fracking and injection-well activity “until we can
conclude it’s safe.”  Republican Governor  John Kasich  and the  Ohio (STOOH1)  Department of
Natural Resources consider the earthquakes isolated occurrences
that are being addressed, said  Rob Nichols , a gubernatorial
spokesman. Injections will continue at the other 177 such wells
without interrupting shale-gas development that may produce
thousands of jobs, he said.  “We are not going to stand by and let someone drive a
stake through the heart of what could be an economic revival in
Eastern Ohio,” Nichols said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Brick House  The Natural Resources Department said the company agreed to
stop operations at the Youngstown well Dec. 30 after data showed
the earthquakes were occurring nearby at the depth of the
injections. After the Dec. 31 quake, the state ordered work
suspended and put on hold proposals for four other wells within
a five-mile radius pending further study, Nichols said.  Sammarone said he hopes state officials will give the city
more information next week. He decided to buy a policy on his
one-story brick house after the Dec. 31 quake because before
March, there was no recorded seismic activity in the city.  “About 3 o’clock, there was a loud bang that lasted, I
don’t know, a couple seconds, and then all of sudden, the house
started shaking and stuff fell off the wall,” he said. “It
seemed like it lasted forever, but it was probably eight, 10
seconds. But it was very scary because we’re not used to that.”  “Two days later, on Monday, I called my insurance man and
got earthquake insurance.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  