-- Oil Advances for Second Day as EU Moves Toward Iran Sanction
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-04T21:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/oil-declines-from-highest-level-since-may-on-european-economic-reports.html
Oil futures rose to the highest price
since May for a second day as European Union governments moved
closer to halting purchases from  Iran .  Crude advanced for the ninth time in 11 days after the EU
said foreign ministers intend to announce harsher sanctions on
Iran’s energy and banking industries at their next meeting on
Jan. 30. Iran has threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz,
through which about 20 percent of the world’s oil flows out of
the Persian Gulf, if its exports are restricted.  “Tightening the screws on Iran just makes more tension and
more potential for them to shut the Strait of Hormuz,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. “If the
Europeans stop buying Iranian oil, they still have to buy it
from somewhere else, and it will tighten oil supply.”  Crude for February delivery rose 26 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to $103.22 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 10. Prices climbed 8.2 percent in
2011, the third straight annual gain.  Brent oil for February rose $1.57, or 1.4 percent, to
settle at $113.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Brent may rally to $125 if the EU bans imports from Iran,
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research for the Americas at
Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a phone interview. Such
a move would require about 600,000 barrels a day of replacement
supply from  Saudi Arabia , depleting the country’s spare
capacity, he said.  Jan. 30 Meeting  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said in Lisbon that he
hopes a decision about an embargo on importing oil from Iran may
be adopted at the Jan. 30 meeting of foreign ministers.  “We want to tighten sanctions on Iran,”  Michael Mann , an
EU spokesman, said by telephone in Brussels today. “The things
that have been mentioned are the oil sector and the financial
sector.”  The U.S. welcomed the push toward an embargo.  “This is consistent with tightening the noose around Iran
economically,”  Victoria Nuland , a State Department spokeswoman,
said at a briefing in  Washington . “The place to get Iran’s
attention is in the oil sector.”  Oil rose to the intraday high of $103.74 at 9:40 a.m. from
$102.37 after Reuters reported that the EU governments reached a
deal in principle to ban imports from Iran. The price slipped
back over the next half hour.  “People bought the rumor, and now it looks like they are
selling the facts,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.
“You definitely get that kind of knee-jerk reaction, and it’s
been priced out of the market now.”  Iran’s Output  Iran pumped 3.58 million barrels a day of crude in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia.  A French-British push for an oil embargo was deflected last
month by Greece, which has since decided to abide by any EU-
imposed embargo, an official at the Greek environment, energy
and climate ministry said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  Oil pared gains as the euro weakened after  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
said it would sell shares, adding to speculation that Europe’s
economic growth will be constrained by banks’ need for more
capital.  Milan-based UniCredit said it will sell new shares in a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.7 billion) offer to strengthen its capital
position. The  European Central Bank  reported overnight deposits
from financial institutions rose to a record and Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the European Union is
facing a recession of unknown scope.  Euro Weakens  The euro fell 0.9 percent against the dollar to $1.2936. A
weaker euro and stronger U.S. currency reduce oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  “The stronger dollar versus euro may be exerting short-
term downward pressure,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker with Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London . “The overall trend
remains upward, although it has for the moment hit short-term
resistance.”  The American Petroleum Institute reported after the
settlement that U.S. crude inventories declined 4.43 million
barrels to 334.5 million. Distillate and gasoline stockpiles
increased.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 532,964
contracts as of 3:48 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 672,459
yesterday, 10 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.37 million contracts, the highest level since
Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  