-- Oil Trades Near Eight-Month High on Concern Iran May Curb Crude Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-05T13:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/oil-trades-near-eight-month-high-on-shrinking-crude-supplies-iran-tension.html
Oil traded near the highest in almost
eight weeks in London as speculation that sanctions against Iran
will curb crude supplies countered concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen and slow demand.  European Union governments are moving closer to halting oil
purchases from the Islamic republic in response to its nuclear
program. A ban by the EU, which received 18 percent of Iran’s
crude oil and condensate exports in the first half of last year,
could send  Brent crude  to $125 a barrel, according to Societe
Generale SA. Concern the European crisis will spread increased
after  Greece  said deeper income cuts are the only way for the
country to keep the euro and avert economic collapse.  “What we’re seeing is a fundamental tug-of-war, if you
like, between two competing forces,” Ric Deverell, head of
commodities research for Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Singapore . “We have the oil
market in a volatile range at the moment that’s likely to
persist for some time.”  Brent oil for February settlement was unchanged at $113.70
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
1:39 p.m., after rising to $114.64 a barrel, the highest
intraday level since Nov. 14.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , crude for February
delivery was at $102.9, 29 cents lower, in electronic trading.
Yesterday the contract climbed to $103.22, the highest close
since May 10. Prices advanced 8.2 percent in 2011, their third
annual increase.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate was at $10.77 after widening to
$11.25, the most since Dec. 16. The spread surged 14 percent
yesterday and rose to a record $27.88 on Oct. 14 as the uprising
in  Libya  choked off supplies of similar-quality crude.  Iran  Threat  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said yesterday he hopes
Europe will decide to embargo Iranian oil as part of sanctions
against the country’s nuclear program. EU foreign ministers aim
to announce harsher sanctions on Iran’s energy and banking
industries at their next meeting on Jan. 30, EU spokesman
Michael Mann said in Brussels yesterday. Greece lifted its
objections to an embargo Jan. 3.  Crude is trading above $100 a barrel for a fourth day in
New York after European leaders moved to increase pressure on
Iran and the Middle East producer threatened to retaliate by
shutting the Strait of Hormuz, a transit point for a fifth of
the world’s crude. The risk of supply cuts is competing with the
prospect of weakening demand should Europe’s financial crisis
afflict global economic growth.  Strait of Hormuz  An EU boycott would require about 600,000 barrels a day of
replacement supply from  Saudi Arabia , depleting the country’s
spare capacity, according to  Mike Wittner ,  Societe Generale ’s
head of oil market research.  A halt of Iranian supplies into Europe could be offset by
the restoration of output from Libya. Libya’s crude production
now exceeds a million barrels a day and will return to normal by
the middle of the year, Nuri Berruien, chairman of state-run
National Oil Corp., said Dec. 24.  The head of Iran’s army, Ataollah Selhi, warned the U.S. on
Jan. 3 against sending an aircraft carrier back to the Persian
Gulf after the USS John C. Stennis traveled through the Strait
of Hormuz. Iran denies that it is seeking to build atomic
weapons and says it’s pursuing nuclear technology to generate
electricity.  U.S. crude inventories dropped 4.43 million barrels to
334.5 million in the seven days ended Dec. 30, according to data
from the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  yesterday.
An Energy Department report today will probably show they
declined  1 million barrels (DOEASCRD)  to 326.5 million, according to the
median of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Global Weakness’  Gasoline supplies rose 3.38 million barrels, the API data
showed. The Energy Department report will probably show they
increased 1 million barrels, according to the  survey (DOEASMGS) . Stockpiles
of distillate fuel, a category that includes diesel and heating
oil, climbed 5.25 million barrels compared with a projected 1
million barrel gain.  “We’re going to see further global weakness in the first
half of the year,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist
at Societe Generale in  Hong Kong  who forecasts  New York  crude
will average $98.50 a barrel in the first half of the year.
“The U.S. data could continue to be good near term, but
ultimately the U.S. isn’t going to decouple from Europe.”  France  plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($10.4
billion) of debt today in the country’s first test this year of
investor appetite for its bonds as credit companies threaten to
cut the nation’s AAA rating.  Figures from the U.S. Labor Department tomorrow may show
the economy generated 150,000 jobs in December after 120,000 the
prior month, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.7 percent after falling to 8.6
percent a month earlier, according to the forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  