-- Crude Oil Falls From Near Eight-Month High on European Economic Concerns
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-04T13:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/oil-trades-near-8-month-high-on-demand-iran-tension-amid-shrinking-supply.html
Oil fell from its highest settlement
in almost eight months on signs that  Europe ’s debt crisis may
drag the region into a recession, curbing fuel consumption.  West Texas Intermediate crude futures reversed gains as the
euro dropped from near a one-week high against the dollar after
European reports showed services and manufacturing output
contracted and inflation slowed. German 10-year bonds stayed
lower after the country sold additional securities. Oil rallied
4.2 percent yesterday as the head of Iran’s army warned the U.S.
against sending an  aircraft carrier  back to the  Persian Gulf .  “The stronger dollar versus euro may be exerting short-
term downward pressure,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts  oil prices 
will rebound. “The overall trend remains upwards, although it
has for the moment hit short-term resistance.”  Crude for February delivery was at $102.25 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 71
cents, at 12:43 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract rose
$4.13 to $102.96 a barrel, the highest settlement since May 10.
Prices climbed 8.2 percent in 2011, their third annual gain.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $111.66 a barrel, 47 cents lower,
after advancing 4.4 percent yesterday. The European benchmark
contract was at a $9.38 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  U.S. Stockpiles  Crude inventories probably dropped 500,000 barrels last
week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  U.S.  gasoline inventories (DOEASMGS)  probably climbed 1 million
barrels last week, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Distillate-fuel supplies,
including diesel and heating oil, probably rose 500,000 barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release its inventory
data today. The industry group collects stockpile figures on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  “We’re positive on oil prices,” said Gareth Lewis-Davies,
an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Whatever happens week
to week, there’s scope for inventories to tighten. The price
moves have been tied to Iranian tensions, investor risk appetite
and the dollar.”  Strait of Hormuz   Oil has risen on speculation Iran may try to disrupt
supplies through the Strait of Hormuz as the U.S. and its allies
increase pressure to halt what they say may be a covert nuclear-
weapons program. Sanctions signed into law Dec. 31 by President
Barack Obama aim to deter dealings with  Iran ’s central bank.
Almost 17 million barrels a day of crude moved through the
waterway last year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Ataollah Salehi, the head of Iran’s army, said yesterday
the U.S. shouldn’t send an aircraft carrier back to the Gulf and
that “we warn only once,” according to the state-run Fars news
agency. The USS John C. Stennis passed through the strait on
Dec. 27 on a routine voyage and was operating in the northern
 Arabian Sea , said the U.S. 5th Fleet.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ crude
production rose to the most since November 2008 last month, led
by a recovery in Libyan supply, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Output increased 162,000 barrels, or 0.5 percent, to an average
30.667 million barrels a day from a revised 30.505 million, the
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts showed. OPEC’s
12 members pump about a third of the world’s crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  