-- London Police Should Be Wary of Drinking, ‘Flirting’ Media
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-04T16:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/london-police-should-be-wary-of-drinking-flirting-with-media.html
London  police are too close to the
media and senior officers must be more transparent about contact
with journalists, according to a report prompted by the phone-
hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid.  Metropolitan Police Service officers should avoid drinking
with reporters, make a record of all meetings and beware of
potential “flirting” by journalists seeking unauthorized
information, according to the findings issued in London today.  “The close relationship which developed between parts of
the MPS and the media has caused serious harm,” according to
the 56-page internal report by Elizabeth Filkin, the former head
of investigations into wrongdoing in Parliament. “What goes on
at the top affects the whole organization.”  The report was commissioned in July, after revelations that
the News of the World’s phone-hacking activities were more
widespread than previously known, and that the police failed to
investigate thoroughly after the first probe ended five years
ago. Authorities have arrested eight people, including a serving
officer last month, as part of a related criminal investigation
into police bribery by the tabloid’s reporters.  While the new proposals are a “good start,” the problem
goes deeper than flirting and hospitality, said Tamsin Allen, a
lawyer with Bindmans in London who represents phone-hacking
victims, including Labour party lawmaker  Chris Bryant .  ‘Systematically Leaked Information’  “There is also evidence that corrupt payments have been
made to police officers by journalists, and that the police have
systematically leaked information to the press,” Allen said.  Bryant and former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott 
are among a group of victims seeking a court declaration that
police, which started a new investigation in January, should
have reopened the probe sooner and alerted people whose
phones may have been hacked. Bryant has said police colluded
with the News of the World to mislead lawmakers about the extent
of the scandal.  News Corp. closed the 168-year-old News of the World in
July to help contain public anger after it was revealed
reporters had hacked into the voice mail of murdered schoolgirl
 Milly Dowler  in 2002, when she was still missing.  Paul Stephenson , the police commissioner at the time, resigned the
same month over the force’s decision to hire former News of the
World editor Neil Wallis as a public-relations adviser.  Judge-Led Inquiry  Phone-hacking evidence seized in 2006 from the News of the
World’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  was left unexamined
for years, and celebrity phone-hacking victims had to sue the
police to win access to evidence that resulted in at least 70
civil lawsuits against News Corp.’s British publishing unit. A
judge-led inquiry into the ethics of the U.K. press will also
examine how police handled the scandal.  “There should be no more secret conversations -- no more
improper contact,” Metropolitan Police Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe said today. “Meetings will no longer be enhanced by
hospitality and alcohol.”  Flirting is “often interlinked with alcohol” and is
“designed to get you to drop your defenses and say far more
than you intended. Be careful,” Filkin said in the report. She
didn’t suggest an outright ban on alcohol with reporters.  Alcohol, she said, can involve “late-night carousing, long
sessions, yet another bottle of wine at lunch -- these are all
long-standing media tactics to get you to spill the beans.”  Flirting, Seduction  “In an age of 24/7 news, it was not the ’flirting’ that
mattered but the seduction that followed,” said  Mark Lewis , the
lawyer for the Dowler family. “People were convicted by the
press on evidence given by police officers” and the distraction
resulted in officers who “failed to spot crime.”  The report uncovered a widespread belief that the
Metropolitan Police gives unequal access to different parts of
the media and that “certain special relationships have
developed.” The report cited an unnamed journalist who said the
relationship was counterproductive, because reporters need to be
“nice” to officers and aren’t critical in their reporting.  “There is a widespread view that a certain amount of
leaking is inevitable,” Filkin said in the report. “Leaks are
notoriously difficult to prove to an evidential standard for a
criminal prosecution.”  Filkin said her proposed guidelines will result in more
communication between police officers and the press, not less.
More officers should be free to speak with reporters and provide
transparent, authorized information, she said.  News Corp. faces a trial in February, when a judge will
decide how much the company should pay in damages to six victims
in a so-called test case, including actor Jude Law. News Corp.
agreed last year to pay about 100,000 pounds ($156,000) to actor
 Sienna Miller  and 3 million pounds to the Dowler family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  