-- Exxon in Talks to Restructure Stake in Japanese Unit TonenGeneral Sekiyu
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-01-04T09:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/tonengeneral-slumps-most-in-9-years-after-report-of-exxon-sale.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value, is in talks with its Japanese
unit  TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. (5012)  to restructure its holdings in
 Japan  and plans to remain in the country.  “No decisions have been made,” Kosuke Kai, a spokesman
for ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, which holds a 50.02 percent stake
in TonenGeneral, said by telephone today. “ExxonMobil has no
plans to exit the Japan market and our customers will continue
to enjoy ExxonMobil’s brands and products.”  TonenGeneral slumped to the lowest in more than 13 months
in Tokyo trading after Reuters reported that Exxon plans to sell
the bulk of its stake in the refiner. The Irving, Texas-based
company may divest most of its holding and assets including its
distribution network in Japan for about 400 billion yen ($5.2
billion), Reuters said today, citing people it didn’t identify.  “If Exxon’s stake declines, the Japanese refiner will need
to draw up its own growth strategy” as domestic rivals struggle
to expand their business outside Japan, Reiji Ogino, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,
said by phone.  Japanese refiners including  JX Holdings Inc. (5020)  have been
investing upstream energy projects, overseas projects or
renewable energy as the nation’s long-term demand is forecast to
decline because of a shrinking population. Japan’s oil-product
demand may decline at a rate of 3.5 percent a year through March
2015, according to an estimate by the country’s trade ministry.  ‘Spur Consolidation’  A stake reduction by Exxon “could spur consolidation in
the Japanese refining industry,” said Hidetoshi Shioda, a
Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “This would
reduce the number of domestic players and reduce excessive
competition, and all Japanese refiners would profit from it.”  TonenGeneral plans to fund the purchase of Exxon’s stake by
borrowing from banks, and the deal may be announced early this
month and completed in spring, Reuters said. Exxon will retain a
share in the company and supply crude oil to the refiner,
according to the report.  “The report is not based on statements by ExxonMobil,”
spokesman Kai said. “We have made no announcements and, as a
matter of practice, we do not comment on market rumors or
speculation.”  Japan Assets  For Exxon, the move would be part of plans to focus on
exploration and production of oil and natural gas and move away
from refining. Its unit, ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, also owns a 50
percent stake in Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd., a joint
venture with Mitsui Oil Co., which operates a 175,000 barrel-a-
day refinery in Chiba, near  Tokyo .  TonenGeneral fell 5.8 percent to close at 792 yen, the
lowest since Nov. 17, 2010. The stock has slumped 12 percent in
the past year, compared with the 18 percent drop in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Exxon’s stake in the refiner is valued at about 238 billion
yen based on current share prices.  “We have been doing business in Japan for over 118 years.
In that time we have continuously innovated and adapted our
business to meet the needs of society and the changing business
environment,” Kai said. “In addition, we continue to look for
opportunities to strengthen our competitive position in Japan
and increase  shareholder value .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 