-- ONGC Takes Over Stakes in Two India Blocks as BG Group Exits
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-05T03:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/ongc-takes-over-bg-group-s-equity-stakes-in-two-india-exploration-blocks.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, will take over stakes in two offshore
exploration blocks held by  BG Group Plc (BG/)  as the British company
withdraws from the projects.  The blocks off India’s east coast are in the Krishna
Godavari and Mahanadi basins in the Bay of Bengal, ONGC
Exploration Director S.V. Rao said yesterday in New Delhi. BG,
which retains stakes in a producing venture and an exploration
project in the country, will pay ONGC $50 million for failing to
fulfill its drilling commitments, he said.  ONGC plans to raise output from aging fields in India and
open up new areas as energy demand rises in  Asia ’s second-
fastest growing major economy. The state-owned explorer, which
bought  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) ’s 10 percent holding in another block in
the Bay of Bengal in December, has about 140 billion rupees
($2.6 billion) in  cash (ONGC) , Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva said yesterday.  “The reason we’re taking these stakes is because we see a
lot of value,” Vasudeva told reporters in New Delhi. “There’s
been a gas discovery in one of these blocks and we see potential
for more.”  ONGC rose 1.3 percent to 266.7 rupees in Mumbai trading
yesterday before the decision was announced. The stock fell 20
percent in 2011, compared with a 25 percent decline in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  BG gained 0.1 percent to 1,429.5
pence in  London .  BG Withdraws  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, is
withdrawing from the KG-OSN-2004/1 block in the Krishna Godavari
basin and the MN-DWN-2002/02 license in Mahanadi. It retains a
30 percent stake in the KG-DWN-2009/1 permit.  “BG Group is not in the process of exiting India,”  Mark
Todd , a company spokesman, said by e-mail. “As we’ve noted
previously, BG Group keeps all of the assets in its global
portfolio under review.”  The company said in April 2010 it had withdrawn from a
deepwater block in India, KG-DWN-98/4, citing a lack of clear
documentation on the validity of a production-sharing contract.  BG has a 30 percent stake in the Panna-Mukta and Tapti
fields in the Arabian Sea in partnership with ONGC and Reliance
Industries Ltd. It also successfully bid for the MB-DWN-2010/1
license off western India in a 2010 auction, and has yet to be
awarded the contract by the government, its website shows.  BG’s interests in India include the supply and distribution
of liquefied natural gas. The company agreed in September to
sell as much as 2.5 million metric tons of LNG to Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. for 20 years, starting in 2014.  Separately, BG is seeking buyers for its 65 percent stake
in Gujarat Gas Co., a utility operating in the west Indian
state. It owns a 49.8 percent stake in Mumbai-based Mahanagar
Gas Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 