-- Orange Juice Rallies to Five-Month High on Florida Frost Damage
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-01-04T20:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/orange-juice-rallies-on-florida-frost-damage.html
Orange-juice  futures jumped to a
five-month high in New York after frigid weather damaged citrus
crops in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest grower.  Temperatures in about 75 percent of the state’s citrus-
growing region were cold enough for frost, with a hard freeze in
about 25 percent of the area, forecaster  MDA EarthSat Weather 
said today in a report. Damage isn’t expected to be significant
or widespread, Don Keeney, a senior agricultural meteorologist
at EarthSat, said in the report.  “There’s definitely going to be some damage to the crop,”
 Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures and Options in  Port
St. Lucie , Florida, said in a telephone interview. The frost
probably will mean lower yields in the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s February crop report, he said.  Orange juice (JO1)  for March delivery rose 2.9 percent to settle
at $1.7805 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
after gaining as much as 5 percent to $1.817, the highest for a
most-active contract since Aug. 5. Prices have rallied 9.1
percent in the past two weeks.  Conditions are expected to moderate quickly, and freeze
threats will ease as milder weather returns, according to
Gaithersburg, Maryland-based EarthSat.  The Florida citrus industry generates $9 billion a year in
economic activity and employs almost 76,000 people, according to
 Florida Citrus Mutual , a trade organization in Lakeland. The
industry “came through in pretty good shape” after the frost,
said Andrew Meadows, a spokesman for the group.  While the overall impact of the cold probably won’t be
significant, low-lying areas likely bore the brunt of any
damage, according to Ray Royce, the executive director of the
 Highlands County Citrus Growers Association  in Sebring, Florida.  “We could see some fruit affected in cold pockets,” Royce
said in a telephone interview, citing conversations with half a
dozen growers. Cold weather is expected again tonight for
Highlands County, in central Florida, “so we will have to
assess the impact” further tomorrow, he said.  Brazil  is the world’s top orange grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  