-- Inventory Restocking to Propel U.S. Manufacturing: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-04T16:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/orders-to-u-s-factories-rise-the-most-in-four-months-as-recovery-quickens.html
The need to rebuild depleted
inventories may supersede spending on business equipment as the
catalyst propelling gains in U.S. manufacturing in early 2012.  Orders (CGNOXAI%)  for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
measure of future corporate investment, dropped 1.2 percent in
November, the biggest decline in 10 months, according to
Commerce Department data today. A report yesterday showed a
gauge of stockpiles at factories’ customers slumped in December
to a seven-month low.  Bookings by retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Target Corp. may
increase after holiday sales climbed more than forecast, putting
to rest concern that the world’s largest economy was tipping
back into a recession. At the same time, the expiration of a 100
percent depreciation allowance for equipment purchased in 2011
probably pulled some sales into last year.  “The big story is the inventory one,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Retailers were apparently extremely conservative
in ordering goods for the holiday season and are now looking at
depleted shelves. You did see a bit of a bulge at the middle of
last year in investment on equipment and software that had to do
with  tax policy . We are now seeing a little bit of a hangover
from that.”  Stocks fell as concern grew that European banks may need to
raise more capital amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,274.04 at
11:55 a.m. in New York.  Less Inflation  In the euro region,  inflation (ECCPEMUY)  slowed in December for the
first time in five months, giving the European Central Bank room
to lower borrowing costs further as the economy edges toward a
recession.  Signs of a strengthening U.S. economy contrast with
indications of a global slowdown.  China ’s home prices fell for a
fourth month in December, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
largest real-estate website owner, said today.  Retail sales at U.S. stores open more than a year may have
gained as much as 4.5 percent in December, more than previously
estimated, as holiday discounts attracted shoppers, a trade
group said today. Purchases in December were earlier projected
to have advanced as much as 4 percent, the  International Council
of Shopping Centers  said in a statement today.  Demand at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC exceeded analysts’ forecasts in December,
other data also showed today. Ford’s U.S. sales climbed 10
percent from a year earlier, while purchases of Chrysler
vehicles were up 37 percent. At GM, they increased 4.5 percent.  ‘Feeling Pretty Good’  “Given recent sales trends and consumer confidence
numbers, we’re feeling pretty good about where the industry is
going,”  Don Johnson , vice president at GM for U.S. sales, said
on a conference call last month.  Stockpiles will climb at a $55 billion annual rate in the
first six months of 2012 on average, up from a projected $31
billion gain in the past three months, according to a forecast
by economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . In contrast,
spending on equipment and software will rise at an average 7.5
percent rate, down from an estimated 11 percent advance in 2011.  An Obama administration tax credit may have contributed to
an increase in business equipment demand in the months before
the end-of-the-year deadline. A provision allowed companies to
depreciate 100 percent of capital outlays in 2011 and 50 percent
in 2012. Today’s factory order report showed that effect may be
waning.  Capital Goods  The drop in orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and
military equipment was the biggest since January 2011 and
followed a 0.9 percent decrease in October.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, dropped 0.8 percent, marking the third
consecutive decrease.  The report also showed inventories climbed 0.5 percent in
November, indicating factories were already ramping up
production to restock warehouses. Manufacturers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.34 months at the current sales pace, up from
1.33 in October.  Manufacturing grew in December at the fastest pace in six
months, bolstered by gains in production and orders, a report
from the Tempe, Arizona-based  Institute for Supply Management 
showed yesterday.  The group’s inventory gauge, which measures stockpiles of
raw materials and inputs for manufacturing, showed stockpiles
contracted for a third consecutive month. The gauge of  customer
inventories (NAPMCINV)  dropped 15 points to the lowest level since May. It
was the second-biggest decrease for the measure in records
dating back to 1997.  More Orders  “Low customer inventories provide pull and the promise of
new orders for manufacturing,” Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the
ISM factory survey, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
 Dallas .  One caveat is that  consumer spending  will need to keep
growing this year to ensure that manufacturers will continue to
boost production, said Pierpont’s Stanley. That could be an
issue as incomes haven’t grown fast enough, forcing households
to save less in order to increase spending, he said.  “I look for an improving labor market to generate
sufficient income gains to allow households to spend decently
and save more as well,” Stanley said. “The expansion is more
likely to plod than gallop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  