-- Emerging Stocks Decline First Day in Five on Europe Debt, Hungary Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-04T22:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-u-s-economic-data-overshadows-china-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in five days on concern Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen and as Chinese house prices retreated for a fourth month.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.3 percent to 937.54
at the close in  New York . The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  lost 1.4 percent and
Turkey’s benchmark gauge declined 2.5 percent. Hungary’s forint
fell to the lowest level against the euro. Brazil’s Bovespa
Index advanced for a fourth day.  The European Central Bank reported overnight deposits from
financial institutions rose to an all-time high and Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the European Union is
facing a recession of unknown scope. Hungary may fail to obtain
an International Monetary Fund financing agreement in the first
half of this year, Citigroup Inc. said in an e-mailed report.  “The liquidity provisions from the ECB are not really
having the impact that was hoped for, so it seems like the
markets are losing their nerve again,”  Lars Christensen , a
Copenhagen-based economist at Danske Bank A/S, said in a phone
interview. “The worries from Hungary are obviously having quite
a bit of regional impact.”  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  dropped 6.5 percent in Hong
Kong, while  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , China’s biggest maker of the
building material by sales, fell 4.4 percent.  Chinese Property  China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December and
Premier Wen Jiabao said business conditions may be “relatively
difficult” this quarter. Chinese property values decreased 0.25
percent from November, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
biggest real-estate website owner, said today. Prices slid in 60
of 100 cities, and all of the 10 biggest, including Beijing and
Shanghai.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s biggest lender, led declines in
Budapest, falling 6.9 percent. The forint depreciated 1.3
percent versus the euro.  The central bank may need to raise the benchmark interest
rate by as much as 3 percentage points to support the forint in
the absence of international financial aid, Budapest-based
Citigroup economist  Eszter Gargyan  said in an e-mailed report.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest publicly-
traded bank, fell 2.9 percent in Istanbul.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 414, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  Brazilian stocks advanced 0.2 percent as  Cia. de Saneamento
Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo (SBSP3) , Brazil’s biggest water utility,
rose 4.6 percent to 54.60 reais, a record high. The MSCI
Brazil/Utilities Index jumped the most among 10 industry groups.  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET) , the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
and the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  added more than 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  