-- HP Aims to Stand Out From Mobile-Device Frenzy With Desktop PCs
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/hp-aims-to-stand-out-from-mobile-device-frenzy-with-desktop-pcs.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
biggest maker of personal computers, plans to release a pair of
desktop PCs, aiming to stand out from a flood of portable
technology at next week’s Consumer Electronics Show.  An all-in-one desktop PC for families called the HP Omni
will go on sale Jan. 8, the  Palo Alto , California-based company
said today in a statement. Hewlett-Packard also will release the
HP Pavilion HPE h9 Phoenix, a tower-style PC for gamers.  The PCs will make their debut two days before the start of
the Consumer Electronics Show in  Las Vegas , where companies plan
to unveil a slew of new handheld gadgets, tablets and super-thin
laptops known as ultrabooks. By rolling out an all-in-one PC,
Hewlett-Packard is doing some counterprogramming, while
targeting a piece of the desktop market that’s still doing well.  “All-in-ones are the growth spot in the desktop space,”
said Chris Connery, an analyst at Santa Clara, California-based
research firm DisplaySearch.  All-in-one PCs, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iMac, include all the
parts of the computer -- except the keyboard and mouse -- within
the main chassis. The market grew 39 percent to 14.5 million
units worldwide last year, according to DisplaySearch.  The iMac accounted for 32.9 percent of shipments in the
third quarter, the research firm estimates.  Lenovo Group (992) ,
meanwhile, grabbed the No. 2 spot in the all-in-one segment by
appealing to customers in  China . It had 22.7 percent of sales in
the third quarter, followed by Hewlett-Packard with 21.4
percent. The total market may grow to 23.3 million units by
2014, according to DisplaySearch.  Beats Audio  The new HP Omni, which sports a 27-inch screen, starts at
$1,200. The computer comes with  Beats Audio technology , an
optional Blu-ray disc drive and an HDMI high-definition TV
connection.  The Pavilion HPE h9 Phoenix, Hewlett-Packard’s new gaming
machine, will carry a lower price than competitive PCs, the
company said. It starts at $1,150, with a more powerful
configuration costing $1,500, said John Gleason, a senior
product manager. It can handle up to 16 gigabytes of memory,
ensuring smoother game performance.  Hewlett-Packard is incorporating Beats by Dre digital-music
enhancing technology across its lineup of consumer PCs, part of
an effort to distinguish them from a sea of commodity products.
The Beats name is popular with college students and music fans,
who can pay $300 or more for headphones bearing the brand.  The Beats PC feature relies on a discrete amplifier inside
the PC to improve the audio experience. Some rivals use Dolby
Home Theater and Advanced Audio to enhance computer sound.  Hewlett-Packard is trying to  revive growth (HPQ)  in its $39.6
billion PC division after Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman ’s
October decision to keep the group in-house. Her predecessor,
 Leo Apotheker , had explored a possible spinoff of the business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  