-- Panetta’s Defense Strategy Questioned Before It’s Released
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-04T22:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/panetta-s-overhaul-of-defense-strategy-is-questioned-before-it-s-released.html
The Defense Department promises to
deliver tomorrow on pledges to create a “balanced” new U.S.
military strategy that puts more emphasis on  Asia  even as
defense budgets are cut. Critics say it can’t all be done.  A “balanced approach essentially means they are not doing
anything bold at all,” Dov Zakheim, who was the Pentagon’s
controller under President  George W. Bush , said in an interview.
“Everything gets cut.”  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will present the
 Pentagon (USBODEFN) ’s strategic review of U.S. roles and missions
worldwide. The results will be parsed by allies and adversaries
to assess where the U.S. may be pulling back, by military
personnel wary of benefit cuts and by defense investors
attempting to predict which contractors may benefit or lose out
from the new priorities.  “We need to take a hard look” at all defense spending
while maintaining U.S. military superiority, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters in Washington yesterday.
President  Barack Obama  has met with Panetta on the issue seven
times since September, including a session yesterday, Carney
said.  Obama will visit the Pentagon to introduce the strategy at
a news conference tomorrow at about 11 a.m. Washington time,
according to a White House statement.  ‘Turning Point’  “We are at a turning point after a decade of war” and
“we need to reshape our defense priorities,” Tommy Vietor,
spokesman for the National Security Council at the White House,
said today. Faced with “budget constraints,” Obama is seeking
“surgical” cuts that leave top priorities well-funded, Vietor
said.  When Panetta’s predecessor as defense secretary, Robert Gates, announced the review last year, he said it was important
for the public and Congress to get a full understanding of
strategic choices for the U.S. military as it faced $450 billion
in additional reductions through 2021, including about $261
billion through 2017.  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  and colleague Navy Captain
John Kirby told reporters today not to expect specifics on
weapons-program cuts.  “Tomorrow is about strategic guidance, not specific
programs,” Kirby said. “What you are going to hear is an
explanation of the strategy guidance that will govern whatever
budget decisions are coming. I wouldn’t be expecting any
specific budget decisions or discussions this week.”  Personnel Accounts  Zakheim, who is an adviser to  Mitt Romney , the former
Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential candidate,
said he is skeptical the administration is willing “to go after
personnel accounts.”  “What they really need to do is look much more carefully
at trimming operations and maintenance accounts, taking on
personnel accounts in a serious way, taking on military
retirement in a serious way,” he said. “The question is how
far are they going to go?”  The Defense Department won’t rely on cuts in weapons
programs as the main way to meet its spending-reduction goals,
Deputy Comptroller Mike McCord said Nov. 30.  The number of uniformed personnel, compensation, retirement
health-care benefits and continued savings from efficiencies are
getting more attention than major cuts in acquisition, according
to McCord. The review is taking a “balanced” approach, he
said.  Troop Reductions  Panetta may outline troop reductions beyond those announced
in February 2011.  The fiscal 2012 budget request called for 547,400 Army
personnel and 202,100 in the Marine Corps. The current plan
calls for reducing the force in 2015 and 2016 by 27,000 GIs and
as many as 20,000 Marines.  A draft of the review concludes that the Army, Navy,  Air
Force  and Marines must combine resources to thwart any efforts
by nations such as  China  and Iran to block U.S. access to
strategic regions such as the  South China Sea  and the Persian
Gulf, according to an administration official familiar with the
review who asked not to be identified.  Panetta is expected to outline how the U.S. military will
increase its Pacific presence, a shift in emphasis that began
with the Quadrennial Defense Review in February 2010, which
called for the Air Force and the Navy to craft an air-sea battle
concept.  The plan is intended to combine the strengths of the Navy
and the Air Force for long-range strikes. It may employ a new
generation of bombers, a new cruise missile and drones launched
from aircraft carriers. The Navy also is increasing funding to
develop unmanned submarines.  Obama Asia Pledge  Obama said in November, during a visit to  Australia , that
“reductions in U.S. defense spending will not -- I repeat, will
not -- come at the expense of the Asia-Pacific” region.  Panetta said in a November speech that “even as we enhance
our presence in the Pacific, we will not surrender our status as
a global power and a global leader.”  Any Pentagon trade-offs “in one area” to beef up the
Pacific “will bear consequences in another,” said MacKenzie Eaglen, a defense analyst with the Heritage Foundation in
 Washington , which opposes major cuts in defense spending.  “As DoD squeezes U.S. force posture in  Europe , including
bases, it will have a direct impact on the military’s ability to
respond to future conflicts like the no-fly zone in  Libya , rapid
response in Afghanistan post-9/11, and treating the wounded out
of  Iraq  the past decade,” she said in an e-mail. “There are no
consequence-free decisions.”  Air Force, Navy  The commitment to Asia “is probably going to put more
emphasis on the ‘AirSea battle’ versus land forces,” Robert Stallard, managing director of aerospace research for  RBC
Capital Markets  in  New York , said in an e-mail.  “This should mean that Air Force and Navy strategic assets
come out relatively well, though we still expect to see budget
pressure being felt in pretty much all areas,” he said. “I’m
not sure Congress will be comfortable with the Army and Marine
Corps being bill-payers for this.”  The strategy review also may revive debate about the
Pentagon’s doctrine calling for the capability to fight two
major conflicts almost simultaneously.  Irregular Warfare  The Quadrennial Defense Review in 2010 deemphasized that
commitment without abandoning it. It said planning should focus
more closely on scenarios such as irregular warfare including
conflicts involving insurgents or drug traffickers and even
humanitarian disasters.  “However you modify that strategy, you won’t get into a
position where, if you get engaged in a conflict, you won’t be
able to do anything else,”  William Lynn , who was then deputy
defense secretary, said in an October interview. “You’ll never
say, ‘Once I’m in a conflict, everything else I can’t handle.’”  Zakheim said the Pentagon needs to explain clearly any
modification in strategy to avoid sending the wrong message to
 Iran  or North  Korea .  “Suppose there is a threat from Iran and threat from
Korea,” he said. “ What are we going to do? Ignore Iran or
ignore  North Korea ?”  With budget cuts, the best the military can do is prepare
to fight one major war while maintaining the capability to make
life difficult enough to deter any second adversary tempted to
make a move, John Nagl, a member of the Defense Policy Board, an
advisory panel, said in an interview.  “It looks like we’re moving away from a two-war
strategy,” said Nagl, who is president of the Center for a New
American Security, a policy group in Washington. “Some
capabilities are going to have to go.”  Budget Proposal  The Obama administration’s annual budget proposal will be
released in February. Some details were contained in a Nov. 29
Office of Management and Budget document sent to the Pentagon
that provided broad outlines for a fiscal 2013-2017 plan.  Defense spending (USBODEFN)  in 2013 would be reduced about 1 percent
from this year’s $518 billion spending plan before growing 1.8
percent in 2014 and 2.3 percent in 2015, dropping 1.9 percent in
2016 and rising 2.2 percent in 2017, according to the 23-page
document.  The defense plan for 2012 to 2021 calls for $5.652 trillion
in spending, according to the budget office. It calculated that
the total defense cut mandated by budget-reduction legislation
over those years is $488 billion, or about an 8.5 percent
decrease.  That doesn’t include an additional $500 billion from
automatic cuts that would take effect in January 2013 unless
Congress stops the action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  