-- Papademos Warns Fellow Greeks Economic Collapse Looms Without Sacrifice
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-01-05T15:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/papademos-warns-fellow-greeks-economic-collapse-looms-without-sacrifice.html
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told
Greeks that cuts in income are the only way to stay in the euro
and get more  financing (GKCPIUHY)  from international creditors to avert an
economic collapse that may otherwise come as soon as March.  “We have to give up a little so we don’t lose a lot,”
Papademos said, according to an e-mailed transcript of his
statements to union and business leaders yesterday. Talks later
this month with officials from the European Union, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank , the
so-called troika, will focus on a “credible” economic plan for
2012 to 2015.  “Without this agreement with the troika and subsequent
financing, Greece in March faces the immediate risk of a
disorderly default,” Papademos said.  Appointed in early November to lead an interim government
to secure a second financing package, Papademos is racing to
complete a voluntary swap of debt with private bondholders, part
of the new rescue plan for the country, which also includes 130
billion euros ($166 billion) of public funds. The country redeems
14.4 billion euros of bonds on March 20.           Under the terms of  Greece ’s second bailout, investors would 
take a 50 percent hit on the nominal value of 206 billion euros of
privately owned debt.   The next loan tranche of 5 billion euros under Greece’s May
2010 EU-led bailout, originally scheduled for December, will be
delayed until March because of the discussions on the new aid
package, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the EU, told reporters
today in Brussels.  Bond Yields Rise  Greece’s ASE benchmark  stock index (ASE)  fell 2.2 percent to
647.58 at the close of trading in Athens today. The yield on the
10-year Greek bond added 7 basis points to 34.94 percent. Two-
year note yields rose 72 basis points to 135.02 percent.  Greece will sell 1.25 billion euros of 26-week Treasury
bills on Jan. 10, the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency
said today.  The premier is chairing a Cabinet meeting today on an
omnibus bill that will include opening up so-called closed
professions, including taxis, and regulation on settling
outstanding taxes. The legislation is intended to tackle pledges
that the troika has said aren’t being implemented effectively or
promptly enough to allow the economy to become more competitive
and return to growth.  ‘Belt Tightening’  Despite two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the IMF
estimates Greece’s 2011  deficit (EUBDGRCE)  to be about 9 percent of gross
domestic product compared with 10.6 percent in 2010. The economy
was expected to shrink about 6 percent last year, according to
the latest IMF estimates.  “Greece has not much room for maneuver, but must rely on
further austerity and belt-tightening, while extracting as much
as it can from sovereign debt holders in current debt swap
negotiations,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc in  London . “Risks are definitely on the
rise: there is bailout fatigue in the north, and austerity
fatigue in the south, especially in Greece, where GDP shows no
sign of bottoming.”  Papademos, 64, assumed office after Germany and  France 
warned Greece last year that they would cut all aid to the
country until it signs up to a bailout plan agreed to in
Brussels on Oct. 26.  Elections Call  Former Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who told his
socialist Pasok party yesterday that he would step down as
leader and won’t seek re-election as premier, handed off to
Papademos after at least five austerity packages whittled down
support for his government and his majority in parliament.  Maria Damanaki, the EU’s Maritime Affairs and Fisheries
Commissioner, said Greece will need to make more sacrifices.
“But I repeat, it gives opportunities,” said Damanaki, whose
comments were sent by e-mail after a meeting with Papademos
where they discussed use of EU funds to guarantee investments
and create jobs.  Political leaders like Antonis Samaras, the head of the
second-biggest party,  New Democracy , are keeping up the pressure
on Papademos to resolve the debt swap and call elections. While
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos has said elections will be
held at the end of April, according to a Dec. 27 report by
state-run Athens News Agency, Samaras has said elections can be
held at the end of March.  Wage Cuts  New Democracy, which is calling for no more wage cuts or
tax increases, had 21 percent voter support, compared with 13
percent for Papandreou’s Pasok, according to 1,004 people
surveyed Dec. 28-29 by Kapa Research. Nearly eight in 10 Greeks
say the country’s leaders should do whatever is needed to remain
in the euro, according to that poll.  Papademos said the troika had pointed to a range of issues
to be tackled. They include adjustments to the minimum wage,
abolition of Christmas and summer vacation bonuses and automatic
wage increases.  Yannis Panagopoulos, the head of Greece’s biggest private-
sector union group GSEE and the driving force behind seven
general strikes last year, said he was willing to discuss how to
reduce non-wage costs to protect jobs.  The organization won’t consider changes to national labor
accords such as cutting the minimum wage and the so-called 13th
and 14th annual wages, Panagopoulos said in comments on  NET TV .  Greece’s debt is forecast to balloon to almost double the
size of its shrinking economy this year without the write-off,
the European Commission estimates. The swap is aimed at helping
reduce debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. A
successful swap will reduce the deficit this year to 5.4 percent
of GDP, in part by savings on debt servicing costs, according to
Greece’s 2012 budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  