-- Paradise Lost for Aussie Surfboard Makers Amid China Imports
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-01-05T08:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/paradise-lost-for-aussie-surfboard-makers-amid-chinese-imports.html
On  Australia ’s Gold Coast, a 22-mile-
long (35-kilometer) stretch of beaches named Surfers Paradise
and Rainbow Bay, Neil Rech opened a surf shop in December and
unwittingly disturbed the peace.  His store, Sedition Surfboards, sells Chinese imports for
A$250 ($258), one-third the cost of some Australian-made boards
that competitors are offering. Rival retailers averse to
discounts and upset about local job losses questioned his
patriotism, and even threatened violence, he said.  “It’s quite heavy,” Rech, 34, said of the backlash. After
teaching for two years in China before opening a store in
Coolangatta, Queensland, “I realized how cheap you can actually
get these boards so I thought it’d be a great opportunity to
bring them here and sell them to the public cheaper.”  Inexpensive imports from  Asia , coupled with a 55 percent
jump in the local dollar since October 2008, are delivering a
double dose of pain to one of Australia’s most iconic industries.
The struggles at surfboard makers are playing out at
manufacturers across a country where China’s demand for  iron ore 
and fuel has spurred a mining boom while leaving non-resource
businesses behind.  Manufacturers are on the wrong side of a divide in
Australia’s economy, which has avoided a recession since 1991
and boasts an unemployment rate of 5.3 percent, about half the
level in  Europe . While the number of  mining jobs (AULQMINN)  soared 21
percent to 242,400 in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
manufacturing employment slumped 4.4 percent to 953,500 and
retail positions sank 2.2 percent to 1.21 million.  ‘Can’t Compete’  The nation’s currency has climbed 1.3 percent this year. It
touched an all-time high of 80.15 euro cents today.  “Australia is certainly an economy in transition,” said
 Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker, who formerly
worked at the Australian Treasury. “We can’t compete at the
lower end of the chain.”  From Bells Beach to  Brisbane , Australia’s board builders
are facing a choice: close down, or try to preserve local
designs and branding by applying them to products made abroad.  “We have to adapt,” said Michelle Blauw, co-owner of
Currumbin, Queensland-based D’Arcy Surfboards and president of
the Australian Surf Craft Industry Association. “You can’t
always point the finger and blame everybody else for the
situation that you’re in.”  Shares Slump  Manufacturers across Australia are grappling with rising
costs and a strong currency that’s making their products less
competitive overseas.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s
biggest steelmaker, said in August it would stop exports, shut a
mill and a blast furnace, and fire 1,000 workers. Its shares
slid  79 percent (BSL)  in 2011.  Weaker consumer spending is adding to the pinch, as the
slowing global recovery hurts sales at companies including surf-
accessory retailer  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  The Gold Coast-
based surf-clothing maker’s stock plunged 78 percent last year.
By comparison, Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 15
percent.  D’Arcy sold its Gold Coast board-making facility in
December after sales slowed because of the rising currency,
cheap Asian imports and consumers’ belt tightening, Blauw said.
The business is still running from her garage with two employees,
down from a peak of 11, she said.  Closing Shop  Born in beach towns in the 1950s, the backyard nature of
Australian surfboard manufacturing has become part of the
challenge, according to Blauw. In a nation where a tenth of the
22.8 million  inhabitants  are recreational surfers, producing
world surfing champions such as Layne Beachley and Mark Richards,
there aren’t official statistics monitoring the board-making
industry’s size, she said.  “Surfing is almost our national pastime,” Blauw said of
the birthplace of the three-finned “thruster” surfboard in
1981, which changed maneuverability and revolutionized the sport.
“But small manufacturers like ourselves are shutting down left,
right and center.”  While the sale of board shorts and other surf wear has
propelled companies such as  California ’s Quiksilver Inc. and
Australia’s Rip Curl International Pty into global brands, many
Aussie board makers haven’t been able to match that growth.  To protect Australia’s brand in the global market, Blauw is
trying to organize manufacturers and craftsmen to push for
mandated country-of-origin labeling so Australian-made boards
are distinguishable from imports.  Australian board maker Ron Wade had a glimpse of the future
when he saw Chinese boards six years ago.  Industry ‘Stuffed’  “I went, ‘Mate, if this is what’s going to come out of
China, our industry’s stuffed,’” said Wade, 66, who started  his
company  in Mona Vale, New South Wales, in 1967. “In the next 10
years, there will be a few factories around but they will be few
and far between.”  Blauw said some Gold Coast board designers have recently
gone to work in the  mining industry  in search of more income.
Board companies that are staying afloat say the country is
seeing the twilight of a cottage industry that reflected
Australia’s reputation for laid-back lifestyles.  “The local manufacturers are losing some of that
mystique,” said  Mark Kelly , managing director of Global Surf
Industries, who estimates that the global surfing-goods industry
has grown to A$6 billion to A$7 billion a year. His Manly, New
South Wales-based company sells more than 50,000 boards annually,
including 15 brands that are made in  China ,  Taiwan ,  Thailand  and
 New Zealand . “It’s not a hobby anymore; it’s a real business.”  In Coolangatta, Rech said that while it may take time for
his competitors to adjust to lower price tags on boards,
Australia’s economy will be better off in the long run as the
imports will benefit consumers.  “It’s like sticking a fat man on a treadmill,” he said.
“First he doesn’t like it, but then he gets into it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  