-- Patagonia Road Tests New Sustainability Legal Status
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2012-01-04T12:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/patagonia-road-tests-new-sustainability-legal-status.html
     Among companies with altruistic streaks,
Patagonia has
long stood out for the environmental philanthropy championed
by founder Yvon Chouinard. The maker of outdoor clothing and
gear has redirected a portion of profits to green causes since
1986 and discloses the chemicals it uses in its products.
Patagonia appeared to take this spirit to its logical extreme
on the retail industry’s “Black Friday” in late November, when
it bought a full-page advertisement in the  New York  Times
showing a picture of its R2 Jacket beneath the words “Don’t
Buy This Jacket,” an ironic, or at least equivocal, plea to
consume less.  Today the law has finally caught up with Patagonia’s
do-good efforts --  California  law, to be precise. The
company, based in Ventura, announced it will become one of the
state’s first “Benefit Corporations,” a new legal structure
that gives directors legal cover to consider social and
environmental missions over financial returns. The law
creating the Benefit Corporation is one of two state measures
that went into effect January 1. They’re each designed to
embed goals beyond profitability into companies’ missions. The
other law establishes “Flexible Purpose Corporations,” a model
with greater leeway than the first. Governor  Jerry Brown 
signed them both into law on Oct. 10 after political jockeying
among supporters of each approach.  Under current law, shareholders can sue corporate boards
for not maximizing profits, a risk that hamstrings companies
interested in pursuing costly environmental or social
initiatives. (Patagonia gets away with its program because
it’s a private, family-owned company.) The rival camps behind
California’s two new laws offer competing visions for what the
future of sustainable business might look like. While both
groups broadly share the goal of integrating social missions
into business, they privately clash, sometimes bitterly, over
the best approach.  The Flexible Purpose Corporation model was born in
California, carefully tailored by a consortium of lawyers to
fit within the state’s existing corporate code. It won the
endorsement of the state bar association.  Here’s how it works. Flexible Purpose Corporations can
write one or more special missions into their articles of
incorporation. They can be as ambitious as fighting  climate
change  or as modest as maintaining a park near the company’s
office. The law instructs directors to consider the special
aims in their decision-making, even when it could mean lower
returns for investors. To make the appeal as broad as
possible, the law’s authors avoided setting a minimum standard
for what a “special purpose” could be.  By contrast, Benefit Corporations such as Patagonia must
commit to creating an overarching “general public benefit.”
Companies that incorporate as Benefit Corps must consider an
array of stakeholders beyond shareholders, including
workers, suppliers, the environment and the local community.
They must measure their progress toward that goal against a
third-party standard.  The Benefit Corporation model has passed in six other
states over the past two years, most recently New York in
December. It was developed by a nonprofit called B Lab, based
in  Berwyn ,  Pennsylvania . (B Lab publishes one of the
third-party standards and, for a fee, certifies companies as
sustainable businesses.)  Benefit Corporation “directors are now required to commit
to the general public benefit and consider the interest of
stakeholders,” says Andrew Kassoy, one of B Lab’s founders.
The Flexible Purpose Corporation “doesn’t go as far in
defining sustainable business.”  That’s by design. The Benefit Corporation’s requirements
to weigh environmental impacts, for example, might not fit for
a company whose mission is to create jobs in impoverished
neighborhoods, says Susan Mac Cormac, a partner at law firm
Morrison Foerster in  San Francisco  who helped invent the
Flexible Purpose Corporation. She says the question was, “How
flexible do you want your model to be?”  “What we came up with is something that’s pretty
radical,” says R. Todd Johnson, a partner at  Jones Day  in  Palo
Alto  who also helped craft the Flexible Purpose Corporation
law. “I think we came up with something that’s also usable.”  Some proponents of the new laws are quick to point out
where they see flaws in rival proposals. Kassoy says a law
that doesn't include a commitment to "general public benefit"
and a third-party standard "has the risk of greenwashing."
Backers of the Flexible Purpose Corporation, including Mac
Cormac, contend the Benefit Corp forces directors to weigh so
many competing interests that it's unrealistic for publicly
traded companies who face risk of shareholder lawsuits.  The big question for the new laws is who will use them.
Patagonia is the highest-profile business to adopt one of the
new structures, and it’s a public-relations coup for B Lab.
Co-founder Kassoy says the organization doesn’t know how many
companies have incorporated using the Benefit Corporation
form.  Some of the Flexible Purpose drafters expect fewer than a
dozen new corporations in the first year. Mac Cormac says
she’s in discussions with several large consumer brands (she
declines to name them) that are considering setting up
flexible-purpose subsidiaries. Autodesk, a publicly traded
maker of design software, supports the law, spokeswoman
Carolyn Rohrer said in a statement after the bill
passed, though she stopped short of saying whether the company
might use it.  In the year ahead, the rivalry between the two forms is
likely to play out as other states, including  Washington  and
 Colorado , consider statutes for creating
not-entirely-for-profit businesses. In Washington, the state
bar association is considering a proposal to create a more
permissive statute similar to California’s Flexible Purpose
law. B Lab is pushing for a version of its legislation in
Washington state.  Drew Markham, an attorney at  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati  in  Seattle , began looking into ways to encourage
socially responsible business in Washington state two years
ago. First she examined the B Lab proposal, but concluded it’s
“very unlikely to be used by a company seeking any venture
backing or by a public company.” Now she’s among the lawyers
pushing for a more permissive statute for companies that want
to do good.  “My feeling is that more and more entrepreneurs ...
understand they need to do more for their community, they need
to do more for the environment, they need to do more for their
employees,” she says. “We need to allow them to do some of
those things, without penalizing them for not doing all of
those things.”
 