-- Perry to Go to SC After Fifth-Place Iowa Finish
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-04T17:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/perry-to-assess-presidential-bid-after-fifth-place-finish-in-iowa-caucuses.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry said he
will head to  South Carolina , which has a primary later this
month, after finishing fifth in yesterday’s Iowa caucuses.  “And the next leg of the marathon is the Palmetto State …
Here we come South Carolina!!!” Perry, 61, wrote in a message
posted on his official Twitter  account  that included a photo of
him in running attire. Perry had told supporters yesterday he
would return to Texas to reassess his campaign for the
Republican presidential nomination “to determine whether there
is a path forward for myself in this race.”  Perry’s early surge in national polls after he entered the
race in mid-August was hurt by poor debate performances. His
final push in  Iowa , a 44-city bus tour, failed to rally voters
behind him. He had aimed to win over social conservatives and
position himself as an alternative to former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney.  Romney defeated former Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania  by just eight votes in the caucuses, each with a
little less than 25 percent of the vote. U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas ran third with about 21 percent. The top trio was
followed by former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Perry and
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota. Bachmann
ended her campaign today.  A call to Perry’s campaign office wasn’t immediately
returned. Mark Miner, a campaign spokesman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail.  In the month following Perry’s candidacy announcement, he
climbed to the top of the polls. He quickly drew criticism after
making disparaging comments about Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Social Security.  Bernanke Criticism  Perry on Aug. 15 said things could get “ugly” for
Bernanke in Texas if he tried additional, “almost treasonous,”
monetary stimulus before the next presidential election.  His campaign was dogged by debate appearances he
acknowledged were mediocre and his standing in the polls dropped
by as much as 20 percentage points in October.  Perry’s chances took a hit after a November debate in which
he couldn’t remember the name of the third government agency he
would eliminate if he became president.  He named two, the departments of Commerce and Education,
and then said he couldn’t remember the third. “I can’t. Sorry.
Oops,” he said.  Perry touted economic gains and  job creation  in Texas
during his 10 years as governor and portrayed himself as a
Washington outsider.  In an effort to distinguish himself from others in the
contest, Perry proposed giving individuals the option of paying
a 20 percent flat tax on their income as part of his economic
plan. He also proposed lowering the corporate  tax rate  to 20
percent from 35 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  