-- Peugeot Names de Chatillon CFO Amid Shift
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-04T09:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/peugeot-names-de-chatillon-cfo-after-sales-head-gales-leaves.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest carmaker, named Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon chief
financial officer as part of a management shift spurred by the
departure of sales chief Jean-Marc Gales.  De Chatillon, currently the group’s financial controller,
takes over from Frederic Saint-Geours, who is replacing Gales as
head of sales, the Paris-based company said today in a
statement. The moves will reduce Peugeot’s management board to
four, with Gales’s seat not being filled by the new CFO.  Peugeot’s shares have fallen 57 percent over the past 12
months, making it the  worst performer (SXAE)  on the 14-member Euro
Stoxx autos and parts index. Its market share through the first
11 months of 2011 fell to 12.5 percent from 13.4 percent a year
earlier, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association. The French carmaker is considering cutting as many
as 6,800 jobs, including temporary staff employed by partners.  “We will continue to hear about personnel changes at
Peugeot every few months simply because they will try everything
to turn things around,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler, who recommends selling Peugeot
shares. “This year won’t be a good year for them because their
key markets -- those in southern Europe -- remain weak.”  Peugeot  fell (UG)  as much as 2.1 percent to 12.90 euros and was
down 1.3 percent at 10:28 a.m. in Paris, valuing the company at
3 billion euros ($3.9 billion).  Gales Joins Trade Group  Gales is leaving Peugeot to join the European Association
of Automotive Suppliers as chief executive officer from April 2,
the trade group, which is known as Clepa, said today. He had
joined Peugeot in March 2009 from Daimler AG, where he was vice
president of sales for Mercedes-Benz Cars.  Saint-Geours, who will remain head of the manufacturer’s
banking unit, “will put his financial rigor and experience of
commercial activities to the service of the two key pillars of
our strategy: product upgrading and globalization,” Peugeot CEO
Philippe Varin said in the statement.  The new sales chief, who joined the carmaker in 1986, has
served as CEO of the Peugeot brand as well as the Banque PSA
Finance unit. De Chatillon takes on the CFO position today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  