-- Pfizer Must Pay $45 Million in Prempro Cases, Court Rules
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-04T22:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/pfizer-must-pay-45-million-in-prempro-cases-pennsylvania-court-rules.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  must pay more than
$45 million in damages to two women who blamed the company’s
menopause drugs for their breast cancers, an appeals court
ruled.  Connie Barton and Donna Kendall, two Illinois women who
sued Pfizer units Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn over their
menopause medications, deserved both compensatory and punitive
damages over the companies’ handling of the drugs, a panel of
the Pennsylvania Superior Court judge ruled yesterday.  “We are very disappointed with the court’s decisions in
these cases and continue to believe there was no basis in fact
or law for the jury verdicts,” Chris Loder, a spokesman for New
York-based Pfizer, said in an e-mailed statement. Pfizer
officials will ask the  Pennsylvania  Supreme Court to review the
lower court’s findings, he said.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer. At
one point, Pfizer and its units faced more than 10,000 lawsuits
over the medications.  “This is a great way to start 2012 for these two brave
women,”  Zoe Littlepage , one of Barton’s lawyers, said in a
telephone interview today. Under the appellate ruling, Barton
would get a total of $11.2 million while Kendall would get $34.3
million, Littlepage said.  Wyeth’s sales of its  Prempro  and  Premarin  medicines, which
are still on the market, exceeded $2 billion before the release
of the Women’s Health Initiative study sponsored by the  National
Institutes of Health .  $840 Million Reserve  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined Wyeth’s
Premarin, an estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera ,
made by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its Prempro pill.  At the height of the litigation, Pfizer faced more than
10,000 claims that its menopause drugs caused  breast cancer ,
according to lawyers for former users. Those lawsuits included
more than 8,000 cases consolidated in federal court in  Arkansas 
and suits in state courts in Pennsylvania, Nevada and  Minnesota .  The company has begun settling some suits and has set aside
$840 million so far to resolve cases, officials said in
November. Pfizer has resolved about 46 percent of the pending
Prempro suits, officials said.  Compensatory, Punitive Damages  In Barton’s case, a Philadelphia jury awarded the retired
records clerk $3.7 million in compensatory damages and $75
million in punitives in October 2009. A judge later reduced the
punitive award against Wyeth by more than 90 percent to $5.6
million.  A month later, a separate Philadelphia jury awarded Kendall
$6.3 million in compensatory damages and $28 million in punitive
damages from both Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn. A judge later
cut that punitive award to $1 million.  The state appellate court combined the two verdicts for
review since both involved Illinois residents who brought their
suits in Pennsylvania. Wyeth has operations in the state.  The court ruled jurors properly found that Wyeth and Upjohn
should be held liable for breast cancers tied to their menopause
drugs and both properly faced punitive damage awards over their
handling of the medication.  Kendall’s whole $28 million punitive award was upheld while
Barton’s final punitive award was increased by almost $2 million
to $7.4 million under the court’s ruling.  “There was sufficient evidence of gross negligence and
willful and wanton misconduct to support imposition of punitive
damages,” the panel said in its 46-page ruling in Barton’s
case.  ‘Extraordinary Victory’  The court noted that while Kendall’s punitive award was
large, it “correlated with the enormity of the defendants’
wrongs, their clear liability and the devastating impact on the
plaintiff,” according to the 53-page decision.  “This is an extraordinary victory for Mrs. Kendall,” Tobi Millrood, one of her lawyers, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The appellate court didn’t mince words: Wyeth and Upjohn
engaged in a pattern of misconduct that was not the result of
mere accident or happenstance.”  The cases are Connie J. Barton v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 694 EDA 2010, Superior Court of Pennsylvania; Donna
Kendall v. Wyeth Inc., 936 EDA 2010, Superior Court of
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  