-- Philippines Sells $1.5 Billion of 25-Year Debt to Fund Government Stimulus
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-01-04T23:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/philippines-sells-1-5-billion-of-25-year-debt-to-fund-government-stimulus.html
The  Philippines  sold $1.5 billion of
25-year dollar-denominated bonds as the government boosts
spending to support economic growth.  The 2037 notes were priced Jan. 4 in  New York  to yield 5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with an initial price guidance of 5.25 percent.  Brazil and  Mexico  have sold global bonds this year at
record-low yields, even as European nations are struggling to
contain a sovereign-debt crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the
outlook on the Philippines’ BB debt rating to positive last
month, signaling a possible upgrade from the second-highest junk
grade.  Fitch Ratings  lifted Indonesia to investment grade last
month as it lowered France’s rating outlook and put Spain and
 Italy  on review for a downgrade.  “It’s natural to kick off 2012 with the Philippines bond
because it has a wide global audience,” said  Scott Bennett ,
head of Asian credit at Aberdeen Asset Management, who oversees
$1.5 billion of assets.  The Philippines may win a rating upgrade in six months to
12 months after the positive outlook from S&P, central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said.  “We are very pleased to have once again been able to
extend the Republic’s maturity profile while at the same time
achieving the lowest yield for a new 25-year benchmark U.S.
dollar global offering by the Philippines,” Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said in an e-mailed statement.  Brazil , Mexico  The bonds were sold to yield 196 basis points, or 1.96
percentage points, over benchmark U.S. Treasuries, according to
the statement. Brazil sold $750 million of notes due 2021 on
Jan. 3 to yield 3.45 percent, 150 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries. The 3.71 percent yield Mexico paid
on $2 billion of 10-year bonds the same day was 175 basis points
higher than the rate on  U.S. debt .  The proceeds of the Philippine bond sale will help
President Benigno Aquino boost spending on roads, ports and
waterworks to spur economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts
exports.  The yield  premium (JPEMSOSD)  investors demand to hold developing
nations’ dollar bonds rather than Treasuries was 368 basis
points on Jan. 3, up from 241 a year earlier, according to an
index compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Philippines continues to favor longer-dated debt to
extend maturities and better manage finances, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said this week.  “Local demand alone for the Philippine bonds would be very
substantial,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila.  Indonesia  Sale  The Philippines has sold global bonds every January for the
last six years. Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc are
global coordinators while Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan, and
UBS AG helped arrange the sale, the government said.  Indonesia has hired HSBC, JPMorgan and Standard Chartered
Plc for a benchmark sale of dollar bonds in 2012, a person
familiar with the matter said in November.  The Philippines is ready to start 141.8 billion pesos ($3.2
billion) worth of infrastructure projects this month, Budget
Secretary Butch Abad said on Jan. 2. That’s equivalent to 78
percent of the 2012 budget for public works spending.  Growth of 3.2 percent in the third quarter held near the
3.1 percent pace in the previous three months that was the
slowest since 2009.  Government spending  fell 7.3 percent in the
first  nine months  of 2011. Exports dropped 15 percent in
October, sliding for a sixth month, official figures show.  Sale Plans  This year’s budget deficit may widen to 286 billion pesos
from an estimated 150 billion pesos to 180 billion pesos in 2011
on public works spending, Abad said in an interview last month.
The shortfall was 96.3 billion pesos in the  first 11 months  of
last year.  The government plans to raise more than $2 billion from
overseas bond sales in 2012 and about 75 percent of its debt
sales will be domestic, it said in July. It has no overseas debt
maturing this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  