-- Philippines Selling $1.5 Billion 25-Year Bond to Fund Stimulus
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-04T17:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/philippines-starts-25-year-dollar-bond-sale-to-fund-road-port-investments.html
The  Philippines  is selling $1.5
billion of 25-year bonds as policy makers accelerate government
spending to support economic growth.  The bonds will be priced to yield about 5 percent,
according to a banker with knowledge of the deal who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t publicly available.
Final pricing will be announced later today, he said.  Brazil  and Mexico have sold global bonds this year at
record-low yields, while European nations are struggling to
contain a sovereign-debt crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the
outlook on the Philippines’ BB debt rating to positive last
month, signaling a possible upgrade from the second-highest junk
grade.  Fitch Ratings  lifted  Indonesia  to investment grade last
month as it lowered  France ’s rating outlook and put Spain and
 Italy  on review for a downgrade.  “There will likely be quite solid demand for the
Philippines’ dollar bonds,” said Takahide Irimura, the Tokyo-
based head of emerging-market research at Kokusai Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $52 billion of assets.
“Credit ratings in  Asia ’s major developing nations are
improving, some developed countries’ ratings are moving in the
opposite direction.”  A 5 percent yield would exceed the rate on U.S. Treasuries
due February 2026 by 258 basis points, or 2.58 percentage
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil sold
$750 million of notes due 2021 to yield 3.45 percent, 150 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, and the 3.71
percent yield  Mexico  paid on $2 billion of 10-year bonds was 175
basis points higher than the rate on  U.S. debt .  Waterworks  The proceeds of the Philippine bond sale will help
President Benigno Aquino boost spending on roads, ports and
waterworks to spur economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts
exports.  The yield on the Philippines’ existing 5.5 percent March
2026 dollar notes rose two basis points to 4.40 percent today,
according to prices at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. That’s 198
basis points more than the rate on U.S. Treasuries due February
2026, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield  premium (JPEMSOSD)  investors demand to hold developing
nations’ dollar bonds rather than Treasuries was 368 basis
points yesterday, up from 241 a year earlier, according to an
index compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Philippines has sold global bonds every January in the
last six years. Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered Plc,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are
arranging this month’s sale, Finance Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon said in a phone interview today.  Indonesia Sale  Indonesia hired HSBC, JPMorgan and Standard Chartered Plc
for a benchmark sale of dollar bonds in 2012, a person familiar
with the matter said in November.  The Philippines is ready to start 141.8 billion pesos ($3.2
billion) worth of infrastructure projects this month, Budget
Secretary Butch Abad said on Jan. 2. That’s equivalent to 78
percent of the total budgeted for public works spending this
year. The country’s economy expanded 3.2 percent in the third
quarter, while  government spending  fell 7.3 percent in the first
 nine months  of 2011. Exports dropped 15 percent in October,
sliding for a sixth month, official figures show.  Budget Deficit  This year’s budget deficit is expected to widen to 286
billion pesos from an estimated 150 billion pesos to 180 billion
pesos in 2011 on public works spending, Abad said in an
interview last month. The shortfall was 96.3 billion pesos in
the  first 11 months  of last year. The Philippines has no
overseas debt maturing this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government plans to raise more than $2 billion from
overseas bond sales in 2012 and about 75 percent of its debt
sales will be in the domestic market, it said in July.  The Philippines sold $1.5 billion of 15-year dollar-
denominated bonds in March 2011 and in January of last year
raised $1.25 billion by selling 25-year peso securities to
global investors. It bought back $1.3 billion worth of foreign-
currency debt in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  