-- Polish Lawmakers to Seek Softening of EU Carbon Rules as of 2013
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-04T15:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/polish-lawmakers-to-seek-softening-of-eu-carbon-rules-as-of-2013.html
A group of Polish lawmakers wants the
European Union to soften its emissions-trading system rules as
of next year to protect the region’s economic growth and
competitiveness amid a lack of international carbon curbs.  The Solidarna Polska group, composed of 20 opposition
members of the Polish lower house of parliament and two
senators, is planning to start in April an initiative to call on
the EU regulator to propose a revision of the 2008 climate
package that bolstered the European carbon cap-and-trade
program, according to its deputy, Ludwik Dorn. To succeed, they
will need backing from 1 million EU citizens from at least one-
quarter of the 27 nations in the bloc.  “We want to create a tool to pressure the European
Commission and national governments to relax the emissions
trading system rules,” Dorn said today in a telephone interview
from Warsaw. “We’ll be calling on the commission to suspend the
implementation of the climate package. While we realize that the
chances for a suspension are not great, we’ll be giving the
governments a card to play in talks about the system.”  The planned initiative highlights the difficulty of the EU
responding to calls by carbon investors and companies including
Royal Dutch Shell Plc to strengthen its climate policies after
emissions prices fell to record lows on oversupply concerns.
Permits for delivery in December fell as much as 3 percent to
6.40 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  today,
down 57 percent from a year ago.  Greenhouse Gases   The emissions trading system, or the ETS, is the
cornerstone of the EU law to cut greenhouse gases blamed for
 climate change  by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
The program, the world’s biggest, imposes pollution limits on
more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers, leading to a cap
in 2020 that will be 21 percent less than 2005 discharges.  Dorn’s comments come after  Denmark , which took over the
six-month rotating EU presidency on Jan. 1, vowed action to deal
with the decline of carbon prices in the ETS. The level of 6
euros per carbon allowance is “neither economically sustainable
nor environmentally sustainable,” Danish Climate and Energy
Minister Martin Lidegaard told reporters in Brussels on Dec. 19.  The initiative of Polish lawmakers is also at odds with
efforts by the European Parliament’s environment committee,
which on Dec. 20 backed a draft rule inviting the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive, to propose a mechanism that
would prevent a decrease in carbon prices if new energy-saving
measures curb demand for emission rights.  Auctioning Regulation  The committee supported an amendment to the Energy
Efficiency Directive that calls on the commission by the end of
next year to propose fixes to its emissions auctioning
regulation in order to “withhold a  significant amount (EUGNEMUQ)  of
allowances.” The committee’s suggestion would have to be backed
by a majority of lawmakers in the parliament as well as member
states to become binding. A subsequent proposal by the
commission to set aside permits would require consent from
national governments in a separate regulatory process.  Dorn said the EU should rethink its strategy after the
United Nations climate summit in Durban in December, when envoys
from more than 190 countries pledged to work toward a global
pollution-curbing deal with a legal force to be agreed by 2015
and enacted by 2020.  “The EU climate package is an unbelievably significant
threat to the competitiveness of our companies,” Dorn said.
“What’s the sense in continuing it after the summit in Durban,
which was a veiled fiasco? The road map to a new treaty is very
weakly sketched out and there will be no binding global deal in
force before 2020.”  Climate Package  In the centerpiece of the 2008 climate package, EU member
states agreed to tighten emission caps on companies in the ETS
as of 2013 and to allocate fewer of the allowances that make up
the shrinking quotas for free, requiring some power producers to
buy their whole allotment as of next year.  A second law set national targets to limit discharges by
industries outside the trading system and a third piece of
legislation sets a 20 percent target for renewable energy in
 Europe  in 2020.  “The biggest problem for  Poland  and other central and
eastern European countries is the ETS, though non-ETS
requirements are also an economic challenge,” Dorn said. “It’s
up to the governments to decide how to modify it. There may be
different mechanisms, but the ultimate target should to be to
lower the burden for the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  