-- Qantas Pilots Put on Leave After Capacity Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-04T02:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/qantas-pilots-put-on-leave-after-capacity-cuts.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest carrier, said about 150 of its more than 2,000 pilots
were taking unpaid leave after it cut services in a bid to
revive unprofitable international operations.  Some employees had requested time off to work for other
carriers, the Sydney-based  airline (QAN)  said in an e-mailed reply to
questions today, without elaboration. The carrier also allowed
pilots to go on unpaid leave after cuts following the 2008
financial crisis, it said.  Qantas needs fewer pilots after it announced a reduction in
overseas services in August following losses of about A$200
million ($207 million) a year on international routes. The
surplus of pilots may reach as many as 500 by 2015 as
restructuring plans progress, according to its pilots union.  “Our young guys are voting with their feet,” Richard
Woodward, vice president of the Australian & International
Pilots Association, said by phone today. “Because of
retrenchment and downsizing, they’re going directly to our
competitors, which will exacerbate our problems.”  Many on-leave pilots are joining Gulf-based carriers, such
as Emirates Airline, Etihad Airways PJSC, and Qatar Airways
Ltd., Woodward said. These airlines are challenging Qantas on
Australia-Europe routes as they build up their long-haul fleets.  Qantas rose 3.9 percent to A$1.54 at 1:05 p.m. in Sydney
trading, compared with a 2.2 percent gain in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The carrier is separately in government-backed arbitration
with pilots over pay and conditions following protests by
workers last year. The process began after Qantas grounded its
mainline fleet in a showdown with unions. The airline had also
faced sporadic stoppages by engineers and baggage handlers that
had disrupted flights and bookings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  