-- Quanta Sues AMD Over Microchips for Notebook Computers
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-01-04T16:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/quanta-sues-amd-over-chips-for-nec-notebook-computers.html
Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s
largest contract maker of notebook computers, sued  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  for breach of contract, alleging the
chipmaker sold defective products.  AMD and its ATI Technologies Inc. unit sold chips that
didn’t meet heat tolerances and were unfit for particular
purposes, Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Quanta claimed yesterday in a
federal court filing in San Jose,  California . The chips were
used in notebooks Quanta made for  NEC Corp. (6701)  and caused the
computers to malfunction, according to the filing.  “Quanta has suffered significant injury to prospective
revenue and profits,” the company said in the complaint. Quanta
is seeking a jury trial and damages, according to court papers.  AMD, with more than $6 billion in annual revenue, is the
second-largest  maker (AMD)  of computer processors, behind  Intel Corp .,
which has more than $50 billion in annual revenue.  The lawsuit also claims breach of warranty, negligent
misrepresentation, civil fraud and interference with a contract.  “AMD disputes the allegations in Quanta’s complaint and
believes they are without merit,” Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD’s spokesman, Michael Silverman, said in an e-mailed message.  “AMD is aware of no other customer reports of the alleged
issues with the AMD chip that Quanta used, which AMD no longer
sells,” Silverman said. “In fact, Quanta has itself
acknowledged to AMD that it used the identical chip in large
volumes in a different computer platform that it manufactured
for NEC without such issues.”  Quanta also makes notebooks on contract for Hewlett-Packard
Co., Dell Inc. and Acer Inc.  Shares of Quanta rose 1.9 percent to close at NT$64.2 in
Taipei today before the news.  The case is Quanta v. Advanced Micro Devices, 12-cv-12,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei
at   tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 