-- Rand Snaps Four-Day Gain to Dollar as Metals Fall on Weaker Demand Outlook
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-04T15:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/rand-snaps-four-day-gain-to-dollar-as-metals-fall-on-weaker-demand-outlook.html
The rand weakened for the first time
in five days as metal prices retreated on concern that Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis may slow global economic growth and after
Chinese  house prices  slid for a fourth month.  South Africa’s currency depreciated 1.2 percent to 8.1233
per dollar as of 4:11 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, it
fell 0.3 percent to 10.5123, a second day of losses.  The  European Central Bank  reported overnight deposits from
financial institutions rose to an all-time high and Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the European Union is
facing a recession of unknown scope. Hungary may fail to obtain
an International Monetary Fund financing agreement in the first
half of this year, Citigroup Inc. said in an e-mailed report.  “We are not out of the woods yet with the euro-zone
crisis,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Johannesburg-
based Bidvest Bank Ltd., which runs  South Africa ’s largest chain
of moneychangers, said by phone. The rand will struggle as
market participants “keep a close eye on any developments in
euro land,” he added.  China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December and
Premier Wen Jiabao said business conditions may be “relatively
difficult” this quarter. The outlook for China’s copper demand,
which typically peaks at the end of February through May, is
“uncertain” as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to curb exports,
Jiabao said.  Copper for March delivery declined for the first time in
four days, retreating as much as 1.5 percent to $3.475 a pound
in  New York . Commodities make up 50 percent to 60 percent of
South Africa’s total exports, according to Rand Merchant Bank.  South Africa’s economy “may be highly vulnerable to
contagion risks, should the global market worsen”, Guillaume Salomon, a London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA, said
in an e-mailed report. SocGen recommends paying fixed rate for
five-year  interest-rate  swaps, betting the  Reserve Bank  will
raise its benchmark interest rate as the rand weakens.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 slipped for the
first time in five trading days, driving the yield up 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.08 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  