-- Range Fuels Sells Government-Backed Biofuel Plant to LanzaTech
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-04T01:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/range-fuels-sells-government-backed-biofuel-plant-to-lanzatech.html
Range Fuels Inc. (ETHHA175) , a closely held U.S.
cellulosic ethanol company that was offered $156 million in
federal government backing, sold its only factory to LanzaTech
NZ Ltd. as part of a government-approved liquidation.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  in October approved
lender AgSouth Farm Credit to hold the  foreclosure sale 
yesterday. The deal didn’t include Range’s intellectual
property, David Aldous, the company’s chief executive officer,
said yesterday in an e-mail, declining to give details.  The liquidation comes as other government-backed renewable
energy companies have failed. Solar panel maker Solyndra LLC and
energy storage company Beacon Power Corp. filed for bankruptcy
last year after receiving government loan guarantees under a
different program.  Range Fuel’s plant, located in Soperton, Georgia, was
completed in 2010 and was shut in January 2011 without ever
producing ethanol. It was designed to process wood chips into as
much as 10 million gallons (37.8 million liters) of biofuel a
year with plans to expand this to 100 million gallons.  The Agriculture Department announced an $80 million loan
guarantee for the project on the final day of President  George W. Bush ’s term. The Energy Department, under the same
administration, offered a $76 million grant for the plant.  Range received $46.3 million of the grant and $42 million
of the guaranteed loan, before the outstanding balance was
repurchased by the Agriculture Department Nov. 17, according to
an Agriculture Department document. Broomfield, Colorado-based
Range received more than $160 million from private investors
before shutting the plant.  LanzaTech, like Range, is backed by Khosla Ventures, the
 investment company  owned by billionaire  Vinod Khosla . The
Auckland, New Zealand-based biofuel company is developing a
technology to convert industrial gases such as carbon monoxide
into ethanol using microbes. Chief Executive Officer Jennifer Holmgren wasn’t immediately available to comment yesterday as
she was traveling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  