-- Raw Materials Seen Rebounding as Global Economy Skirts Slump: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-01-04T18:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/raw-materials-seen-rebounding-as-global-economy-skirts-slump-commodities.html
Commodities may rebound from their
first retreat in three years as developing economies shore up
global growth, driving demand higher at a time when raw-material
producers are already struggling to keep up.  Precious metals will advance 27 percent or more, industrial
metals at least 17 percent and grains 5 percent, according to
the median estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 143 analysts,
traders and investors. Nine of the 15 commodities covered by a
similar survey a year earlier reached their predicted highs in
2011, with another five no more than 4 percent away.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw
materials rose 16 percent through April, before tumbling 15
percent on mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis and slower
Chinese growth would curb demand for commodities. A 6.1 percent
expansion in developing economies this year will help sustain
global growth at 4 percent, above the  average (IGDCWRLD)  over the past
decade, the  International Monetary Fund  predicts.  “The biggest thing driving commodities is the emerging
world,” said  James Paulsen , 53, the Minneapolis-based chief
investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, which
oversees about $330 billion of assets. “The emerging world
slowdown bottoms out in the first half of the year and by the
second half it’s accelerating again. You’ve also got the  U.S.
economy  not just avoiding recession, but growing again.”  World Index  The S&P GSCI  gauge (SPGSCITR)  fell 1.2 percent last year, the first
decline since a 46 percent slump in 2008, with cotton, natural
gas, cocoa and sugar leading the retreat. That still beat the
9.4 percent drop in the MSCI All-Country World Index as $6.1
trillion was wiped off the value of global equities. The Dollar
Index, a  measure (DXY)  against six major trading partners, advanced
1.5 percent and Treasuries returned 9.8 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  While only gold is predicted to reach a record in 2012,
rising as much as 33 percent to $2,140 an ounce, respondents in
the survey anticipated that every one of the 15 commodities
covered would gain. Gold for immediate delivery traded at
$1,613.88 an ounce at 6:06 p.m. in  London .  Silver, the precious metal most used in industry, will
advance as much as 44 percent to $42.20 an ounce, a price last
reached in September, the median of 41 estimates shows. Zinc may
be the best-performing industrial metal, rising as much as 28
percent to $2,400 a metric ton, a level last touched in August,
based on the median of 21 expectations.  Starbucks Corp.  Arabica coffee, the variety favored by Starbucks Corp., may
be among the best performers in so-called soft commodities,
gaining as much as 21 percent to $2.725 a pound, the median of
26 forecasts shows. Corn will outperform wheat and soybeans,
advancing as much as 6.4 percent to $7 a bushel, according to
the median of 36 predictions. Both prices were last reached in
September.  “The highest quality in every asset class wins,” said
 Charles Morris , who oversees about $2.2 billion at HSBC Global
Asset Management in London. “The highest-quality commodity is
gold. High-quality currencies, high-quality equities, high-
quality bonds, high-quality commodities have been the best place
to be in 2011, and I expect that to be repeated.”  Commodities tumbled since April as Europe’s debt crisis
widened. Yields on two-year Greek debt surged to 152 percent
last month, compared with 0.29 percent for Treasuries of a
similar maturity, and the euro weakened 12 percent against the
dollar since the start of May. The region accounts for 19
percent of global copper demand and consumes about one in six
barrels of the world’s oil.  Global Growth  Fewer youths keeping factories going and more pensioners to
support in developing markets such as China and  Brazil  means the
world economy is set to slow, says Goldman Sachs Group Inc. As
the so-called BRIC nations slow, global growth probably will
peak at about 4.3 percent this decade, according to a Dec. 7
report by the bank’s analysts. Russia and  India  make up the
other BRIC nations.  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced their net-long
position, or  wagers (.MMLOSH)  on higher prices, across 18 commodities by
65 percent since April and in the week ended Dec. 20 were the
least bullish since March 2009, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. They anticipate declines in copper, cocoa,
soybean oil and meal, wheat and natural gas.  Investors took $10 billion out of commodities in September,
the largest monthly amount ever, because of concerns about
European growth, according to  Barclays Capital . Commodity assets
under management rose 12 percent to $426 billion in the first 11
months of 2011, on track for the worst year since an 18 percent
contraction in 2008.  Europe  Concern  “The commodities market right now is driven by sentiment,
and I think it’s fear,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage
$2.7 billion of assets at First Asset Investment Management Inc.
in Toronto. “We are starting into a  bear market , because the
problems in Europe aren’t easily solved. People are liquidating
without regard to fundamentals or the attractiveness of a
commodity going forward.”  Among metals, there will be shortages in copper, tin and
palladium this year and narrowing surpluses in aluminum, zinc,
silver and platinum, Barclays predicts. In agricultural
commodities, Rabobank International anticipates shortfalls in
corn, soybeans, coffee and cocoa.  Oil supply will probably lag behind demand for at least a
third consecutive year in 2012, Barclays estimates. Inventories
in the U.S., the biggest consumer, fell 12 percent since May,
Department of Energy data show. Crude traded in  New York  will
average a record $100 a barrel this year, according to the
median of 27 analyst estimates.  Weaker Dollar  Commodities may also appreciate in 2012 on prospects for a
weakening dollar. The Dollar Index will average 76.1 in the
fourth quarter, compared with 79.8 yesterday, the median of nine
economist estimates shows.  Commodities (SPGSCITR)  moved in the opposite
direction to the currency in 13 of the past 20 quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth in  China , the biggest user of everything from copper
to cotton to coal, will slow to 8.5 percent this year, from 9.2
percent in 2011, the mean of 14 estimates shows. That’s still
four times the anticipated pace of the U.S. and five times the
projected speed of  Japan . China accounts for 38 percent of
copper consumption and 11 percent of oil demand, according to
Barclays and the  International Energy Agency .  “China may slow, but it’s still seeing crazy growth, and
Europe and the U.S. aren’t in recession yet,” said Christoph Eibl, co-founder of Zug, Switzerland-based Tiberius Asset
Management AG, which manages about $2.5 billion of assets.
“Funds are sitting on a lot of cash and eventually they’ll have
to buy risk assets again, which will include commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  