-- Treasuries Led Lower by Bonds as Factory Orders Boost U.S. Growth Optimism
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-04T22:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/treasuries-fail-to-rebound-on-speculation-u-s-factory-orders-increased.html
Treasuries (YCGT0025)  declined after a report
showed factory orders increased in November by the most in four
months, adding to signs the U.S. economic recovery is gaining
momentum.  A Federal Reserve survey of bond dealers show they expect
the central bank to hold borrowing costs near zero into 2014 to
support the recovery amid rising risks from  Europe .  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, advised investors to
buy Treasuries as developed economies fail to reduce leverage
and European debt risk increases.  “We’ve seen some moderately good news in some areas,”
said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells
Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “The numbers are
consistent with the moderate growth period that we’ve been in.
We need some slow and steady healing of the global financial
system. Fed policy is obviously designed to promote that.”  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m. New
York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched
2.01 percent, the highest since Dec. 27. The price of the 2
percent securities due November 2021 fell 8/32, or $2.50 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32.  U.S. 30-year bond yields rose five basis points to 3.03
percent while two-year yields were little changed at 0.26
percent.  Best Since 2008  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, their best
performance since 2008 according to a Bank of American Merrill
Lynch index, as investors sought the safety of Treasuries as the
U.S economy remained sluggish amid an expanding European debt
crisis and political gridlock in  Washington .  Longer-dated securities led the decline today as bookings
for factory goods rose 1.8 percent after a revised 0.2 percent
drop the prior month, fueled by demand for aircraft, autos and
metals, data from the Commerce Department showed in Washington.  Respondents to the New York Fed’s survey of primary dealers
conducted before policy makers’ Dec. 13 meeting saw a 45 percent
chance the first increase in the benchmark  interest rate  would
occur in the second quarter of 2014 or later.  The economy added 150,000 jobs in December, according to
the median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The Labor Department will release the nonfarm payrolls data on
Jan. 6 in Washington.  Jobless Claims  Initial jobless claims for the week ended Dec. 31 were
375,000, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 37 economists,
before a report due tomorrow. Applications in the week ended
Dec. 24 rose for the first time in a month, climbing by a more-
than-forecast 15,000 to 381,000. The four-week moving average
for claims, a less volatile measure than the weekly figures,
dropped to 375,000, the lowest level since June 2008, Labor
Department data showed Dec. 29.  The 10-year Treasury yield declined to 1.88 percent on Dec.
30 from 2.02 percent on Dec. 23 as investors reduced allocations
to risk assets at the end of the year. Since then they have been
more willing to buy securities that entail more risk.  “It’s a little of an unwind of the window-dressing trade
of last week,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “A pull-back in the market is
healthy and expected.”  Gross’s View  Gross, the founder of Pacific Investment Management Co. and
manager of its $241 billion Total Return Bond Fund, also
recommended investors purchase long-term inflation-indexed  U.S.
debt , high-quality corporate bonds, senior bank debt and
municipal securities.  The period of muted growth in developed economies, high
unemployment and “relatively orderly delevering” that Mohamed El-Erian, who shares the title of chief investment officer with
Gross, coined as the “new normal” in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis, appears to be morphing into a world of credit
and zero-bound interest-rate risk, said Gross.  “It’s as if the earth now has two moons instead of one and
both are growing in size like a cancerous tumor that may
threaten the financial tides, oceans and economic life as we
have known it for the past half century,” Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website  today. “Welcome to 2012.”  Europe in Focus  Treasury yields fell earlier as German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  is due to host French President Nicolas Sarkozy Jan. 9
for talks in Berlin with the threat of a credit-rating
downgrades still hanging over the euro area.  “Europe is certainly coming back into focus ahead of the
Jan. 9  France , Germany summit,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “There’s been a trend for the EU summits to
overpromise and under deliver.”  Treasuries fell yesterday after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S. factory index showed U.S.  manufacturing (NAPMPMI) 
expanded in December at the fastest pace in six months.  The U.S. 10-year yield is projected to advance to 2.69
percent by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts given
the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  