-- Three Powerful Lessons I Learned When I Got Offline
-- B y   T o n y   S c h w a r t z
-- 2012-01-04T19:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/three-powerful-lessons-i-learned-when-i-got-offline.html
     I hadn't been offline for more than a few hours in two
and a half years — and only then because I was on safari in
Botswana and had no choice.  Typically, the first thing I would do when I got up in
the morning was to get on my laptop to check a series of
sites, including Twitter, Facebook, Google Analytics, and
HBR.org, to see what comments my blogs had accumulated
overnight.  All day long, between doing my main work, I found myself
checking one site or another, or reading and responding to
email. Far too often, I got right back online after dinner.
The lure of email and the Internet had come to feel
compulsive, irresistible, and increasingly uncomfortable.  On the evening of December 24th, I decided to see if I
could shut it all down for nine days, cold turkey. To my
surprise, it wasn't that hard. What follows are the three key
insights I distilled from the experience:  1. Program for Success: I spend my life trying to help
people make positive changes in their lives, so I started by
relying on the advice we give.  First, I made the challenge more manageable by choosing
to do it during the holiday season, when my office was closed
and I knew I was unlikely to miss anything urgent.  On my away message, I invited anyone with an urgent need
to call me on my phone. I also defined a stopping point nine
days later, which gave me a clear goal rather than leaving it
open-ended.  Next, I told as many people as I could about my
intention, in order to increase my accountability — and my
embarrassment if I were to fail. One friend bet me $100 I
couldn't do it, and I instantly took the bet. Proving him
wrong was one more incentive.  I minimized recurring temptation — and its drain on my
limited reservoir of willpower — by turning off email on my
phone, and leaving it closed on my computers.  Finally, I established reading a book as my default
behavior for anytime I felt restless or bored, and tempted to
get back online. In the process, I avoided burning down
precious energy and willpower trying to resist the call of the
Internet, or fracturing my attention by responding to it.  2. Depth, not Breadth: As the days passed, the biggest
loss I experienced was that I couldn't instantly search Google
for more information about something each time the thought
occurred to me. I'd always told myself I did that only out of
a desire to know more and go deeper.  In fact, I now realize, that was rationalizing. It was
usually just trivia or gossip or a stray fact that I was
after, and instant gratification. But indulging the desire
creates a self perpetuating cycle. The more I allow myself to
be seduced by distraction, the more distractible I become.  When I stopped acting on each impulse, I discovered that
after a few moments, they vanished without a trace. This was
something, I realized, that I'd long ago learned in
meditation: thoughts, desires and sensations will always
arise. Pay them no mind and they'll pass.  We need less information in our lives, fewer choices, and
more depth.  Eliminating the urgent and Pavlovian pull of the Internet
freed me to give priority to what felt truly important.  3. A Fine Balance: On my last afternoon offline, I began
looking forward to getting back online. It struck me that the
feeling was akin to ending a diet. Then I realized I was
ending a diet — except the diet was information rather than
food.  The solution wasn't to go back to my old habits — just as
it isn't after a traditional diet — but to permanently change
my way of consuming. In both cases — food and information —
the challenge is to find an approach that's more balanced and
healthy.  My plan — it's now been two days — is to turn off my
digital life when I get home from work each evening. For
me, that means not bringing my phone or my laptop with me when
I head upstairs to my bedroom. I'm also planning to unplug on
the weekends, and to use at least some of that time to
reflect, and renew.  The Internet is here to stay, with all the
conveniences, richness and seductions it provides. I just want
to be less compulsive and more measured in the way I use it.  Tony Schwartz is the president and CEO of The Energy
Project and the author of Be Excellent at Anything. Become a
fan of The Energy Project on Facebook and connect with Tony
at Twitter.com/TonySchwartz and Twitter.com/Energy_Project. 