-- Reliance, Apollo Are Said to Weigh Purchase of El Paso Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-04T21:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/reliance-industries-apollo-are-said-to-consider-purchase-of-el-paso-unit.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Apollo
Global Management LLC are among companies in talks to buy  El
Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil and natural-gas exploration and production
unit, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , which agreed to acquire all of El Paso
later this year, may decide this month whether to sell the
entire unit or separate pieces, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. Analysts at BNP Paribas SA estimated in
November the business’s value at about $8.1 billion.  Kinder Morgan Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  is
seeking to raise cash from a sale of the production unit to help
finance the $21 billion purchase of El Paso. The October deal
would create the largest U.S. gas pipeline network. He wants to
find a buyer for the unit by the time he’s ready to close the
larger transaction, scheduled for the second quarter of this
year, he said on a conference call in October.  Buying the El Paso division would give Reliance,  India ’s
largest company by market value, a U.S. operating business after
committing billions in the past two years to exploration and
production joint ventures with U.S. companies. The Mumbai-based
company hasn’t decided yet whether to bid for the unit, one
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Private-equity firms and global energy companies are eager
to buy their way into the U.S. shale boom, said Dan Morrison, a
Fort Worth, Texas-based senior analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC.  “There’s a lot of value in the operating organization at
El Paso,” Morrison said in a telephone interview today.  Doubling Gas Reserves  New techniques that involve a combination of hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling have unlocked vast reserves
in shale rock that have the potential to more than double the
world’s gas reserves, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. In the past decade, the U.S.’s gas output jumped
11 percent.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, and  Larry Pierce , a
spokesman for Kinder Morgan, declined to comment. Tushar Pania,
a spokesman for Reliance Industries, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation.  Private-equity firms such as Apollo have been hunting for
deals in the oil and gas industry.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  agreed to the
biggest-ever buyout of an oil and gas producer in November, with
a $7.2 billion deal for Samson Investment Co.  Reliance  Reliance, which had 614.9 billion rupees ($11.6 billion) of
cash as of Sept. 30, has been looking for U.S. operating ability
since its failed $1.7 billion joint venture with Atlas Energy
Inc., Morrison said.  “Reliance is looking into the future,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based brokerage K.R.
Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. “U.S. shale-gas assets may be
the best place where it can deploy its large cash pile.”  Similar deals have been struck by European and Asian energy
producers seeking to tap the expertise of smaller U.S.
companies. China Petrochemical Corp., that nation’s second-
largest producer, and Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
company, committed about $5 billion to U.S. and Canadian shale
rock formations yesterday.  At stake is El Paso’s 4 trillion cubic feet of oil and gas
reserves, which includes more than 500,000 acres in fields such
as  Texas ’s Eagle Ford Shale and Permian Basin.  Falling Gas Prices  Gas accounted for about 82 percent of the company’s
 production (EP)  in 2010, assets that fetch far less today because
prices have fallen precipitously,  Carl Kirst , an analyst with
Bank of Montreal in Houston, said in a telephone interview
today.  “Whether Kinder proceeds with one sale versus breaking it
up into parcels is largely going to depend on how much value
they’re getting for their natural gas reserves,” said Kirst,
who rates El Paso “outperform” and doesn’t own shares.  Gas futures prices in  New York  have fallen to less than a
third of their July 2008 record of $13.577 per million British
thermal units. In 2011, they averaged $4.026, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  El Paso, which gets most of its revenue from pipelines, had
been planning to spin off the exploration and production unit to
shareholders before  Kinder Morgan ’s takeover offer.  The exploration business accounted for about one-third of
El Paso’s $1.4 billion in sales in the latest quarter. In 2010,
El Paso produced more than 95 percent of its output from U.S.
oil and gas fields, including large positions in the Haynesville
Shale in Texas and  Louisiana  and in the  Rocky Mountains .  Kinder Morgan closed unchanged at $32.49 in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  