-- Retail Forecast for December Raised at ICSC on Discounts
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-01-04T21:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/retail-sales-in-u-s-rose-5-3-last-week-amid-heavy-discounts-icsc-says.html
Retail sales at stores open more than
a year may have gained as much as 4.5 percent in December, more
than previously estimated, as U.S. shoppers pursued holiday
discounts, a trade group said.  Same-store sales in December were earlier projected to have
advanced as much as 4 percent, the  International Council of
Shopping Centers  said in a statement today. Sales at retail
chains last week rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier, according
to the New York-based researcher.  Sales in the last two weeks of December increased from a
year earlier as retailers extended hours and benefited from
Christmas Eve falling on a Saturday, providing a strong end to a
holiday season that already had exceeded some forecasts.  Macy’s
Inc. (M) ,  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  also offered discounts on
already marked-down merchandise in the week after Christmas.  “The last few weeks of December helped to lift the full-
month performance above our earlier expectation,”  Michael Niemira , chief economist at the ICSC, said in the statement.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Apparel and Accessories Index (S5APAC) ,
which includes  VF Corp. (VFC) , Ralph Lauren Corp. and  Coach Inc. (COH) ,
advanced 3.5 percent at the close today. That outperformed the
 S&P 500 , which was little changed.  Earlier Hours  The  National Retail Federation  last month raised its
forecast for the  holiday shopping season  after steeper discounts
and earlier opening hours contributed to a record $52.4 billion
in sales during the Thanksgiving weekend. The Washington-based
group said sales may increase 3.8 percent to a record $469.1
billion in November and December, up from a previous projection
for a 2.8 percent gain.  The increase would be higher than the 10-year average of
2.6 percent growth and slower than last year’s 5.2 percent
increase.  Store and online sales on Dec. 26 soared to an estimated
$29 billion from $20 billion last year, said  Craig Johnson ,
president of consulting firm Customer Growth Partners.  “There was a level of pent-up demand, and people decided
the deals were worth taking,” Johnson said in a telephone
interview from  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , before today’s results
were announced.  Sales for the week ending Dec. 24 increased 4.5 percent
from a year earlier, the ICSC said Dec. 28. Unemployment at the
lowest in more than two years boosted  consumer confidence  to an
eight-month high in December.  The ICSC’s numbers are based on the ICSC-Goldman Sachs
Weekly Chain Store Sales Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  