-- Revealing Interest Rate Forecasts Advances Bernanke Transparency Campaign
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/revealing-interest-rate-forecasts-advances-bernanke-s-transparency-drive.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is betting that announcing Federal Reserve officials’
own forecasts for borrowing costs will make monetary policy more
effective while also supporting the two-year expansion.  A decision to reveal forecasts for the federal funds rate
starting this month represents the biggest step toward openness
since Bernanke took office in 2006 promising greater
transparency, according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and a former Fed board economist. The
central bank didn’t even start announcing changes in  interest
rates  until 1994.  “This is a complete 180-degree shift from the old
mysterious-institution approach,” said  Ethan Harris , co-head of
global economic research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New
York. “There’s been a steady move toward opening up the central
bank to outside scrutiny and trying to explain to the public the
logic of what they’re doing.”  The first forecasts will be announced after the Jan. 24-25
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , according to
minutes of the Dec. 13 gathering released yesterday. That may
boost economic growth by delaying expectations for an increase
in the benchmark rate, which has been kept close to zero since
December 2008, according to Feroli. At the same time, publishing
a range of forecasts risks sowing confusion by showing
disagreement among policy makers, Harris said.  “It’s a bit awkward -- you’re going to reveal to the
public how much uncertainty the Fed itself has about where it’s
going,” Harris said.  Additional Accommodation  The minutes said “a number of members indicated that
current and prospective economic conditions could well warrant
additional policy accommodation.” Those members also decided
that “any additional actions would be more effective if
accompanied by enhanced communication” about the FOMC’s longer-
run economic goals and policy framework.  The decision to publish forecasts “is a part of trying to
manage expectations,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist in
Chicago at Mesirow Financial Inc., which managed $59 billion as
of Sept. 30. “The theory is that if households and companies
are convinced that the Fed is not going to tighten too quickly,
there is reason to invest now.”  Central bankers in August decided to replace their
statement that interest rates would stay near zero for an
“extended period” with a date of mid-2013. Bernanke said at
his Nov. 2 press conference that the statement “says at least
mid-2013” and that “clearly it could well be some point beyond
that.”  Stocks maintained gains yesterday after the release of the
minutes, buoyed by a report showing that manufacturing in the
U.S. expanded at the fastest pace in six months in December. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.6 percent to 1,277.06 at the
close of trading in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note increased to 1.95 percent from 1.88 percent on Dec. 30.  Danger of Confusion Seen  Some Fed officials voiced concerns at last month’s meeting
that publishing the forecasts would “confuse the public,” as
there is an “appreciable risk that the public could mistakenly
interpret participants’ projections of the target federal funds
rate as signaling the Committee’s intention to follow a specific
policy path rather than as indicating members’ conditional
projections,” according to the minutes.  While “most participants viewed these concerns as
manageable,” some Fed officials “did not see providing policy
projections as a useful step at this time,” the minutes said.  Releasing the forecasts will also demystify officials’
abilities to predict the economy’s path, according to  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in  New
York .  Risks of Forecasting  “You run the risk of every other forecaster, and that is
of making an idiot out of yourself,” McCarthy said.  The increased disclosure may make monetary policy “less
flexible” if markets perceive the Fed as committed to a
particular path of action, said Christopher Low, chief economist
at FTN Financial in New York.  “The Fed is no better at forecasting than the best market
economists, none of whom are right all the time,” Low said in
an e-mailed response to questions. He said he worries that “it
will be harder for the FOMC to change direction quickly if it
means there is a risk of embarrassment or diminished credibility
when they do so.”  Bernanke has made an unprecedented push for Fed openness as
chairman. He has aired his views on monetary policy and the
financial crisis in television interviews and taken his message
on the road in town hall meetings with ordinary citizens in
places such as El Paso,  Texas .  Press Conferences  In 2011, the 58-year-old former Princeton University
professor began holding press conferences four times a year. The
FOMC now publishes forecasts for economic growth, inflation and
unemployment four times a year, up from twice during the tenure
of Bernanke’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  Fed officials have also been considering ways to make more
explicit the conditions under which the benchmark federal funds
rate would remain near zero. Fed Bank of  Chicago  President
 Charles Evans  has advocated a promise to keep rates low until
either unemployment falls below 7 percent or the medium-term
inflation outlook rises above 3 percent, while  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia has pushed for an inflation target of 2 percent.  Bernanke said Nov. 2 that the central bank may take new
steps to boost growth, including changing the way it
communicates its policy goals to the public.  “They have developed a potentially powerful easing tool,”
and publishing rate forecasts “is a great move,” said Antulio Bomfim, senior managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC
in  Washington .  “You can’t be against greater transparency,” said Bomfim,
a former senior economist at the Fed. “It’s like motherhood and
apple pie.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  