-- Robuchon, Puck Tackle Land of Chili Crab: Singapore Dine & Deal
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2012-01-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/robuchon-puck-spice-up-food-in-land-of-chili-crab-singapore-dine-deal.html
With the highest concentration of
millionaires on the planet and two multi-billion-dollar casino
resorts pulling in limousine-loads of Michelin-starred chefs,
Singapore’s dining scene has changed like nowhere else in  Asia 
in the past two years. Alongside brand names like Joel Robuchon
and Wolfgang Puck, local chefs are also rising.  Here’s a sample of what to expect for business or pleasure:  1. Candlenut Kitchen: 25 Neil Road, Singapore 088816.
Information:  http://www.candlenutkitchen.com , or +65-6226 2506.  What: Malcolm Lee’s updated Peranakan dishes such as Ayam
Buah Keluak that grandma used to make.  Why: A chance to savor cooking from this very local cuisine
-- the Peranakans are descended from 16th-century Chinese
traders who settled in the region and created a culture that
mixed Malay and Chinese influences.  Where: In a traditional shophouse south of Chinatown.  When: An informal lunch or dinner to introduce a colleague
to  Singapore .  Bar: No.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Soft jazz and loud chatter when it gets busy.  2. Cut: Galleria Level B1, The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands,
Singapore. Information:  http://www.marinabaysands.com , or
+65 6688 8517.  What: Steak.  Why: Austrian-born Wolfgang Puck’s first outlet in Asia.  Where: Next to the theaters in the Marina Bay Sands resort.  When: A pre-theater supper, or a celebratory carnivorous
feast with friends. Be prepared to shout.  Bar: Yes, where you can sip a Samurai Sword, or a Devil in
Disguise.  Private Room: Yes, seating as many as 40 people, with a
minimum spend on Friday and Saturday of S$15,000 ($11,530).  Sound level: Loud: Freddie Mercury belting out “Another
one bites the dust” as you chomp on your meat.  3. Ember: Hotel 1929, 50 Keong Saik Rd., Singapore. Information:
 http://www.hotel1929.com , or +65-6347-1928.  What: Modern European-inspired dishes with Asian twists,
such as marinated cod with black miso, and the ever-popular foie
gras menu.  Why: Ember’s small, angular dining room is consistently
packed for lunch and dinner as chef Sebastian Ng continues to
serve up simple and beautifully prepared food at substantially
lower prices than his new Michelin-starred competitors in the
casinos.  Where: Inside Loh Lik Peng’s boutique Hotel 1929 in the
former red-light district of Keong Saik Road, which is now
filled with offices and restaurants.  When: The weekday set lunch at about S$46 ($35) is a steal,
so make sure you book at least a day ahead.  Bar: No, not even in the hotel.  Private Room: No, though the restaurant’s small enough to
hire the whole thing.  Sound level: Lively conversations, especially at lunch.  4. Fifty Three: 53 Armenian Street. Information:
 http://www.fiftythree.com.sg , or +65 6334 5535.  What: Michael Han’s joint venture with the Les Amis group.  Why: Han’s food uses eco-friendly, sustainable ingredients
to create dishes that are often interesting and fun, such as his
wagyu beef, cooked for 40 hours, or his gin-and-tonic on rock --
basically a jelly shot served on a stone.  Where: In the old colonial part of town.  When: For a working lunch or set dinner menu with members
of the nearby parliament or supreme court.  Bar: No.  Private room: Yes, the ground floor room with a view into
the kitchen.  Sound level: Quiet.  5. Flutes at the Fort: Fort Canning Park, Singapore.
Information:  http://www.flutesatthefort.com.sg , or
+65-6338-8770.  What: Modern Australian. Think spiced Victorian lamb rack.  Why: The old firemaster’s villa is the perfect escape,
perched among the trees on Fort Canning hill in the heart of the
city.  Where: Above the Hill Street Fire Station. The entrance is
next to the Singapore Philatelic Museum at 23B Coleman St.  When: Sit out on the balcony among the frangipanis for
dinner, or come for the weekend brunch.  Bar: Al fresco on the lower deck.  Private Room: Two, seating up to 16, though larger sections
of the main restaurant can also be hired.  Sound level: Serene.  6. Guy Savoy: Casino Level 2, Marina Bay Sands, Singapore.
Information:  http://www.marinabaysands.com , or +65 6688 8513.  What: Chef Savoy’s Parisian fine dining.  Why: The three-Michelin-star chef has brought his classic
dishes from the French capital and mixed in a few new creations.  Where: Above the main gambling hall at Marina Bay Sands.  When: For a 10-plus course gastronomic blowout that will
fill you with imaginative combinations of food as fast as it
empties your wallet.  Bar: Yes. You can get a taste of the dishes here while you
sip a glass of champagne.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Quiet enough to hear the sighs of diners as
the dessert trolley comes round.  7. Iggy’s: Hilton Hotel, 581 Orchard Road, Singapore 238883.
Information:  http://www.iggys.com.sg/  or +65-6732 2234.  What: Ignatius Chan’s gastronomic menus of dishes with
seasonal ingredients and titles like “sea and soil” will
sometimes delight, sometimes displease -- and usually surprise.  Why: The only Singapore joint to make San Pellegrino’s 2011
list of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants -- at number 27.  Where: Relocated last year to the third floor of the Hilton
Hotel on Orchard Road, giving Iggy a bigger kitchen to play in.  When: You’re going to propose.  Bar: Yes. Even more fun than the restaurant, with Iggy-
style snacks to go with your cocktails.  Private room: Yes, well, semi-private off the small dining
room.  Sound level: Very quiet.  8. Jumbo Seafood: East Coast Seafood Centre Blk 1206 East Coast
Parkway #01-07/08, East Coast Seafood Centre, Singapore 449883;
Information:  http://www.jumboseafood.com.sg , or +65-6442-3435.  What: Seafood.  Why: No visitor to Singapore is allowed to leave town
without tasting the nation’s chili and black pepper crab.  Where: While Jumbo has several venues around the island,
head to the original beachside one on the East Coast with a big
party of colleagues or friends.  When: A messy dinner to introduce folks from overseas to a
very Singaporean feast.  Bar: No.  Private Room: No; some of the other branches have one.  Sound level: A clattering din.  9.  Joel Robuchon : Hotel Michael, level 1, Resorts World Sentosa.
Information:  http://www.rwsentosa.com , or +65 6577 7888.  What: Robuchon has two restaurants in Singapore’s first
casino resort, serving his French haute cuisine.  Why: The chef’s 20-odd restaurants worldwide have picked up
a total of 26 Michelin stars between them and the Michelin man
will surely be in Singapore soon to add some more.  Where: In the Hotel Michael on Sentosa, Singapore’s island
of entertainments and millionaires’ villas.  When: Dinner during the week. The traffic to and from the
island at the weekend is awful.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Groups of about 20 can book the unusual
indoor winter garden, complete with tree.  Sound level: Quiet.  10. Les Amis: 1 Scotts Road, #02-16 Shaw Centre, Singapore.
Information:  http://www.lesamis.com.sg/ , or +65-67332225.  What: French.  Why: The flagship restaurant of Les Amis group’s sprawling
fine-dining empire remains a favorite spot for the city’s elite.
Austrian-born Armin Leitgeb adds a few central European touches
to the classic French fare. Try the “Poulet de Bresse” with
foie gras dice.  Where: In the heart of Singapore’s Orchard Road shopping
district.  When: Good for a business lunch with four courses at S$88
per person or an anniversary dinner.  Bar: A very small one by the entrance.  Private Room: Five, with a maximum party of 30.  Sound Level: Well-spaced tables and the elongated shape of
the dining room keeps the noise to a minimum.  11. Rang Mahal: Level 3 Pan Pacific, 7 Raffles Blvd., Marina
Square, Singapore. Information:  http://www.rangmahal.com.sg,or 
+65-6333-1788.  What: Indian haute cuisine with a variety of regional
dishes, from bread that’s baked to order, to excellent kachori,
to dishes such as tawa-seared foie gras.  Why: With an Indian community that goes back almost to the
birth of the city and good South Asian meals available for $10
from the ubiquitous food stalls, it takes something special to
make it worth paying S$120 per person for the cuisine in
Singapore. Rang Mahal, now with an outpost in one of the casino
resorts, has what it takes,  Where: In the Pan Pacific Hotel.  When: For the times when you want more than a decent curry
and are prepared to pay for it.  Bar: In the hotel.  Private Room: Yes, though you probably won’t need one in
the dim, cavernous interior.  Sound level: Quiet.  12. Restaurant Andre: 41, Bukit Pasoh Road, Singapore 089855.
Information:  http://restaurantandre.com/  or +65-6534 8880.  What: Taiwanese Chef Andre Chiang’s French-inspired, eight-
point menu, mixing dishes such as hot foie gras jelly with black
truffle coulis, or ravioli of scallops with Japanese chives,
purple cauliflower consomme and herb flowers.  Why: Chiang’s years of apprenticeship in  France  in the
kitchens of  Pierre Gagnaire , Pascal Barbot, Robuchon and others
made this the only spot in Asia on the New York Times 2011 list
of 10 restaurants worth a plane ride.  Where: In a half-hidden 1920s townhouse next to the
Majestic Hotel in Chinatown.  When: Dinner rather than lunch to have time to savor the
eight courses.  Bar: No.  Private room: The three-story establishment provides space
for a chef’s table downstairs, a private room and even a private
pottery studio where Chiang makes some of the crockery.  Sound level: Hushed in the upstairs dining room.  13. Sky on 57: Sands SkyPark, Marina Bay Sands Tower 1, 10
Bayfront Avenue. Information:  http://www.marinabaysands.com , or
+65-6688 8857.  What: Justin Quek’s Franco-Asian takes on local dishes,
such as fried Maine lobster “Hokkien Noodle,” or foie gras
xiao long bao.  Why: Quek is a local hero of the dining scene, a
Singaporean trained at Roland Mazere’s Le Centenaire in Perigord
who isn’t afraid of making his version of dishes like bak ku teh
soup that locals will all say is not bad, if not as good as the
one at their neighborhood coffee shop.  Where: On top of the Marina Bay Sands hotel.  When: For a business lunch or dinner offering a local
twist, great views and tables far enough apart so you don’t have
to worry about being overheard. Or put overseas guests in the
hotel below and come for a working breakfast.  Bar: Yes, with tables out on the terrace.  Private room: One private room seating up to 20 and three
semi-private.  Sound level: Buzzy at lunch and dinner.  14. The Tippling Club: 8D Dempsey Rd., Singapore. Information:
 http://www.tipplingclub.com , or +65-6475-2217.  What: Molecular gastronomy.  Why: Ryan Clift’s deconstructed creations (think foie gras
frozen in liquid nitrogen) and Matthew Bax’s smoking cocktails.  Where: In the bustling Dempsey Road dining park on the edge
of a stretch of jungle. Look for “House” when coming by taxi.  When: While set lunches are offered, it’s better for dinner
when you have the chance to swallow a few cocktails and the few
hours needed to work through the 10-course tasting menu.  Bar: The whole thing is really a bar.  Private Room: No.  Sound level: Chatty, especially at the bar seats.  15. Wild Rocket: Hangout Hotel, 10A Upper Wilkie Road, Singapore
228119. Information:  http://www.wildrocket.com.sg/  or +65-6339
9448.  What: Self-styled “Mod-Sin” (Modern Singaporean) food
from lawyer-turned-chef Willin Low.  Why: Cozy, stylish surroundings with young, enthusiastic
staff and fun twists on local delicacies.  Where: In the boutique Hangout Hotel on Mt. Emily, a place
that manages to be both remote and in the center of town at the
same time.  When: A relaxed date or dinner with a group of colleagues
to celebrate the end of another day.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, for up to 22 people.  Sound level: Quiet with occasional bursts of laughter.  (Adam Majendie writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own. This
report is the 12th part of the 2011-12 series of Bloomberg Dine &
Deal, surveying good restaurants for business and pleasure in
the world’s top cities. For more Dine & Deal reviews, click
here.))  To contact the writer on the story:
Adam Majendie in Singapore at 
 amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 