-- Santorum Surges in Iowa Caucuses to Virtual Tie With Romney
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-04T17:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/romney-narrowly-wins-iowa-republican-presidential-caucuses.html
The opening contest in the Republican
presidential race ended in a near tie between  Mitt Romney  and
Rick Santorum, complicating the party’s attempt to anoint a
consensus candidate as the quest for the nomination moves to New
Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, defeated Santorum, a former U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania , by just eight votes out of more than 122,000 cast
in yesterday’s  Iowa  caucuses, state Republican Party chairman
Matt Strawn announced early today. Romney received 30,015 votes
to 30,007 for Santorum, giving each a little less than 25
percent of the vote.  Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , who placed sixth
in the caucus voting, said today she is ending her presidential
bid.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, the fifth-place finisher, said
on Twitter today that he is heading to  South Carolina , the
contest after next week’s New Hampshire primary.  After devoting less attention to Iowa than most opponents
for much of the past year, Romney failed to achieve the decisive
victory he sought in the closing days of the caucus campaign.
Santorum made up for having the fewest resources of any of
Romney’s rivals by campaigning in all of Iowa’s 99 counties in a
pickup truck.  Santorum, who emphasized his commitment to social
conservative causes, made a late surge and managed to sidetrack
Romney’s chances of a quick knockout in the nomination race.  Other Candidates  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who stresses
libertarian and pro-states’ rights positions, ran third with
about 21 percent of the vote, according to a tally by the
 Associated Press . He was about 3,800 votes behind Romney and
Santorum.  The top trio were followed by former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  with 13 percent, Perry with 10 percent and
Bachmann with 5 percent. Gingrich has pledged to continue his
campaign.  The results revealed a divided party, still undecided over
whether to compromise fiscal and social conservative ideology
for a candidate -- Romney -- who polls show is better positioned
to attract the independent voters needed to beat President
 Barack Obama  in the 2012 general election.  “Thank you so much, Iowa,” Santorum told supporters in
Iowa early today before the final result was known. “By
standing up and not compromising, by standing up and being bold
and leading, leading with that burden and responsibility you
have to be first, you have taken the first step of taking back
this country.”  ‘Great Victory’  Romney, 64, congratulated Santorum, 53, and Paul, 76, in
his comments to Iowa supporters, also before the last votes were
counted.  “Congratulations to  Rick Santorum , this has been a great
victory for him,” he told supporters. “We also feel it’s been
a great victory for us here.”  “Ron Paul has had a great night,” he continued. “All
three of us will be campaigning very hard to make sure that we
restore the heart and soul of the entire nation.”  Romney got close to the same number of votes he received in
his failed 2008 bid for the Republican nomination. In that race,
he was backed by 29,949 voters.  Romney lost the caucuses four years ago to former Arkansas
Governor Mike Huckabee, who was able to consolidate the support
of evangelical Christians, a major force in the state’s
Republican Party.  McCain Endorsement  Senator John McCain of  Arizona  won the 2008 Republican
nomination. McCain is set to endorse Romney today, according to
a person with knowledge of the announcement.  While not a clear-cut victory for Romney, the Iowa results
mean that two of his main opponents in  New Hampshire ’s Jan. 10
primary will be men who face doubts among many Republicans that
they would be strong general-election candidates, polling shows.
Santorum and Paul also must show they can mobilize widespread
support in primary contests, where turnout is much larger than
in a caucus.  Romney, though, will face a challenge for the more moderate
voters in the New Hampshire race from Jon Huntsman Jr. The
former Utah governor skipped Iowa and has focused his campaign
on New Hampshire; he held his 150th event in the state
yesterday.  No Republican who has won both the Iowa caucuses and the
New Hampshire primary has failed to become the party’s
presidential candidate.  Minimal Effort  In his Iowa remarks, Romney attempted to play down the
results by stressing the more minimal effort he made in Iowa
this year.  “When I ran four years ago we had 42 members of our full-
time staff,” he said. “This time we had five.”  Romney, who owns a New Hampshire vacation home and is well-
known to its voters from his time as governor of neighboring
Massachusetts and his failed 2008 presidential bid, heads to the
state having consistently led in polls of likely primary voters.
He was backed by 43 percent in a Suffolk University/7NEWS two-
day tracking poll of likely voters in the New Hampshire primary
released yesterday, while Santorum was at 5 percent.  Paul was second in the poll, with 16 percent, while
Huntsman was third with 10 percent.  The New Hampshire contest is followed by primaries on Jan.
21 in South Carolina and  Florida  on Jan. 31.  Younger Independent Voters  Paul’s third-place finish in Iowa followed his prediction
late last week that he would finish first or second. He was
boosted by youthful and independent-minded voters drawn to his
antiwar message.  In his speech to Iowa supporters last night, Paul argued
that he was among the three winners in the state.  “We will go on,” he said. “We will raise the money. I
have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be
there.”  Gingrich, speaking to Iowa supporters last night as it
became clear Santorum was vying for the lead, congratulated the
former Pennsylvania senator for waging a “great, positive
campaign” and added that he wished he could say that for “all
of the candidates.”  Gingrich was targeted by millions of dollars of negative
advertising in Iowa, much of it financed by Paul’s campaign and
a political action committee supporting Romney.  Won’t Go Negative  In an interview this morning on CNBC, Gingrich said he
wouldn’t respond to that barrage with attack ads against Romney.  “There’s a difference between laying out a comparison and
taking my position on issues versus his on issues -- which is
totally telling the truth -- and going negative,” he said. He
noted that his campaign had taken out a full-page ad today in
New Hampshire’s largest newspaper, the Union Leader, spelling
out what he called the “really big gaps in our policies.”  “I’m not suggesting running ads that defame him or attack
him or distort his record,” he said. “If you can’t survive an
honest statement of your record, maybe you shouldn’t be
running.”  Before leaving Iowa for New Hampshire, Gingrich told his
supporters: “There will be a great debate in the Republican
Party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack
Obama.”  Republicans must decide whether they want someone who can
change  Washington , or a “ Massachusetts  moderate who in fact
will be pretty good at managing the decay,” he said.  Romney has “given no evidence” during his time as
governor of “any ability to change the culture or change the
political structure,” Gingrich said.  Two Debates  In New Hampshire, the candidates will face off in two
debates, one on Jan. 7 and the next on Jan. 8.  The proportion of evangelical voters who participated in
the caucuses was roughly similar to four years ago, according to
 entrance polling . Almost 6 in 10 voters consider themselves
evangelical or born-again Christians, the polling showed.  Santorum won just less than a third of that group’s vote,
the most of any candidate, helping fuel his surge in the days
leading up to the voting.  Caucus participants were also younger and more independent
than four years ago, as Paul drew in college students opposed to
U.S. military operations in  Afghanistan  and elsewhere.  Almost two-thirds of the voters said they support the Tea
Party movement, according to the polling conducted by Edison
Research for the National Election Pool of television networks
and the Associated Press.  Looking Beyond Iowa  Even before the results were announced, Romney was looking
past Iowa. His campaign said yesterday it was planning to start
advertising in Florida, as it sought to display his national
reach and fundraising strength.  The campaign in Iowa demonstrated the power of money spent
by so-called super PACs. Of the estimated $5.8 million spent on
television advertising through Dec. 30, $3.7 million financed
negative ads, according to the most recent data available from
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks
advertising. Most of those spots were aimed at Gingrich.  The turnout of more than 122,000 voters for this year’s
Republican caucuses exceeded the turnout of less than 120,000 in
the contest four years ago.  Democrats slightly outnumber Republicans in voter
registration in Iowa, while independents outnumber both parties.
Four years ago, then-Senator Obama of  Illinois  defeated then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton  of  New York  in the Democratic caucuses,
a victory that propelled him toward the White House amid turnout
that was roughly twice as large as what Republicans saw
yesterday. He faced no challenge in the Democratic caucuses last
night.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in West  Des Moines , Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in West Des Moines, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  