-- Romney-Supporting PAC Stretches Truth in Television Ad Assault on Gingrich
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-05T20:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/romney-supporting-pac-stretches-truth.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  said he faced one “30-second distortion” after
another as he saw his lead in Iowa polls diminish to a fourth-
place finish in the state’s caucuses. He has reason to complain.  A political action committee called Restore Our Future,
which supports Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney , ran more
than $1.2 million of negative ads in Iowa, mostly aimed at
Gingrich. The PAC made at least one false statement and several
misleading ones over the course of five of its last commercials.  In one ad, a narrator says Gingrich was paid $30,000 an
hour by the government-backed home mortgage company  Freddie Mac .
That’s not true; Gingrich’s consulting company, the Gingrich
Group, received a monthly retainer of $25,000 to $30,000 during
one contract he had with  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , according to three people
familiar with aspects of the business agreement.  Restore Our Future defends the ad in postings on a website
at  http://www.newtfacts.com , pointing to a later comment
Gingrich made that he’d usually spend an hour with Freddie Mac
officials a month. The claim that it’s an hourly rate for
Gingrich “is a ridiculous exaggeration,” according to the
Annenberg Public Policy Center’s nonpartisan FactCheck.org.  Outside Groups  The repeated airing of debunked claims highlights the new
role that outside groups with little accountability are playing
in the 2012 election after court and regulatory rulings cleared
a path for them. All told, so-called super PACs backing specific
candidates had spent $5.3 million on ads through Jan. 3,
compared with $5.8 million spent by the candidates, according to
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, finished first in
Iowa, beating former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  by eight
votes. Each had roughly 25 percent of the vote. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  came in third, with 21 percent.  By law, Romney can’t coordinate with Restore Our Future.
Yet with the independent group financed with unlimited checks
from Romney backers aiming at Gingrich, Romney was able to stay
above the fray, running $852,370 of positive ads and no negative
spots in Iowa through Jan. 3, according to the CMAG data.  Gingrich, in an interview yesterday with  MSNBC ’s Chuck
Todd, said of Romney: “He’s not truthful about his PAC, which
has his staff running it and his millionaire friends donating to
it, although in secret. And the PAC itself is not truthful in
its ads.”  Immigration Issue  Three Restore Our Future ads claim Gingrich, the former
U.S. House speaker, supports “amnesty” for illegal immigrants.
Gingrich supports a path to legality for certain people with
“deep ties” to the community. In a Dec. 15 debate, he gave as
an example people who have been in the U.S. for 25 years. The
claim in the ad registered a “half true” rating from the
nonpartisan PolitiFact site of the Tampa Bay Times.  Romney, in a 2006 Bloomberg interview as he geared up for
his first presidential run, took a similar position as
Gingrich’s, saying some illegal immigrants should be allowed to
remain and gain legal status. “We’re not going to go through a
process of tracking them all down and moving them out,” he said
at the time, suggesting some could stay and pursue legal status
while others are deported.  Romney, in criticizing Gingrich on immigration policy in
this campaign, told Iowa voters in November that he has always
believed illegal immigrants should be sent back to their
countries of origin to apply for legal status.  Pelosi Link  Another spot targeting Gingrich includes the claim that he
co-sponsored a bill with Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , the House Democratic leader, that gave $60 million a
year to a United Nations program supporting  China ’s “brutal
one-child policy.” The funding for the worldwide family-
planning services program was part of a larger bill that never
passed, and the claim is “the most notably misleading” in the
ad, according to FactCheck.org.  The same ad says Gingrich favored “taxpayer funding of
some abortions.” Gingrich supported the Hyde Amendment, which
restricted federal funding of abortions while leaving open
exceptions for rape, incest and life of the mother. The anti-
abortion National Right to Life Committee highlights the vote
for the amendment as a positive for Gingrich.  “While its wording is accurate, its message is
misleading,” PolitiFact said, rating the claim “half true.”  On Jan. 3 in  Iowa , Gingrich said at a town hall meeting he
doesn’t support abortion exceptions in cases of rape or incest,
saying he would urge mothers to pursue adoption alternatives.  Romney’s Switch  Romney has changed his abortion views since his 1994
campaign to unseat then-Senator Edward Kennedy, a Massachusetts
Democrat. In a debate that year, Romney said he believed
abortion “should be safe and legal in this country.”  As a presidential candidate he has opposed abortions
rights, though he says wouldn’t  ban the procedure  in cases of
rape, incest or when a woman’s life is endangered.  Restore Our Future spokeswoman Brittany Gross declined to
comment on the groups ads. Romney’s campaign spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, referred to Romney’s comments on  Fox News  on Jan. 3, when
asked about Gingrich’s criticism of the attacks.  ‘Very Angry’  “I understand Newt must be very angry and I don’t exactly
understand why, but, look, I wish him well,” Romney said on
Fox, when asked about Gingrich’s attack on his veracity. “It’s
a long road ahead. He’s a good guy.”  Gingrich told supporters he’s going to start drawing more
contrasts with Romney. He’s now campaigning in  New Hampshire ,
aiming to cut into Romney’s lead in the state.  “We’re not going to go out and run nasty ads,” Gingrich
said while still in Iowa. “I do reserve the right to tell the
truth. And if the truth seems negative, that may be more a
comment on his record than it is on politics.”  Gingrich also faced attacks from others in Iowa. Paul’s
campaign posted a video almost two minutes long on its website
that strings together clips of Gingrich speaking and news
reporters and commentators speaking about him. At the end, a
voice summarizes Gingrich’s record as “serial hypocrisy.”  As the Paul ad shows, there’s plenty of fodder to attack
Gingrich without stretching the truth, said  Rogan Kersh , a
public policy professor at  New York University .  “The irony is that Romney’s PAC hardly had to make up
stories to damage Gingrich among Iowa’s conservative voters,”
Kersh said. “His own record as speaker is chock-full of the
usual array of compromises, side-deals and dealings with
Democrats, which -- repeated often enough -- would surely have
done the trick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  