-- Tables Turn on Romney as Rivals Assail Him
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-06T03:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/romney-presses-to-keep-iowa-momentum.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  campaigned in South Carolina today in a bid to
cement his status as the race’s front-runner while rivals took
aim at him in New Hampshire, site of the next primary.  Romney kept his sights on President Barack Obama in his
comments at an outside rally in Charleston this afternoon that
drew about 550 people.  “He’s a job killer, he doesn’t mean to be, he just is,”
Romney said of Obama. “He’s making America’s economy weaker and
that will stop when he’s no longer president.”  The South Carolina stop, which includes an event in Myrtle
Beach tomorrow, showed Romney’s confidence in the lead polls
show he holds in New Hampshire and his campaign’s ability to
fight on multiple fronts. Wins in  New Hampshire  on Jan. 10 and
South Carolina’s Jan. 21 primary would firmly establish him as
the candidate to beat for the Republican nomination and might
force others out.  Romney was joined at his Charleston event by fellow
Republicans Nikki Haley, South Carolina’s governor, and Arizona Senator  John McCain , who bested Romney in becoming the party’s
2008 presidential nominee and endorsed him yesterday in New
Hampshire.  Attacking Romney  Rivals  Newt Gingrich  and Rick Santorum stayed put in  New
Hampshire (BEESNH)  and tried to chip away at Romney there, arguing that
the former governor of Massachusetts isn’t conservative enough.  “There is a very big difference in our two sets of
values,” Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, said at a
seniors’ center in Plymouth,  New Hampshire (NFSENH) . “I don’t believe a
 Massachusetts  moderate is in a very good position to debate
Barack Obama.”  Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania ,
criticized Romney and Gingrich for in the past supporting
mandates to buy health insurance.  “You need to nominate someone who presents a very clear
contrast” with the president, Santorum said at a Rotary Club
breakfast in Manchester, New Hampshire.  Romney has the backing of 41 percent of likely Republican
primary voters in New Hampshire, according to a two-day Suffolk
University/7 News tracking poll released today. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas got the support of 18 percent,
compared with 8 percent for Santorum and 7 percent for both
Gingrich and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.  Huntsman last night won the endorsement of the Boston
Globe, which has a large circulation in New Hampshire.  Florida  Ads  Romney also has started advertising in Florida, which holds
its primary Jan. 31. He has become the main target of attacks
from rivals after winning the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses, beating
Santorum by eight votes. Each got just under 25 percent of the
vote. Paul finished third and Gingrich came in fourth.  The results in Iowa prompted Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann  to drop out after a sixth-place finish. The
fifth-place finisher, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , signaled
through a posting on Twitter that he is skipping New Hampshire
to focus on South Carolina.  Paul, who arrives in New Hampshire tomorrow, is running a
radio advertisement in the state disputing Romney’s central
campaign argument that he is the Republican best able to beat
Obama.  “Romney’s record is liberal, and putting him up against
Obama is a recipe for defeat,” the ad announcer says.  Santorum’s Appeal  Santorum, who spent most of the year lagging in polls and
campaign cash before surging in Iowa, targeted Romney in a
fundraising appeal.  “Now is the time to act or get stuck with a bland, boring
career politician who will lose to  Barack Obama ,” he wrote.  Today, Santorum zeroed in on a Massachusetts law that
Romney signed that requires everyone to buy health insurance,
just as the 2010 federal law backed by Obama does. Gingrich also
once supported the idea of mandating coverage as part of a
broader overhaul. He has reversed that position.  “I’ve never been for government-run health care -- never -
- unlike the other two folks who are running here that supported
individual mandates, that supported top-down government health
care,” Santorum said.  The Gingrich campaign today had former Senator Bob Smith of
New Hampshire and former Representative Bob McEwen of  Ohio 
criticize Romney in a conference call with reporters.  “Who is going to rally for Obama Lite?” McEwen said. “A
Massachusetts moderate is not going to make the clarion call
that the American people feel” is needed, he said.  Tax Analysis  Separately, the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington 
today released a study showing Romney’s tax proposal would add
$600 billion to the U.S.  budget deficit  in 2015. The analysis
compares the revenue that Romney’s tax-code changes would
generate compared with expected U.S. revenue under current law,
which assumes that several income tax cuts will expire as
scheduled at the end of 2012.  The analysis said Romney’s plan would “reduce federal tax
revenues substantially” though not as deeply as some of his
opponents. In a separate study released Dec. 12, the Tax Policy
Center said Gingrich’s tax plan would add $1.3 trillion to the
budget deficit in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in New Hampshire at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in  South Carolina  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  