-- Romney Challenges New Hampshire Upset History in Pivotal Primary
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-04T07:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/romney-challenges-new-hampshire-s-penchant-for-upsets-in-pivotal-primary.html
Mitt Romney is counting on  New
Hampshire  voters to resist their traditional contrarian practice
of upsetting presidential front-runners and deliver him a
victory so resounding that he’s set on the path to the
Republican nomination.  Romney, who has held commanding leads in most statewide
opinion polls during the almost three years he has been
campaigning there, is looking to reinforce his claim to the
party’s mantle after barely winning the Iowa caucuses. Anything
less than a victory in  New Hampshire (USUSNH)  on Jan. 10 would hurt his
chances even as it confirms the state’s reputation for keeping
the candidates and the rest of the nation guessing.  New Hampshire voters have “a long history of sending a
message and jerking the front-runner around,” said  Linda Fowler , a government professor at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover.  Romney’s margin in Iowa, the first contest of the 2012
presidential nominations, was just eight votes over former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , according to the state party
chairman, Matt Strawn. Texas Representative  Ron Paul  ran a close
third.  A  Suffolk University /7NEWS tracking  poll  of likely New
Hampshire Republican primary voters conducted Jan. 1-2 found
Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, maintaining a
significant advantage over his rivals, with backing from 43
percent. Paul was next with 16 percent, followed by former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., with 10 percent; former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , with 9 percent; and Santorum, with 5
percent.  Solid Support  “Romney’s support here is very solid,” said Fergus Cullen, a political consultant and former chairman of the New
Hampshire  Republican Party . “There’s just been no indication at
all that this is a campaign on the verge of collapse.”  Still, the state is known for punishing candidates who
expect to win, and Romney, 64, decided to spend two of the six
days left before New Hampshire voters go to the polls
campaigning in  South Carolina , which holds its primary on Jan.
21.  That “strikes me as someone who might be a little too
confident,” said  Andrew Smith , a pollster who directs the
Survey Center at the University of New Hampshire in Durham.  High-flying presidential candidates who have fallen victim
to the state’s upset tradition include Democrat Walter Mondale,
who lost by 10 points to Gary Hart in 1984; Republican  Bob Dole 
of  Kansas , defeated by populist  Pat Buchanan  in 1996, and  George W. Bush , beaten in the Republican primary by Arizona Senator
 John McCain  in 2000.  Huntsman as ‘Underdog’  Huntsman, a former Obama administration ambassador to  China 
who has campaigned almost exclusively in New Hampshire, appealed
to factory workers yesterday to stick with that  record  of
dashing front-runners’ hopes.  “All I want you to remember is that Huntsman guy, he’s the
underdog,” he told a couple of dozen workers at the Tidland
Corp. machine tool factory in Keene. “New Hampshire loves
underdogs,” he said, adding, “We need your help and we need
your support.”  The volatility of the Republican primary contest over the
months -- in which virtually all Romney’s rivals have enjoyed a
short-lived surge -- makes it less likely New Hampshire will
defy expectations, said Cullen, who isn’t affiliated with a
campaign. There is no one alternative who has the profile,
organization or breadth of support to blindside Romney, he said.  Avoiding Mistakes  Smith, the pollster, said New Hampshire’s penchant for
upsets hasn’t usually reared its head unless “you’ve had a
second-place candidate who either has strong momentum from a win
in  Iowa , or because they had a really strong organization and
campaign in New Hampshire.” Romney isn’t likely “to make many
mistakes over the next week that would cause any of the other
candidates to be able to jump out and catch him.”  Pat Griffin, a veteran Republican strategist who is also
neutral in the race, said the party’s voters are so motivated
this year to oust President  Barack Obama  that they’re unlikely
to gravitate toward someone like Paul, whose  support  is mostly
among non-Republican voters, or Santorum, who is more socially
conservative than the typical New Hampshire Republican.  “Romney is a franchise candidate, and if the Republican
Party is the party of the person whose turn it is, then I guess
I would say at this particular moment it’s  Mitt Romney ’s turn,”
Griffin said.  Santorum focused heavily in New Hampshire during the first
half of last year, then spent little time there in recent months
as he turned his attention to Iowa, where activists who favor
his pro-family message hold greater sway in the caucus process.  Finding Traction  “Does a guy like Rick Santorum, who is very socially
conservative, play in New Hampshire? I don’t think he will, and
I also don’t think he’s ready,” Griffin said.  And Gingrich, who surged in public opinion polls in New
Hampshire and the nation last month, has fallen behind and spent
limited time in the New England state in recent weeks.  Fowler said Paul, who speaks to the sentiments captured in
the state’s “Live Free or Die” motto, has found traction in
his message about ending U.S. involvement in overseas military
missions.  “This is a fiscally conservative but socially moderate
state, and it’s a state that is not very keen on foreign policy
adventures,” Fowler said. “Paul’s arguments about avoiding
foreign adventures are resonating here.”  Huntsman, for his part, is arguing that his intense focus
on retail politicking in New Hampshire -- he held his 150th
event in the state last night in Peterborough -- should be
rewarded.  “We’re doing it the way it’s supposed to be done,” he
said. “We’re here on the ground winning votes through
handshakes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Keene, New Hampshire at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  