-- S. African School Grades Rise for Second Year as Spending Surges
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-01-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/s-african-school-grades-rise-for-second-year-as-spending-surges.html
South Africa ’s school pass rate rose
for a second consecutive year in 2011, after the government
boosted spending on education and changed curriculums to improve
literary and numeracy levels.  The pass rate for final-year students at state schools rose
to 70.2 percent last year from 67.8 percent in 2010, Basic
Education Minister Angie Motshekga told reporters in the
capital,  Pretoria , late yesterday.  “The progress is very encouraging,” Motshekga said. “We
are aware we have a long way to go and the eradication of
inequality remains a key priority in our schooling sector.”  Poor education standards have been a constraint on growth
in Africa’s largest  economy (SAGDPANN) , with companies battling to hire
skilled workers in a country with a 25 percent  unemployment (SAUERATQ) 
rate. Half of all children who start school drop out before
completing the 12-year curriculum, while literacy and numeracy
rates are among  Africa ’s lowest, according to the government.
Pass rates fell for six consecutive years through 2009.  Under apartheid, South Africa’s black majority received
only a rudimentary education from poorly trained teachers at
over-crowded schools. The  African National Congress -led
government has struggled to rectify the situation since taking
power in all-race elections in 1994.  The government spends more on education than on any other
item in its budget, with expenditure estimated to rise 14
percent to 190.8 billion rand ($23.4 billion) in the year
through March, representing 19 percent of total state spending.
The education budget is projected to rise by 6.7 percent
annually over the next three fiscal years.  ‘Weak Capacity’  “The legacy of low-quality education in historically
disadvantaged parts of the school system persists,” the
government’s National Planning Commission said in a Nov. 11
report. The main failing “is weak capacity throughout the civil
service. Nepotism and the appointment of unsuitable personnel
further weaken government capacity.”  Of the 496,090 final-year secondary school students who
wrote exams last year, 24.3 percent achieved a mark high enough
to enter university, up from 23.5 percent the year before.  The pass rate for mathematics declined to 46.3 percent from
47.4 percent in 2010, which “is quite concerning,” Motshekga
said.  The lack of skilled teachers has been compounded by the
introduction of a system known as outcomes-based education in
1998, which did not require teachers to follow a set curriculum.
In 2009, the government said it would phase out the system and
ensure teachers focused on improving numeracy and literacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  