-- Santorum, Gingrich Allowed to Enter Perry’s Virginia Ballot-Access Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-04T23:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/santorum-gingrich-seek-to-join-perry-s-virginia-ballot-case.html
Republican presidential candidates
 Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and  Jon Huntsman  have joined  Rick Perry ’s bid to gain ballot access to Virginia’s primary
election.  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. in Richmond today
approved a request from the candidates, who were disqualified
from the state’s primary ballot because they didn’t submit
10,000 signatures from valid Virginia voters, to intervene in
the  Texas  governor’s lawsuit. They argue that Virginia’s ballot
rules impose a “severe burden” and are unconstitutional.  “Virginia’s requirement for petition circulators to be
either eligible or registered qualified voters in the state
violates proposed plaintiffs’ freedoms of speech and association
protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments,” according to
a filing by the candidates.  Virginia  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli yesterday
asked Gibney to dismiss Perry’s bid to have his name added to
the ballot for the March 6 Republican primary after he failed to
collect the 10,000 signatures required by state rules.  Perry “lacks standing to assert an injury arising from the
inability to circulate his own petitions because there is no
averment that he stood ready, willing and able to circulate his
own petitions and there is no basis for concluding that he would
have collected a sufficient number of valid signatures,” the
state said in yesterday’s filing.  Gingrich Signatures  While former House Speaker Gingrich submitted 11,050
signatures to the Virginia State Board of Elections, less than
10,000 of them were verified as registered voters, according to
today’s filing.  Gingrich said last week that someone hired to collect
signatures provided false ones.  Santorum submitted more than 8,000 signatures. Huntsman
didn’t file papers declaring his candidacy in Virginia because
he couldn’t meet the signature requirement, according to the
filing.  Perry last week sought a temporary order to halt state
officials from printing the ballots, or to require them to
include his name. In a lawsuit filed Dec. 27 in federal court in
Richmond, Perry claimed the state’s requirement that people who
circulate petitions be eligible or registered to vote in
Virginia violates his constitutional rights.  Jan. 13 Hearing  Gibney said Dec. 29 that he wouldn’t stop the printing
before the next hearing in the case, scheduled for Jan. 13. He
didn’t rule on the merits of Perry’s challenge.  Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans to make it onto the
ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called Super Tuesday, the
 Republican Party  of Virginia said last month.  Perry, in a filing yesterday, said he plans to call three
witnesses to testify at the Jan. 13 hearing. They include Jerry Kilgore, a former Virginia Attorney General and the Virginia
chairman of the Perry campaign; Joe Allbaugh, a former George W.
Bush administration official who is now senior adviser to the
Perry campaign; and Neal Blair, a lawyer who coordinated Perry’s
efforts to get on the ballot in Virginia.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  