-- Santorum Pro-Labor Votes Lurk as Rivals Attack Early on Earmarks
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-01-04T07:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/santorum-pro-labor-votes-lurk-as-rivals-attack-early.html
Rick Santorum ’s second-place finish
in the Iowa Republican caucuses means he’s now a leading
alternative to  Mitt Romney  -- and a prime attack target for the
front-runner.  A former Pennsylvania U.S. senator, Santorum, 53,
campaigned across Iowa in a Ram pickup truck arguing he is the
most consistent candidate on such issues as ending abortions and
curbing government waste. It’s a message that caught fire in the
final days of a fluid primary and propelled him into the front
tier of candidates.  He finished just eight votes behind the well-funded and
better-organized former Massachusetts governor, and also bested
Ron Paul, the Texas Representative who came in third and whose
intensely loyal supporters will likely keep him in the race for
future primaries.  “A track record is a pretty good indication of what you’re
going to do in the future,” Santorum told a crowded coffee shop
in Sioux City on Jan. 1.  Yet Santorum’s 16-year congressional career is the area his
competitors already are mining for evidence to use against him,
ranging from earmarked federal spending to an endorsement of
Pennsylvania’s former senior Senator  Arlen Specter , who later
switched parties to become a Democrat.  Labor Votes  Santorum’s competitors are also likely to highlight votes
he cast to benefit organized labor, including minimum-wage
increases and preserving government wage-setting regulations,
that have so far captured little attention on the campaign
trail.  As he surged in the final polls, Republican rivals this
week latched onto his record on legislative spending, which an
online advertisement by  Rick Perry  says includes taxpayer money
for a “bridge to nowhere” in  Alaska  and a teapot museum in
 North Carolina .  The Texas governor, who finished fifth in Iowa, has also
accused Santorum of voting to lift the debt ceiling eight times,
an issue that has more resonance today after the summer stand-
off between the White House and  House Republicans  that led to
the nation’s reduced credit rating.  Paul told  CNN  Jan. 2 that Santorum “spends too much money.
He wasn’t leading the charge to slash the budgets and vote
against big government.”  Targeted Spending  Lawmakers weren’t required to make public their requests
for targeted spending projects, called earmarks, until after
Santorum lost in 2006.  Still, Perry’s ad claim that Santorum obtained more than $1
billion in earmarks during his time in office is likely
legitimate, according to  Steve Ellis , vice president of
Taxpayers for Common Sense, which tracks government waste.  For instance,  Pennsylvania  in 2005 received $483 million in
earmarks for 872 projects, including $5.4 million for an igloo
upgrade for an Army Depot and $5 million for a new visitor
center at Gettysburg.  Terry Madonna , a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall
College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, said Santorum had worked
closely with Specter on earmarks and wasn’t known to condemn the
practice. “It was not a huge issue during his tenure,” he
said.  ‘Proud of the Money’  Santorum defended himself on Dec. 29 on  Fox News : “I’m
proud of the money that I did set aside for things that were
priorities in my state instead of having bureaucrats do that.”  The  online advertisement  released by Perry opens with
images of pigs -- a play on so-called pork-barrel spending --and
a clip of a Feb. 26, 2009, Santorum appearance on Fox News in
which he says he is “very proud of all the earmarks” he
inserted into legislation.  Santorum also wasn’t as reflexively anti-union as some
Republicans, perhaps because he waged his first House campaign
in 1990 in a Democratic-leaning, working-class congressional
district in the Pittsburgh area.  In 1993, Santorum was one of 17 House Republicans who sided
with most Democrats in backing a Clinton administration bill to
protect striking employees from being permanently replaced by
their employers.  Santorum’s Senate service shows a clear track record of
supporting the Davis-Bacon Act, the federal law that requires
government contractors to pay workers the local  prevailing wage (USMMMNCH) 
and a perennial target for elimination by the business community
and anti-union Tea Party activists.  Davis-Bacon  In 1996, Santorum voted in effect for an amendment by
former Massachusetts Democratic Senator Edward M. Kennedy that
said the 1931 law shouldn’t be repealed.  In 1999, the Senate accepted a Santorum amendment that said
it should consider “reform” of  Davis-Bacon  rather than repeal.
Later that year, Santorum was one of 15 Senate Republicans who
sided with Democrats in rejecting an amendment that would have
limited the application of Davis-Bacon in federal disaster
areas.  He has a mixed record on federal  minimum-wage  laws, casting
votes for increases and at other times against them. A pro-
Santorum  publication  put out by the Pennsylvania Republican
Party in 2006 noted “50 Things You May Not Know About Rick
Santorum.” Ranked at No. 23: Santorum “wrote legislation that
would increase the national minimum wage.”  Protecting Steel  Although a supporter of most free-trade agreements,
Santorum adopted a protectionist profile when it came to his
home state’s steel industry.  In 2002, he supported President  George W. Bush ’s decision
to impose tariffs on imported steel. In 1999, he was one of 42
senators who voted in effect for a bill he co-wrote that would
have restricted imports of foreign steel.  Even with those pro-labor stances, Santorum wasn’t a
consistent ally with the AFL-CIO; he had a 13 percent lifetime
rating from the labor organization in 2006, his last year in
office.  Jon Delano, a political analyst from  Carnegie Mellon
University  in Pittsburgh, said that low rating may give Santorum
a shield against some attacks. Still, Delano said, the former
senator would remain vulnerable to accusations that he’s “part
of the Washington establishment.”  Santorum’s 2004 endorsement of Specter over a more
conservative Republican primary opponent has also prompted
opponents to question his credentials. Specter, a 30-year Senate
veteran who served alongside Santorum in the chamber, lost his
seat in the 2010 Democratic primary after he switched parties.  Kentucky Senator  Rand Paul , the son of the presidential
candidate  Ron Paul , referenced the endorsement Jan. 1 on CBS’s
Face the Nation, saying Santorum is “a big-government type of
moderate” and among the “fair-weather conservatives” in the
Republican field.  Conservative Ratings  Santorum, who lost in 2006 to Democratic Senator Bob Casey
by 18 points, has a lifetime score of 88 percent from the
American Conservative Union.  Fellow presidential candidates Representative  Michele Bachmann  and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  have higher
scores, 100 and 90 percent, respectively, while Paul has a score
of 84. Governors’ records, including Romney’s and Perry’s,
aren’t scored by the group.  Still, Santorum does have conservative credentials to carry
onto the campaign field.  As a senator, he helped write the Welfare Reform Act of
1996, which among other things required recipients to begin
working after receiving benefits for two years. In 2003, he
introduced the “partial-birth” abortion ban that was signed
into law and prohibits many late-term abortions. He has also
spoken out against radical Islam.  Family Values  Santorum was able to woo Iowans by promoting his “social
conservative bona fides,” Dennis Goldford, a political science
professor at Des Moines-based Drake University who observed the
candidate in person at two appearances, said in an interview.
“He’s made the argument that he has served and suffered for
family values. He almost projects a sense of martyrdom.”  A Catholic with a wife of 21 years and seven children,
Santorum has been talking about his own family history on the
campaign trail. He’s said his 3-year-old daughter, who has a
fatal genetic disorder called Trisomy 18, inspired him to run.  In 1996, Karen Santorum gave birth to a baby with a fatal
birth defect who died two hours later. The couple named him
Gabriel and took the body home to show their children, according
to book by Karen Santorum called “Letters to Gabriel: The True
Story of Gabriel Michael Santorum.”  In Newton,  Iowa  on Jan. 2, Santorum answered an audience
question about the baby, saying, “We brought him home so our
children could see him.”  While those positions can rally social conservatives, they
could be less appealing to the independents who can participate
in the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary, said Jon Hurwitz, a
political science professor at the University of Pittsburgh.  “When people nationally take a harder look at his
aggressive, hard-line position on family values, I suspect they
will have some doubts, as well,” Hurwitz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  