-- Satcon Closing Canada Factory, Shifts Focus to Utility Solar
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-04T21:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/satcon-cuts-35-of-workforce-to-close-factory-in-canada.html
Satcon Technology Corp. (SATC) , a U.S. maker
of inverters for renewable energy sources, plans to close a
factory in  Canada  that makes systems for smaller solar plants as
it shifts its focus to large-scale, utility sun-powered
projects.  A hundred and forty employees will be fired, about 35
percent of the workforce, Boston-based Satcon said today in a
statement.  Satcon is eliminating its Solstice line of inverters for
smaller, distributed solar systems, which are too expensive to
be profitable, said Chief Executive Officer Steve Rhoades. It’s
the latest company to cut back as increased supply and waning
demand growth drives down  prices (SSPSMCSC)  for solar panels.  “The technology came at a higher price than the industry
was willing to support,” Rhoades said today on a conference
call. “We still see a very strong market for our other
solutions.”  Rhoades expects inverter prices to stabilize this year and
demand to increase over last year, especially in the U.S. and
 Asia . Profit margins will improve as Solstice is phased out, he
said, without giving specific targets. The company will focus
its sales efforts on large solar projects in the U.S., Canada,
 China  and  India .  Satcon’s gross margin, a measure of its earnings after
production costs, was 11.8 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 26.9 percent a year earlier, according to  data (SATC) 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Annual Savings  The company will take a charge against earnings of $2.8
million to $3 million, mostly in the fourth quarter, because of
the closing. It expects the move to result in annual savings of
$15 million to $17 million once the restructuring is complete in
the second quarter.  Satcon shares  fell (SATC)  10 percent to 57 cents at the close in
 New York . They have dropped 88 percent in the past year. It has
a market value of $68.3 million.  Other companies are also expanding their efforts in
utility-scale solar.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest maker of thin-film
panels, said Dec. 14 it’s focusing its marketing on large
projects as governments in Germany, Italy, the U.S. and other
important solar markets cut subsidies for solar projects,
crimping demand growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 