-- Schweppes Losing Australia Summer Sales in Fizz Shortage: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-05T07:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/schweppes-loses-australia-sales-in-fizz-shortage-with-coke-on-edge-retail.html
In the midst of a summer heat wave,
Australia is suffering a soft-drink shortage because of a
disruption in supplies of the gas that gives soda its fizz.
Schweppes Australia Pty. is already losing sales and Coca-Cola
may be affected next.  Retailers from  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , the
nation’s largest, to individual store owners are reporting lower
sales of sodas and mixers such as tonic water made by Schweppes,
which is also battling a labor dispute.  “At peak period I’m out of stock by 9:30 in the morning,”
said Mark Raynes, manager of the  Ritchies Supa IGA  supermarket
in Balnarring, a beach destination southeast of  Melbourne . “Our
trade doubles at this time of year, and saying you’ve got no
drink mixers is like saying there’s no Champagne on New Year’s
Eve.”  Summer is typically the busiest period for the nation’s
A$3.2 billion ($3.3 billion) soda industry with hotter weather,
schools on vacation and many workers taking time off in the span
between Christmas and  Australia  Day on Jan. 26. Melbourne
temperatures  peaked  at 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) this
week and Australia’s second-largest city has seen the mercury
above 30 degrees on  four of the past five days . Temperatures in
suburbs of Sydney, the biggest city, reached more than 37
degrees yesterday, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  Pepsi, Sunkist  Australia is the driest inhabited continent in the world,
and the decade to 2011 was equal to the hottest on record,
 according to the bureau .  Schweppes Australia, the nation’s second-largest soft-drink
maker, which also has the Australian bottling rights to Pepsi
and Sunkist, said production is being hampered by a lack of
carbon dioxide because of plant shutdowns by  Orica Ltd. (ORI)  and
 Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   Orica’s Kooragang Island ammonia plant, which makes the raw
gas as a by-product of explosives production before selling to
processors, has been closed since August after an accident.  The company began a controlled restart Jan. 3, and it may
take as long as three weeks to resume full production as Orica
focuses on safety, Nicole Ekert, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman,
said by phone.  In addition, the Lang Lang processing plant southeast of
Melbourne will be shut for as long as four months as part of
planned upgrades to the BassGas offshore natural gas project,
Stephen Ellaway, a Sydney-based spokesman at Origin, said by e-
mail. Carbon dioxide is often found in petroleum fields and is
removed during processing into fuel.  Labor Dispute  A labor dispute has made the situation worse. Schweppes
Australia, a unit of Tokyo-based  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) , has
locked out about 150 workers at a plant in Victoria state since
Dec. 15 in a pay disagreement.  Schweppes trails only  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL)  in Australian
soda sales.  The Asahi unit had sales of A$670 million in 2009,
according to the most  recent report  available from Australia’s
corporate regulator. Sydney-based Coca-Cola Amatil has domestic
beverage revenue of A$2.8 billion.  Coca-Cola Amatil faces production and supply disruptions if
the Kooragang restart misses its schedule, according to Michael
Nolan, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “Any further delay to the start-up process would leave
Coca-Cola Amatil short of carbon dioxide and likely prompt a
statement to the market,” Nolan wrote in a Dec. 22 report to
clients.  Lee Findlay, a spokeswoman for the bottler, which is 29
percent owned by Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , declined to
comment.  Short of Stock  The country’s largest buyers of soft drinks said they were
running short of stock in some areas as a result of the
disruption.  Sydney-based Woolworths, the country’s largest retailer,
had “localized supply issues” in Victoria and Tasmania states,
with Schweppes trying to source inventory from other plants.  “There are a few issues that have hit at once -- the
strike, a shortage of carbon dioxide gas, and some problems with
their normal logistics supply into Tasmania,” Clare Buchanan, a
spokeswoman at Woolworths, said in an e-mailed statement.  House Brands  Second-ranked Wesfarmers, owner of the Coles supermarket
chain, is making up for the Schweppes shortage with alternatives
including house brands. Closely held P&N Beverages Australia Pty
Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest soda maker, is the largest
producer of private-label soft drinks.  “We still have product on the shelves, but not our full
range and not as much as we would like,” Jon Church, a
spokesman for Coles in Melbourne, said by phone.  Coca-Cola Amatil  fell (CCL)  1.8 percent to A$11.68 at the close
of trade in Sydney and Woolworths dropped 0.9 percent to
A$25.47.  Coca-Cola Amatil has lost 1.6 percent in the past three
months, while Woolworths’ 5.3 percent  advance (WOW)  almost matches the
5.5 percent climb of the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Asahi fell 0.9 percent to 1,689 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading. The company has annual sales of 1.5 trillion yen ($19.6
billion), including about 392 billion yen from non-alcoholic
beverages.  Schweppes accounts for more than 10 percent of the Tokyo-
based company’s beverage sales, according to Bloomberg data.  Medical Priority  Australia’s two biggest processors and distributors of
carbon dioxide are  Air Liquide SA (AI)  and the BOC unit of  Linde AG. (LIN)   Judy Coulson, a spokeswoman for Air Liquide, and Karen
Heidtmann, a spokeswoman at BOC, declined to comment immediately
on the gas shortage.  Air Liquide, the world’s largest industrial gas producer,
said in a Dec. 6  statement  that the Kooragang shutdown had
forced it to reduce inventory levels and shift product from
other states to meet demand. Priority will be given to supplying
gas to water treatment plants and medical consumers, it said.  The Schweppes industrial dispute dates back to June, when
the company began moving to 24-hour-a-day operations at its
Tullamarine plant near Melbourne airport.  The soda maker said it needed to lock out the staff to
avert rolling stoppages by members of the United Voice union. A
conciliation session between the sides yesterday failed to
resolve the dispute.  “Our customer service levels are well below both what our
customers expect of us, and what we expect of ourselves,” Sara
Lettieri, a spokeswoman at Schweppes, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  