-- Seagate Shares Jump After Disk-Drive Maker’s Quarterly Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/seagate-shares-jump-after-disk-drive-maker-s-quarterly-sales-top-estimates.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX) , the world’s
largest maker of computer disk drives, rose as much as 7.9
percent in late trading yesterday after reporting preliminary
revenue figures that topped analysts’ estimates.  Sales were $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion in the fiscal
second quarter, which ended Dec. 30, the company said in a
statement. Seagate shipped about 47 million drives, lifted by
its acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co.’s hard-disk unit -- a
deal  completed (STX)  Dec. 19. Analysts had projected revenue of $2.79
billion on average, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg (STX) .  Seagate overcame  supply-chain (STX)  disruptions and increased the
amount of storage on each drive to an average of 653 gigabytes
in the quarter. The industry suffered a devastating flood last
year in  Thailand , which serves as a center of disk-drive
manufacturing. Unlike factories owned by competitors, Seagate’s
plants weren’t hit by floodwaters, helping it recover quickly.  The results “reflect the hard work and resiliency of the
Seagate teams and our strategic suppliers who are working to
help the industry recover from the massive disruption,” Steve Luczo, chief executive officer of the Cupertino, California-
based company, said in the statement.  Seagate climbed as high as $18.15 in extended trading after
the report was released. The shares, which advanced 9.1 percent
in 2011, had closed at $16.82 earlier in the day.  March Forecast  In the March quarter, Seagate expects revenue of $4.2
billion to $4.5 billion. Analysts had predicted $3.6 billion on
average. Gross margin, the percentage of revenue remaining after
production costs, will be at least 33 percent. That’s up from
about 30.5 percent in the period ended Dec. 30.  The floodwaters engulfed much of the industrial heartland
north of Bangkok, sidelining production of disk drives and
components.  Western Digital  Corp., Seagate’s biggest rival, had
to close down production, though it too recovered more quickly
than investors had anticipated.  Western Digital shares (WDC)  jumped on Dec. 2 after the Irvine,
California-based company resumed production and raised its
quarterly revenue. The gain helped Western Digital pare its 2011
stock decline to 8.7 percent.  Seagate plans to issue its final second-quarter results on
Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  