-- BP Gains, Shell Touches Six-Year High on Higher Oil Prices
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-04T17:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/shell-rises-to-six-year-high-bp-gains-in-london-on-oil-prices.html
BP Plc (BP\)  climbed in  London  trading and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  touched a six-year high as Europe’s two
biggest oil companies benefit from higher prices for crude.  BP rose 0.5 percent to the highest level since July 25 and
Shell reached the highest since 2005 before slipping back. Oil
held near an almost eight-month high after yesterday surging by
4 percent on speculation tension between Iran and the West will
tighten supply. Price gains may bolster cash flows and allow
bigger producers to boost payouts to shareholders this year.  “We’re still flying high from oil price movements,” said
 Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. The
largest oil producers “provide a reliable base for investors.
They offer solid yields and decent growth,” he said.  BP’s dividend yield, or the annual payout as a percentage
of the current share price, is about 4.2 percent and Shell’s is
3.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ten-year
U.K. government bonds yield about 2 percent in comparison.  BP, operator of the Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  that
caused the biggest U.S. oil spill, begins a court case in the
U.S. in February that will apportion liability. The company cut
its dividend in half after the disaster and has said it will
increase the level again in line with improved performance.  “If the oil price holds where it is, there’s a very good
chance that you get higher dividends,” said Stuart Joyner, an
analyst at Investec Securities in London. “We see generalized,
institutional buying. If people are looking to pick up some
cheap dividend-yielding stocks, both BP and Shell fit.”  The FTSE 100 index of U.K. shares fell 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  