-- Singapore’s Lee Deepens Efforts to Fight Voter Angst by Accepting Pay Cut
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-01-05T03:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/singapore-s-lee-deepens-efforts-to-fight-voter-angst-by-accepting-pay-cut.html
Singapore ’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong deepened efforts to counter voter grievances by agreeing
to a pay cut this week, as higher taxi fares and subway failures
fuel discontent over living costs and government efficiency.  Lee’s annual income will fall 36 percent to S$2.2 million
($1.7 million) while the president’s compensation will be
reduced 51 percent to S$1.54 million, based on the government-
appointed Committee to Review Ministerial Salaries’
recommendations  released  yesterday. New ministers will make
about S$1.1 million, down from S$1.58 million.  “People feel they should be getting better solutions for
the top dollar that the ministers are making,” said Eugene Tan,
a political commentator and assistant professor of law at the
 Singapore Management University . “The government may have dealt
with the ministerial pay issue but there will be equally hot-
button issues that will again hobble their ability to make
headway in terms of governing.”  Lee, 59, tightened rules for foreign workers and
implemented measures to cool housing prices after his People’s
Action Party won the May 2011 general election with the smallest
margin of popular votes since independence in 1965. The efforts
have been overshadowed by a series of unprecedented subway
breakdowns, floods across the island and costlier cab rides.  “We still have problems with flooding and transport,”
said Singapore retiree Joseph Teng, 62. He said the ministerial
pay reduction is “a good start and sounds like a hefty cut, but
if you look at the final sum, why is it still so much?”  Highest Paid  Singapore’s ministers are among the world’s highest paid as
the government previously benchmarked their wages against
salaries of chief executive officers and other top earners in
the country. The government has said such earnings prevent
corruption and help attract and retain talent.  “When I made the decision to join politics in 2006, pay
was not a key factor,” Grace Fu, senior minister of state at
the ministries of Information, Communication and the Arts and
Environment and Water Resources, wrote on her Facebook Inc. page.
“If the balance is tilted further in the future, it will make
it harder for any one considering political office.”  Ministerial pay was used by opposition parties in last
year’s election to stir voter unhappiness with the government
over the island’s income gap.  Income Gap  While investor- and immigration-friendly policies have
helped drive Singapore’s economic success, making the country
the easiest place to do business according to the  World Bank ,
its growth has come with widening income disparity. The island’s
Gini coefficient, an income inequality measure, rose to 0.48 in
2010 from 0.444 in 2000, according to the statistics department.
A reading of zero means income equality, while a reading of one
means complete inequality.  The city state’s  gross domestic product (SGDPYOY)  increased 41-fold
from 1960 to S$285 billion in 2010, based on 2005 market prices,
and the economy grew 4.8 percent last year after expanding a
record 14.5 percent in 2010.  Voter discontent has grown with the influx of foreign
workers, which boosted the population by about a fifth since
2005 to support the economy’s rapid expansion. More than a third
of Singapore’s 5.2 million inhabitants are non-citizens.  Millionaire Households  The island has the highest proportion of millionaire
households globally, according to the  Boston Consulting Group ,
contributing to higher property and consumer prices that have
pushed up living costs for its poorer citizens. Inflation was
5.7 percent in November, matching the fastest pace since 2008.  Singapore’s home prices have surged, prompting the
government to introduce measures to cool the  property market 
since 2009. Last month, the country imposed additional taxes on
purchases of private residential property to curb excessive
investment.  Adding to price pressures,  ComfortDelGro Corp. (CD) , Singapore’s
biggest taxi and bus operator, raised cab fares last month,
sparking an outcry from passengers and drivers. Singapore Press
Holdings Ltd.’s My Paper reported Comfort cabs suffered a drop
in daily takings of at least 20 percent on the first day of the
price adjustment.  “It is the hypocrisy of the company to say this is to help
the taxi drivers,” said Daniel Tan, a driver for Comfort.
“They paint a picture of looking after the drivers but they
look after themselves first.”  Subway Disruptions  Within days of the fare increase, Singapore suffered its
worst subway disruptions on record, leading to a public rally
calling for rail operator  SMRT Corp. (MRT) ’s Chief Executive Officer
Saw Phaik Hwa to step down.  The subway line running through the shopping district to
the central part of the island was shut on Dec. 15 after damage
to its power rail, and was closed again less than 36 hours later.
The breakdowns affected commuters heading to the Orchard Road
shopping district on the last weekend before Christmas.  Compounding the government’s woes, parts of Singapore were
affected by flash floods on Dec. 23, including the Orchard area.
That followed inundations earlier in the year.  The People Action’s Party worst election result since
independence last year prompted Lee to pledge his party will
change the way it governs and engage the population more in
decision-making.  The party, co-founded by Prime Minister Lee’s father,  Lee Kuan Yew , built the island into a global financial center and
trading hub with a mix of strict laws, a focus on education, a
pro-business attitude and openness to foreign talent. As younger
generations reap the benefits of Singapore’s wealth and
international education, they have increasingly questioned the
ruling party and demanded changes.  “Some Singaporeans take years to earn and save what they
get in a month, it’s not right,” said Andy Latif, a 29-year-old
technician, referring to ministerial salaries. “It’s a right
step by the government for now. Hopefully there will be further
cuts in future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  