-- Slippery Catch Serves $36 Sole, Clam Pizza, Mushy Sushi: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/slippery-catch-serves-36-sole-clam-pizza-mushy-sushi-review.html
Catch features iPad-equipped doormen,
$25 tequila cocktails and washroom attendants who hand you paper
towels and Dior cologne.  Jonathan Cheban , a regular on Kim Kardashian’s reality TV
show, held court on a recent night. He was greeted by Hung
Huynh, famous for winning the “ Top Chef ” reality cooking show.
I suppose they had something to talk about.  Over at the raw bar, cooks prepared “Hellfire Rolls,” which
involves spicy tuna two ways (smoky and mushy, neither very
good). They also diced up an excellent toro tartare with firm
sturgeon caviar -- a meaty, fatty $38 fish cake.  This is the flashy, fun and not infrequently silly state of
affairs at  Catch , a tri-level behemoth brought to us by the EMM
Group, the force behind Abe & Arthur’s and  Tenjune .  Catch is part fancy French seafood spot, part Japanese
sushi bar and part Italian-American clam shack with Chinese
influences.  The first item on the menu is a half dozen oysters with a
half bottle of Krug for $100. It’s a clever marketing trick
designed to make everything else seem affordable.  Impossibly beautiful spindle-legged waitresses and waiters
totter in and out of view in this  Red Lobster  for hedge funders.
Such frills help explain why you’re paying $78 for your
Cantonese-style crustacean. The plating included two tails and
five or six claws (must be one of those rare tarantula
lobsters). Garlic and ginger perfumed the barely cooked
shellfish. Delicious.  Don’t Even Ask  Smaller, $40 lobsters, with more predictable numbers of
claws, are available as well. They cannot be ordered Cantonese-
style. House rule.  An appetizer of cold Alaskan king crab legs is $60; a hot
entree is $90.  Crab lovers can opt for cheaper preparations like tender
rings of stuffed-squid or Dungeness-spiked spaghetti. Huynh cut
his teeth at Guy Savoy, one of the best fine-dining spots in
Vegas. That accounts for an expertly executed red-wine reduction
accompanying a charred, mineral-tinged strip steak ($35).  So why is an ambitious seafood spot sending out flavorless
chicken parmesan? What’s with the mall-style salmon rolls with
cloying yuzu-sauce?  Unexciting Shrimp  And why does Catch serve the same mediocre shrimp cocktail
you can get at any Midwest steakhouse?  Fried red snapper for two ($72) is presented whole. Your
waiter filets it with the elegance of a wood chipper. Huynh’s
chili-garlic sauce rescues the shredded, mealy flesh.  Arrive at 6 p.m. for the best seats in the house -- lounge
tables overlooking Ninth Avenue at the  Gansevoort Hotel . Noise
levels are not yet deafening.  Order plump, briny oysters with a dry Schloss Schonborn
Riesling ($19) or a glass of aromatic Brancott Sauvignon Blanc
from  New Zealand  ($14).  Avoid cocktails, made by bartenders keen on disguising the
flavor of good alcohol with sugar. The “Kane”, for example,
takes Deleon Diamante tequila (about $110 at your liquor store)
and makes it taste like pineapple juice. Cost: $25. The $18
“Black Smoke,” with Patron Reposado and mescal, is equally
unbalanced.  Huynh treats clams simply: raw on the half shell or chopped
up on a buttery flatbread pizza ($14). He treats his French
preparations even better, coating ethereal scallop dumplings
($15) in silken caviar-vichyssoise.  Sole ($36) is rolled around scallop mousse, poached and
draped in caviar beurre blanc, a study in restrained, delicately
textured maritime flavors.  After such heights, Catch returns you to Earth -- or at
least the Meatpacking District -- with a cookie dough bombe that
tastes of freezer burn. Not cool.  Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Question  Price: Easily $100 per person or more.  Sound Level: Loud, from 75-90.  Date Place: If you come early and order right.  Inside Tip: Stellar lobster macaroni.  Special feature: Tasty pretzel rolls.  Back on My Own Dime? Maybe for the sole.  Catch is at 21 Ninth Avenue. Information: +1-212-392-5978
or  http://catchnewyorkcity.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 