-- South Korea to Focus Defense Strategy on Possible Border Island Conflict
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-04T08:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/south-korea-to-focus-defense-strategy-on-possible-border-island-conflict.html
South Korea ’s military will focus
this year on defending against possible North Korean attacks on
border islands while preparing to take over wartime control of
its forces from the U.S. in 2015.  “The possibility of a North Korean provocation still
remains as Kim Jong Un is in the process of building his
regime,” the  Defense Ministry  said in a report posted on
President  Lee Myung Bak ’s website today. “Our military will
pulverize the enemy’s will to attack again by sufficiently
retaliating until the enemy threat, the source of the
provocation and its supporting forces, are completely removed.”  Kim Jong Un became North Korea’s new leader last month
after the death of his father  Kim Jong Il , whose military-first
policy has kept the country on combat alert since the end of the
 Korean War  in 1953. Tensions on the Korean peninsula have risen
since Lee ended a policy of engagement with the North and 50
South Koreans died in attacks in 2010.  The 680,000-strong South Korean military will increase the
number of artillery on standby, and boost its air force and navy
by introducing new radar and missile defense systems, the
statement said.  South Korea’s defense export target for 2012 is $3 billion,
up from $2.4 billion last year. Civilian management methods will
be introduced to the military’s finances this year to make up
for planned 1.5 trillion won ($1.3 billion) cuts in the  defense
budget  over the next three years, the ministry said.  Impoverished but Strong  North Korea’s military is more capable now than it has ever
been, said Lee Choon Kun, a senior research fellow at the Korea
Economic Research Institute, a private think tank based in
Seoul. The army had more than 1.02 million soldiers and more
than 200,000 pieces of artillery in 2010, according to a report
compiled by Lee and released a few days before Kim’s death.  “It’s a common misconception to think that North Korea
has a weak military because the country is impoverished,” said
Lee, who cited public data and information from governments
including the U.S. and  Sweden .  Disputed Sea Border  The disputed sea border between the two Koreas has sparked
conflict. North Korea shelled South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island in
November 2010, killing four, and an international panel found
the Kim regime guilty of torpedoing the Cheonan, a South Korean
warship, in March 2010 that killed 46 sailors.  South Korea will also expand its defense domain to include
cyberspace for the first time, the government’s report said
without specifying how it will differ from civilian safeguards.
Both the military and the government raised their cyber alert
levels on Dec. 20 in response to Kim Jong Il’s death.  Kim Jong Un’s new government condemned the actions as
“madcap saber-rattling” by Lee and made threats of
“retaliatory fire.” Lee said Jan. 2 a new era is still
possible in bilateral relations, despite the lack of change in
the young Kim’s rhetoric from his father’s, if  North Korea  shows
sincerity in shedding its nuclear program.  Preparation to take over wartime control of South Korean
troops from the U.S. on Dec. 1, 2015 is 51 percent complete, the
report said. The U.S. has about 28,500 troops in the country and
is moving them away from the demilitarized zone on the world’s
most fortified border.  Pyongyang Rally  Over 100,000 citizens rallied with ruling Workers’ Party
leaders in Pyongyang’s central Kim Il Sung Square yesterday in a
show of loyalty to the new leader, North Korea’s official Korea
Central News Agency reported today. State television also showed
footage of Kim Jong Un’s Jan. 1 tour of a tank unit today,
according to South Korea’s Yonhap news agency, continuing his
campaign to fortify his power base.  North Korea allocates a third of its budget as part of its
military-first policy to maintain 1,700 aircraft, 800 naval
vessels and more than 13,000 artillery systems, according to
U.S. military. The North is estimated to have 1.2 million troops
and another 7.7 million in reserve, according to South Korea’s
2010 Defense White Paper. It also has 70 submarines, including
an undetermined number of Yeono-class midget subs, compared with
South Korea’s 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  