-- Split-Second Events Cloaked in Time May Assist Computer Espionage
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-04T18:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/split-second-events-cloaked-in-time-may-assist-computer-espionage.html
By altering the speed of light beams,
like those used for data transmission, U.S. military-funded
scientists created a hidden pocket in time that one day may be
used in computer espionage.  Researchers from  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York
showed that it’s possible to cloak very fast events -- those
lasting less than about 40 trillionths of a second. Further
investigation may enable longer occurrences to be obscured as
well, according to a paper published in the journal  Nature.   The scientists took a stream of light and shifted it
through a lens, causing some beams to travel faster and others
slower. That created a so-called temporal void, where events --
in this case, a fast pulse of light -- can happen without being
observed. When the stream passed through a second lens, no one
watching it would know that the light pulse had taken place, the
paper said.  “The cartoon version is a robber coming in, opening a
safe, stealing and running out, while a closed-circuit
television just sees the safe as closed,” said Martin McCall, a
theoretical physicist at  Imperial College London . He wasn’t a
study author, though today’s  research  was inspired by  work his
team published  in November 2010 online in the Journal of Optics.  The project was funded by the  Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency , part of the U.S. Department of Defense
responsible for developing new technology for the military.  Temporal Cloaking  Most computer data passes through optical fiber cables,
where data is compressed as light, enabling communication to
pass over long distances at high speeds, said Alexander Gaeta,
an applied physicist at Cornell who led the research team. If
the research can expand the time pocket from its current scale
of picoseconds, or a trillionth of a second, to a nanosecond, or
a billionth of a second, it may enable groups like the U.S.
 National Security Agency  or the Central Intelligence Agency to
sneak looks at computer data without being detected.  In other words, time spent computer snooping would be
cloaked in a temporal void.  “When you put the word ‘cloaking’ in your title, there are
a number of applications like that,” Gaeta said, referring to
his paper’s title “Demonstration of temporal cloaking.”  There may be other uses, including enabling faster
emergency processing of data, he said.  The bank-robbing cartoon idea, though it serves well as a
nifty visual to understanding the concept, wouldn’t
realistically work, said McCall.  “To cloak minutes, you’d need an apparatus that’s the size
of the solar system,” he said. “This is likely to impact at
the nanoscale, where it can start to work with timescales of
current communication systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 