-- Storebrand Says Insurers to Raise Prices After Norway Tax Move
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-01-04T16:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/storebrand-says-insurers-to-raise-prices-after-norway-tax-move.html
Storebrand ASA (STB) ,  Norway ’s largest
publicly traded insurer, said the government’s plan to scrap an
eight-year-old  tax exemption  for some life-insurance products
will prompt the industry to charge customers more.  “There will be, over time, a strong movement in the market
to try and take up a significant part of this cost increase in
price adjustments,” Chief Financial Officer Lars Aa Loddesol
said on a conference call today. “We are putting together the
toolbox for management action.”  Norway’s Finance Ministry said on Jan. 1 that it would
recommend removing the exemption on taxing income from equities
held in guaranteed pension and so-called unit-linked portfolios.
The proposal has pushed Storebrand’s  shares (STB)  down almost 9
percent this week, even as European stock benchmarks rose.
Storebrand said on Jan. 2 that there would be a long-term
“negative impact” for its life-insurance operations.  “They have gotten used to very generous tax regulations
for many years,” Marius Pilgaard, a senior adviser in tax law
at the Norwegian  finance ministry , said in a phone interview
today. “They get upset, but in the end they understand that the
life-insurance companies should pay taxes more similar to all
other companies in Norway.”  Most life insurers have tax deficits even in good years,
allowing them to reduce their tax payable, Pilgaard said. “They
will still have a very nice tax regime, it just won’t be as nice
as it used to be,” he said.  The shares have also suffered because the new tax rules
make it less likely that Storebrand will merge with Gjensidige
Forsikring ASA, according to Vegard Eid Mediaas, an Oslo-based
analyst at Pareto Securities AS. The new regulations would
“effectively eliminate” possible merger synergies, he wrote in
a report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 