-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Flat in November
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-04T10:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/u-k-mortgage-approvals-little-changed-in-november.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals (UKMSVTVX)  were little
changed in November as weakening  consumer confidence  and
economic uncertainty restrained demand for property.  Lenders granted 52,854 loans to buy homes compared with a
revised 52,786 the previous month, the Bank of England said
today in  London . While approvals have risen from about 47,300 a
year ago and are at the highest in two years, the November
reading is still less than half the monthly average of 103,000
in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis struck.  Nationwide Building Society  said last week that  house
prices  may decline this year as the fallout from the euro-area
sovereign debt crisis pushes up unemployment and undermines
household sentiment. Some Bank of England policy makers have
said the central bank may have to increase stimulus after they
maintained the target for asset purchases last month.  “The modest rise” in approvals “fails to mask the fact
that housing market activity remains very weak compared to long-
term lows and has been unable to develop significant upward
momentum,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “Low wage growth, a markedly
weakening labor market and major concerns over the economic
outlook will limit potential buyers.”  Economists forecast that mortgage approvals would slip to
52,500 in November from an initially reported 52,743 in October,
based on the median forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Net mortgage lending rose 571 million pounds ($892
million) in November from October, while  consumer credit 
increased 394 million pounds, the central bank said.  Construction  U.K. construction growth accelerated in December, according
to a report today from Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply . Their index of building
activity rose to 53.2 from 52.3 in November.  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
reports. It traded at $1.5653 as of 10:18 a.m. in London, from
$1.5649 yesterday.  Nationwide’s 2012 house-price forecast tallies with other
predictions of falling or stagnating values next year. The  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors and property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. said in separate reports last month that prices
will fall about 3 percent in 2012.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said in
December that the debt crisis in  Europe  had led to increased
funding costs for banks. While the impact on the cost of loans
for companies and households had so far been “relatively
muted,” it said, if funding stresses persist, “credit
conditions could be expected to tighten materially in 2012.”  Bond Purchases  The deteriorating economic outlook prompted Bank of England
officials to expand their emergency  bond-purchase program (UKAPTARG)  by 75
billion pounds in October. The central bank held the target for
bond purchases at 275 billion pounds last month and kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent. The bond program is
scheduled to be completed in early February.  Separately today, the  Bank of England  said a measure of M4
money-supply growth it uses to assess the effectiveness of its
asset purchases slowed to 3.7 percent in the three months
through November on an annualized basis. That compares with 5.1
percent in the quarter through October. The gauge excludes
financial companies that specialize in intermediating between
banks, such as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 fell 0.6 percent in November from the previous
month, the biggest drop since December 2010, and was down 2.6
percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  