-- Food Inflation at Home May Have Peaked
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-01-04T12:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/u-s-food-inflation-at-home-may-have-peaked-usda-s-glauber-says.html
U.S. inflation for food at home may
have peaked after crop prices fell for the first time in three
years, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s top economist said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture  Total Return (SPGCAGTR)  Index
of eight commodities dropped 16 percent last year, the biggest
decline since 2008. Cocoa and sugar led the retreat for food
items. Coffee, soybeans and wheat also declined.  World food prices tracked by the  United Nations  dropped for
a fifth month in November, the longest decline in more than two
years. Farmers will reap a record corn crop in 2012, and global
inventories of wheat, corn and soybeans will be 3.2 percent more
than projected in November, the U.S. government said Dec. 9.  “What I’ve seen from the data is that food inflation is
slowing,” Joseph W. Glauber, chief economist at the USDA in
 Washington , said in an interview today at the  Oxford Farming
Conference in Oxford,  England . “We know that most major
commodity prices have fallen and it takes a while for those to
make their way through the system.”  The increase of about 6 percent for food prices at home
last year was probably the peak and will return to more
“normal” gains of 3 percent to 4 percent this year, Glauber
said. Globally price inflation will slow “similarly” to the
U.S., he said.  South America   Slowing food inflation may be jeopardized should weather
damage crops in South America, which typically plants corn this
quarter for harvests that begin in March. Growers are focusing
on the La Nina phenomenon which brings heavier rainfall in  Asia 
and drier weather in South America.  “If we were to see devastating yields out of South America
that would definitely have an impact on grain markets and
oilseed markets and have an impact, at least in  developing
countries ,” Glauber said.  Overall food prices will rise 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent
this year after climbing 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent last year,
the USDA said last month. In November, food prices at home
climbed 5.9 percent from a year earlier, led by fats and oils
and eggs, according to USDA data.  Cattle, Hogs  Cattle and hog producers in the U.S. may expand their herds
as the price of  animal feed  falls, adding to the available
supply of meat and bringing down  beef (BOXBBC9V) , pork and poultry prices,
Glauber said. Wheat prices dropped 18 percent last year.  “Livestock is one of the big drivers in the overall food
budget,” Glauber said.  Slower gains in commodity costs, accounting for 40 percent
of the  consumer price index , would give the U.S. Federal Reserve
more flexibility to shore up growth. The benchmark measure for
prices will climb 2.1 percent this year after an increase of 3.2
percent last year, according to the median estimate of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Food costs account for
about 14 percent of the CPI.  The USDA forecasts prices for food away from home will
increase 2 percent to 3 percent this year, after rising an
estimated 2 percent to 2.5 percent last year.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,
the world’s biggest coffee shop operator, raised prices on some
coffee in the U.S. Northeast, South and Southwest to recoup
higher costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  