-- U.S. Denies Bids by Kansas, Oklahoma for Health Law Waivers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-04T21:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/u-s-denies-bids-by-kansas-oklahoma-for-health-law-waivers-2-.html
Health insurers in  Kansas  and
 Oklahoma  can’t take more than 20 percent of the revenue they
collect in premiums for overhead and profit, after the U.S.
today denied requests from the states for more generous limits.  The government now has rejected requests by eight states
for waivers from a provision of the 2010 health-care overhaul
that requires insurance companies to spend at least 80 percent
of premium revenue on care, called a medical loss ratio.
Seventeen states have asked for an adjustment to the requirement
that would allow their insurers to spend less.  Kansas and Oklahoma don’t need an adjustment because
insurers probably won’t leave the states without it, said the
Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight, an
office of the U.S. Health and Human Services Department.  The spending requirement “is one of the most important
consumer protections” in the health law, said  Steve Larsen ,
director of the office, in a conference call with reporters.
Kansas has a “stable, competitive” insurance market that won’t
be disrupted by the requirement, and “there is not a reasonable
likelihood” that any insurers will depart Oklahoma, he said.  Larsen’s assessment about Kansas is correct, said  Sandy Praeger , the state’s Republican insurance commissioner, in a
telephone interview. She submitted the waiver request in April,
before it was clear whether insurers in her state could meet the
requirement, she said.  States’ Requests  “At the time we started our application we weren’t as
certain as perhaps we are today that we won’t have
difficulties,” she said. “That’s the good news; we think our
market is relatively stable and our companies plan to stay with
us.”  The top two insurers selling to individuals in Kansas are
nonprofit Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, according to a letter
Larsen sent to Praeger today explaining his decision. The
largest for-profit insurer in Kansas is Coventry Health Care
Inc., which expanded in the state last year when it bought a
smaller competitor, Praeger said.  Praeger said she’s “not crazy about the hard-and-fast --
the rigidity” of the spending requirement.  “I certainly understand why it was done and I think that’s
good: the reason behind it is to make sure companies are not
charging high premiums just to enhance their bottom lines, but
to make sure people are actually getting value for that premium
dollar.”  Different Limits  Kansas had asked that its insurers be allowed to spend 70
percent of premiums on care in 2011, rising gradually to 76
percent by 2013. Oklahoma wanted a 65 percent loss ratio in
2011, increasing to 75 percent in 2013. All insurers will have
to meet the 80 percent standard in 2014.  The largest insurer in Oklahoma’s individual market is
Health Care Service Corp., a customer-owned company that runs
the state’s Blue Cross Blue Shield plan, according to a letter
Larsen sent to Oklahoma’s insurance commissioner, John Doak. The
largest for-profit insurer in the state is Golden Rule, a
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  subsidiary.  “This decision could lead to a massive disruption of our
insurance markets,” Doak said in a statement. Smaller insurers
in the state may comply with the requirement by firing
employees, he said.  Doak, a Republican, opposed the health law and the creation
of Larsen’s office, he said.  Insurers that don’t meet the standard must pay rebates to
their customers beginning this year, under the health law. State
insurance commissioners who have asked for waivers argue the
rebate requirement will cause some insurers to exit the
business, leaving people without coverage.  Michigan ’s request for an adjustment was denied on Dec. 19,
as was  Florida ’s on Dec. 15. Requests for waivers from Texas,
Wisconsin and  North Carolina  haven’t been decided.  Only Maine has won U.S. approval for the lower standard it
wanted.  New Hampshire ,  Nevada ,  Kentucky ,  Georgia  and  Iowa 
received adjustments that were less generous than they
requested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  