-- U.S. Defense Strategy Plan Focuses on Thwarting China, Iran
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-01-04T09:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/u-s-defense-strategy-review-focuses-on-thwarting-china-iran.html
The U.S. Army, Navy,  Air Force  and
Marines must combine resources to thwart any efforts by
countries such as  China  and Iran to block America’s access to
the  South China Sea , the  Persian Gulf  and other strategic
regions, according to a draft of a Pentagon review.  The military services must work more cooperatively to pool
their intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities
and cyber-security tools, as well as operational concepts, the
review is expected to say, according to an administration
official familiar with the review who asked not to be
identified.  The U.S. should be able to deter any emerging anti-access
capabilities such as the diesel attack submarines being
developed by China and the anti-ship ballistic missiles deployed
by China and Iran, and if necessary, defeat them, said the
administration official.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is due to unveil the review
tomorrow, setting policy priorities in addressing about $490
billion in budget cuts over the next decade.  The review is expected to conclude that the U.S. no longer
will engage in protracted large-scale stabilization operations,
as it has in Iraq and  Afghanistan , and it won’t have sufficient
forces to fight two major conflicts at the same time, according
to the official.  Major Conflicts  Rather, the U.S. will be able to fight in one major
conflict and have the ability to deploy forces to deter another
potential adversary from pursuing another major conflict, said
the official.  With an expected reduction in active duty personnel, the
strategy will seek to emphasize more rapid availability of
National Guard and reserve forces for major conflicts. The
current plan calls for reducing the force in 2015 and 2016 by
27,000 GIs and by as many as 20,000 Marines. The projections
were based on the U.S. military leaving  Iraq , which occurred at
the end of last year, and significantly reducing U.S. forces in
Afghanistan by 2014. Panetta may announce deeper reductions.  The strategy is expected to maintain a commitment to
ballistic missile defense and nuclear deterrence, according to
the official.  The review also will include language that emphasizes the
role of political and diplomatic efforts in deterring conflicts.  Asia-Pacific Strategy  President  Barack Obama  in November announced steps to
expand trade and military cooperation with Asia-Pacific nations
that share U.S. concerns over China’s currency and intellectual
property policies and territorial claims, such as potential oil-
rich areas and trade routes in the South China Sea.  The administration’s foreign policy strategy is being
refocused on  Asia  as Obama wraps up wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Obama’s national security adviser, Tom Donilon,
said in November that the U.S. strategy in Asia “has nothing to
do with isolating or containing anybody.” Discussions during a
meeting between Obama and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  in November
“briefly” touched on the South China Sea, where territorial
disputes have raised tensions between China and its neighbors.  “China sticks to the path of peaceful development and is
always a force in maintaining regional and world peace,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a regular briefing
in Beijing today in response to a question about the U.S.
strategy. He said he had not seen the draft and that China and
the U.S. must work together. “Cooperation is the only way,” he
said.  While Chinese officials generally downplay offensive
intentions, Iranians have threatened to use military force to
block oil shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz  in the event of
an oil embargo or full conflict with the U.S. over its nuclear
program.  The state-run Fars news agency yesterday cited the head of
 Iran ’s army, Ataollah Salehi, as “warning” the U.S. not to
return an  aircraft carrier  to the Persian Gulf. Pentagon
spokesman George Little said the deployment of ships in the
region “will continue as it has for decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  