-- Forint Hits Record Low as Default Swaps Soar on IMF Aid Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-04T16:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/hungarian-forint-declines-to-record-low.html
 The forint dropped to a record low
against the euro and credit default swaps reached an all-time
high after Citigroup Inc. said an International Monetary Fund
deal is unlikely in the next six months.  The forint fell to 321.1 against the European common
currency at 5 p.m. in Budapest. The previous record was 317.92
on Nov. 14. The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds using credit-
default swaps climbed to a record 708 basis points from 650
yesterday, data provider CMA said.  The European Union and the IMF broke off aid talks last month
as the government prepared legislation that threatened to
undermine the independence of the central bank. Parliament
approved the laws on Dec. 30. The EU has no current plans to
resume talks, European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly said
yesterday.  “We believe there is an increased likelihood that the IMF
deal will not happen before the second half of 2012,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup, wrote in a
research report today.  Hungary , the EU’s most-indebted eastern member, received its
second sovereign-credit downgrade to junk last month when
 Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s Investors Service in taking
the country out of the investment-grade category on Dec. 21.  “The dispute with the EU may mean that the forint is left
without any support for weeks,” Gergely Forian-Szabo, who helps
manage $770 million at Budapest-based Pioneer Alapkezelo, the
local fund management unit of UniCredit SpA, said in a telephone
interview. “We are testing uncharted territory, the next level
of resistance isn’t in sight.”  Rate Increases  Hungary needs a financing agreement with the IMF and EU to
restore investor confidence and wants an agreement “as soon as
possible,” Minister Tamas Fellegi, the country’s chief
negotiator, told Figyelo weekly, according to excerpts from an
interview to be published tomorrow, sent to Bloomberg News by
the magazine.  A delay in the IMF talks may necessitate rate increases of
as much as 300 basis points from the current 7 percent rate to
defend the forint, Citigroup’s Gargyan said.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
costs in six months rose 52 basis points to 8.65 percent, the
highest since June 2009. The Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, to
which the FRA contracts settle, traded at 7.35 percent.  Bond Investors  “The market has priced in a 1 percentage point rate
increase, which is not helping bond investors,” Karoly Bamli, a
Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. Concern the IMF talks won’t be completed
in the first half of the year hurt the forint, Bamli said.  Ten-year note yields (GHGB10YR)  climbed 38 basis points to 10.75
percent, the highest since April 2009, extending the jump in the
past three days to 85 basis points, according to generic prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock  index (BUX)  fell
2.4 percent to the lowest since November as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the
country’s biggest lender, plunged 6.9 percent.  Hungary won’t default and the country will continue to
fully service its debt, Janos Lazar, head of the ruling Fidesz
party’s parliamentary group, told news website fn24.hu.  Hungary’s state debt management agency rejected all bids at
a government bond exchange auction today as the increase in
yields rendered “an extension of the maturity not worthwhile,”
the agency said in an e-mailed statement. The auction offered
the chance for investors to swap  government securities  due in
2013 for 10-year notes.  The government yesterday raised 45 billion forint ($190
million) in an auction of three-month Treasury bills, at an
average yield of 7.67 percent, the highest for three-month notes
since August 2009.  “The market implications are obvious,”  Charles Robertson ,
head of macro-strategy at  Renaissance Capital  in  London , wrote
in an e-mail today. “Within the central European three, favor
Poland and  Czech Republic  over Hungary. Within  emerging markets ,
favor anywhere over the central European three.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  