-- Muni Market Spurns Early Sellers in 2011, Franklin’s Costas Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-01-04T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/muni-market-spurns-early-sellers-in-2011-franklin-s-costas-says.html
Municipal bonds withstood calls for
widespread defaults in 2011 to return more than 10 percent,
proving to investors that markets are unpredictable, said Rafael Costas, co-director of municipals at  San Mateo , California-based
Franklin Advisers, which manages $72.4 billion of the debt.  Costas discussed what lies ahead for the muni market in
2012, including the rise of direct bank loans and lack of bond
insurance, for today’s issue of the Bloomberg Brief: Municipal
Market newsletter.  Q: What was the biggest storyline for the municipal market
in 2011?  A: How far off those predictions that got the most press
actually were. Unfortunately, a lot of investors were misled
into selling at the worst possible time. Who knows what they put
their money into? After all was said and done, one year later,
the municipal market would have been one of the best places in
which to have put your money.  You just don’t know what’s going to happen. It’s a good
reminder to investors that no matter how smart you think you
are, or how well you have it all thought out, it pays to
diversify because you could be wrong.  Q: What will be the biggest storyline for the municipal
market in 2012?  A: The market will be watching how the  Jefferson County (3681MF) 
bankruptcy proceedings go, to see what’s challenged and what
stands up to challenges.  Of course we have an election year, so there will be a lot
of talk and a lot of posturing about how we have to get a better
handle on our country’s financial house.  You’ve seen some proposals where people are talking about
how municipal-bond interest is going to be treated and about
whether it’s going to remain completely tax-exempt. It could be
something, it could be just political posturing.  Q: You say it’s inaccurate to classify dipping into reserve
funds as defaults. Why?  A: A default to us and to most people is you don’t get paid
when you’re supposed to be. It is useful to know when issuers
are dipping into reserves because it is a warning sign, but
that’s what reserves are for! They’re here for the tough times
and to give you a cushion so you don’t have a default.  To claim that dipping into reserves is a default is almost
irresponsible. You’re painting a picture that’s worse than it
should be, and it doesn’t allow for how much you dipped into
reserves.  If all you’re dipping into reserves is 5 or 6 percent, you
have a good 15 years before you actually start thinking about
missing a payment.  Q: Do you see bond insurance making a comeback in the
municipal market?  A: It’s going to be a while, but the original premise of
bond insurance will be valid. Bond insurance was originally a
tool for small issuers that are not as widely known. So when
they came to market, the insurance they could get made them that
much more marketable and liquid.  As we work out of the effects of the financial crisis,
you’ll see more than 5 to 7 percent of the market being insured,
but I don’t know where it’s going to end up. It’s certainly not
going to be 50 percent of the market anytime soon.  Q: Are you concerned at all about the amount of private
placements and direct bank loans in the municipal market?  A: One of the concerns we have is it’s hard to document. I
don’t mind municipalities taking advantage of every way they can
to raise capital in the way that’s most advantageous to them,
but it should be disclosed.  You have public debt out there, and that’s public
information. And I certainly as a bondholder of any entity would
like to see in the financial reports at the end of the year if
they did issue some other debt on the private side.  I don’t object to it -- I just need to know because it
impacts my analysis when we’re looking at a bond. As long as
it’s being disclosed, I don’t have a big concern with that new
market. They need to access capital in the best way that they
can for their taxpayers and their citizens. As a bondholder, I
just want to make sure they’re disclosing their debt, and
they’re not diluting the security of existing bondholders.  Q: What effect, if any, does the European debt crisis have
on the municipal-bond market?  A: The European situation unfortunately is affecting every
market around the world. You see the headlines -- stocks go up
or down by 200 or 300 points based on European fears. It does
have an effect, mostly on Treasuries.  I don’t think many Europeans are coming in to buy municipal
debt. Whenever the situation in  Europe  clears up and people feel
more confident in investing in other assets for the long haul, I
would expect some selloff in Treasuries. And I’d expect munis to
perform better when that day comes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  