-- UniCredit Drops After Announcing 43% Discount on $9.8 Billion Rights Offer
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-04T18:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/unicredit-plans-2-for-1-rights-offer-to-raise-9-8-billion-at-43-discount.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  fell the most in 23
years in Milan after  Italy ’s biggest bank said it will sell 7.5
billion euros ($9.7 billion) of shares at 43 percent less than
yesterday’s closing price, excluding the value of rights.  Investors will be offered two new shares for 1.943 euros
each for every one they already hold, the Milan-based lender
said in a statement today. That exceeds the 30 percent discount
offered by Commerzbank AG in its 5.3 billion-euro rights offer
last May and the 39 percent discount when HSBC Holdings Plc
raised about $17.7 billion in March 2009.  “The discount is the highest seen in the European banking
sector over the last few months,” Luigi Tramontana, an analyst
at Banca Akros who has a hold recommendation on the stock, wrote
in a note today. “We remain prudent on the stock.”  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is cutting costs
and reducing staff to strengthen the bank’s finances and boost
profitability after posting a third-quarter loss of 10.6 billion
euros. UniCredit is raising the money to plug a capital
shortfall and comply with European Banking Authority targets.  UniCredit shares fell more than 14 percent, the most since
December 1988, to 5.42 euros in Milan trading. The stock has
dropped by about one third since the lender announced the
offering on Nov. 14. That values the bank at 10.5 billion euros.  Investors Subscribe  Investors including Fondazione CRT,  Allianz SE  and
Carimonte Holding have already said they will subscribe to their
rights for 14 percent of the offer, the lender said in the
statement. Shareholders accounting for another 10 percent of the
offer have initiated procedures to participate, without making
any binding commitments, the bank said.  The government’s financial security committee allowed the
 Central Bank  of  Libya  to participate in the offering to maintain
its 5 percent stake in the lender, people with knowledge of the
matter said Dec. 15.  The offer price reflects “current market conditions,”
UniCredit said, adding that the Italian market regulator has
approved the offer forms. A group of underwriting banks, led by
Bank of America Corp. and Mediobanca SpA, have guaranteed the
rights offer, the lender said.  UniCredit will pay as much as 250 million euros in fees and
expenses related to the offering, about 3 percent of the total
raised, the lender said in a  prospectus  on its website.  Shareholders can buy stock from Jan. 9 to Jan. 27, and the
rights will be tradable from Jan. 9 to Jan. 20, the bank said.  EBA Requirements  The share sale and the inclusion of 2.4 billion euros of
convertible and subordinated hybrid equity-linked securities,
known as CASHES, in its core Tier 1 calculations will allow
UniCredit to exceed the capital targets set by the EBA, the bank
said on Dec. 8. The lender’s core Tier 1 capital will rise to
9.4 percent after the measures are implemented, higher than the
9 percent goal set by the EBA for June.  “This capital increase is done in the middle of an
unsolved sovereign crisis,” analysts at Fidentiis Equities
wrote in a note to clients. “This is why it might have
difficulties in going through.”  European stocks retreated today from a five-month high as
UniCredit’s rights offer boosted concern that banks may struggle
to raise more capital to weather the region’s debt crisis.  The EBA estimated last month that banks in the region
needed to raise 114.7 billion euros of capital, 8 billion euros
more than previously estimated. It gave them until Jan. 20 to
submit money-raising plans to national supervisors. Banks that
fail to raise enough capital in the market will first tap
national governments, falling back on the European Financial
Stability Facility rescue fund only as a last resort.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  