-- Vestas Future Questioned After Revenue Forecasts Cut Twice
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-04T17:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/vestas-to-restructure-as-turbine-delays-cut-sales-by-1-3-billion.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest
wind-turbine maker, fell to its lowest since 2003 in Copenhagen
after cutting its sales forecast, prompting analysts to say
management’s future and chances to avoid a bid may be in doubt.  Reducing its revenue and profit outlook for the second time
in two months yesterday was “another blow to investor
confidence” in the Aarhus, Denmark-based manufacturer, which
already was at an “all-time low,” said Sean McLoughlin, vice
president of clean technology research at HSBC Bank Plc.  Vestas, whose shares have lost 92 percent from a 2008 high,
blamed higher costs and delayed wind farms, helping drive down
shares in rivals Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA of  Spain  and
 India ’s  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  Its plan to unveil a restructuring on
Jan. 12 without giving a hint of its nature left analysts
questioning management’s credibility.  Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  may face investor
pressure to resign as stumbling in the second half of 2011 was
related to “bad execution” rather than turbine demand, said
Julien Desmaretz, an analyst at investment bank Bryan, Garnier &
Co., who lowered his rating to “neutral” from “buy.”  Michael Holm , a spokesman for Vestas, brushed aside
takeover speculation, saying, “We are for sale every day on the
stock exchange.” He said questions about the impact on
management will be answered next week by Engel.  ‘No More Credibility’  “Investors are willing to see a new management on board
because the current one has no more credibility,” Desmaretz 
said. “Vestas struggled to deliver according to its plan and 
that is the main problem.”  The stock closed down 19 percent at 56.25 kroner. Vestas’s 
600 million euros ($777 million) of 4.625 percent bonds that
mature in 2015 fell 3.2 percent to 84.50, the lowest price since
the bonds were sold in March 2010.  “The cheaper it gets the more attractive takeover target
it becomes,” McLoughlin said. The possibility of a bid on
Vestas is “modest” at the current price, and increases “as
the shares drift towards 50 kroner,” Arnaud Brossard, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a note.  Vestas and U.S. rival  General Electric Co. (GE)  are suffering
from slower demand growth and narrowing margins caused by
subsidy cuts in Europe and rising competition from Asian turbine
makers such as  China ’s Sinovel Wind Group Co., the world’s
second biggest, according to a BTM Consult ranking.  Restructuring Plan  The Danish company said yesterday it would announce a
“significant change of the whole organization” on Jan. 12,
giving no details except that it wouldn’t involve tapping equity
markets or seeking a strategic investor.  “Only a large group would be able to handle the required
R&D investments and the likely continued price war in the wind
industry in the coming years,” Brossard said. He cited
General Electric,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and United Technologies Corp.
as large industrial groups already involved in wind.  The company has “a good product portfolio and customer
base, which is always attractive for a bidder,” Desmaretz said.
“I still see a lot of value in Vestas.”  Vestas said it would defer 400 million euros in 2011
revenue to this year because of delays in connecting wind farms
to power grids and bad weather stalling construction of several
projects. Its forecast for earnings before interest and tax for
last year was reduced to zero from about 255 million euros. 
Ebit margin forecasts were cut Oct. 30.  The restructuring “could actually be a damp squib rather
than necessarily a new beginning,” McLoughlin said today by
phone. It will likely increase volatility in the stock while
investors speculate over its nature, he said, downgrading his
rating to “underweight” from “neutral.”   Cost Cuts  The company will probably announce a cost-saving program 
to help boost 2012 margins, Desmaretz said in an interview. 
Vestas may choose to locate more of its production facilities 
outside Europe, in Asian or South American markets, he said.  Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in  London  at  Barclays Capital ,
was more positive, saying today in an e-mail that it may be a
“turning point” for the company.  “The restructuring will involve a leaner, more customer
focused business model with fewer operating regions and a more
globalized approach to managing customer relationships, the
supply chain and capacity,” Madlani said.  Delays at the company’s Travemuende generator factory in
 Germany  during the third quarter led to late delivery and
commissioning of projects, meaning Vestas had to push revenue
into this year.  Wind Rivals  Gamesa fell 6.8 percent in Madrid trading today. Haakon Levy, an Oslo-based analyst at DNB Markets, has a “sell”
recommendation the Spanish turbine maker because of its loss of
market share and weakening earnings.  “Vestas’s very high order intake in 2011 that was 
announced yesterday confirms our view that Vestas is actually 
gaining market share at the expense of smaller and mid-sized 
European players such as Nordex and Gamesa,” Levy said today by 
e-mail. Suzlon fell 2.4 percent in Mumbai.  Vestas announced cost overruns of 125 million euros linked
to development of the company’s V112-3.0 megawatt turbine model
and GridStreamer technology for its 2-megawatt design.  Both Gamesa and Nordex are boosting output of new
products, according to Desmaretz. “Market may fear similar cost
overruns for them too,” he said.  “The only read-across from yesterday to other stocks is in
the negative commentary on the renewal of the production tax
credit in the U.S.,” Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein Ltd., said in an e-mail. The so-called production tax
credit that gives an incentive to turbine operators is due to
expire at the end of this year. Engel said in November U.S.
turbine sales may “fall off a cliff” unless it’s extended.  Sales Outlook  Vestas now expects sales of about 6 billion euros for 2011,
down from the 6.4 billion euros it forecast on Oct. 30, which
itself was a reduction from 7 billion euros.  About 130 million euros of the shortfall in Ebit is due to
last year’s delays and revenue deferral, while the development
costs of the V112-3.0 model and GridStreamer would absorb 100
million euros, according to Vestas.  As a result, the company’s Ebit margin will be
“approximately zero percent,” down from about 4 percent, with
 cash flow  remaining positive in 2011.  Delays relating to weather, connecting wind plants to the
grid and “other disruptions” meant some projects would not be
counted as revenue until the first quarter of this year.  Orders Increase  Vestas said it had orders last year for turbines totaling 
7.4 gigawatts of capacity, valued at 7.3 billion euros, in step
with its forecast of 7 gigawatts to 8 gigawatts. Some
customers postponed signing contracts for a “number of major
orders from 2011 to 2012,” according to the statement.  The company may become a takeover target, according to
Desmaretz. Potential bidders could include a large electrical
company. Alternatively, a Chinese or Korean company seeking
European or U.S. markets may be tempted by Vestas’s track record
in the biggest wind markets.  The delayed turbine orders mostly were from customers in
 Europe , the company said during the call yesterday, and most
fourth-quarter sales originated in Europe.  Vestas is scheduled to announce full-year orders data in
its annual report on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  