-- Vietnam to Implement ‘Tight’ Fiscal, Monetary Policy in 2012
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-04T06:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/vietnam-to-implement-tight-fiscal-monetary-policy-in-2012-1-.html
Vietnam  will have tight fiscal and
monetary policies to fight inflation this year, while advancing
a restructuring plan to enhance the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy, the government said.  The country will use a “tight, cautious, flexible”
monetary policy and “tight, effective” fiscal measures in 2012,
according to a  resolution  posted late yesterday on the
government’s website. It will also intensify monitoring of
domestic markets and prices, according to the resolution.  Vietnam in February last year unveiled measures including
lowering credit growth and budget-deficit targets as policy
makers tried to slow the pace of price increases. The
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  in December said
the nation may undermine progress toward economic stability if
it loosens  monetary policy  too soon.  The resolution “suggests that managing macro stability
remains the main objective of policy makers,” Prakriti Sofat, a
Singapore-based economist at Barclays Capital, said in an e-mail.
“More is needed to strengthen the economic structure by
increasing privatization of state-owned enterprises,
consolidation in the banking sector and more efficient state
investment,” she said.  The Ministry of Planning and Investment will study and
complete in the first quarter a plan for investment
restructuring, in which state capital will be focused on key
infrastructure projects, according to the resolution.  The dong was little changed at 21,031 per dollar as of
12:10 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of stocks closed down 0.3 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  