-- Walgreen, Kroger Restock Mead Johnson Formula Cleared by FDA
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-04T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/walgreen-and-kroger-restock-mead-johnson-formula-cleared-by-fda.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , Kroger Co. and
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  returned  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) ’s infant
formula to shelves after U.S. regulators said the product wasn’t
linked to a deadly bacterial infection.  The batch of Glenview, Illinois-based Mead Johnson’s
Enfamil Premium Newborn, pulled last month after a Missouri
infant’s death, is being restocked, spokespeople for the three
companies said today.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is still trying “to
determine the appropriate next steps,” said Dianna Gee, a
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  The formula was removed after regulators said the Missouri
baby infected by the bacterium Cronobacter had used Enfamil.
Infections were also reported in children in Illinois, Florida
and Oklahoma, prompting tests of other brands. The Food and Drug
Administration and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said in a Dec. 30 statement that they found no evidence the
illnesses were due to contaminated formula.  “In light of the FDA test results indicating no safety
concerns with Enfamil, we are in the process of restocking the
product in our stores,” said Mike Siemienas, a spokesman for
Eden Prairie, Minnesota-based Supervalu, said in a telephone
interview.  Walgreen stores have also been cleared to return the
product to shelves, said Vivika Panagiotakakos, a spokeswoman
for the Deerfield, Illinois-based drugstore chain, by e-mail.
Keith Daley, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based  Kroger (KR) , said the
formula was back on sale as of this weekend.  Mead Johnson, the maker of the world’s best-selling baby
formulas, fell 0.3 percent to $71.13 at 4:05 p.m. The company
gained 3.8 percent yesterday, the first trading day after
regulators said they’d found no signs Enfamil was contaminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at +1-212-617-5406 or
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at +1-212-617-2563 or
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  