-- Wall Street’s Big Swingers Get the Biggest Breaks: Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/wall-street-s-big-swingers-get-biggest-breaks-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
On the surface, the year 2011 was one
of ramped-up securities regulation and scary times for financial
scammers, with enforcement cases soaring at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and coverage galore about the humbling
of inside traders and municipal-bond riggers.  Along with the sexy headlines about felled lawbreakers,
though, there were also troubling free passes and favors granted
to the accused and the privileged.  Laws that were set up to punish bad guys got waived within
days of the press releases announcing that the offenders had
been brought down. Well-connected lawyers in the employ of
investment firms got express-lane access to regulatory brass.
Among the C-suite set, there was even one big name who left the
securities industry for a few years and returned to face the
humiliation of retaking the licensing tests. Of course, as it
should be for the privileged, he got a waiver from the
requirements that lesser mortals on  Wall Street  must meet.  In November, the said big-shot wound up resigning from his
gig at  MF Global Holdings  (MFGLQ) Ltd. after the firm filed for
bankruptcy, but we’ll get to that later.  The good news is that the most compromising free pass of
all, the ability of alleged financial cheats to dispose of SEC
lawsuits by saying they “neither admit nor deny” what they’ve
been accused of, is under fire and inspiring calls for
congressional hearings. Just how odious these deals have become
was exemplified in a spat late last month between U.S. District
Court Judge Jed Rakoff and settlement partners Citigroup Inc.
and the SEC.  Rakoff said in November that he wouldn’t sign off on the
SEC’s $285 million settlement with Citigroup, which had been
accused of misleading investors in a $1 billion financial
product tied to risky mortgages. Dissatisfied with Rakoff’s
decision, Citi and the SEC went to the appeals court on Dec. 27
seeking a stay, even talking on the phone with Rakoff later in
the day about procedural matters without mentioning a word about
their new motion. “Misleading,” Rakoff said in a Dec. 29 order.  Rakoff, who in 2009 nixed a similar deal between the SEC
and Bank of America Corp., seems to have broken the spell of
courts that rubber-stamp these ultimate regulatory cop-outs.  Paying fines and walking away from liability, though, isn’t
the only break that the accused have been catching. It has
become routine that, on the heels of a settlement with the SEC,
big banks and other defendants request and receive waivers from
punishments designed to kick in as a result of their settlement
orders. My personal favorites are the series of agreements
between the SEC and the investment firms it accused of rigging
prices of municipal bonds. Five firms have agreed to pay $743
million in bid-rigging cases since December 2010 -- all reaping
the benefits of those “neither admit nor deny” clauses along
the way, of course.  Start Believing  If we are to believe the SEC, some of those firms that
didn’t have to say they did anything wrong really did break laws
and hurt the public. Read this quote from a May 4 SEC press
release: “Our complaint against UBS reads like a ‘how-to’
primer for bid-rigging and securities fraud,” said Elaine C. Greenberg, chief of the SEC’s Municipal Securities and Public
Pensions Unit. “They used secret arrangements and multiple
roles to win business and defraud municipalities through the
repeated use of illegal courtesy bids, last looks for favored
bidders, and money to bidding agents disguised as swap
payments.”  I don’t know about you, but that sounds pretty bad to me.
Fraud. Secret arrangements. Disguises.  Bad, perhaps, but not bad enough to stop UBS AG’s lawyers
at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP from writing to the SEC five days
later on May 9 to ask a favor. Through its lawyers, UBS asked
the SEC not to enforce a rule that would have disqualified it
from participating in securities offerings that are exempt from
registration requirements. To help make the case for UBS, the
letter cited nine examples of times the SEC had granted waivers
for “similar reasons” since 2002, including another action
against UBS. On the very same day, the SEC wrote back to say the
waiver was  granted .  In case you are having trouble keeping track, what we’re
talking about here is an exemption from a ban from an exemption.
Regulators do have the ability to bring administrative
proceedings if a firm abuses the privileges it gets from a
waiver. But if we need to go to this much trouble to undo the
rules when somebody gets caught -- but doesn’t admit it anyway -
- why have rules at all? UBS didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  While all the settling and waiving and exempting is going
on, the banks paying the most for legal juice benefit from
remarkable access. Thanks to  research  by the Project on
Government Oversight, the public got hard data back in May
showing just how easy it was for SEC professionals to leave
their posts for the private sector and, on behalf of their new
financial-industry clients, to get rapid entree to sitting
securities regulators.  Nice Work  The group got five years’ worth of information about SEC
employees who left their jobs and, within two years of their
going-away parties, wound up representing financial firms before
the agency. In all, 219 former SEC employees filed 789 of the
required statements (“Hey guys, we’re back, and wearing nicer
suits”) from 2006 to 2010.  To give you a flavor of how these things really work, I’ll
mention one of several gems among the 789.  Margaret E. “Mitzi” Moore, former senior counsel in the
SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations,
resigned Jan. 13, 2006, and within two months  disclosed  that she
and other colleagues at her new job at the Financial Services
Roundtable would be meeting March 17 with then-SEC Chairman
 Christopher Cox . The Project on Government Oversight got its
hands on the meeting agenda that Moore submitted, and the first
item on the list was a shout-out for the “good start” and
“positive mood change at SEC.” The question “positive for
whom?” comes to mind. Equally depressing was her memo notation
that the SEC had made “good staff appointments.”  Much as we would all love to know exactly which regulators
were warming the hearts of Wall Street lobbyists, the names were
deleted from the agenda. In July last year, the Government
Accountability Office released a study on similar revolving-door
issues, but did give the SEC credit for a new policy of
collecting post-employment information from departing workers.  Perhaps I am being too tough on the financial cops who
pride themselves on being vigilant enforcers of rules that keep
financial markets safe and fair. At the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the Wall Street-financed self-regulator
that is overseen by the SEC, decision makers have been known to
be uncompromising in ensuring that members don’t skirt the
rules.  With some exceptions, Finra expects members to re-take
licensing exams if they have been out of the business for more
than two years. It has fought and won battles against some
former brokers, invariably small fries, who look for waivers.  Playing Rough  Some brokers who challenged Finra’s tough decisions have
appealed to the SEC, only to have the agency back Finra with
arguments that are hard to criticize. In one case, the SEC said
the re-exams can be a safeguard to the public interest. In
another, the agency  argued  that a broker who had been out of the
business for more than two years should be denied an exam waiver
because “in that time, there have been changes to the
securities laws and regulations” with which she should be
familiar. And who could argue that understanding the rules is
important if you’re entrusted with other people’s money?  Which is why the exam waivers granted to  Jon Corzine , the
former MF Global chief executive officer who resigned from the
bankrupt company last year, make you wonder. Corzine  took  his
Series 7 broker exam in 1975, and took the test for brokerage
principals in 1982, yet he landed a waiver of both of those
exams when he took over at MF Global in 2010. By then, he had
been out of the business since 1999, having served as the
Democratic governor of  New Jersey  and senator of that state.
Finra has said it showed no favoritism in granting the waivers.  But as history continues to get written in the MF Global
story, regulators might take some lessons from their own tough
talk about the importance of keeping up with regulations and
safeguarding the public. Sometimes digging in your heels to
enforce the rules isn’t such a bad idea.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Susan Antilla  at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 