-- Washington Communities Weigh Sales Tax to Fix $41.8 Million Arena Default
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/washington-communities-weigh-sales-tax-to-erase-arena-default.html
Nine municipalities in central
 Washington (STOWA1)  are considering raising sales taxes to bail out a
regional arena that defaulted on $41.8 million in debt, which
the state treasurer had warned may taint other issuers.  Leaders of the two counties, six cities and town that make
up the Greater Wenatchee Regional Events Center Public
Facilities District are trying to organize an April 17 election
to raise sales taxes by 0.2 percentage points, said Frank Kuntz,
the Wenatchee mayor. Representatives weighed three proposals
yesterday that all envision a vote by the public on a tax
increase, Kuntz said by telephone.  “It’s going to take some work for all nine of us to agree
on all of the details,” he said. “That’s still a big hurdle
for us to jump over. I am hopeful, though.”  The district defaulted Dec. 1 on bond-anticipation notes
sold in 2008 to build a 4,300-seat arena in Wenatchee, a city of
32,000 on the eastern flank of the Cascade Mountains, about 140
miles (225 kilometers) east of  Seattle .  The tax proposal would need approval from the governing
bodies of all nine jurisdictions by March 2 to make the April 17
ballot, Kuntz said. The tax would need majority support
throughout the district, not necessarily in each jurisdiction,
he said.  The district consists of Chelan and Douglas counties, the
cities of Wenatchee, East Wenatchee, Chelan, Cashmere, Entiat,
and Rock Island, and the Town of Waterville.  Treasurer’s Plan  State Treasurer James McIntire had backed a proposal for
the state to prevent default by loaning the district $42 million
to be repaid through sales-tax collections. McIntire  said  in
November that a default would drive up borrowing costs
throughout  Washington  by adding to the perceived default risk of
other issuers. His plan failed to pass the Legislature in late
November.  It’s too early to tell whether McIntire was right, Wolfgang
Opitz, the assistant state treasurer, said in a telephone
interview Dec. 19.  Missed bond payments unrelated to tax-exempt debt in AMR
Corp.’s bankruptcy fell to $2.6 billion for the year from about
$2.8 billion in 2010, according to Matt Fabian, an analyst with
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors Inc.  None of the approximately 100 holders of the Wenatchee
bonds has sued to recoup the money, Fraley said by telephone
Dec. 20.  The  Wells Fargo Advantage Ultra Short-Term Municipal Income
Fund (SMUAX)  holds about $4 million in Wenatchee bonds, said John Roehm,
a spokesman for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  San Francisco . Other
holders include Central Washington University, with $1.6
million; the city of Eugene,  Oregon , with $750,000; and the Ely-
Bloomenson Community Hospital in Ely,  Minnesota , with $200,000,
according to officials with those institutions.  Wells Fargo Action  Roehm declined to comment on any actions Wells Fargo may
take to recoup its investment. Eugene’s finance director, Sue
Cutsogeorge, said the city hasn’t decided how to proceed. Scott
Kellerman, the Ely-Boomenson Community Hospital finance
director, said the Wenatchee bonds represent about 1/30th of the
hospital’s total investments.  “It’s a tough situation,” he said by telephone Dec. 23.
“Even if it takes a month, as long as we’re getting interest in
the meantime, we don’t need the money right away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  