-- Web-Name Expansion Must Ease Corporate Concerns, U.S. Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-04T18:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/web-name-expansion-should-accommodate-company-concerns-u-s-.html
The nonprofit group that manages the
Internet’s address system needs to take steps to ease corporate
concerns over a program to add hundreds of top-level domains
beyond .com and .net, the U.S. Commerce Department said.  Once the application period for Web suffixes ends, the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers should
assess the need to phase in the introduction of domains,
Lawrence Strickling, Assistant Secretary of Commerce, wrote in a
letter yesterday to Icann Chairman Stephen Crocker.  During meetings with business representatives in recent
weeks, the Commerce Department has “learned that there is
tremendous concern about specifics of the program that may lead
to a number of unintended and unforeseen consequences and could
jeopardize its success,” Strickling wrote.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
are among more than 40 companies that have joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the expansion,
saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse customers
and create new risks of Internet fraud.  Icann , operating under a Commerce Department contract,
approved a plan in June to expand the number of top-level
domains beyond .com, .net and .org to spur online innovation.
The group will start accepting applications Jan. 12 for Web
suffixes including company and brand names, cities and words
such as .book. Applications will cost $185,000 for each domain.  Defensive Registration  In the letter sent yesterday, Strickling also urged Icann
to take steps to “minimize the perceived need” for trademark
owners to defensively register new top-level domains that they
have no interest in operating, and improve awareness of the
“purpose and scope” of the program.  Strickling runs the  National Telecommunications and
Information Administration , the Commerce Department unit that
oversees the Icann-held contract. He said his agency does “not
seek to interfere with the decisions and compromises” reached
during Icann’s six-year deliberations over the expansion.  Icann appreciates that Strickling “recognizes that many of
the recent concerns expressed about the new top-level domain
program are more about ‘perceived’ problems than actual
deficiencies,” Crocker said in an e-mailed statement today.
Icann will review Strickling’s recommendations and those of
other parties “with the intent of making this program truly
beneficial to the global Internet community,” Crocker said.  Advertiser Group Disappointed  The Association of National Advertisers, while appreciative
of the Commerce Department raising the industry’s concerns with
Icann, is disappointed the agency didn’t call for a pause or
delay in the domain-expansion program, Dan Jaffe, ANA’s
executive vice president of government relations, said in an
interview today.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads
the Senate commerce committee, urged the Commerce Department in
a Dec. 28 letter to ask Icann to delay the application period or
“drastically limit” the number of new domains it approves next
year, citing the potential for increased costs to brand and
trademark owners.  The plan, “as it is currently structured, does not address
the concerns that many stakeholders have raised,” Rockefeller
wrote in his letter, which was addressed to Strickling and
Commerce Secretary  John Bryson .  The Federal Trade Commission said in a Dec. 16 letter that
Icann should introduce the expansion as a pilot program and
reduce the number of domains created to lower the risk of
consumer fraud. The FTC, which has no direct authority over
Icann, can act when companies engage in deceptive trade
practices.  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , has managed the
Internet’s address system since 1998 for the U.S. government. It
oversees 22 so-called generic top-level domains, including the
commonly used .com, .net, and .org.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  