-- Why Iowa Matters, for Romney, Santorum, Paul and America: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/why-iowa-matters-for-romney-santorum-paul-and-america-view.html
Members of the senior class at Valley
High School in  West Des Moines , Iowa, had politely endured last-
minute appeals from  Michele Bachmann ,  Rick Santorum  and no fewer
than four of the five sons of  Mitt Romney  when a sudden cheer
erupted from the orange bleachers in the gymnasium.  Ron Paul  had
arrived.  The event, on the bright, brisk morning of the Iowa
caucuses, featured precisely the sort of absurdities that prompt
quadrennial skepticism about the election process. It also
illustrated the value of the forced march that is the American
presidential campaign.  Arguing for absurdity were the dozens of news cameras on
hand in the event any of the candidates said something slightly
different from what they had said earlier, or later, in the day
(or the month, or the year, or the … ). Then there were the
recitations of national problems, and answers to those problems,
from candidates who required no more than a few pat phrases and
precious seconds to elaborate. (“Abolish the  tax code .” “Take
your country back.” “Believe in our founding principles.”)
Finally there was the sneaking suspicion that few if any of the
young adults in the audience, newly empowered to cast a first
vote, could say what the heck the  Federal Reserve  actually does.  Yet the heartfelt cheer for Paul was also instructive. On
the last day of the demolition derby of the Iowa campaign, Paul,
the Texas representative who is the antithesis of a photogenic,
poll-driven creation of mass media, was still able to stand on
the bedrock of his convictions. We do not share many of Paul’s
views, some of which  are repellent . But his success in the, yes,
unrepresentative state of Iowa, was based on his articulation of
ideas and his ability to organize his followers in support of
them.  The much-maligned Iowa phase of the campaign has been
extraordinarily useful at clarifying the ideas, weaknesses and
strengths of the Republican field. The process is admittedly
inefficient (there may be valid reasons for a future president
to visit all 99 of Iowa’s counties, but we can’t think of any),
frequently misleading (quick: who won the  Ames straw poll ?) and
occasionally silly (check  the transcripts  of any of the 11
debates since September). It also works.  Herman Cain  could not stand the scrutiny of his peers, the
press or the public. His dubious contribution to the policy
debate, the 9-9-9 flat tax, hasn’t been heard from since he
suspended his campaign. Bachmann’s support similarly cratered as
her loose relationship to facts and poor management were exposed
in the grueling series of debates and the marathon that preceded
tonight’s caucuses.  Rick Perry  might prevail in a campaign
dominated by 30-second television ads. But the Texas governor
faltered badly in the contest of ideas, intellects and
personalities waged on the debating stage. Former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich ’s rise, fueled by those same debates, was
curtailed by his own past, which his rivals would not let him,
or voters, forget.  The candidates who emerged from the pack tonight -- Paul;
Romney, the former Massachusetts governor; and Santorum, the
former Pennsylvania senator -- earned the political edge
bestowed by  Iowa  Republicans, however short-lived it may be.
They represent distinct elements of the Republican coalition,
and on Tuesday they outpolled their peers -- the only measure of
success our system recognizes.  Iowa is not the end of the process, but it is the end of
the beginning. If anyone can overcome Romney’s advantages in
money, organization and general preparedness, he still has
time to show it. Those who fall short certainly can’t fault
Iowa. This year, especially, the state gave everyone a chance to
be a contender.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 