-- Yahoo Hires Scott Thompson Chief 4 Months After Firing Bartz
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-04T18:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/yahoo-appoints-paypal-s-scott-thompson-ceo-four-months-after-firing-bartz.html
Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) . hired  Scott Thompson  as
chief executive officer, asking the former president of  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit to complete a strategic review and reverse a
growth slump that led to the September ouster of  Carol Bartz .  Thompson takes the helm Jan. 9, Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, the largest U.S. Web portal, said today in a statement.  The new CEO will need to assess options that include
divesting Asian assets and selling a stake in itself to private
equity firms. Thompson’s appointment makes a sale of all of
Yahoo less likely, said Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli &
Co. His background in online payments may leave him ill-suited
to run a company reliant on advertising to help it vie with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc., Evercore Partners Inc. said.  “It’s a surprising choice,” said Ken Sena, an analyst at
Evercore in  New York  who has an “equalweight” rating on Yahoo.
“Scott has a great track record in payments and has proven an
effective executive at PayPal and has major tech chops and
international experience, but at a content company, which Yahoo
has increasingly become, his experience is kind of lacking.”  Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock said on a conference call that
he has no plans to take Yahoo private. Thompson said his
priorities are boosting revenue and putting the company at the
forefront of innovation.  Yahoo, founded in 1994 by  Jerry Yang  and  David Filo , fell
2.6 percent to $15.86 at 1:20 p.m. New York time. The stock lost
3 percent last year. John Donahoe will serve as PayPal’s interim
chief, working closely with the PayPal leadership team, said
John Pluhowski, an EBay spokesman.  Thompson’s Record  Yahoo has been considering selling all or part of its
stakes in  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) .,  China ’s biggest e-commerce
company, and Yahoo!  Japan  Corp. It’s also fielding proposals to
sell a stake in itself from a group led by private equity firm
 Silver Lake , and another from TPG Capital.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has
expressed an interest in helping finance a purchase.  As president of PayPal, Thompson contributed to an increase
of the payment service’s users to more than 100 million, helping
it close in on a goal of revenue as high as $7 billion by 2013,
compared with $3.4 billion in 2010.  PayPal, the fastest-growing part of  San Jose , California-
based EBay, has services that help retailers and individuals
exchange funds for purchases or payments, even without a  credit
card . Thompson, who has run the business since January 2008,
also engineered the company’s expansion to online daily deals
and mobile payments.  EBay fell 3.9 percent to $30.12.  Alibaba, Yahoo Japan  Thompson may play a role in extracting value from Yahoo’s
international assets. Aside from its main Internet portal
business, Yahoo holds about 40 percent of  Alibaba (ALIBABZ)  and co-owns
Yahoo Japan with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Yahoo estimated the Alibaba
stake was worth about $14 billion on a pretax basis in October.  Thompson’s primary focus will be on the “core business,”
and he will work closely with the board on the company’s
strategic review, Bostock said in the statement.  Yahoo is considering a “wide range” of opportunities for
the company’s business, as well as specific investments or
dispositions of assets,” Bostock said.  Some investors had speculated that Yahoo would sell itself
after Bartz was ousted.  “It’s probably a slight negative because I think the best
outcome for Yahoo would be an all out takeover by Microsoft,”
said Gabelli’s Harriss, who is based in Rye, New York and
recommends buying the shares. “Hiring a new CEO makes the sale
of the whole company unlikely.”  Bartz Stumbles  In her less than three years as CEO, Bartz reduced costs
with job cuts and formed a search partnership with Microsoft
Corp. Still, Yahoo failed to make much headway in the U.S.
advertising and search markets.  During the second quarter, Bartz’s last full three-month
period as CEO, Yahoo reported revenue that fell short of
estimates as her overhaul of the U.S. sales force made it harder
to close deals and slowed growth in display advertising.  In early September, Bostock fired Bartz over the phone,
kicking off a wave of takeover speculation. Tim Morse, who had
been chief financial officer, became interim CEO. The company
initiated a strategic review “to position the company for
future growth.”  Yahoo drew interest from multiple parties after announcing
the review, according to a memo to employees in September.  No ‘Distraction’  That included Jack Ma, chief executive officer of Alibaba
Group, who said in October he was interested in buying Yahoo.
Private-equity firms TPG Capital and Silver Lake signed non-
disclosure agreements to help size up a possible bid for Yahoo,
people close to the companies said in November.  Yahoo’s Asian assets will not be Thompson’s main focus and
won’t get in the way of his attention to building out Yahoo’s
core Internet business, Bostock said.  “That will not be a distraction for Scott,” he said on
the conference call. “Given where we are and how we have gotten
there and the people we have staffing that, there’s no way.”  Microsoft signed a non-disclosure agreement as well, a
person briefed on the matter has said. KKR & Co. and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  also were among the private-equity firms considering
possible bids, people with knowledge of the matter said in
October. Also, Google was considering providing financing for an
acquisition of Yahoo by another company or a group of bidders,
according to another person who has been briefed on the matter.  No Plans to Go Private  Bostock said he plans to keep the company in the hands of
the public market.  “If you and I were to sit down tomorrow and say, ‘Let’s
take this company private,’ I think we’d have one hell of a
challenge on our hands,” Bostock said on the call. “It’s not
on the radar screen.”  Yahoo will turn its focus increasingly to mobile devices,
such as tablet computers and smartphones, Thompson said.
Thompson has partnered with EBay on mobile initiatives that let
customers scan products over their smartphones and check the
availability at local retail stores and on EBay’s website. When
he left PayPal, Thompson was working with the top 100 U.S.
retailers to push the payments services into physical stores,
ramping up competition with companies such as  Visa Inc. (V) , by
giving users the option to pay with a smartphone at a point-of-
sale terminal.  “The intention that we have is we will be great across all
devices,” he said. “Mobile is a wave that’s bigger than people
can even imagine it to be.”  Thompson said he will harness Yahoo’s brand and talent to
guard against employee turnover and make headway with consumers
with more content and use of the company’s data.  “This company, long before I arrived, had the aspiration
of being the premium digital media company,” he said on the
call. “I would not come if I didn’t believe the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  