-- Zloty Slumps to Two-Week Low on Hungary Contagion Concern
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-01-04T15:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-04/zloty-slumps-to-two-week-low-on-hungary-contagion-concern.html
The zloty slumped to its weakest
level against the euro in more than two weeks on risks of
“contagion” as concern grew  Hungary  will fail to agree aid
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  The zloty slid 0.7 percent to 4.4963 per euro as of 3:48
p.m. in Warsaw, the lowest intra day level since Dec. 19. It’s
the second-biggest depreciation among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Hungarian forint.  The EU and the IMF broke off aid talks with Hungary last
month as the government prepared legislation that threatened to
undermine the independence of the central bank. Parliament
approved the laws on Dec. 30. The EU has no current plans to
resume talks, European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly said
yesterday. Hungary is the EU’s most indebted eastern member.  “The worsening picture in Hungary may have some kind of
contagion to Eastern Europe,” Olgay Buyukkayali and Peter Attard Montalto, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Zloty’s liquidity and proxy
hedge characteristic may result in unprecedented weakness over
the next few weeks.”  Nomura recommended today investors sell the zloty in
anticipation that it will weaken to 4.75 per euro, according to
the e-mailed note.  Hungary received its second sovereign-credit downgrade to
junk last month when  Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s
Investors Service in taking the country out of the investment-
grade category on Dec. 21.  Zloty assets may be “negatively affected by the ongoing
debacle in Hungary,” Guillaume Salomon, a strategist at Societe
Generale SA, wrote in a note to clients today.  The French bank is advising clients to pay the fixed rate
in interest rate swap transactions as the market is “too
optimistic” predicting a decline in borrowing costs this year,
according to Salomon. The two-year swaps, which are used to bet
on future interest rate changes, may rise to 5.04 percent, he
wrote. Swaps increased seven basis points to 4.8 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  