-- 
Cut Diamonds Outpacing Gold Still `Grossly Undervalued': Chart of the Day

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-04-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/-grossly-undervalued-diamonds-outpacing-gold-chart-of-the-day.html
Polished diamonds, beating gold
this year, remain “grossly undervalued” relative to uncut 
gems and will extend gains on booming demand in  India  and
China, WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd. said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows polished gems trailing rough
diamonds, which rose to an all-time high this year, according to
data compiled by polishedprices.com, as supply from mine
operators fails to keep up with Asian demand. Cut stones, up 9.6
percent so far in 2011, have still outperformed gold, which
climbed to a record $1,497.90 an ounce on April 18.  “Rough has just gone ballistic,” said Charles Wyndham,
founder of WWW International and formerly a director at the
sales operations of  De Beers . “Polished is grossly undervalued.
If people are pushing rough skywards because of an anticipated
shortage, at the very least the same should apply to polished.”  China  recently surpassed  Japan  as the second-biggest buyer
of diamonds, behind the U.S., which consumed 38 percent of
production in 2010, according to De Beers. Demand in India grew
31 percent last year, while in China it jumped 25 percent and
the U.S. market expanded 7 percent, it said in February.  While rough prices advanced to a record this year, polished
gems are below their 1979 all-time high, polishedprices.com data
show. Cut stones have risen above levels reached in 2008 before
a slump in demand spurred by the global financial crisis.  Rough prices may gain an annual 15 percent to 20 percent in
the next two to three years, according to  Namakwa Diamonds Ltd. (NAD) 
Chief Executive Officer Nico Kruger. “Prices are overheated,”
he said yesterday. “There is just no supply, so what else must
the big cutters and polishers do? They must buy.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Maria Kolesnikova at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  