-- 
‘Runaway CEO Pay’ Could Support 102,000 Jobs, AFL-CIO Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-04-19T18:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/-runaway-ceo-pay-could-support-102-000-u-s-jobs-afl-cio-says.html
Chief executive officers at 299
U.S. companies had combined compensation of $3.4 billion in
2010, enough to pay more than 102,000 workers, the AFL-CIO labor
federation reported in a study.  CEOs at companies including  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
averaged $11.4 million in total compensation in 2010, according
to the report, which used data from website salary.com. Viacom’s
CEO Philippe P. Dauman earned $84.5 million last year, the
highest among the executives, according to the  report .  “The disparity between CEO and workers’ pay has continued
to grow to levels that are completely stunning,” union
President  Richard Trumka  said today at a Washington news
conference. He said the U.S. is facing “runaway CEO pay.”  The AFL-CIO, with 12.2 million members, has led U.S. labor
unions in criticizing the compensation of executives. Trumka was
at the head of a march on Wall Street last year to demand taxes
on the bonuses of executives at banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank.  Trumka, 61, had total compensation of $283,340, including
$246,827 in salary, according to a 2010 union filing with the
Labor Department. Service Employees International Union
President Mary Kay Henry had compensation of $253,660, including
$213,801 in salary, according to a separate filing.  Trumka said since 1959, labor leaders have had information
about their pay available. “My ratio to employees here, it’s 4-
to-1,” he said. “That’s not bad.”  ‘Say on Pay’  Pay for corporate executives may face limits this year
because the law overhauling financial regulations gave
shareholders a “say on pay” vote on the amount given to top
company management, according to the AFL-CIO report. While the
votes aren’t binding, they will encourage boards to enact
compensation reforms, it said.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act requires the compensation
committees of a company’s board be composed of independent
directors, and the AFL-CIO report said shareholders must be
given an advisory vote on the payments made to executives when
they are fired or resign.  Trumka urged lawmakers to resist Republican efforts aimed
at weakening or repealing the law’s pay-disclosure requirements.
A Republican proposal would strip a provision that requires
publicly traded companies to report the ratio of pay between the
CEO and the median pay of their employees.  ‘Business As Usual’  Critics are “trying to do everything they can to dilute
the law and go back to business as usual for  Wall Street ,” he
said.  The average pay for CEOs of companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is enough to cover the salaries of 28 U.S.
presidents or more than 700 minimum-wage workers, according to
the report. The combined compensation would support 102,325 jobs
paying the median wage of all workers, the group said.  The AFL-CIO took aim at payments for departing executives
called golden parachutes, corporate jet travel, preferential
pensions and perks unrelated to performance.  Dauman, 54, more than doubled his compensation from $34
million in 2009, based on U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules, according to a regulatory filing. The
company’s brands include  MTV Networks  and  Paramount Pictures .  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  CEO Ray R. Irani, 76, received
compensation valued at $76 million in 2010, followed by Oracle
Corp. CEO Lawrence Ellison, 66, who received $70 million.
Occidental is an oil and gas exploration and production company,
and Oracle provides integrated business software and hardware
systems.  The union’s  website  links to a database, letting visitors
search for a CEO’s total compensation and compare it to their
earnings. The union is urging visitors to write lawmakers in
opposition to revising the Dodd-Frank law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  