-- 
Accused Payment Processor Pleads Not Guilty in New York in Web Poker Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-19T17:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/accused-payment-processor-pleads-not-guilty-in-new-york-in-web-poker-case.html
A Las Vegas man who allegedly acted
as a payment processor for online poker companies pleaded not
guilty in  New York  federal court to bank fraud and illegal
gambling charges.  Chad Elie, 31, entered the plea before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Frank Maas to nine counts, including conspiracy to violate
the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act and conspiracy to
commit bank fraud and  wire fraud . Wire fraud alone carries a
maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine.  “Client pleads not guilty, intends to aggressively
defend,” his attorney, William Cowden of Mallon & McCool in
 Washington , told reporters after today’s proceeding. Asked why
he surrendered Elie’s 500-gigabyte hard drive to prosecutors,
Cowden replied, “Don’t want to waste any time with the
government.”  Elie was one of 11 people charged on April 15 in a revised
indictment against the founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker
and Absolute Poker.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, the three companies worked around the ban to continue
operating in the U.S.  Elie is one of a group of people accused of serving as
“payment processors” for the poker companies and lying to U.S.
banks about the nature of the financial transactions they were
processing, according to the indictment.  He was released today on a $250,000 bond secured by $50,000
cash to be paid by three people, including his wife, Destiny
Davis, who was in court today. He is scheduled for his next
appearance before U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan on May 11.  Elie married Davis, who was Playboy Magazine’s Miss January
in 2005, at Little Church of the West in  Las Vegas  the day after
his April 15 arrest, the Las Vegas Review-Journal reported.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 