-- 
Acer Names Jim Wong as President to Replace Lanci Who Quit

-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-04-19T11:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/acer-names-jim-wong-as-president-to-replace-lanci-who-quit-1-.html
Acer Inc. (2353)  appointed  Jim Wong  as
president with immediate effect, replacing Gianfranco Lanci, who
quit as chief executive officer and president last month after
clashing with board members over the company’s strategy.  The 52-year-old Wong, who headed the company’s information
technology products division, will also lead a new group that
includes the tablet personal computer and smartphone teams, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. Chairman J.T. Wang will
continue as CEO.  Lanci resigned on March 31, less than a week after the
world’s second-largest notebook maker lowered its sales forecast
that led to a four-day, 18 percent rout of the stock. The
Taipei-based company said today it estimates PC shipments to
decline 10 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months because of the company’s reorganization, inventory
adjustment and a seasonal slowdown in the PC industry.  “The IT industry is encountering a profound change,”
Wong, who joined Acer in 1986 at the company’s Latin American
region’s sales division, said in the statement. “We are ready
with a clear set of goals and action plans,” said the
executive, who was president of the company’s IT Products Global
Operations from 2001.  As part of the reshuffle, Campbell Kan, former vice
president of the company’s smart handheld business, will lead a
new group that includes the main PC products business.  Acer’s shares have slumped 42 percent this year on the
 Taiwan Stock Exchange , compared with a 3.7 percent decline in
the benchmark Taiex index.  “A shipment decline is bad news,” said Calvin Lu, an
analyst at Mega Securities Co. in Taipei, who has a “neutral”
rating on the shares. “It’s a tough time for Acer now, and the
stock will see more correction in the near future.”  The operating margin for the current quarter is expected to
be similar to the first quarter, Acer said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  