-- 
Madoff Investors’ Suit Claiming SEC Was Negligent in Oversight Dismissed

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-19T19:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/madoff-investors-suit-claiming-sec-was-negligent-in-oversight-dismissed.html
Two of Bernard L. Madoff’s
investors lost their bid to bring a $2.5 million suit against
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for allegedly gross
negligent oversight in failing to uncover his fraudulent scheme.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  New York  today
threw out the 2009 lawsuit by investors Phyllis Molchatsky and
Steven Schneider which blamed the SEC for failing to detect and
end the scheme.  “Plaintiffs have identified no statutory or regulatory
provision that suggests the existence of prescriptive rules for
the conduct of SEC investigations,” Swain said in a 28-page
ruling, adding “there is no reason to believe that information
concerning any such duties would not be publicly available.”  Swain has 27 similar cases, according to the court docket.  “These lawsuits are not going to survive,” said  Peter Henning , a professor at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit  and a
former SEC lawyer. “The SEC did not cover itself in glory in
the Madoff investigation, but it has discretion conducting its
investigations.”  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence for running the
fraud through his New York-based Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC. Investors lost about $17 billion of principal in
the  Ponzi scheme , according to the latest calculations of the
trustee liquidating the Madoff firm, who reported the number in
a court filing yesterday.  Disappointed  “We are disappointed with the judge’s opinion and continue
to believe that the court is well-suited to oversee the SEC’s
actions and inactions, which were inarguably negligent,”
plaintiffs’ lawyer Howard Elisofon of New York-based Herrick
Feinstein LLP said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are reviewing this opinion and conferring with our
clients before announcing our next step,” Elisofon said.  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment on the court’s ruling.  “Scandalous and outrageous as plaintiffs’ allegations (and
findings of the OIG Report on which they are based) are,
plaintiffs fail to identify any specific mandatory duty that the
SEC violated in its  numerous instances of sloppy, uninformed,
irresponsible behavior,” the judge wrote.  Swain issued a separate order addressing plaintiffs and
their lawyers in the 27 similar suits, directing them to file
with the court by May 31 a statement outlining their positions
“as to what further proceedings are appropriate,” in light of
her ruling in the Molchatsky-Schneider case.  Conference Scheduled  The judge also scheduled a June 7 conference to discuss the
issue with all sides. Proceedings in each of the cases are now
stayed.  Molchatsky, a disabled retiree and single mother who claims
she lost $1.7 million in the fraud, and Schneider, a doctor who
said he lost almost $753,000, filed the lawsuit under the
Federal Tort Claims Act in October 2009 after the SEC denied
their administrative claims.  Their complaint relied for its underpinnings upon an August
2009 report by the SEC’s Office of the Inspector General which
said the agency had received “numerous, detailed, credible
complaints regarding Madoff” between 1992 and 2008, and
“flawed” investigations, Swain said.  The U.S. asked the court to dismiss the case, claiming the
government is immune from suits and the SEC has discretion in
deciding who to investigate and how to conduct its queries.  The case is Molchatsky vs. U.S., 1:09-cv-08697, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ; and
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 