-- 
Air Lease Surges as Rivals Watch Industry’s Biggest U.S. IPO

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-04-19T21:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/air-lease-surges-after-raising-802-5-million-in-share-sale.html
Air Lease Corp., the jet-leasing
company led by Steven Udvar-Hazy, surged 5.5 percent on its
first day of trading after raising $802.5 million in the
industry’s largest initial public offering in the U.S.  The Los Angeles-based company sold 30.3 million shares at
$26.50 each yesterday, after increasing the number 21 percent,
according to a  prospectus  filed today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. It had offered 25 million shares at $25
to $28.  Udvar-Hazy, 65, commanded a premium as he drew on four
decades of experience to recreate some of what he built at
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s International Lease Finance
Corp. Udvar-Hazy, who began leasing jets to airlines while in
college, has amassed a new fleet of 49 aircraft with orders for
153 more since founding Air Lease 14 months ago.  The Air Lease price of 1.3 times book value “shows that
specific business models attached to strong management teams can
attract material amounts of equity capital,”  Joe Gill , an
analyst at Bloxham Securities in Dublin, wrote in a note to
investors today. “New jets and a global customer base managed
by an experienced management team appears to be a compelling mix
for institutional investors.”  First-Day Trading  Air Lease rose $1.45, or 5.5 percent, to $27.95 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange trading, where it is listed
under the symbol AL. The company has a market value of $2.67
billion, higher than its three publicly traded competitors,
AerCap Holding NV,  Fly Leasing Ltd. (FLY)  and  Aircastle Ltd. (AYR)   “We’re very happy and think it’s a good outcome for the
whole  airline industry  and the aircraft lessors,” Udvar-Hazy
said in an interview today before flying to New York, where he
will ring the NYSE’s opening bell to start trading.  “It establishes again the credibility of the leasing model
as an important facet of airlines’ fleet financing,” said
Udvar-Hazy, who is Air Lease’s chairman and chief executive
officer.  Udvar-Hazy founded ILFC in 1973 and built it into the
world’s largest aircraft lessor before selling it to AIG in
1990, staying on as CEO. He left in February 2010 after an
unsuccessful attempt to buy back part of the unit amid its
parent’s financial troubles during the recession.  Air Lease’s success “opens the market for other entities
to do an IPO that are thinking about it,” said Domhnal Slattery, CEO of Avolon Leasing Group, an Air Lease competitor.  Avolon’s Outlook  While Avolon has sufficient equity capital to continue
growing now, Slattery said he’ll consider an IPO “in due
course.” The Dublin-based company has raised $1.1 billion in
equity and $1.9 billion in debt since Slattery founded it in May
2010.  His company has 25  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS jets now, has
contractual commitments for 73 and plans to place another order
“in the not-too-distant future,” Slattery said.  “We will have options now for sure, in terms of where we
go next” for funding, Slattery said in an interview today.
“The success of what Hazy has achieved today is hugely positive
for the broader aircraft-leasing sector.”  As chairman and chief executive officer of Air Lease,
Udvar-Hazy has built a fleet that he says is unburdened by the
“legacy challenges” that saddle competitors. The company’s
jets have a weighted average age of 3.5 years, compared with 5.4
years for competitor AerCap’s 350 planes, 8.1 years for Fly
Leasing’s 59 and 11 years for Aircastle’s 136 aircraft,
according to company filings.  Marketable Portfolio  A portfolio under 5 years old is “the most marketable and
the most financeable,” Avolon’s Slattery said.  Aircraft leasing is growing in popularity as airlines seek
flexibility within the cyclical air-travel industry as well as a
way to avoid burdening their balance sheets with the billions of
dollars required to fund plane purchases.  In 1990, about 10 percent of the world’s commercial planes
were leased, and by 2015 that proportion will reach 35 percent,
according to estimates by industry-data providers Ascend and
Avitas cited by Air Lease.  Lessors are expected to finance about $140 billion of the
$350 billion in  capital requirements  for about 5,000 new jets
due to be delivered worldwide by 2015,  John Plueger , Air Lease’s
president, said in a presentation before the IPO.  Still, the three aircraft lessors that went public in the
two years before the recession hit -- AerCap, Aircastle and Fly
-- all are trading at least 38 percent below their $23 initial
share price.  While Air Lease doesn’t plan to pay a dividend now, it may
consider it in the future, according to today’s filing.
Aircastle and Fly both pay dividends.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse AG, Barclays Plc, FBR
Capital Markets,  RBC Capital Markets  and  Wells Fargo & Co . led
the Air Lease offering.  The underwriters may exercise an overallotment option to
buy as many as 4.54 million additional shares, according to
today’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  