-- 
Air-Traffic Snoozers Risk Sky-Hopping Wakeup: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T23:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/air-traffic-snoozers-risk-sky-hopping-wakeup-margaret-carlson.html
Some mistakes are such doozies,
with consequences so serious, that the only honorable thing for
the perpetrator to do is own up, resign and make amends. In
Washington, that rarely happens.  There may be as many as 6,600 mislabeled or unmarked graves
at Arlington National Cemetery, and the closest thing to
accountability so far is that two cemetery officials were
allowed to retire. Bankers who threw the economy into a meltdown
remain Too Big to Resign. Invade a country based on faulty
rationales, then bungle the occupation?  George W. Bush  bestowed
the Presidential Medal of Freedom on three architects of the war
in  Iraq .  No wonder voters are angry: Nobody’s ever wrong. Nobody’s
ever sorry.  Then last week, someone was. Henry Krakowski, chief of the
Federal Aviation Administration’s  Air Traffic Organization ,
resigned after a string of frightening instances of air-traffic
controllers asleep at the switch -- literally. Krakowski, a
Boeing 737 captain and former vice president of  United Airlines 
in charge of safety who did aerobatic stunts on the side, was in
charge of the country’s 15,000 controllers.  In January and again in April, a controller at  Seattle ’s
King County International Airport dozed off a total of three
times, twice during the same shift. At Reno-Tahoe International
Airport in  Nevada , an airborne ambulance with a sick patient on
board circled the runway for 16 minutes while a controller got
his forty winks.  Close to Capitol  The lapse that embarrassed the FAA the most occurred at
 Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport , 20 minutes from the
Capitol. As the most frequent of fliers, members of Congress
were outraged that two jets had to land on their own when they
couldn’t rouse anyone.  What’s amazing when you pull back the curtain on the
conditions in the country’s towers is that there aren’t more
near-collisions and that at least one of those doesn’t result in
a midair crash.  There are a lot of officials at fault for the Rip Van
Winkles in front of blinking radar screens, all the way up to
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.  Pitifully, LaHood called for extending from eight to nine
hours the minimum time between shifts, a gesture unlikely to
make much of a difference. At 27 airports, instead of one
controller on the night shift, the FAA says there will now be
two.  No Rest  The one fix that could make a difference immediately is
managing the inevitable fatigue of the late shift. Firemen,
emergency-room doctors and others burning the midnight oil rest
during their time on duty. In some European countries, air-
traffic controllers get a quiet room with a cot.  Earlier this year, a working group of officials from the
FAA and the National Air Traffic Controllers Association looked
at research by the  Air Force ,  NASA  and sleep experts and
recommended that controllers be allowed to take naps while
colleagues covered for them. They were ignored. When it came up
again during the recent trouble, LaHood shot it down: “On my
watch, controllers will not be paid to take naps.”  If Krakowski offers a class in accountability, there’s a
U.S. senator who probably should attend.  Thanks to a Freedom of Information Act request by the
website smokinggun.com, we learned last week the grisly details
of a reckless, unauthorized landing by Oklahoma Republican
Senator James Inhofe last October at a Texas airport near his
vacation house on South Padre Island.  Sky-Hopping  Flying his own Cessna, Inhofe chose to disregard the giant
X marking the runway as closed. He sent workers running for
their lives as he “sky-hopped” over them and six vehicles. One
was  reportedly  hit by debris, others felt the “backwash of the
propeller” and still another, according to a supervisor, almost
“wet his britches” he was so scared.  A senator wants to land where a senator wants to land.
According to the  FAA report , Inhofe noticed the X, but “still
elected to land.” Airport manager Marshall Reece said, “I got
over 50 years flying, three tours in  Vietnam , 23,000 hours, I
can assure you I have never seen such a reckless disregard for
human life in my life.”  Inhofe offered various explanations: he thought he had
“unlimited” use of the airport space, landed to the side of
workers, and is only being criticized because an airport
official he didn’t name “hates” him.  Recklessness and Recidivism  One entity that doesn’t hate him is the FAA, which had
every reason to ground him and take action for what  might be
considered , to quote its safety manual, “deliberate, willful
violations which involve gross negligence, recklessness,
recidivism” -- Inhofe had two previous accidents, both very
minor -- “or flagrant disregard of” FAA rules.  Instead, Inhofe submitted evidence that he’d gone for
remedial training, the equivalent of traffic school.  Unlike senators, who don’t have to say they’re sorry and
play by different rules, Krakowski stepped up, setting a land
record for speed -- less than a month between public outrage and
packing it in. We should name an airport after him.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  