-- 
Allstate Says Wilson’s Pay Is Justified as Insurer Prepares for Proxy Vote

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-19T23:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/allstate-says-wilson-s-pay-is-justified-as-insurer-prepares-for-proxy-vote.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) ,  the biggest
publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer, told a proxy
advisory firm that Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson ’s pay
last year was justified as it braced for a vote on compensation.  “Our compensation program is overseen by our independent
board members and should be supported,” Northbrook, Illinois-
based Allstate said in a letter to Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc., disclosed today in a regulatory filing. The
methodology used by ISS to value Wilson’s stock options
“undermines the credibility of its analysis and vote
recommendations and is potentially misleading to investors.”  Allstate is giving shareholders a non-binding vote on
executive compensation. The company said it followed accounting
guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission when
disclosing Wilson’s pay for last year at $9.3 million, a 12
percent decline from 2009. According to the ISS methodology, his
compensation rose 45 percent to $11.9 million, Allstate said.  Financial companies are giving shareholders a greater voice
in executive compensation after the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
reform act became law last year. Proxy advisory firms like ISS
monitor corporate governance at public companies and make
recommendations on how shareholders should vote.  “Investors that rely upon ISS may mistakenly believe an
increase occurred in our chief executive officer’s compensation
when, in fact, it decreased,” Allstate said.  Ted Allen, a spokesman for ISS, said that the proxy-
advisory service was reviewing the letter and that it would
consider Allstate’s concerns when producing its final report.  “As a matter of courtesy to any S&P 500 company that wants
to review our analysis before it goes out, we will provide them
that opportunity,” Allen said in a phone interview. “We
generally do this as a means of ensuring factual accuracy.”
Allstate is among several companies that requested to see the
analysis in advance of publication, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  