-- 
Hamas Kills Suspect Wanted After Murder of Italian Hostage

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-04-19T18:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/hamas-kills-suspect-wanted-after-murder-of-italian-hostage.html
Hamas security forces in the  Gaza
Strip  said a member of an al-Qaeda inspired group died and two
others were injured as they attempted to arrest them for
allegedly abducting and killing an Italian activist, the Hamas-
controlled interior ministry said.  Vittorio Arrigoni, an activist from the pro-Palestinian
International Solidarity Movement, was found dead in the
northern Gaza Strip on April 15. The search for his killers is
over, the ministry said in a statement sent by text message.  “Abdel Rahman al-Brizar, who holds the Jordanian
nationality, threw a bomb at his two colleagues and then he shot
himself dead,” it said. “One of his colleagues was seriously
injured and the other was lightly injured,” it said.  Hamas security forces had surrounded the three members of
the Islamist Salafist group Al-Jihad Wal-Tawhid in a house in
Nuseirat refuge camp in the central part of the Gaza Strip, it
said. Three security officers and one child were injured in the
exchange of fire, while the owner of the house was detained by
Hamas, the statement said.  Arrigoni had been active in the Palestinian cause for
almost 10 years and stayed on in Gaza after participating in one
of the aid flotillas trying to break  Israel ’s embargo a year
ago, Anna Stevens, a colleague, said by phone from the group’s
office in Ramallah, on April 15.  A video posted on YouTube on April 14 showed a blindfolded
man and a leaflet from a group identifying itself as a Jihadi
Salafi movement, demanding that Hamas release members held in
Gaza jails in return for the activist. It also said it would
execute the hostage if its demands were not met within 30 hours.
The authenticity of the video couldn’t be confirmed.  Hamas fought with members of Jihadi Salafi, which says it
was inspired by al-Qaeda, in 2009 and 22 people were killed in
the clashes. Hamas has run the Gaza Strip since 2007 when it
seized control of the territory, ending a partnership government
with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , after
winning parliamentary elections the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  