-- 
Ambassadors International Wins Approval to Conduct Auction

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-19T20:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ambassadors-international-wins-approval-to-conduct-auction-1-.html
Ambassadors International Inc. (AMIE) ,
operator of Windstar Cruises, won court approval to hold a
bankruptcy auction to see if there are better bids than lender
Whippoorwill Associates Inc.’s offer of about $40 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
granted approval today of the sale procedures that will govern
the company’s May 16 auction, saying they are “sufficient and
appropriate.” All competing bids at the auction must be
submitted by May 13, and a hearing when Gross will consider
approving the sale is scheduled for May 18.  The Seattle-based company has an agreement to sell almost
all of its assets to Whippoorwill for about $40 million in debt
and the assumption of Windstar liabilities, according to a
statement.  White Plains , New York-based Whippoorwill is
Ambassadors’ secured lender and largest shareholder, with about
22 percent of the company’s equity.  Ambassadors originally wanted a May 2 auction, according to
court papers. The unsecured creditors committee objected to the
timeline, arguing that the sale was being rushed and should be
delayed at least 30 days and possibly as much as 75 days.  “This is not only a record-breaking pace, but it is
compounded by the fact” that the proposed buyer is a lender and
an equity owner, John K. Sherwood, a lawyer for the creditors,
said at an April 15 hearing. He said creditors need more time to
properly investigate Whippoorwill’s security interest in the
debt it proposes to offer as payment at the auction. “We’re not
looking for forever, just balance,” Sherwood added.  ‘Derail the Process’  There have been at least nine cases in the  Delaware 
district where the sale was approved in under 40 days from the
bankruptcy filing, Kristopher Hansen, a lawyer representing
Ambassadors, told Gross at the April 15 hearing. “You have to
derail the process” to get any value when no one else is
offering to buy the company, Hansen said.  “I don’t believe the company could survive” a delay of
about 60 to 75 days because it would erode confidence in the
market and “no one would trust Windstar to deliver,” Hans Birkholz, chief executive officer of Ambassadors and Windstar,
said under questioning from Hansen. Birkholz said that by the
middle of May the company could run out of cash, so “a one
month delay would be equally bad.”  Ambassadors has “established to the court’s satisfaction
and by the preponderance of the evidence” that there are
exigent circumstances for an expeditious sale, Gross said at
today’s hearing.  Ambassadors operates Windstar’s three-ship luxury yacht
fleet, which shuttles patrons to “the hidden harbors and
secluded coves of the world’s most sought-after destinations,”
according to a company statement. The ships carry 148 to 312
passengers each to 50 nations in  Europe , the Caribbean and the
Americas. The company listed $87.3 million in debt and $86.4
million in assets as of Dec. 1, 2010, in Chapter 11 documents.  The case is In re Ambassadors International Inc., 11-11002,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 