-- 
Lamborghini’s China Sales May Outpace U.S. on Aventador

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-19T14:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lamborghini-s-china-sales-may-surpass-u-s-on-364-000-aventador.html
Automobili Lamborghini SpA  will
probably sell more supercars in  China  than in the U.S. for the
first time this year, a sign of the Asian country’s growing
importance to luxury-car makers.  The Aventador LP 700-4, priced at 255,000 euros ($364,000)
in  Europe , has sold out the first 18 months of production, and
China accounts for a fifth of buyers so far, Chief Executive
Officer Stephan Winkelmann said in an interview today at the
Shanghai auto show. Sales may grow further when deliveries start
in the third quarter.  “I believe that China will become our most important
market this year,” Winkelmann said. “Customer feedback on the
Aventador is sheerly incredible here. There’s more to come when
the car visibly arrives.”  Luxury-car makers, including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, are recording surging demand in
the world’s largest car market, as growing wealth defies the
government’s efforts to clamp down on conspicuous consumption.
The U.S., traditionally the stronghold of luxury-auto demand, is
suffering from the after effects of excessive spending during
the real estate boom.  “You’ve got a growing number of millionaires and
billionaires that are prepared to show their wealth,” said  Ian Fletcher , a London-based analyst with IHS Automotive. “It
doesn’t help that the U.S. has become awash in $300,000 cars off
the back of the bubble. Everyone who wanted a Lamborghini
Gallardo has one by now, while in China it’s a new toy thing.”  Luxury Demand  Luxury-car sales in China may rise 20 percent this year,
while the overall passenger-vehicle market’s growth could slow
to about 12 percent, according to industry researcher J.D. Power
& Associates.  “The premium segment is probably going to grow faster than
the overall volume sector” in China, BMW’s sales chief  Ian Robertson  said in Shanghai. “We expect strong double-digit
growth for the full year.”  The prospects have prompted expansion plans by high-end
carmakers. Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker owned by Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co., is considering building a second
production plant in China to meet unexpected demand, Chief
Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby  said today in Shanghai. Mercedes
aims to double car sales in China to 300,000 by 2015, Klaus Maier, the head of Mercedes’ operations in China, said today.  Aventador Model  The Aventador, replacing Lamborghini’s top-of-the-line
Murcielago model, has a 700-horsepower V12 engine that surges to
100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour in 2.9 seconds. The
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  division, which competes with  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari,
wants to decide by the end of the year whether to add a third
model to complement the Aventador and Gallardo lines.  Sant’Agata Bolognese, Italy-based Lamborghini is counting
on the Aventador to help capitalize on surging demand for luxury
autos in the world’s largest auto market. The VW unit is aiming
to more than double China-based dealerships to 20 this year from
nine in 2009, the CEO said.  Lamborghini wants to use a customer reception in Shanghai
today to further stoke demand for the Aventador. The carmaker
will use the event to present a special edition called the
Gallardo LP 550-2 Tricolore, limited to 150 cars to mark the
150th anniversary of Italian unity, the CEO said. The Gallardo
LP 550-2 will be mainly sold across  Asia .  Global sales at Lamborghini fell 14 percent last year to
1,302 autos as the carmaker ended production of the Murcielago
in May 2010. Chinese deliveries more than doubled to 206 cars
from 80 in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in  Shanghai  via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  