-- 
Americans Shun Most Affordable Homes in Generation as Owning Loses Appeal

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-19T13:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/americans-shun-most-affordable-homes-in-generation-as-owning-loses-appeal.html
Victoria Pauli signed a one-year
lease last week to stay in her rental home in Fair Oaks,
 California . She had considered buying in the area, where
property prices have slumped 57 percent since a 2005 peak.  In the end, she decided it wasn’t worth it.  “I know people who have watched their home values get cut
in half, and I know people who are losing their homes,” said
Pauli, 31, who works as a property manager for a real estate
company. “It’s part of the American dream to want to own your
own home, and I used to feel that way, but now I tell myself: Be
careful what you wish for.”  The most affordable real estate in a generation is failing
to lure buyers as Americans like Pauli sour on the idea of home
ownership. At the end of 2010, the fourth year of the housing
collapse, the share of people who said a home was a safe
investment dropped to 64 percent from 70 percent in the first
quarter. The December figure was the lowest in a  survey  that
goes back to 2003, when it was 83 percent.  “The magnitude of the housing crash caused permanent
changes in the way some people view home ownership,” said
Michael Lea, a finance professor at  San Diego State University .
“Even as the economy improves, there are some who will never
buy a home because their confidence in real estate is gone.”  Worse Than Depression  Historically, homes have been a safer investment than
equities. During 2008, the worst year of the housing crisis, the
median U.S. home price declined 15 percent, compared with a more
than 38 percent plunge in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Americans stay in their homes for a median of eight years,
according to the National Association of Realtors in  Chicago .
Someone who bought a home in 2002 and sold in 2010 saw a 4.8
percent increase in value, based on the annualized median price
measured by the group. The average annual gain in the past 20
years was 4.2 percent.  Falling prices have made real estate the best buy in at
least four decades. Housing affordability reached a record in
December, according to National Association of Realtors data
that go back to 1970. The group bases its gauge on property
prices,  mortgage rates  and the median U.S. income.  The median U.S. home price tumbled 32 percent from a 2006
peak to a nine-year low in February, data from the Realtors
show. The retreat surpassed the 27 percent drop seen in the
first five years of the Great Depression, according to  Stan Humphries , chief economist of Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based real
estate information company.  Not Risk-Free  “If we’ve learned anything from this mess, it’s that
housing is not a risk-free investment,” said  Michelle Meyer , a
senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research in  New York . “Everyone knows someone underwater in
their mortgage or struggling to sell a home.”  About 11 million U.S. homes were worth less than their
mortgages at the end of 2010, according to CoreLogic Inc., a
 Santa Ana , California-based real estate information company. An
additional 2.4 million borrowers had less than five percent
equity, meaning they’ll be underwater with even slight price
declines, according to the March 8 report. The two categories
add up to 28 percent of residences with mortgages.  Future Plans  The share of Americans who said they plan to purchase a
home in the next six months tumbled 23 percent in March,
according to the Conference Board research firm in New York. The
National Association of Realtors probably will say tomorrow that
existing-home sales were at a 5 million annual rate in March, up
2.5 percent after a 9.6 percent plunge in February, according to
the median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Work began on 549,000 houses at an annual pace in March, up
7.2 percent from the prior month, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . The gain failed to make
up for ground lost in February, when starts fell to the lowest
level in almost two years.  The drop in homebuyer confidence may be temporary. Home
sales probably will rise 4.1 percent to 5.1 million in 2011,
with the biggest increases in the second half of the year, the
Mortgage Bankers Association said in an April 14 report. In
2012, sales may climb 5.9 percent to 5.4 million, the highest
pace since 2007, the Washington-based trade group estimated.  A rebound in home sales depends on the availability of
jobs, the mortgage association said. The  unemployment rate 
probably will decline every quarter of this year and next,
falling to 7.9 percent by 2012’s end, the trade group said. It
was 8.8 percent last month, the lowest in two years.  Improving Employment  “We expect that purchase activity will pick up slowly as
the improvement in the job market eventually leads to greater
willingness to buy,” the mortgage bankers group said.  Borrowing costs are at historic lows. The average U.S. rate
for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.69 percent last year, the
lowest in annual data going back to 1972, according to mortgage
financier  Freddie Mac , based in McLean, Virginia. The rate in
March was 4.84 percent, the company said.  By 2012’s fourth quarter, the average fixed rate may rise
to 6 percent, according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  “If you can jump through the hoops to get a mortgage, and
there will be hoops, then this is an amazing time to purchase
real estate,” said  Robert Stein , a senior economist at First
Trust Portfolios LP in Wheaton,  Illinois , and the former head of
the Treasury Department’s Office of Economic Policy. “There are
going to be a lot of people kicking themselves a few years from
now because they didn’t take advantage of the low prices and the
low mortgage rates.”  Tighter Lending  Cheap financing hasn’t done enough to boost home sales in
part because lenders are being more selective with applicants,
according to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke . Fed policy
makers have described the housing market as “depressed” in
statements following their last eight meetings.  “Although mortgage rates are low and  house prices  have
reached more affordable levels, many potential homebuyers are
still finding mortgages difficult to obtain and remain concerned
about possible further declines in home values,” Bernanke said
in Congressional testimony last month.  The share of banks reporting tighter mortgage standards in
the first quarter rose to 16 percent, the highest since 1991,
according to the Fed’s Senior Loan Officer Survey.  Federal regulators are proposing rules that may make
lending even more stringent, including a requirement that banks
and bond issuers keep a stake in home loans they securitize if
the mortgage borrowers have imperfect credit and down payments
of less than 20 percent. Borrowers who don’t meet the criteria
would pay higher rates to compensate lenders for risk.  Fannie Phase-Out  As mortgage requirements rise, rates could follow as
Congress and the Obama administration consider phasing out
government-controlled  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac. The companies
hold federal charters mandating they increase the availability
of mortgages through securitization. In Fannie Mae’s case, that
order goes back to the Great Depression, when it was created as
part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal.  “There are a lot of unsettled policy issues on the table
right now that, if they’re not handled right, could further set
back the housing market,” said  Richard DeKaser , an economist at
Parthenon Group in  Boston . “Fannie and Freddie have
historically lowered  interest rates , and eliminating them will
increase the cost of home ownership.”  Lowest in Decade  The U.S. home ownership rate dropped to 66.5 percent in the
fourth quarter, the lowest in more than a decade, according to
the Census Department. The rate probably will retreat another
percentage point by 2013, according to Meyer, of Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, and Lea, the finance professor. That would put it
back to a 1997 level.  “People will still aspire to own their own homes,” Lea
said. “They’ll just be a lot more practical about it.”  Pauli, the California renter, said she has no such
aspirations, at least for now. She pays $1,500 a month for her
three-bedroom, single-family home with a two-car garage, granite
kitchen countertops and stainless-steel appliances. Her
neighbors who bought before the housing crash typically have
mortgage payments of about $2,800 a month, Pauli said.  “I don’t see myself purchasing, even with all the great
prices I see,” Pauli said. “Going to bed every night worrying
about your home value doesn’t sound like a good time to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 