-- 
Ameriprise, Investors Seek Court Approval of Lawsuit Accord

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-04-19T21:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ameriprise-securities-america-agree-to-end-investor-suit-for-80-million.html
Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , two of
its Securities America units and a group of investors who sued
them asked a U.S. judge to approve a proposed $80 million cash
settlement.  The investors had bought stock and partnership interests in
Provident Royalties LLC, an owner of working interests in oil
and natural gas properties, through Securities America from
September 2006 through January 2009. They also bought notes
issued by so-called special purpose entities affiliated with
Medical Capital Holdings Inc., a company that bought accounts
receivable, according to papers filed yesterday with U.S.
District Judge W. Royal Furgeson in  Dallas .  Those who invested in Medical Capital, which was later sued
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
misappropriation of investor funds, lost about $284 million on
the special purpose notes. Securities America sold about 37
percent of those notes, according to the investors’ filing.
Provident investors lost $46 million when that company went
bankrupt.  “The class action settlement will allow investors to
recover a meaningful percentage of their losses,” their
attorneys told the court.  Ameriprise, a Minneapolis-based company spun off from
American Express Co. in 2005, and its Securities America units
have also agreed to pay $70 million to investors who filed
claims for arbitration and rather than in the courts.  The lead case is case is Billitteri v. Securities America
Inc., 09cv1568, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  