-- 
Manchester United Misses Chance to Take Nine-Point Lead in Premier League

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-20T00:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/manchester-united-draws-0-0-at-newcastle-leads-premier-league-by-7-points.html
Manchester United  missed the chance
to take a nine-point lead atop English soccer’s Premier League
with a 0-0 draw at mid-table Newcastle.  Ryan Giggs  twice shot wide for the Red Devils in the second
half at St. James’ Park last night, while both teams had appeals
for penalty kicks rejected.  The draw leaves United, seeking a record 19th English
league title, seven points ahead of second-place Arsenal with
five matches remaining. Arsenal has played one game fewer and
can cut the gap to four by beating London rival Tottenham today.  “I’m confident we’ll be fine now as that was a hard one to
get over,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told  Sky Sports .
“We’re in a better position than we were on Saturday -- one
less game and the same position we were with Arsenal with five
games left.”  Defending champion Chelsea trails United by nine points and
can reduce the deficit with a win against Birmingham in today’s
other Premier League match, the first of three straight at home
for the Blues. Ferguson’s team visits Arsenal on May 1 and hosts
Chelsea a week later.  “You have got to look at Chelsea also and how they respond
with the three home games in a row,” Ferguson said. “There are
two important games coming up, obviously, and that’s the Arsenal
game away and the Chelsea game at home.”  Arsenal’s draw with Liverpool three days ago gave United
the chance to go nine points clear with a win last night. The
Red Devils failed to convert any of their eight chances on
target.  Early Chance  Newcastle goalkeeper Tim Krul made a point-blank save from
 Javier Hernandez  in the second minute and  Wayne Rooney  shot over
the crossbar after being sent clear by Hernandez’s flick. Jose
Enrique denied Hernandez with a block on the stroke of halftime.  Referee Lee Probert waved away Newcastle’s appeals for a
penalty kick in the 60th minute when United midfielder Anderson
appeared to catch Peter Lovenkrands in the area.  Giggs twice skewed shots wide from goal-scoring positions
before United had a claim for a penalty kick of its own rejected
in the second minute of injury time. Hernandez went down under
Danny Simpson’s challenge and Probert showed the Mexican striker
a yellow card for diving instead of awarding a spot kick.  “If it’s not a penalty, fine, but to book him is an
insult,” Ferguson said. “There is definitely contact, no doubt
about that.”  Newcastle manager Alan Pardew, whose team moved up one
place to ninth, said his “heart sank” as the referee blew his
whistle because he’d assumed that a penalty had been given.  “The history of Manchester United -- last-minute goals,
the club that they are, the manager that they have, I honestly
thought the referee had given it,” Pardew told Sky Sports.
“The referee got the decision right and we got, in my opinion,
a deserved draw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  