-- 
Laos to Delay Mekong Dam After Failing to Convince Neighbors

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-19T10:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/laos-seeks-to-gain-neighbors-approval-for-3-8-billion-mekong-river-dam.html
Laos  agreed to delay proceeding
with a $3.8 billion hydropower dam because of concerns among
neighboring Mekong River countries that the project would
disrupt fish catches and rice production downstream.  Laos,  Cambodia , Vietnam and Thailand will consider the
project at another meeting with environment ministers “as they
could not come to a common conclusion,” according to a joint
 statement  after representatives met in Vientiane to consider the
project. The next meeting will take place “as soon as
possible,” Te Navuth, a Cambodian official who chaired today’s
meeting, told reporters by phone from the Lao capital.  The Thai-financed  Xayaburi hydropower plant  is the first of
about 10 dams the government plans to build on the mainstream
Mekong, which runs from China’s Tibetan plateau through Myanmar,
 Thailand , Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. Laos’s government can make
a final decision on whether to proceed with the dam at any time.  Failure to build the dam may hinder the efforts of
 Southeast Asia ’s smallest economy to use its resources to boost
incomes for its 6 million citizens who comprise  Asia ’s youngest
population. Hydropower and mining projects are set to underpin
gross domestic product growth that may reach 7.7 percent this
year, the  Asian Development Bank  said in an April 7  report .  Laos proposed today to end a review of Xayaburi called for
under a 1995 agreement between the Mekong countries requiring
prior consultations before building hydropower plants on the
river.  Vietnam  recommended that all planned hydropower projects
on the Mekong be delayed for 10 years.  Vietnam Opposition  “The deferment should be positively seen as a way to
provide much-needed time for riparian governments to carry out
comprehensive and more specific quantitative studies on all
possible cumulative impacts,” Le Duc Trung, head of the
Vietnamese delegation, said in a statement.  Thailand questioned the dam’s sustainability, while
Cambodia called for more studies on the project, according to
the statement from the  Mekong River Commission , an
intergovernmental body that hosted the meeting.  “We appreciate all comments, but we will consider to
accommodate all concerns,” Viraphonh Viravong, head of the Lao
delegation, said in the statement.  The Mekong and its tributaries provide food, water and
transportation to about 60 million people in those four
countries. U.S. Senator  Jim Webb  said April 15 that approval of
the dam could cause “irreversible” damage and threaten the
stability of Southeast Asia.  Thai Construction  Thailand agreed in December to buy 95 percent of the
electricity from the plant, which will have a capacity of 1,285
megawatts. Ch. Karnchang Pcl, Thailand’s third-biggest
construction company by market value, owns a 57 percent stake in
the 115 billion baht ($3.8 billion) project.  Ch. Karnchang shares have fallen 6.3 percent this year,
compared with a 5.5 percent gain in Thailand’s benchmark SET
Index. The Laos Composite Index, which opened on Jan. 11 with
two stocks, has gained 34 percent since then.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest energy company, has a 25
percent stake, while Bangkok-based  Electricity Generating Pcl (EGCO) 
owns 12.5 percent, according to company filings. The project is
expected to start commercial operations in January 2019, PTT
told the Thai stock exchange on March 1.  The Xayaburi plant will help “to secure and to stabilize”
Thailand’s energy supply over the long term, Prasert Bunsumpun,
president of state-owned PTT, said in the statement.  Giant Catfish  A technical  review  by the commission released last month
found that the dam may lead to the extinction of species like
the Mekong giant catfish and “gaps in knowledge” mean the full
extent of the downstream impact on fisheries is hard to estimate.
The dam “will not materially affect” the quantity and timing
of river flows to Cambodia and Vietnam, it said.  China  has already built four hydropower dams on the Mekong,
completing the first one in 1993 without consulting its
downstream neighbors. It plans to build four more as part of
efforts to almost double its hydropower capacity to at least 300
gigawatts by 2020.  Laos also plans to sell electricity from dams to Vietnam as
an alternative to nuclear power,  Daovong Phonekeo , deputy
director general of Laos’s Department of Electricity, said by
phone yesterday. Vietnam, which faced rolling electricity
outages in February, last year announced plans to build as many
as 13 nuclear  power plants  with a capacity of 16,000 megawatts
over the next two decades.  “We are trying to benefit not only our country, but also
develop a cheap source of electricity for our neighbors,”
Daovong said. “Each riparian country has the right to use the
Mekong River for its own development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  