-- 
Apple Said to Add Foxconn’s Chimei as Supplier of Parts for IPad

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-19T01:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/apple-said-to-add-foxconn-affiliate-chimei-as-supplier-of-parts-for-ipad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has agreed to add
Foxconn Technology Group affiliate  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  as its
third supplier of sensors for the iPad 2’s touch screen, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Chimei Innolux will begin supplying the components next
month, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the details aren’t public. Taiwan’s TPK Holding Corp. and  Wintek
Corp. (2384)  remain Apple’s key suppliers of the sensors that help the
iPad tablet computer recognize finger movements, the people
said.  The order may deepen Apple’s ties with billionaire tycoon
Terry Gou’s Foxconn, the Taiwanese assembler of the iPad and
iPhone. The iPad, the fastest-selling technology product in
history as measured by revenue, will continue to dominate the
global market for tablet computers, controlling more than three-
fifths of the market next year, Gartner Inc. said this month.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment, while Ron Lee at Wintek and Freddie Liu at Taipei-
based TPK declined to comment on specific products or customers.
Chimei Innolux continues to develop its touch-screen product
line and expects to offer it to major customers, spokesman Eddie Chen said, declining to comment on specific clients.  Chimei Innolux shares had lost 24 percent this year as of
yesterday amid falling prices for displays. The company was
created last year through the merger of Foxconn’s Innolux
Display Co., Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp., and TPO Displays
Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in  Hong Kong  at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  