-- 
Areva to Deliver Water-Treatment Unit to Tepco's Crippled Fukushima Plant

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-19T11:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/areva-to-deliver-water-treatment-unit-to-tepco-s-crippled-fukushima-plant.html
Areva SA (CEI)  will deliver a
decontamination unit to  Japan ’s crippled nuclear power plant,
where Tokyo Electric Power Co. is removing radioactive water so
it can start repairing cooling pumps and power systems.  Areva will set up the water treatment plant, which
separates and recovers radioactive particles, at the Fukushima
site, the French nuclear operator said today in a statement.
Tepco, as the Japanese company is called, wants to start using
the unit by June, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager, said at
a press briefing in Tokyo.  The Fukushima plant was damaged by explosions in the days
after a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on March 11 knocked out
cooling equipment, sparking the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl in 1986. Tepco today started pumping contaminated
water out of trenches near one of the reactor buildings that
were damaged by the blasts.  “The contaminated water must be treated rapidly as it is
preventing Tepco from repairing the power plant’s power supply
and cooling systems,” Areva said in the statement. The unit
“will sharply reduce the radioactivity levels of the treated
water, which could be reused in the power plant’s cooling
systems.”  The treatment unit, which will be provided by Veolia Water,
can process 50,000 liters (13,200 gallons) of water per hour,
Areva Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  said today at a
briefing in Tokyo.  She said Areva hasn’t proposed a plan for decommissioning
the reactors, which have been spewing radiation into the air and
sea for more than five weeks  Pouring Water  The Fukushima plant, 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of
Tokyo, has six reactors, three of which were shut for
maintenance when the earthquake and tsunami struck, leaving
almost 28,000 people dead or missing.  Tepco has been pouring millions of liters of water to cool
the reactors and spent fuel after the accident, which has
flooded basements and trenches near the reactors. Some highly
contaminated water leaked into the sea and the utility has
dumped less toxic fluids into the ocean.  Tepco started draining highly radioactive water from
trenches around the No. 2 reactor at about 10 a.m. today,
spokesman Osamu Yokokura said.  The power utility aims to move 10 million liters (2.6
million gallons) of the contaminated water to a waste treatment
unit and expects to complete the transfer in 26 days, Matsumoto
told reporters at an earlier briefing today.  Filling Vessels  In the next three months, Tepco plans to fill the reactor
containment vessels at the No. 1 and No. 3 units with water, the
company said in its statement on April 17 outlining its plan for
bringing the situation under control. The utility will seal the
vessel of the No. 2 reactor, which is likely damaged, before
flooding it.  “If we flood the damaged vessel, the leak of contaminated
water will increase,” Tepco Vice President Sakae Muto told
reporters. “We will continue injecting water with care and
monitor the volume of water leaked.”  Two  iRobot Corp. (IRBT)  robots sent into reactor buildings on
April 17 to check whether humans can reenter them found
radiation levels as high as 49 millisieverts per hour inside the
No. 1 unit, and up to 57 millisieverts in the No. 3 unit, the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said.  The cumulative maximum level for nuclear workers was raised
to 250 millisieverts from 100 millisieverts by Japan’s health
ministry on March 15. Exposure totaling 100 millisieverts over a
year is the lowest level at which any increase in cancer is
evident, according to the  World Nuclear Association  in  London .  Judging Limits  Another robot was sent into the reactor No. 2 building
yesterday and recorded levels of 4.1 millisieverts per hour,
spokesman Tetsuya Terasawa told reporters today. That level
wouldn’t prevent workers going into the building, another
spokesman said.  “We judge the radiation limit by the amount, importance
and hours of the work, as well as accumulated exposure of each
worker,” spokesman Shogo Fukuda said. “We wouldn’t hesitate to
send workers in at a level of 4.1 millisieverts per hour.”  Fuel pellets in the No. 1, 2 and 3 reactors may have melted
at the plant, the nuclear safety agency said today, in the first
official confirmation of damage to the cores.  “It is believed that the fuel pellets in the reactors have
melted,” the agency said in a report. “The extent of the
melting cannot be confirmed until the fuel rods have been
removed.”  A sustained drop in radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station may be achieved within three months, Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said in the  statement  laying out its plans.  Cold Shutdown  Following that, a cold shutdown, where core reactor
temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees
Fahrenheit), may be achieved within six months, it said.  “Tepco needs to be faster than it has outlined on two
particular areas: circulating the radioactive water back into
the pressure vessels and covering the reactor buildings to
prevent radiation releases,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a professor
of nuclear engineering at  Hokkaido University , said today.  Shares of Tepco fell 4.3 percent to 447 yen today in Tokyo.
The stock is down about 80 percent since the quake and tsunami.  Three to six months after the initial phase of its plan,
Tepco will attempt a cold shutdown of reactors No. 1, 2 and 3,
the company said. Reactors 4, 5 and 6 were shut at the time of
the disaster.  The utility will also cover the No. 1, 3 and 4 reactor
buildings as a temporary measure to reduce radiation emissions
after the structures were damaged by hydrogen blasts last month,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  