-- 
Harvard's Adams Enlists Nobel Economist Charging $5,000 for Hour of Advice

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/harvard-s-adams-enlists-nobel-economist-charging-5-000-for-hour-of-advice.html
Lots of bandwidth and $5,000 can
get anyone an hour with Nobel Prize-winning economist Gary Becker.  A couple more computer clicks can also remake a tennis
serve, fix a golf swing and provide tips on how to out-bluff the
poker world’s top pros.  Becker, a University of Chicago professor who won the  Nobel
Prize  in Economics in 1992, will be selling his time on
 ExpertInsight.com , a website offering one-to-one video chats
with leaders, which opened yesterday. He’ll join people such as
economics professors Jeffrey Miron of  Harvard University  and
 Laurence Kotlikoff  of  Boston University , “Freakonomics” co-
authors Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, poker celebrities
Patrik Antonius and Tom Dwan, and tennis coach Jeff Salzenstein.  “The idea is to bring this coaching model to everything,”
said Brandon Adams, Expert Insight’s 32-year-old founder and
chief executive officer.  The site’s roster blends the interests and contacts of
Adams, a top poker professional who taught undergraduates in
Harvard’s Department of Economics for the past eight years.
Adams, the primary research assistant for  Michael Lewis ’s book
“The Big Short,” began giving one-to-one poker lessons over
the video-chat service Skype in March 2010, charging $300-$400
per hour.  “I was amazed at how easy it was to drum up business,”
Adams, a regular in some of the world’s biggest cash poker
games, said in a telephone interview. “I realized that one-to-
one teaching was a great opportunity to monetize content. What
you’re doing is searching the world for that small slice of
people, maybe 15 to 30, who are willing to pay a high price for
your content.”  Nobels, ‘Freak’  In exchange for an equity position, Adams sought help from
 Greatest Good LLC , a business and philanthropy consulting firm
founded by a group that includes Becker; Levitt, who also
teaches at the  University of Chicago ; and Daniel Kahneman, a
Princeton University professor and 2002 Nobel economics
laureate.  “Ultimately, the Internet is about reducing what
economists call ‘search’ costs and ‘transaction’ costs,”
Levitt, who will charge $3,000 per hour on the site, said in an
e-mail. “There may be only a handful of customers scattered
around the world willing to pay the fees that top experts or
celebrities might demand. Before now, there was no easy way to
find each other. The search and transaction costs were
prohibitive. Now there’s a market.”  Expert Insight spent $450,000 to build the website and
expects to become profitable in late 2012 or 2013, Adams said.
Experts will set their own rates and schedules, giving 30
percent commissions to the company.  Mountaintop Tennis  One of the site’s pros will be Salzenstein, a 37-year-old
former Stanford University tennis All-American who was  No. 100
in singles  in 2004 in the ATP World Tour rankings. He said he
got into video coaching a couple months ago when a woman in
 Portugal , Alexandra Franco, commented on his blog, seeking
advice on her serve. He suggested she send him some video and
later began giving her advice over Skype.  “Here’s a woman on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean,
we’re sharing Skype and she’s learning things she’s never heard
before,” he said.  Salzenstein, who will charge $200 per hour on Expert
Insight, uses video clips from top professionals such as 16-time
major champion  Roger Federer  and top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  to
teach proper strokes and movements without “the distraction of
hitting a ball over the net.”  Internet Coaching  Franco, who lives among six houses on a mountaintop in
Quatrim do Norte, about 175 miles (281 kilometers) south of
Lisbon, said she sought top coaching locally before turning to
the Internet.  “Even the best coaches here are not getting the detail
that Jeff is getting with the video,” Franco, a 47-year-old
former professional basketball player, said in a telephone
interview.  Jerome Andrews, a proponent of video coaching who in 2007
was named one of the top 20 U.S. golf instructors under the age
of 40 by Golf Digest, also will be on the website, as will some
of Adams’s poker-playing friends, including Phil Gordon, who’s
had $2.8 million in tournament winnings, and Rafe Furst, who won
an event in the 2006  World Series  of Poker.  Adams has taken Twitter bids on sessions with Antonius and
Dwan to launch the site. Antonius has drawn an offer of $3,200
and Dwan $3,000. Dubner, 47, and Becker, 80, held a chat on the
service yesterday, its opening day.  Gambling Crackdown  Last week’s crackdown on poker gambling websites by the
U.S. authorities probably will hurt that segment of the
business, Adams said yesterday. Founders of PokerStars, Full
Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker were among 11 people charged by
the U.S. last week in a case that seeks at least $3 billion in
forfeitures and penalties.  “The indictment of the major poker sites by the  Department
of Justice  will definitely hit our poker coaching business very
hard,” Adams said in an e-mail yesterday. “Long term, I’m 100
percent sure that the appetite for poker in this country is very
strong and will reassert itself somehow.”  Other experts available include political blogger Nate Silver at $1,000 per hour, Miron at $400, Dubner at $3,000 and
Becker at $5,000.  James Katz, a professor of communication at  Rutgers
University  in Piscataway,  New Jersey , said he knew a Wall Street
banker who had a monthly lunch with a Nobel Prize winner, paying
$2,000 for advice on life and business.  “It might be fun for someone to spend $5,000 to talk to a
very smart person,” Katz said in a telephone interview,
cautioning against over-reliance on such experts. “What I find
is that smart people tend to be smart in a subject area or
domain, and just a regular person for all the other things.”  Down-Market Move  Adams said his company’s plan is “to make a managed move
down market over time,” trying not to risk alienating his high-
priced roster.  Internet video chat has potential to be used for services
ranging from tutoring and counseling to home repair and psychic
readings. It may also help the world’s biggest celebrities
interact with fans.  “I’d pay a lot of money to give my daughters the chance to
video chat with  Taylor Swift ,” Levitt said of the Grammy Award-
winner singer. “I can’t see any way that will happen other than
Taylor Swift signing on with Expert Insight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 