-- 
AT&T Won’t Yet Release RIM Bridge E-Mail App for Playbook

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-19T20:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/at-t-won-t-yet-release-rim-bridge-e-mail-app-for-playbook-1-.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, said it won’t release software to customers
that enables e-mail on  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry
PlayBook that went on sale today until tests are complete.  “We’ve only just received the app for testing, and we want
to make sure it will deliver a quality experience before we make
it available to our customers,”  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for
Dallas-based AT&T, said today in an e-mail message.  RIM, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company that began selling
the PlayBook in stores across  Canada  and the U.S. today, is
battling mixed reviews from technology columnists who criticized
the 7-inch tablet for lacking a built-in e-mail program and
cited an inability to connect to mobile-phone networks.  “This seems to be an execution stumble,” said Tero Kuittinen, an MKM Partners LLC analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We know they were rushing to get this product to market, but
you’d think they could get it to people sooner for testing.” He
has a “buy” rating on RIM.  Marisa Conway, a spokesman for RIM, did not immediately
return messages seeking comment. Jim Balsillie, RIM’s co-chief
executive officer, said April 15 the criticism wasn’t fair and
that it shouldn’t be a problem for customers who can pair their
BlackBerrys to their PlayBooks to read e-mail, calendar and
contacts database using software known as BlackBerry Bridge.  Summer Release  The company has said it plans to release an e-mail program
for the Playbook this summer.  RIM dropped $1.61, or 2.9 percent, to $53.22 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock has lost
14 percent in the past month and declined in 12 of the last 15
trading days.  Aside from critical reviews, RIM is competing with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, which has exceeded 15 million sales in the past
year. Consumer demand for the PlayBook, which went on sale today
at 20,000 stores across Canada and the U.S., appeared to be
muted.  The  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  store in Toronto’s business district
opened an hour early and had no lines. Best Buy Inc.’s main
store in downtown Toronto opened at 7 a.m., and had sold about
20 to 25 PlayBooks by 10 a.m, said Manish Nargas, a store
manager. The ability to pre-order the device and the critical
reviews may have contributed to a lack of foot traffic, he said.  “We were expecting a lot more,” said Nargas. “It’s a
little disappointing.”  RIM is counting on its traditional base of business and
government customers to embrace the PlayBook. The company is
touting the device’s portability and support for Flash
technology, used to play video on many websites. The iPad
doesn’t play Flash content.  Customers Looking  Kevin Gopaul, chief investment officer of BMO Asset
Management in Toronto, was one of two customers in the Best Buy
store trying out the PlayBook at midmorning today.  The device’s ability to run presentations on a larger
screen using a cable while allowing the user to run separate
programs on the PlayBook was compelling, said Gopaul, 35.  “That’s perfect for me,” for client meetings, he said.  Customers that don’t already have a BlackBerry smartphone
to pair their phones and PlayBooks to read e-mail and connect to
the Internet seemed less convinced.  “Lack of e-mail, how can you not have that on the
PlayBook,” said Eloi Fagundes, a 35-year-old nurse, as he
browsed the selection of tablets at Best Buy in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  