-- 
Audi Targets ‘Suburban Mommies’ in Compact SUV Race With BMW

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-20T13:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/audi-targets-suburban-mommies-in-compact-suv-race-with-bmw.html
Audi AG will pit the Q3 compact
sport-utility vehicle against  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s X1
as the two luxury-car makers vie to tap demand for SUVs geared
to urban areas.  “We’re paying heed to a fast-growing segment,” Michael Dick, Audi’s development chief, said in an interview at the
 Shanghai  auto show. “There’s a strong appetite for mobility in
expanding urban centers. The Q3 will be most appealing to that
end, especially for female drivers.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s luxury brand, which will begin selling the
Q3 in June at a starting price of 29,900 euros ($42,700), plans
to produce 100,000 Q3s a year, Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler said in Shanghai, where Audi premiered the vehicle. The
Q3 is 24 centimeters (9.5 inches) shorter and nearly 7,000 euros
cheaper than the mid-sized Q5.  Audi, based in Ingolstadt,  Germany , aims to challenge BMW’s
leading position in the segment, which the world’s largest
luxury car-maker created with the X1’s introduction in late
2009. BMW delivered nearly 100,000 X1s in 2010, accounting for
8.2 percent of overall sales. The model is part of Audi’s
strategy to topple BMW as the global luxury-car leader by 2015.  High-end carmakers are expanding their lineups of small
cars to attract urban drivers and meet tighter environmental
regulations.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz is also planning a
compact SUV. Mercedes will begin rolling out an expanded range
of four compacts with an overhauled B-Class later this year.
 Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa Romeo is planning a small SUV as part of its
return to the U.S.  Kid Hauler  “It’s a vehicle that suburban mommies will use to haul
their kids around,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based
analyst with IHS Automotive. “It’s a niche alternative for big
urban areas in  Europe , China and  Japan .”  BMW sells the X1, the company’s second-best selling SUV
after the X5, in all markets outside  North America . The model
helped the brand extend its lead over Audi in the first quarter,
with sales rising 21 percent to 321,175 vehicles, compared to
Audi’s 18 percent advance to 312,600. The Munich-based carmaker,
which installed cleaner engines in the top-of-the-line X1 this
year, intends to defend its position.  “We are aware that the Q3 is coming,” said Andreas Lampka, a BMW spokesman. “The X1 is the leader in its segment,
and we intend to keep it that way.”  SUV Battle  The Q3 intensifies the two carmakers' SUV battle. BMW
revamped the X3 mid-sized model and moved production to its U.S.
factory in  South Carolina  late last year in a bid to cut into
North American demand for Audi’s Q5. Audi responded by adding a
fuel-efficient four-cylinder engine to the Q5’s range. A hybrid
version of the Q5 is planned for later this year.  Audi’s Q3, based on the same technology platform as the VW
Tiguan, starts at 2,300 euros more than the X1. VW announced
plans yesterday to expand daily production of the Tiguan to
1,000 SUVs from the current 700 to keep up with rising demand.  The Q3 will initially be available with three four-cylinder
engines delivering as much as 211 horsepower. The top engine
model has a maximum speed of 230 kilometers (143 miles) per hour
and accelerates to 100 kilometers per hour in 6.9 seconds.  The Q3, Audi’s third SUV, will be built at a plant in
Martorell near  Barcelona , helping VW’s struggling Seat unit fill
assembly lines. Production may be expanded to  China , the world’s
biggest car market. BMW is also considering such a move.  “We used to think that China is no real market for SUVs,
but the success of the Q5 and Q7 have been proving us wrong,”
Dietmar Voggenreiter, head of Audi’s China operations, said in
Shanghai. “The Q3 will be our entry model to that segment, a
city-urban car.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  