-- 
Automaker CEOs Court Customers in Shanghai Instead of New York

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T00:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/automaker-ceos-follow-customers-to-shanghai-instead-of-new-york.html
To see how Shanghai’s auto show has
grown with the nation’s now world-leading vehicle market, just
watch the bosses.  While  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson spoke in  New York  yesterday on the eve of that city’s
international auto show, his peers were on the other side of the
world.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s  Martin Winterkorn ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
 Akio Toyoda , and Carlos Ghosn, who runs both  Renault SA (RNO)  and
Nissan Motor Co., all went to the Shanghai show. Akerson visited
China in February.  The choices made by the chief executives reflect the
growing significance of the world’s most populous nation. With
about 17.2 million vehicles sold last year, China is about 50
percent bigger than the U.S. market, even while car ownership is
14 times more common in the U.S. than in China.  “That’s it, isn’t it: Where are the CEOs?” said Michael Dunne, president of Dunne & Co. in  Hong Kong . “People know that
China is the world’s biggest market, but now it’s starting to
sink in.”  Jim Farley,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s marketing chief, called this
year’s Shanghai event “the most important auto show I’ve ever
been to in my career.” China’s rise on the global auto scene
will rank with the electrification of the automobile among the
career highlights he said he hopes to be able to tell his
grandchildren about some day.  Ford CEO Alan Mulally isn’t scheduled to attend either show.  Beetle Reveal  Volkswagen revealed the redesign of its iconic Beetle in
Shanghai, New York and Berlin, and Winterkorn was present for
the ceremony in China.  The world’s most profitable automaker in 2010 sent four
executive board members to the Shanghai show and none to New
York, said  Peter Schwarzenbauer , sales chief for the automaker’s
Audi AG unit.  “We’re concentrating on  Shanghai ,” he said. “The Q3 SUV
is premiered to the world here -- that’s where we should be
too.”  Volvo Cars CEO Stefan Jacoby said in an interview in
Shanghai that the growth of China’s passenger-car market was
inconceivable a decade ago.  “I remember times when I worked for VW -- and had been in
charge of the Asia Pacific and China business -- that we could
not imagine that the market would have the size of the German
car market: 3 to 3.5 million,” he said. “Today it’s 13
million” passenger cars, and more than 17 million including
commercial vehicles.  China’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. bought Volvo Cars
from Ford in August.  ‘More Popular’  “The Shanghai show is getting bigger and more and more
popular each year,” said Chen Hong, president of SAIC Motor
Corp., which has partnerships with GM and VW that are the
nation’s top manufacturers. “This shows the fast expansion and
development of the China car market.”  While vehicle sales growth slowed in China in February and
March and the government has sought to discourage “lavish
lifestyles,” the popularity of luxury vehicles has continued.  Dieter Zetsche, CEO of  Daimler AG (DAI) , which makes Mercedes-
Benz and Maybach cars, attended the show.  “Top management of a lot of major automakers are here,”
said Klaus Maier, president and chief executive officer of
Mercedes-Benz’s business in China. “It is getting very
competitive” to get space for advertisement in newspapers such
as China Daily, in which the German brand ran a glossy insert.  Toyota’s Toyoda hadn’t committed to come to Shanghai in
advance and eventually decided to attend. He said he appreciated
the “support and encouragement of everyone here in China,” and
that attending the show is fundamental to his role as CEO.  “I feel it is my mission to work to provide ever-better
cars to people around the world,” Toyoda said. “On this belief,
I made this trip to  China .”  --Tian Ying, Liza Lin, Andreas Cremer, Makiko Kitamura, Yuki Hagiwara and Jamie Butters in Shanghai. Editors: Kevin Orland,
James Callan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  