-- 
Bankrupt Satmex Bonds to Yield Above 10% in Restructuring: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-19T21:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bankrupt-satmex-bonds-to-yield-above-10-in-restructuring-mexico-credit.html
Satelites Mexicanos SA may pay the
highest yield on a dollar bond offering by a Mexican company in
almost two years as the satellite operator seeks to emerge from
 bankruptcy protection  for the second time since 2006.  Investors will demand a yield as high as 12 percent on the
overseas bonds, said Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who oversees $1
billion of emerging-market debt at Federated Investment
Management Co. in Pittsburgh. The yield, which would be the
highest for a Mexican company since Servicios Corporativos Javer
SAPI paid 13 percent in July 2009, compares with average
corporate dollar borrowing costs of 6.29 percent, according to
data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bloomberg.  Satmex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, is
seeking to persuade investors to buy the bonds after its failure
to sell itself to  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  and difficulty adding customers
that pushed the company into bankruptcy in April. The company,
which also filed for bankruptcy protection in 2006, plans to
sell $325 million of five-year bonds abroad, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Similar-maturity dollar notes from
Intelsat Jackson Holding, a Luxembourg-based satellite operator,
yield 8.17 percent.  “The short-term problems can be reduced, but the operating
outlook continues to be a problem and there are too many
unresolved questions,” Sanchez-Dahl said in a telephone
interview. “A yield that compensates investors for all their
risk is negative for the company.”  9% - 9.5%  Satmex is seeking a yield of 9 percent to 9.5 percent, said
a person familiar with the terms of the sale who asked not to be
named because the discussions are private. The company plans to
use proceeds to repay creditors as part of a U.S. bankruptcy
court-approved restructuring plan and to launch a new satellite.  The company’s 10.125 percent dollar bonds due in 2013 fell
1 cent on the dollar to 49 cents when it last traded on April
13, according to Bloomberg data. The bonds have returned 24
percent this year.  The Mexican government sold its stake in Satmex earlier
this year and said it may hire  Boeing Co. (BA) , Loral Space &
Communications Inc. or Thales SA to build two satellites for its
new space agency. Satmex sells video and data transmission
capacity to phone and Internet companies and satellite network
capacity to government security agencies.  Satmex may struggle to generate cash to boost solvency
after customers migrated to competitors, said Jose Otero, an
analyst at Signals Telecom Consulting in Montevideo, Uruguay.  Annual Profits  “All they have left of value are the orbits, and if they
don’t meet their obligations, they could lose them too,” Otero
said in a telephone interview, referring to the company’s
license to position its satellites. “If you don’t use your
orbits, it’s easy for them to take them away.”  Satmex Chief Financial Officer Luis Stein was traveling
yesterday and couldn’t be reached for comment. Chief Executive
Officer Patricio Northland didn’t return a phone message left
with an assistant.  Satmex has failed to turn an annual profit since emerging
from bankruptcy in 2006, hampered by an inability to boost sales
enough to cover its interest expenses.  Creditors approved the company’s debt sale and an equity
offering of the reorganized equity of about $96.25 million as
part of the pre-approved restructuring.  Satmex also filed bankruptcy in August 2006 in  New York  and
exited that December after it won approval from the court to
repay creditors that were owed about $743 million with new debt
and equity.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 2 basis points
today to 138, according to JPMorgan.  Ratings Outlook  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 102, according to CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 11.6792 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
September rose 2 basis points to 5.03 percent, indicating
traders expect a rate increase that month. In the past five
years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the overnight rate
has averaged 36 basis points.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a record low of 4.5 percent on April 15.  Moody’s may boost Satmex’s credit ratings if the company
gains new customers amid rising demand for satellite services,
according to analyst Nymia Almeida. Satmex is rated B3, six
levels below investment grade.  Chapter 11  “The demand is there for satellites,” Almeida said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “If everything goes well
in the next two or three years, there could even be a possible
upgrade.”  Satmex has $441.6 million in assets and $531.6 million of
debt as of March 23, according to Chapter 11 documents filed in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . The company will
use proceeds of the bond sale to repay first-priority note
holders, who have $238.2 million in debt, and fund completion of
a satellite set to launch in 2012.  “Right now they can’t generate enough revenue or Ebitda to
cover this,” Federated Investment’s Sanchez-Dahl said. “We got
out of the bonds because the situation is just too
complicated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  