-- 
Basci Says Price, Financial Stability Remain Turkish Goals

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-19T07:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/basci-says-price-financial-stability-remain-turkish-goals-1-.html
Erdem Basci,  Turkey ’s new central
bank governor, said he shared the goals of securing price and
financial stability with his predecessor.  “Your vision is our vision,” Basci told outgoing Governor
 Durmus Yilmaz  during a handover ceremony today in Ankara. Basci
said he aimed to make the bank a leading monetary authority
globally.  Basci, a 44-year-old school friend of Deputy Prime
Minister  Ali Babacan , is trying to arrest a boom in lending and
domestic demand without increases in the benchmark interest
rate, which the central bank has held steady since cutting it to
a record low of 6.25 percent in January. Bank lending is fueling
demand for imports, which may push the current-account deficit
to 8 percent of economic output this year, according to an
International Monetary Fund estimate.  Central bank governors are appointed by governments and
need to “do our work without letting gratitude turn to
subservience,” Yilmaz said at the ceremony. “Otherwise we
damage the aims of those who appointed us.”  The bank’s rate-setting committee meets under Basci on
April 21 and is likely to keep the benchmark one-week repo rate
unchanged, according to all 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To slow loan growth, the bank has increased the reserve
requirements banks must set aside against their liabilities to
as much as 15 percent from 6 percent for short-term deposits. It
has also stopped paying interest on the reserves to banks.  The policy is starting to work, Basci said last week in
 Washington , according to a paper posted on the bank’s website at
the weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 