-- 
Bernanke May Reinvest Maturing Debt to Avoid ‘Cold Turkey’ End to Stimulus

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-19T12:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bernanke-may-reinvest-maturing-debt-to-avoid-cold-turkey-end-to-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may keep reinvesting maturing debt into Treasuries to
maintain record stimulus even after making good on a pledge to
complete $600 billion in bond purchases by the end of June.  The Fed chief’s top two lieutenants said this month the
economy and inflation are too weak to warrant the start of a
monetary-policy reversal. Investors and economists including
 David Kelly  at JPMorgan Funds see that as a signal the Fed will
keep its balance sheet at current levels by replacing about $17
billion a month in maturing mortgage debt with Treasuries.  Ending the reinvestment policy and the $600 billion program
at the same time would be like quitting stimulus “cold
turkey,” said Kelly, who is based in  New York  and helps oversee
$400 billion as chief market strategist at JPMorgan. “It does
make sense to reinvest for a while,” he said. “Then they could
watch how bond yields react to that.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries declined to 2.49 percent from
2.76 percent in the two weeks following the Fed’s Aug. 10
decision to begin reinvesting payments on assets purchased
during the first round of bond buying from December 2008 until
March 2010. An end to the reinvestment policy should be seen by
investors as the first step in a tightening of credit by the
Fed, said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Soss is among economists who say the  Federal Open Market
Committee  at the end of its April 26-27 meeting will probably
affirm its plan to halt Treasury purchases on schedule.  Debate Starts  Fed officials are starting to debate what steps to take
after completing the purchases, a program dubbed QE2 for the
second round of quantitative easing. Policy makers were divided
at their last meeting on March 15, with a “few” officials
saying tighter credit may be warranted this year, while a “few
others noted that exceptional policy accommodation could be
appropriate beyond 2011.”  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s vice chairman, said April 11 that
surging commodity costs over the past year are “unlikely to
have persistent effects on consumer inflation or to derail the
economic recovery and hence do not, in my view, warrant any
substantial shift in the stance of monetary policy.”  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  and the FOMC’s vice chairman, said April 1 that the
recovery is “still tenuous,” while Bernanke said April 4 that
higher commodity prices may have just a “transitory” effect on
inflation.  Bernanke last month identified ending the reinvestment
policy as one of the Fed’s tools for exiting stimulus and
draining reserves from the financial system.  ‘Tone’ of Indicators  The Fed chief may be asked how long the reinvestment policy
will be maintained in a press conference April 27, and “he’ll
probably say that will depend upon the tone of the economic
indicators in the months ahead,” said  James Kochan , who helps
manage $231 billion as chief fixed-income strategist at Wells
Fargo Fund Management LLC in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  “The first step is to end QE2,” Kochan said. “The next
step will be to stop reinvesting the proceeds from the
portfolio. I don’t know when that’s going to happen, but maybe
around the turn of the year.”  The FOMC decision in August to start the reinvestment
program initially fanned investor anxiety that the recovery
would falter. Bernanke said later that month the policy was
aimed at keeping borrowing costs low and that the Fed was
weighing more securities purchases, a move announced on Nov. 3.  Yields Rise  Since then, yields on 10-year Treasuries increased to 3.38
percent as of yesterday from 2.57 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 9 percent, while the dollar weakened by 1.3
percent against an index of six currencies.  Ten-year yields touched the lowest level in three weeks
even after Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered the outlook on
its AAA rating for long-term  U.S. debt  to negative.  Most of the 50 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last
month expected the Fed to keep its bond portfolio stable for
some time after the purchases end, with a plurality of 16
betting on a period of four to six months. Five economists said
the Fed would halt the policy once QE2 ends; 11 said it would
keep reinvesting for one to three months; 14 said seven to nine
months, and four said more than nine months.  “If necessary, the  Federal Reserve  can also drain reserves
by ceasing the reinvestment of principal payments on the
securities it holds or by selling some of those securities in
the open market,” Bernanke said in semiannual monetary-policy
testimony before the House and Senate on March 1 and March 2.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , part of a minority of policy makers who favor a tougher
approach to controlling inflation, said in a March 25 speech
that ending reinvestment is one of the first steps in his
preferred exit method.  ‘Headwinds’ to Growth  “Headwinds” against U.S. growth, including higher
gasoline prices, reduced spending by state and local governments
and a housing industry that’s “flat on its back” make it
difficult for Fed officials to end the reinvestment policy,
former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley  said.  “The economy has a lot of problems,” said Gramley, now
senior economic adviser with Potomac Research Group in
 Washington . “If I had to call the shots today, I would say
continuing to reinvest the proceeds from maturing issues is
better than a 50-50 chance.”  Extending the policy in the coming months would mean that a
later decision to end it would signal the Fed’s broader exit
from near-zero  interest rates , said Soss, based in New York.  “It wasn’t a package deal at the beginning, and I don’t
think that it’s a package deal at this juncture,” said Soss,
who worked as an aide to former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker . “An
announcement about not reinvesting would be a new policy
innovation and undoubtedly should be viewed as the first move in
a tightening program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  