-- 
BHP’s Coking Coal Output Curbed by Rain in Third Quarter

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-04-20T06:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bhp-s-iron-ore-coal-output-curbed-by-rain-in-third-quarter-1-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, said third-quarter output of coking coal
declined 14 percent as heavy rain flooded mines in Australia and
disrupted deliveries.  Production of coking coal, used to make steel, was 6.67
million tons in the three months ended March 31, Melbourne-based
BHP said today in a statement. That compares with Credit Suisse
Group AG’s estimate of 8 million tons. Iron ore output dropped 1
percent to 33.2 million tons.  Heavy rain in the eastern state of Queensland and cyclones
in  Western Australia  disrupted mining and BHP said today coal
sales may be affected for the rest of the calendar year.
Wesfarmers Ltd., which also mines coal in Queensland, today
reported a 42 percent decline in coking coal output in the
period because of flooding.  “We had assumed BHP’s metallurgical coal production was
back at full production by the end of the September 2011 quarter,
so this is a three month delay to our forecasts,” UBS AG said
in a report after the announcement. UBS had estimated BHP’s
output of coking coal at 6.5 million in the quarter.  BHP rose 1.2 percent to A$47.23 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
time close. The benchmark index gained 1.4 percent.  Force Majeure  Coking coal output dropped 18 percent from a year earlier,
BHP said. Coking coal was BHP’s largest income earner after  iron
ore , base metals and petroleum last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Force majeure remains in place for the majority of our
Bowen Basin products with production, sales and unit costs
likely to be impacted, to some extent, for the remainder of the
2011 calendar year,” BHP said. Force majeure is a legal clause
that allows a company to miss deliveries due to circumstances
beyond its control.  Wesfarmers said today coal output declined 38 percent to
1.49 million tons, led by a 42 percent drop in coking coal
because of the flooding in Queensland.  Two months of torrential rains and the worst floods in
Queensland since 1974 in January killed 36 people, shut mines
and cut rail lines. The state produces 80 percent of the coking
coal exported from  Australia , the world’s largest shipper.  Profit, Spending  Iron ore production rose 7 percent from the same period
last year, according to the statement. Output for the nine
months ended March 31 was a record, BHP said.  Iron ore sales accounted for 21 percent of the company’s
total last year. Almost all of BHP’s iron ore is mined in
Western Australia, while a smaller quantity is produced through
a joint venture in  Brazil  with Vale SA, the world’s largest
producer.  BHP, which reported a record first-half profit of $10.5
billion in February, plans to spend $80 billion by the end of
the 2015 financial year to expand and develop its mines and oil
fields, it said Feb. 16. It approved $7.4 billion in spending on
the Pilbara operations last month to boost capacity to 220
million tons a year by 2014.  It’s considering further expansions to increase capacity to
more than 300 million tons by 2020. The company may spend $25
billion on the expansions, Citigroup Inc. said in a report in
February.  “We’re going to see further increases in volume coming
through there and that should support iron ore growth,”  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne, said
by phone today.  BHP’s energy coal output rose 7 percent to 17.5 million
tons in the third quarter from a year earlier. Copper production
gained 19 percent to 273,600 tons.  Petroleum To Decline  Petroleum, the company’s third-biggest earner last year,
fell 4 percent in the quarter to 35.8 million barrels of oil
equivalent. BHP is Australia’s largest oil and natural-gas
producer. Output may fall next year because of drilling delays
in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  following the disaster at BP Plc’s
Macondo well, it said today.  BHP in February agreed to buy Chesapeake’s Arkansas shale
gas assets for $4.75 billion, making its first move into U.S.
shale gas. The transaction, completed on March 31, expands BHP’s
oil and gas reserves by 45 percent.  BHP may report annual profit of $22.1 billion this
financial year, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That would be a 74 percent increase from
last year as metal prices gained 42 percent since June 30,
according to the London Metals Exchange Index. Iron ore prices
have gained 29 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  