-- 
Biden Emerges to Lead Deficit Talks With Obama’s ‘Full Accord’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/biden-emerges-to-lead-deficit-talks-in-congress-with-obama-s-full-accord-.html
Vice President Joe Biden might have
struggled to stay awake last week when President  Barack Obama 
spoke about his debt-reduction plan. Still, When Obama needed
someone to forge a deal with Congress, he summoned his second-
in-command.  For Biden -- who appeared to nod off for about 30 seconds
during Obama’s speech on fiscal policy -- the assignment to lead
the debt talks with lawmakers was further evidence of how the
president depends on him, especially when it comes to dealing
with an increasingly hostile Congress.  Biden, who directed the White House campaign to reach an
accord on this year’s budget and avoid a government shutdown,
will now head negotiations between Republican and Democratic
lawmakers to come up with a plan by the end of June for
comprehensive debt reduction. He has also been tapped to find
votes in Congress to raise the U.S. debt limit, according to an
administration official who asked for anonymity.  “He can do things; he has the president’s full accord,”
 Alan Simpson , co-chairman of the president’s debt commission,
told reporters after an April 14 White House meeting with Obama,
Biden and Erskine Bowles, the debt panel’s other leader.  Simpson, a former Republican senator from  Wyoming , said one
of the best decisions Obama made was asking Biden to be the
“point person” on the deficit discussions.  Biden may be better known for his gaffes than his policy
advice. In March 2010, he audibly whispered an expletive in
Obama’s ear at the signing of the health-care law. During the
2008 election campaign,  he introduced  Obama to a crowd as
“Barack America” and at a rally urged a wheelchair-bound
Missouri legislator to “stand up” and take a bow.  No ‘Gaffe Machine’  His supporters insist that those who work with Biden, 68,
take him seriously.  “Thinking people, the people you have to deal with in
order to make the kind of things he’s made happen, they don’t
think that Joe Biden’s a gaffe machine,” said longtime friend
Ted Kaufman, who was appointed to Biden’s Senate seat from
 Delaware  after the 2008 election. “ Mitch McConnell  doesn’t
underestimate him.”  That’s what Obama is counting on in naming Biden to oversee
the discussions on deficit reduction.  House and Senate leaders from both parties will pick
members from their caucuses to take part in the talks, and Biden
will host the first meeting with lawmakers on May 5 at Blair
House, the White House said yesterday.  $4 Trillion Cut  In his April 13 speech Obama outlined his plan to reduce
the deficit by $4 trillion over 12 years. He set a target of
reducing the annual U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015, compared with the 10.9 percent of GDP
projected for this year.  During the speech, Obama, 49, teased Biden, who is 19 years
his senior, saying “you don’t qualify” as one of the young
people the president was addressing who may wonder why deficits
matter.  Biden, a 36-year veteran of the Senate who was either
chairman or the top Democrat on the  Foreign Relations Committee 
for 12 years, does qualify as a key presidential adviser, his
backers say.  He successfully argued behind the scenes for a multilateral
effort before the March 19 U.S. and allied intervention in
Libya, according to another person familiar with the talks. And
he led the campaign to win Senate support to approve
ratification of a new arms-reduction treaty with  Russia .  Looking for Momentum  Since taking office in 2009, he has traveled to Baghdad six
times to help wind down the war in  Iraq . And he oversaw
distribution of the $814 billion economic-stimulus package, an
initiative that has drawn criticism from Republicans even as an
 independent board  said that more than 75 percent of the funds
have been allocated.  On the deficit, Obama is seeking to regain momentum after
the release of a spending plan by House Budget Committee
Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, and an agreement
with congressional Republicans on cuts for the current fiscal
year that cleared the way for approval of a 2011 budget.  At the beginning of March, Obama asked Biden to coordinate
the administration’s efforts to break a stalemate on the 2011
budget. Soon after, the vice president held a meeting with
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat; House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican; Senate Minority Leader
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican; and House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, in his  Capitol Hill  office,
according to chief of staff Bruce Reed.  Biden asked all staff members to leave, then pushed a plan
for the Senate to vote on a pair of competing proposals -- one a
House Republican-backed measure to reduce the budget by $61
billion and the other a Democratic alternative that would cut
about $10 billion.  ‘Just Show’  The idea was to show those Republicans clamoring the
loudest for deeper cuts that a compromise would be necessary. On
March 9, the Senate rejected both options.  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, called Biden “a
constructive force in negotiations because he so understands
Capitol Hill.”  Some analysts dismiss his contribution to the budget talks.
Daniel Mitchell, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a
libertarian-leaning research group, said Biden’s outreach to his
former colleagues “is mostly just show.”  “He doesn’t have a budget and tax background and
expertise,” Mitchell said.  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who was chief economic adviser to the
2008 Republican presidential candidate, Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , said Biden’s job of pushing Obama’s debt plan through
Congress won’t be easy.  ‘Pretty Thin’  “The president’s given a speech that’s pretty thin, and
he’s left it to the vice president to bring to Congress,” said
Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the  Congressional Budget
Office .  Biden’s big strength may be in overseas affairs, having
headed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee before becoming
vice president.  His behind-the-scenes role on  Libya  was as “a voice of
extreme caution” sketching out “downside scenarios” against
intervention during meetings with the president, said Steve Clemons, founder of the American Strategy Program at the
Washington-based New America Foundation, a centrist public
policy center, whom the administration has consulted on Libya.  Biden’s argument ultimately prevailed. In his March 28
address to the nation on Libya, Obama stressed that the U.S.
wasn’t going in alone to quell unrest. And shortly after the
intervention began, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization took
full control of all air operations over Libya.  ‘Hard Feelings’  Still, some lawmakers say they wish that Biden had made
more visits to Capitol Hill to talk about Libya.  “There are hard feelings that are deeper than the lack of
public criticism would indicate about not being consulted,”
said Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican. “That’s in
both parties.”  The White House “missed a great opportunity to not have
the vice president be on top of the Libya situation from the
beginning,” Sessions said in an interview. “All the senior
members that are relevant he served with for a long time.”  Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , who has known Biden
for 34 years, said the vice president has the president’s ear,
along with those of lawmakers.  “I have no doubt that they would not move ahead or
backwards or any other direction without having  Joe Biden  in the
room,” Hatch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  