-- 
BNY Mellon Profit Climbs 12% as Market Rally Increases Assets, Boosts Fees

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-04-19T11:23:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bny-mellon-first-quarter-net-climbs-12-as-market-rally-increases-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s biggest custody bank, reported a 12 percent increase in
first-quarter earnings as a rising stock market lifted assets
and the fees for overseeing them.  Net income climbed to $625 million, or 50 cents a share,
from $559 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had
expected the New York-based company to earn 56 cents a share,
according to the average of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The fee-based banks like Bank of  New York  have real
revenue growth at a time when other banks don’t,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine ,
said in a telephone interview before the earnings were released.
Cassidy rates the stock “outperform.”  Assets under custody and administration rose 14 percent to
$25.5 trillion, helping offset earnings from money funds and
fixed-income investments that have been hurt by  interest rates 
near zero. Bank of New York Mellon and rival State Street Corp.,
the third-largest custody bank, together spent at least $4.4
billion on acquisitions over the past year to add assets and
expand abroad.  State Street, which is based in Boston, said today that
first-quarter profit on an operating basis rose 19 percent to
$439 million. Net income fell to $466 million, or 93 cents a
share, from $492 million, or 99 cents, a year earlier, when
earnings were boosted by the sale of securities the bank had
previously written down.  Expanding Abroad  Northern Trust Corp. may post a 0.6 percent increase in
profit when it reports earnings at 7:30 a.m., according to the
average estimate of 13 analysts. The Chicago-based firm is the
fourth-largest custody bank. JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York is
the second-largest.  Custody banks earn fees for keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
such as mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds . U.S. firms, the
largest in the business, have expanded in  Europe , where the
market is more fragmented and banks have been selling custody
units to strengthen their balance sheets.  State Street added the securities-servicing unit of Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA for 1.28 billion euros ($1.82 billion) in
May, Mourant International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s
Channel Islands in April of last year, and Bank of Ireland’s
investment-management business in January of this year.  Bank of New York Mellon bought  Germany ’s BHF Asset
Servicing GmbH for 253 million euros in August, and acquired
Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Service Group Inc.’s investment-
servicing business for $2.31 billion in July.  Assets Rise  Assets under management rose 11 percent to $1.2 trillion.
The money-management unit attracted $31 billion in net long-term
deposits.  Bank of New York Mellon in March hired Jack Malvey, a
former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. analyst, as chief global
markets strategist. It named  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Curtis Arledge as
chief executive officer of its asset-management unit in August,
filling a role left vacant when Ronald O’Hanley departed to
become president of asset management at Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments .  Revenue rose 8.5 percent to $3.65 billion. Foreign exchange
and other trading revenue fell 24 percent to $198 million,
driven by lower volatility and declines in fixed-income and
derivatives trading, the bank said.  Raising Dividends  Bank of New York Mellon declined 3.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with the 0.1 percent decline for
S&P’s index of 17 custody banks and asset managers. State Street
lost 3.6 percent and Northern Trust fell 7.2 percent.  Bank of New York Mellon and State Street raised their
dividends last month and announced share buybacks, after the
 Federal Reserve  approved the measures following a review of
banks’ financial strength. Both cut their payouts to investors
in 2009 after plunging financial markets hurt earnings.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark for U.S.
stocks, has gained 9 percent in the past year, boosting fees of
asset managers and custody banks.  All three independent custody banks sold preferred shares
to the government in 2008 as part of the Treasury’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program, an effort to inject cash into the banking
system during the worst months of the credit crisis. BNY Mellon
received $3 billion, State Street $2 billion and Northern Trust
$1.58 billion. The banks repurchased the shares in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in  Boston  at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  