-- 
BofA Merges Corporate, Investment Banking Units With Eye on Global Markets

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-19T18:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bofa-merges-corporate-investment-banking-units-with-eye-on-global-markets.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s global
banking and markets chief Thomas K. Montag combined the
division’s corporate and investment-banking units and promoted a
European manager to co-head of the new operations.  Christian Meissner, head of investment banking in  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa , will lead global corporate and
investment banking with Michael Rubinoff and Paul Donofrio,
according to a memo sent yesterday. Previously, Rubinoff and
Purna Saggurti ran the investment bank and Donofrio was head of
corporate banking for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm.  The changes underscore the importance of growth outside the
U.S. for Bank of America’s units that serve the world’s biggest
corporations. The division gets  28 percent  of revenue from
overseas, and Montag told investors last month that figure may
reach 50 percent in five years. Most senior hires have been non-
U.S. managers; Meissner and Donofrio are based in  London  while
Rubinoff works from New York.  “We’ve been attacking the international opportunity,”
Montag, 54, said at a March 8 conference. “If there’s anything
that’s happened over the last two years, I think that people are
more international now than they’ve ever been, and the growth of
countries around the world is faster than anybody thought it was
going to be 10 or 15 years ago.”  New Roles  Donofrio, 51, will lead capital markets, leasing, loan
products and treasury solutions, according to the memo.
Meissner, 42, and Rubinoff, 48, are responsible for the
strategic direction of the unit and will run mergers and
acquisitions with Donofrio.  Saggurti, 52, will be chairman of the new unit, responsible
for maintaining relationships with CEOs and directors of large
corporations. All of the executives report to Montag.  “Common leadership of both products and coverage will
enhance our ability to serve clients and improve
profitability,” Montag said in the memo.  The global corporate and  investment-banking  unit had
$11.5 billion in revenue last year, or 40 percent of the
division’s overall revenue, compared with $17 billion for sales
and trading.  The division was formed two years ago with Bank of
America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., creating what now
ranks as the biggest U.S. lender by assets. The unit has more
than 12,000 employees operating in about 40 countries.  Last week, Montag’s operations reported first-quarter
profit of $2.1 billion, compared with $701 million in the fourth
quarter and $3.2 billion a year earlier. Investment-banking fees
of $1.5 billion rose 24 percent from a year earlier, fueled by
mergers and acquisitions and debt and equity issuance, the
company said.  John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman for Bank of America,
confirmed the memo’s authenticity. The moves were reported
earlier by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 