-- 
Bank of America Said to Plan Spinoff of $5 Billion Private-Equity Business

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bofa-said-to-plan-spinoff-of-5-billion-private-equity-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, plans to wind down its flagship
$5 billion buyout fund as it seeks to preserve capital, said a
person with knowledge of the plan.  The bank has made a “strategic decision” to sell most of
the Capital Partners fund’s remaining investments over time, the
person said, citing an internal memo sent late yesterday at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company. The team managing those
assets will become an independent firm, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  Regulators are pressuring banks to build capital and reduce
riskier assets ahead of new international regulations requiring
greater reserves. The  Federal Reserve  rejected Bank of America’s
request to increase its dividend last month, making it the only
lender among the largest four that didn’t win approval.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has said it
may continue making private equity investments.  “Businesses in which they don’t have a leading market
share are on the chopping block,” said  Tony Plath , a finance
professor at the University of  North Carolina  at Charlotte.
“I’ll bet the private equity investments require an extra layer
of capital under the new rules, so the returns probably don’t
justify their use of capital.”  The fund returned $2 billion to investors in the first
quarter, and about $5 billion last year, the person said. Bank
of America, which won’t fund new private equity investments
through Capital Partners, still owns the assets and will pay
fees to the spinoff firm, the person said. Most of the capital
invested in the fund came from Bank of America, the person said.  Strategically Critical  The memo was sent from Jim Forbes, head of the bank’s
global principal investments unit which includes the Capital
Partners fund, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman
who confirmed the contents of the letter. It is unclear if
Forbes will remain, said the person.  “We recently determined that private-equity investments
were not strategically critical to our business going forward,”
Dubrowski said. “With limited investment activity, it made
sense for BAML Capital Partners to spin off from the bank.”  The new firm will seek to raise funds, Dubrowski said. Most
of Capital Partner’s assets were originally owned by Merrill
Lynch, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  