-- 
Bowe Bell & Howell Seeks Bankruptcy, Sells Itself to Versa to Pay Debts

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-19T12:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bowe-bell-howell-seeks-bankruptcy-sells-itself-to-versa-to-pay-debts.html
Bowe Bell & Howell, a maker of
high-speed mail-sorting equipment and software developer, sought
 bankruptcy court  protection and agreed to sell itself to
creditor Versa Capital Management Inc. to pay off debt.  The company, based in Wheeling, Illinois, and related to
the  Bell & Howell  movie-projector maker, listed as much as
$500 million each of debt and assets in yesterday’s Chapter 11
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Versa holds a majority of the debt, which will be resolved
through the sale, the company said in a statement distributed by
 Business Wire . A hearing is tentatively scheduled for May 4 to
set auction procedures.  Its BBH Canada unit will ask an Ontario Superior Court
judge to recognize the U.S. bankruptcy proceedings, the company
said. That would prevent creditors in  Canada  from suing to
recoup their debts.  “While the past few years have been challenging for most
businesses, they have been especially so for BBH due to a
variety of legacy factors,” Chief Executive Officer George Marton said in the statement. “We have also received
commitments from Versa to provide new financing.”  Among the company’s largest unsecured creditors listed in
court papers are Boewe Systec GmbH of Augsburg,  Germany , owed
$12.7 million; and the company’s pension plan, owed
$10.9 million.  The closely held firm, also known as Boewe Bell & Howell,
employs about 1,600 people. Bell & Howell started making film
projectors in the early 20th century in  Chicago  and later sold
movie cameras. Bowe Systec bought a 50 percent stake in Bell &
Howell in 2002 -- and now owns 100 percent, according to court
papers.  The case is In re Bowe Bell & Howell Holdings Inc., 11-
11186.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  