-- 
Mitsui’s Moex, Anadarko Sue BP Over Gulf Blowout, Oil Spill

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-20T19:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/bp-partner-moex-claims-breach-of-contract-over-gulf-well.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was sued by Mitsui & Co.’s
Moex Offshore LLC unit and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  over
economic losses from the blown-out Macondo well and the Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill  that followed.  Moex and Anadarko, both minority partners in the well,
claim BP broke its partnership agreement and have asked a
federal judge in  New Orleans  to declare they aren’t responsible
for damages and cleanup costs created by the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The companies said BP was responsible for
the blowout and the spill.  “BP’s conduct was the proximate cause of foreseeable
damage suffered by Moex Offshore, including claims made against
it for liability for death, personal injury, cleanup costs,
economic loss, loss of investment, lost profits and any damages
or fines assessed in pending or future proceedings involving the
spill,” Moex said in a court filing yesterday.  The Macondo well blew up one year ago today, setting off
the spill and leading to hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners and contractors. Moex and Anadarko, saying they had no
fault in the blow-out and spill, also accused  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
the owner of the rig that drilled the well, of gross negligence.
Switzerland-based Transocean was responsible along with BP for
the damages, according to Moex and Anadarko.  ‘No Evidence’  BP, based in  London , has said it expects its minority
partners in the damaged well to pay their share of billions of
dollars in cleanup costs, oil-spill damages and pollution fines.
Moex, which had a 10 percent stake in the well, and The
Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, with a 25 percent stake, deny
having any decision-making role or prior knowledge of the way BP
operated the drilling project.  “No evidence exists to support a claim of gross negligence
against Transocean,” Brian Kennedy, a spokesman for the
drilling company, said in an e-mail.  “Moex’s filing contains a number of specific allegations
against BP that are not supported by fact or by law,”  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday before
Anadarko made its filing. “BP will respond to the complaint in
a timely manner.”  ‘Lacking in Merit’  Anadarko’s filing is “an attempt to avoid honoring its
obligations under the Macondo operating agreement,”  Scott Dean ,
another BP spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “This lawsuit is
completely lacking in merit, and BP firmly believes that it did
not act in a grossly negligent manner.”  BP plans to file a motion sending Anadarko’s claims to
arbitration, Dean said.  “From the outset, BP, alone, has committed to paying all
legitimate claims and fulfilling its obligations to the Gulf
communities” under the Oil Pollution Act, he said. “BP has
already paid out more than $5 billion.”  Moex said in its filing yesterday that it “suffered
economic losses as a result of BP’s negligence, including the
loss to the reservoir, the loss of its investments, lost profits
and defense costs, including attorneys’ fees.”  Anadarko is also seeking damages for the loss of the oil in
the exploration area, loss of its investments and lost profit,
contending BP “breached its duties to Anadarko by committing
acts of gross negligence and willful misconduct in reckless
disregard of the rights and safety of others,” according to its
claim filed yesterday.  BP “recklessly made multiple decisions” before the
explosion to save time and money, Anadarko said.  The case is part of In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  