-- 
Brazil’s Bovespa Gains Most in One Month on Unemployment Report

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-19T21:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/brazil-s-bovespa-gains-most-in-one-month-on-unemployment-report.html
The Bovespa stock index rose the
most in a month, rebounding from yesterday’s drop, after a
report showed  Brazil ’s unemployment rate rose less than forecast
in March.  Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest consumer-goods
company by market value, led gains by companies that depend on
domestic demand. Brasil Ecodiesel Industria e Comercio de
Biocombustiveis e Oleos Vegetais SA advanced after announcing
it’s in talks to merge with Vanguarda do Brasil SA to create a
biodiesel and crop producer valued at 2.16 billion reais ($1.4
billion). OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA rebounded from
yesterday’s 17 percent drop.  The Bovespa rose 1.1 percent to 66,121.45 at the close of
 Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the most since
March 22. Forty-nine stocks gained, 18 declined and two were
unchanged. The measure tumbled the most in more than two months
yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  put a “negative” outlook on
its AAA credit rating for the U.S., Brazil’s second-biggest
trading partner.  “If it was just for Brazil’s fundamentals, we’d be much
more optimistic,” Alexandre Ghirghi, who manages about 150
million reais at Metodo Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “Economic growth was brilliant last year,
beyond our expectations, but the stock market stayed sideways. I
think there’s plenty of room for recovery in the longer run.”  The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.5793 per  U.S.
dollar .  Unemployment Report  Unemployment in March rose to 6.5 percent from 6.4 percent
in February, the national statistics agency said in a report
published today in  Rio de Janeiro . That’s lower than the median
6.7 percent estimate of 36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s central bank starts a two-day meeting to decide on
the country’s benchmark interest rate today. The so-called Selic
rate will be increased 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
to 12.25 percent, according to the median estimate of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks around the world gained as companies in the U.S. and
 Europe  reported earnings that beat analysts’ forecasts. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.5 percent to 274.42.  Brasil Ecodiesel gained 1.2 percent to 0.85 reais after
earlier jumping 3.6 percent. The company’s board said in a
regulatory filing it is likely to make a decision on the
proposed merger with Vanguarda within 60 days.  Veremonte Participacoes SA, a company controlled by Spanish
billionaire Enrique Banuelos, indirectly owns a controlling
stake in both Ecodiesel, a biodiesel producer, and a 50 percent
stake in Vanguarda, a soybean, cotton and corn producer in
Brazil.  Petrobras Shipment  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, gained 0.9 percent to 25.73 reais after earlier
climbing 2.1 percent. The company known as Petrobras said it
reached a deal to export its first shipment from the country’s
second-largest crude field. The producer will sell 1 million
barrels of oil from the deepwater Lula field to  Chile ’s Empresa
Nacional de Petroleo, according to an e-mailed statement today.
Delivery is expected in mid-May, the company said.  OGX jumped 4.9 percent to 17.05 reais, leading gains for
the Bovespa index. The oil producer rebounded from yesterday’s
drop, when shares plunged 17 percent after a report on its oil
reserves trailed analysts’ estimates. “The market overshot on
OGX,” Max Bueno, an analyst at Spinelli SA in Sao Paulo, said
in a telephone interview.  Hypermarcas rose 4 percent to 21.25 reais, the most since
March 18.  The Bovespa is down 4.5 percent this year as homebuilders
and banks declined on concern inflation will limit growth,
overshadowing a rally in telecom shares.  The index trades at 10.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 14.2 for the Shanghai Composite Index,
7.1 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.1 for  India ’s Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.3 billion reais from Latin America’s
biggest equity market this year through April 13, data from the
Sao Paulo exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  