-- 
Brazil Unemployment Rises to 6.5% in March, Lowest for Month

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-04-19T18:41:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/brazil-unemployment-rises-to-6-5-in-march-lowest-for-month-3-.html
Brazil ’s unemployment rate rose
less than economists expected in March, reaching the lowest on
record for the month, reinforcing signals that the economy
remains heated.  Unemployment in March rose to 6.5 percent from 6.4 percent
in February, below the median 6.7 percent forecast of 36
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the national statistics office
said today in  Rio de Janeiro .  Latin America’s largest economy is currently “almost at
full employment” and faces labor shortages in many industries,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday in New York.
Policy makers will rely on interest rate increases, spending
cuts and measures to rein in credit to slow inflation toward the
bank’s target by the end of 2012, economic policy director
Carlos Hamilton said March 30.  “The figures aren’t showing the economic slowdown we would
like to see now,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“The macro-prudential measures the central bank is relying on
is a beautiful name to avoid interest rate increases, but the
effect must be the same otherwise inflation will remain high and
expectations will get out of control.”  Job Creation  The Brazilian economy generated 92,675 government-
registered jobs in March, the fewest since a seasonal loss of
jobs in December, the Labor Ministry said today in a report
distributed in Brasilia.  “The labor market is still heated, we had fewer jobs
because of the Carnival holiday,” Labor Minister Carlos Lupi
told reporters in Brasilia. “Interest rate increases may have
an effect, but nothing that will change our course, I’m
confident we’ll create 3 million jobs this year.”  Brazil created 583,886 government-registered jobs in the
first quarter, the ministry said.  Government-registered  job creation  is a balance of posts
created minus job eliminated. Registered jobs, so-called formal
work, assure employees a range of benefits such as  unemployment
insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the government.  Brazil’s benchmark consumer price inflation index rose 6.3
percent in the year through March on higher food prices and
transportation costs. Brazil targets an annual 4.5 percent
inflation rate of plus or minus two percentage points. Inflation
may breach the upper-limit of the target between July and August
this year, Hamilton said.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank will raise the benchmark interest rate by
50 basis points by a third consecutive time tomorrow in a bid to
cool domestic demand and slow inflation running at the fastest
pace in more than two years, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 56 economists.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini raised the so-called Selic rate by 100 basis points this
year to 11.75 percent.  Traders are wagering the central bank will increase
borrowing costs by at least 25 basis points to slow inflation
that is threatening to breach the upper limit of policy makers’
target, Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures show.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
May 2011, the second-most traded today, rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 11.87 percent, at 2:39 p.m.  New York 
time. The real rose 0.9 percent to 1.5751 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  