-- 
Brazil Real Climbs as Growth Optimism Overshadows Debt Concern

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-04-19T15:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/brazil-real-climbs-as-growth-optimism-overshadows-debt-concern.html
Brazil ’s real gained as corporate
earnings and economic data in the U.S. and  Europe  beat analysts’
estimates, boosting risk appetite and overshadowing sovereign
debt concern.  The real advanced 0.5 percent to 1.5828 per dollar at 11:15
a.m. New York time, from 1.5900 yesterday.  Stocks in Europe rebounded from the biggest drop in a month
and U.S. index futures advanced after Burberry Group Plc,
Britain’s biggest luxury retailer, said sales jumped 32 percent
in the most recent quarter, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported earnings per share
that were almost double analysts’ estimates. European services
and manufacturing growth unexpectedly accelerated in April,
suggesting the region’s economy is weathering surging energy
costs and tougher austerity measures.  “There’s less  risk aversion  with the stocks recovering
from yesterday’s plunge,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda., the fourth-biggest
currency broker on the BM&FBovespa exchange. “The European data
came better than expected,” he said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered its outlook to negative
on the AAA credit rating of the U.S.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.26 percent.
The May contract indicated traders are splitting on whether
policy makers will raise the Selic rate by 25 basis points or 50
basis points from 11.75 percent at a meeting tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  