-- 
Britain Sends Military Team to Libya as NATO Planes Hit Qaddafi Loyalists

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-04-19T14:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/britain-sends-military-team-to-libya-as-nato-planes-hit-qaddafi-loyalists.html
The U.K. dispatched a team of
military advisers to assist Libyan rebels fighting to topple
 Muammar Qaddafi  as NATO jets destroyed tanks, armored vehicles
and rocket launchers near a rebel-held city.  The contingent of “experienced British military officers”
will help the rebels organize communications and logistics,
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in a statement from  London .
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said its warplanes bombed
a convoy of Qaddafi loyalist armored-vehicles bound for the
besieged port city of Misrata, where NATO has been unable to
stave off attacks that have killed and injured civilians.  As the nearly monthlong violence in Misrata intensified,
rebels still struggled to take and hold cities in  Libya ’s
central coastal areas, the focus of most of the fighting since
the uprising began in February. Many Qaddafi forces have changed
tactics and use pickup trucks similar to those of the rebels.  “Developments change on the ground so what we have to do
to implement the UN resolution does change over time,” Hague
said in a Sky News television interview. “I expect other
countries also to be involved in this but they must make their
own announcements.”  The U.K. said its military team is within the framework of
the five-week-old United Nations mandate authorizing the
military intervention. British officers won’t be involved in
training or arming rebels or planning military operations.  ‘Fluid’ Conflict  “At the moment on the ground, I don’t know if it’s a
stalemate; certainly it’s not necessarily moving forward,”
Admiral Giampaolo di Paola, the chairman of NATO’s Military
Committee, said today in  Rome . “The eastern front is constantly
moving up and down. It’s fluid, but it’s in the same area.”  Allied targets overnight included a rocket battery firing
into Misrata as well as the headquarters south of Tripoli of the
elite 32nd brigade, which has been commanded by Muammar Qaddafi’s youngest son, Khamis. That military force has
spearheaded operations threatening civilians, NATO said.  Five days after NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told alliance foreign ministers in Berlin that
commanders needed more ground-attacks jets, Brigadier General
Mark van Uhm said the alliance had more military assets than it
did last week. He declined to say what the new assets were or
which countries had supplied them.  Van Uhm, the mission’s chief of allied operations, said
more than 30 percent of Qaddafi’s military forces had been
eliminated.  Earlier, the Italian government said it’s helping Libyan
rebels sell oil from the opposition-held parts of the country.  Oil Sales  “We are working to allow the sale of oil products” from
rebel areas “through the use of transparent financial
instruments,” Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said at a press
conference in Rome after meeting with the head of Libya’s rebel
council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  The rebels have agreed to honor existing treaties between
Italy and Libya, Frattini said. Oil exports from Libya, which
has Africa’s biggest oil reserves, dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said last month.  Oil fell for a second day amid signals that  oil prices  at
their highest level since 2008 are pressuring the economy and
may cause fuel demand to falter. Crude oil for May delivery fell
42 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $106.70 a barrel at 9:48 a.m. on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Earlier, prices touched
$105.50. Futures have risen 31 percent in the past year.  NATO aircraft enforcing the UN-mandated no-fly zone and
sanctions on Libya flew 53 missions to identify and engage
possible ground targets on April 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  