-- 
Burkina Faso's President Replaces Prime Minister After Mutiny by Soldiers

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-04-19T16:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/burkina-faso-s-president-replaces-prime-minister-after-mutiny-by-soldiers.html
Burkina Faso ’s leader, Blaise Compaore, appointed a new prime minister as members of the
presidential guard who began a mutiny on April 15 apologized for
their actions and called for an end to the insurrection.  Luc Adolphe Tiao, the West African country’s ambassador to
 France , will replace Tertius Zongo as premier, Compaore said in
a statement read on national television late yesterday. Tiao, a
56-year-old journalist, is a former director of  Sidwaya , the
state-owned newspaper, and was also previously president of the
Supreme Council for Communication, the media regulator.  Compaore has dismissed the chiefs of staff of the army, air
force and police and dissolved his government in the past week
as he seeks to quell rioting by soldiers protesting over their
 living conditions . The mutiny has spread to at least four towns
in the country.  Gunfire was heard through the night in Gorom Gorom, about
340 kilometers (211 miles) from the capital, said resident Agali
Almaouna. The shooting ended around 4 a.m. local time, he said.  “We regret this mutiny, plunder and disorder,” Moussa Ag
Abdoulaye, a spokesman for the protesting soldiers, said in a
statement read on  Radio Television du Burkina , the state-owned
broadcaster, in the capital, Ouagadougou. “We reaffirm our
respect and our support for the president of Burkina Faso and
call others in the country to stop shooting.”  Demonstration Deaths  Compaore, 60, has ruled sub-Saharan  Africa ’s biggest cotton
producer since seizing power in a 1987 coup. The country has
been in turmoil since February, when five people were killed
during demonstrations against police following the death of a
student in their custody.  Gold miners including Montreal-based  Semafo Inc. (SMF)  and
London-based  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  have operations in Burkina Faso.
Semafo said yesterday the unrest hasn’t disrupted operations at
its Mana Mine, while Avocet said the same on April 15.  Shopkeepers who protested the soldiers’ looting in a
demonstration April 16 reopened their stores today, said Seydou
Zangre, president of a network of informal merchants.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  