-- 
Cameron Says Former Premier Brown Might Not Be ‘Most Appropriate’ IMF Head

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-04-19T11:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/cameron-says-brown-might-not-be-most-appropriate-person-to-take-imf-job.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his predecessor, Gordon Brown, might not be the “most
appropriate” person to head the  International Monetary Fund 
because the job needs someone who “understands the danger of
excessive debt.”  “It’s important the IMF is run by somebody extremely
competent and capable,” Cameron said in an interview with BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program in London this morning. “If you
have someone who didn’t think we had a debt problem in the U.K.
when we self-evidently do have a debt problem, he may not be the
most appropriate person to work out whether other countries
around the world have debt and deficit problems.”  While current IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn’s term doesn’t end until October 2012, political opinion
polls show strong support for him in his native  France  in the
approach to next year’s presidential election. If he decides to
run, he would need to declare by July, the deadline for his
Socialist Party’s shortlist. Strauss-Kahn declined to comment on
his plans during the IMF’s semi-annual meetings last week.  Cameron took office last year after a campaign in which his
Conservative Party questioned Brown’s stewardship of the U.K.
economy after he oversaw the deepest recession since World War
II and the budget deficit swelled to a record. Brown, who was in
 Washington  during the IMF’s meetings, blames the global
financial crisis for the size of the shortfall. His Labour
Party, now in opposition, has criticized Cameron’s government
for cutting the deficit too fast.  ‘Eminently Qualified’  Asked about Cameron’s comments at a press conference in
London, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said Brown is “eminently
qualified” for the job, adding that the IMF post is not vacant
at present.  Cameron signaled he may support breaking the tradition of a
European running the IMF in exchange for an American helming the
 World Bank . That approach was endorsed at talks in Washington
last week of the Group of 24 developing nations.  “It might be time to have a candidate from another part of
the world,” given the rise of India and  China , Cameron said.
“It may well be that actually when you think the IMF has to be
listened to and taken seriously by countries not just in the
West but all over the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  