-- 
Canada February Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-19T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/canada-february-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for February from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales fell 0.6% in February to $46.9 billion,
largely as a result of lower sales in the motor vehicle
and parts and the miscellaneous subsectors. This decline
followed six months of consecutive increases.  In volume terms, wholesale sales declined 1.0% in
February.  Despite the decrease in February, wholesale sales were
16.8% higher than their most recent low in March 2009.
Since then, wholesalers have increased in 18 of the past
23 months.  Declines were observed in four of the seven subsectors
in February, representing approximately half of the total
sales.  Motor vehicle sales post the largest decrease  Sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector fell
3.1% in February, owing to decreased sales in the motor
vehicle industry. This industry registered a 4.3% decline,
partially offsetting the strong growth in January. Sales
in this industry have remained relatively stable since the
end of 2009.  Sales in the miscellaneous subsector were down 3.5%,
reflecting lower sales in all of its component industries.
The agricultural supplies industry led the decline, with a
5.6% decrease in sales.  The other subsectors with lower sales included personal
and household goods (-0.7%) and farm products (-3.2%).  These decreases were partially offset by a 2.0% sales
increase in the machinery, equipment and supplies
subsector.  Sales down in most provinces  Sales fell in eight provinces in February, while sales
edged up in Ontario and  New Brunswick .  Quebec  wholesalers contributed the most to the decline,
followed by wholesalers in  Alberta  and Saskatchewan.  In Quebec, sales were down for the first time in five
months, falling 1.7%. This decrease was largely a result
of lower sales in the miscellaneous subsector and in the
personal and household goods subsector.  In Alberta, sales decreased for a second consecutive
month. These declines followed a period of robust growth
that began in late 2009, driven by strong sales in the
machinery, equipment and supplies subsector.  In Saskatchewan, the 2.5% decrease in February followed
a strong sales increase in January.  Inventories up slightly  Inventories rose 0.3% in February to $54.3 billion.
Wholesale inventories have been up since the start of
2010, after falling sharply in 2009.  In February, increases were reported by wholesalers in
14 of the 25 industries, led by the metal service centres
industry (+3.3%) and the motor vehicle industry (+2.2%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio edged up from 1.15 in
January to 1.16 in February. The inventory-to-sales ratio
is a measure of the time in months required to exhaust
inventories if sales were to remain at their current
level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Unadjusted monthly data were revised back to January
2009, while seasonally adjusted data were revised back to
January 2006. Factors influencing revisions include late
receipt of respondent information, correction of
information in the data provided, the replacement of
estimated figures with actual values (once available), the
reclassification of companies within, into and out of the
wholesale trade industry and updates to seasonal factors.  Data in volume terms have also been revised back to
January 2004.  Wholesale sales in volume terms are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  