-- 
Canadian Dollar Rallies the Most in Two Months After Inflation Increases

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-19T21:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/canadian-dollar-rises-as-consumer-prices-gain-in-march-more-than-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced the most
against its U.S. counterpart in two months and its debt declined
as inflation accelerated the most since September 2008, spurring
bets the Bank of Canada may resume raising borrowing costs.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened
against most of its major peers after the  consumer price index 
advanced 3.3 percent in March from a year earlier and compares
2.2 percent the previous month,  Statistics Canada  reported. The
median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 2.8 percent annual rate.  “The market’s going to be behind the Bank of Canada
potentially raising rates this summer,” said  Shane Enright ,
executive director at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit in Toronto. “There was some of that priced
in already, but this is only going to solidify things.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.8 percent to 95.61 cents
versus the  U.S. dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto, from 96.42
yesterday. The Canadian currency had the biggest intraday gain
since Feb. 1. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0459.  The loonie reached 95.27 cent on April 8, the strongest
since November 2007.  Canadian  government bonds  due in two years fell, snapping a
five day rally. Yields on the 1.75 percent securities due in
March 2013 rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
the biggest increase since March 21, to 1.77 percent. Shorter-
maturity securities are typically the most sensitive to changes
in  interest rates .  The central bank has held its benchmark interest rate at 1
percent since September, when it increased it for the third time
last year. The  Bank of Canada  will hold the target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent during the
second quarter and boost it to 1.5 percent during the third
quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  BOC Views  The one-year overnight index swap rate, a measure of the
average overnight rate expected by investors during that period,
climbed to 1.38 percent after touching 1.4 percent, the biggest
jump since September.  “Recent economic activity in Canada has been stronger than
the Bank had anticipated,” BOC Governor  Mark Carney  and his
five deputies said in a statement from Ottawa April 12. “Any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said, echoing the language used
in the last two decisions.  The next BOC policy meeting is May 31.  “There is still quite a bit of strength in the Canadian
dollar,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign-
exchange trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit
in Toronto. “This CPI number is going to add fuel to that
fire.”  Credit Notice  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. on notice yesterday that it
risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers agree on
a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.
The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trading partner.  “People are looking for quality currencies, so they head
back to the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer.  Australia ’s dollar gain 0.2 percent against its U.S.
counterpart to 1.0526, almost the record high of 1.0584 per U.S.
dollar reached April 8.  The loonie is little changed this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies. That compares with losses of 1.5
percent for the Australian dollar and 4.6 percent for the U.S.
dollar.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  