-- 
Canada March Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-19T11:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/canada-march-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's  consumer price index  report for March released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 3.3% in the 12 months to March,
the largest year-over-year increase since September 2008.
This advance follows a 2.2% increase in the 12 months to
February.  Energy prices increased 12.8% during the 12 months to
March, following a 10.6% advance in February. Gasoline
prices increased 18.9% in March, following a 15.7% gain in
the 12 months to February. Prices for  fuel oil  and other
fuels increased 31.3%, while electricity prices rose 4.3%.  Excluding energy, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose
2.4% in the 12 months to March, following a 1.4% increase
in February.  Prices for food purchased from stores rose 3.7% in
March, the largest year-over-year advance since August
2009. This increase follows a 2.0% gain in February.  Other items that contributed significantly to the
pickup in prices were travel services, clothing, and the
purchase of passenger vehicles.  Seasonally adjusted monthly CPI increases  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices
rose 0.8% from February to March, the largest increase
since October 2010. The food index, which was up for the
fourth consecutive month, rose 1.6% in March. The
transportation index, which includes gasoline, advanced
0.6% in March, following a 0.3% increase in February and
continuing its string of increases since July 2010.  Seasonally adjusted, the clothing and footwear index
posted a monthly increase of 2.1% in March, after
remaining unchanged in February. The recreation, education
and reading index, which includes travel services,
increased 0.5% in March, following a 0.2% advance in
February. This marks the seventh straight monthly increase
for this index.  12-month change: Prices increase in all eight major
components  On a year-over-year basis, prices increased in all
major components of the CPI in March. Except for alcoholic
beverages and tobacco products, prices rose at a faster
rate in March than in February.  The largest increase occurred in the transportation
component, where prices rose 6.6% in the 12 months to
March, after advancing 5.1% in February.  In addition to higher gasoline prices, consumers paid
more for passenger vehicle insurance premiums and for air
transportation. Prices for the purchase of passenger
vehicles rose 0.2% in the 12 months to March, following a
0.9% decrease in February.  Food prices rose 3.3% in the 12 months to March,
following a 2.1% rise in February. Prices for fresh
vegetables rose 18.6%, as bad weather in  Mexico  and the
southern  United States  reduced supply. The cost of meat
rose 5.0% in March, as beef and pork prices increased.
Higher prices were also recorded for bakery and cereal
products as well as for dairy products.  Shelter costs rose 2.4% in March, after increasing 2.2%
in February. In addition to higher prices for fuel oil and
other fuels, as well as for electricity, homeowners'
replacement cost increased 3.2% in the 12 months to March.  However, mortgage interest cost, which measures the
change in the interest portion of payments on outstanding
mortgage debt, and natural gas prices continued to
decline.  The recreation, education and reading price index
increased 2.3% in the 12 months to March, after decreasing
0.3% in February. The difference can be mainly explained
by traveller accommodation prices, which increased 1.7% in
March compared with the same month last year, after
posting a 10.7% decline in February. The price decline in
February was more the result of higher prices for hotel
rooms in February 2010 during the Winter Olympics in
 Vancouver  rather than recent price decreases.  Prices for household operations, furnishings and
equipment advanced 1.9% between March 2010 and March 2011.
Within this component, higher prices were recorded for
child care and domestic services.  The health and personal care price index rose 2.6% in
March, following a 2.0% increase in February. Consumers
paid more for non-prescribed medicines, but less for
prescribed medicines.  For alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, prices
rose 2.5% in March with cigarette prices increasing 5.7%.  Prices for clothing and footwear rose 0.9% in the 12
months to March, the first year-over-year increase since
November 2009. The advance follows a 2.0% decline in
February. This year in March, fewer clothing items were on
discount compared to the same month last year.  The provinces  Consumer prices rose at a faster rate in every province
in March compared with February, year over year. Gasoline
continued to be a major factor contributing to the
increase in consumer prices in all provinces.  In the 12 months to March, Nova Scotia (+3.9%) posted
the largest increase in consumer prices.  In Ontario, consumer prices rose 3.6% in the 12 months
to March, after advancing 2.5% in February. Gasoline
prices in Ontario rose 20.4% in March, following an 18.3%
increase in February. Prices for food purchased from
stores increased 3.6% in March, after advancing 1.8% in
February. Higher prices were observed for fresh vegetables
as well as for bakery products.  Consumer prices in  Quebec  increased 3.3% in the 12
months to March, following a 2.2% advance in February.
Prices for gasoline rose 18.5% in March. Consumers paid
4.6% more for food purchased from stores in March, after
paying 1.7% more in February. Prices rose for fresh
vegetables, meat and dairy products.  Prices in British Columbia went up 3.1% in the 12
months to March, following a 1.8% increase in February.
Much of the difference can be attributed to traveller
accommodation, where prices decreased at a much slower
rate in March (-3.1%) than they did in February (-38.1%),
from a year earlier.  Drivers in British Columbia paid 16.3% more for
gasoline in March compared with the same month in 2010.
This rise follows a 12.6% increase in February. Consumers
also paid more for food purchased from restaurants and
electricity.  The Bank of  Canada 's core index  The Bank of Canada's core index advanced 1.7% in the 12
months to March, following a 0.9% rise in February. The
higher increase in March was mainly a result of larger
price increases for travel services, clothing, and the
purchase of passenger vehicles.  The seasonally adjusted monthly core index increased
0.5% in March, the largest increase since November 2008.
The March increase follows a 0.1% decline in February.  Note to readers  The Bank of Canada's core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index's most volatile components (fruit,
fruit preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable
preparations; mortgage interest cost; natural gas; heating
oil and other fuels; gasoline; inter-city transportation;
and tobacco products and smokers' supplies) as well as the
effects of changes in indirect taxes on the remaining
components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  