-- 
Canadian Inflation Accelerates to Highest Rate in Two Years on Jump in Oil

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/canadian-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-rate-in-two-years-on-jump-in-oil.html
Canada ’s inflation rate accelerated
in March to the fastest in 2 1/2 years, exceeding all economist
forecasts, adding pressure on the Bank of Canada to increase its
policy interest rate in the next three months.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier after
a 2.2 percent gain in February, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Prices were up 1.1 percent on a monthly basis, the
fastest since January 1991 when a new federal sales tax was
introduced. The gains exceeded all forecasts in Bloomberg
surveys of 25 economists, which had median estimates of 2.8
percent for annual inflation and 0.6 percent on a monthly basis.  The annual report also exceeded the  Bank of Canada ’s April
13 forecast that inflation would reach 3 percent by June, driven
by temporary factors such as energy costs and higher provincial
sales taxes. The two-year government bond yield jumped the most
since December after the report and the Canadian dollar rose the
most in seven weeks.  “It definitely puts the pressure back on the Bank of
Canada to raise  interest rates ,” said Sheryl King, head of
Canada economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Toronto.
“It’s not going to be the end” for inflation pressures, she
said, adding the economy may already be operating at full
capacity, while the central bank predicted last week the economy
wouldn’t be running flat out until the middle of next year.  Dollar Jumps  The Canadian dollar advanced 0.9 percent to 95.56 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:36 a.m. in Toronto, from 96.42 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0465. Yields on the two-year Government
of Canada bond jumped 9 basis points to 1.78 percent, the
biggest one-day gain since Sept. 8.  The odds of an increase at the next decision May 31
increased to 14.6 percent, according to a Credit Suisse
calculation, from 11 percent yesterday and 9 percent on Apr. 15.  “May is still a bit of a stretch” for a move, said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit. “They will need to use that communique to
shade the market’s perspective towards a hike in July.”  The  core inflation  rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, accelerated to 1.7 percent from a year
earlier, from February’s record low 0.9 percent. Monthly core
prices accelerated to 0.7 percent from 0.2 percent in February.
Economists forecast a core inflation rate of 1.2 percent
annually and 0.2 percent on a monthly basis.  Core Inflation  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said that “underlying
inflation is subdued” at an April 13 press  conference , and that
core inflation would remain below 2 percent until mid-2012
because of slack in the economy and “modest” wage gains. He
also said risks to the inflation outlook were “roughly
balanced.”  Energy prices rose 13 percent in March from a year earlier,
and the cost of  fuel oil  and other fuels jumped 31 percent,
Statistics Canada said today.  “In the immediate short term, our top priority is the
rising commodity landscape,” Jerry Fowden, chief executive
officer of beverage maker  Cott Corp. (BCB)  said on a March 24 earnings
call. “This scale of commodity run up, at the same time as a
broadly weak economy, is almost unprecedented.”  High gasoline prices were mentioned several times at a
French-language leadership debate last week in the campaign for
a May 2 election. The average Canadian price of unleaded
gasoline was C$1.25 ($1.30) per liter the week of April 8, up 20
percent from three months earlier. Prime Minister Stephen Harper
said his government’s cut to the federal sales tax has helped
consumers cope with higher gasoline prices, while Bloc Quebecois
leader  Gilles Duceppe  called for tougher enforcement of
competition laws.  Widespread Increases  Today’s report showed price gains accelerated in every
major category except for alcohol and tobacco. Clothing and
footwear prices rose 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier,
the first annual increase since November 2009, as stores offered
fewer discounts.  Food prices rose 3.3 percent after February’s 2.1 percent
gain as poor weather in the U.S. and  Mexico  cut supplies of
fresh vegetables.  The central bank sets interest rates to keep inflation at
the 2 percent midpoint of a 1 percent to 3 percent target range.
Its quarterly survey of businesses published April 4 found the
share of executives who predicted inflation would advance by
more than 3 percent over the next two years had increased to 15
percent from 3 percent.  Statistics Canada  also reported today that wholesale sales
fell in February for the first time in seven months and growth
in the agency’s index of leading economic indicators slowed in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 