-- 
Cantor, Kyl Named to Deficit-Cutting Talks by Republicans

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-19T21:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/cantor-kyl-named-to-deficit-cutting-talks-by-republicans-2-.html
Top Republicans in Congress named
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Senate Minority Whip  Jon Kyl  to represent them in White House talks over reducing the
U.S. government deficit.  President Barack Obama invited leaders to begin talks May 5
with Vice President  Joe Biden  on a comprehensive plan to reduce
long-term  government spending .  The goal of the talks is to seek agreement on spending
controls that Republican leaders insist is a prerequisite to
raising the government’s $14.3 trillion limit. The Treasury
Department projects the national debt will reach the limit by
May 16 and says it may use emergency measures to avoid default
until early July.  “I remain skeptical that the administration will take this
effort seriously” because “President Obama had to be dragged
kicking and screaming to consider minimal spending cuts for the
rest of this fiscal year,” Cantor said in a statement in which
House Speaker  John Boehner  announced the appointment.  Congress passed legislation last week to avert a government
shutdown by cutting $38.5 billion in spending authority this
year. The talks that led to that agreement involved Boehner,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Obama.  Kyl, an Arizona senator who isn’t seeking re-election next
year, was named by Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell as
his representative at the new talks.  ‘Credible Path’  McConnell of Kentucky said he was “encouraged to see the
president acknowledge” in an April 15 interview “there is
bipartisan opposition in the Senate to raising the debt ceiling
unless we do something significant about the debt.”  “A serious and credible path forward to reduce spending is
the only thing” that “will get Republican votes in the Senate
to raise the debt ceiling,” McConnell said.  Reid of  Nevada  named as his negotiators Finance Committee
Chairman Max Baucus of Montana and Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye,
the Appropriations Committee chairman.  On April 17, House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  named
Assistant Democratic leader Jim Clyburn of South Carolina and
Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen, the House Budget
Committee’s ranking Democrat, to represent House Democrats at
the talks.  In an interview today with Bloomberg Television, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  voiced confidence that congressional
leaders will reach an agreement to reduce the debt and narrow
annual budget deficits.  “We have an opportunity now over the next two months” to
put “in place strong targets for savings, deficit reduction
over a specific time frame with enforceable limits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  