-- 
Cape Wind Power Project Off Massachusetts Wins U.S. Construction Approval

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-04-19T16:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/cape-wind-power-project-wins-u-s-backing-for-construction-1-.html
The  Cape Wind Energy Project  won
U.S. Interior Department approval of its construction plan in
Massachusetts for the nation’s first offshore wind farm.  Cape Wind Associates said building the  wind turbines  in the
water, a project in development for about a decade, may begin as
early as the U.S. fall. Federal officials said approving the
plan is a milestone in developing clean-energy sources that will
help lower  carbon emissions  and create jobs.  “After a thorough review of environmental impacts, we are
confident that this offshore commercial wind project -- the
first in the nation -- can move forward,” Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar  said in a statement.  Cape Wind plans to install 130 wind turbines in Nantucket
Sound off the  Massachusetts  coast. The project has been opposed
by homeowners whose ocean view would be affected by the windmill
towers and by local lawmakers as a threat to a sensitive
ecosystem.  The Interior Department is seeking to speed the process of
building wind energy projects off the Atlantic Coast, Salazar
said today. In February, Salazar and Energy Secretary Steven Chu
said development off New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia
may advance when no environmental impediments are identified.  “Taking 10 years to permit an offshore wind project like
Cape Wind is completely unacceptable,” Salazar said today at a
news conference in Boston’s Charlestown Navy Yard national park
where he was joined by Cape Wind Vice President Dennis Duffy.  The department today took a step that may lead to a wind
farm near  New Jersey , seeking information to gauge interest and
shortening the time for development, Salazar said.  Duffy said Cape Wind has yet to sell half the power the
wind farm is forecast to produce.  “We are confident the bulk of the power will be sold and
discussions are underway,” Duffy said  Interior’s  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement  approved the construction and operations plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  