-- 
CapitaMalls, Maybank, United Malayan: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-19T00:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/capitamalls-maybank-united-malayan-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,527.92.  CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust (CMMT)  : The retail property
trust reported a profit of 31.4 million ringgit ($10.4 million)
in the first quarter ended March 31. The company achieved a
distributable income of 26 million ringgit, it said in a
statement. There are no comparable year-earlier figures as the
company was established in June 2010, it said. The stock was
unchanged at 1.12 ringgit.        EP Manufacturing Bhd. (EPMB)  : Horizon Growth Fund NV has
emerged as a substantial shareholder of the Malaysian auto-parts
maker after buying 8.7 million shares, or a 5.4 percent stake,
an exchange filing showed. The stock was unchanged at 67.5 sen.        Ken Holdings Bhd. (KEN)  : The property developer said
first-quarter profit surged fourfold from a year earlier to 5.08
million ringgit on higher sales, according to a stock exchange
filing. The stock gained 4.4 percent to 1.20 ringgit.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  : Malaysia’s biggest bank by
assets secured approval from the Securities Commission to issue
as much as $2 billion of multi-currency medium-term notes, which
will be used for working capital, general banking and corporate
purposes. The program will allow the lender to issue from time
to time notes in currencies other than the ringgit, it said in a
statement. Maybank, as the bank is known, was unchanged at 8.71
ringgit.  Poly Glass Fibre (M) Bhd. (PGF MK): The manufacturer of
fiber glass wool agreed to sell a warehouse and office building
to PM Steel and Alloys Industries Sdn. for 13 million ringgit,
according to a company statement. The shares were unchanged at
36.5 sen on April 14.  Seremban Engineering Bhd. (SERES)  : The maker of process
equipment and metal structures proposed a share buyback of as
much as 10 percent of its outstanding capital, according to a
company statement. The stock dropped 3.2 percent to 60 sen.  United Malayan Land Bhd. (UML)  : The property developer
will partner Singapore-based Raffles Campus Pte. to build an
international school in the southern state of Johor, according
to a company statement. The project is estimated to cost 35
million ringgit to build, the company said. The stock fell 0.5
percent to 1.89 ringgit.       Zhulian Corp. (ZHCB MK): The multi-level marketing
company’s first-quarter net income fell 14 percent from a year
earlier to 21.3 million ringgit because of lower profit margins,
according to a company statement. Zhulian was unchanged at 1.78
ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  