-- 
Capmark Financial Group Files Plan to Exit Bankruptcy as Smaller Company

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-19T16:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/capmark-financial-group-files-plan-to-exit-bankruptcy-as-smaller-company.html
Capmark Financial Group Inc., the
bankrupt commercial lender, filed a plan to reorganize around a
group of 14 units, including its bank, and exit bankruptcy as a
smaller company.  Capmark Bank, based in Midvale,  Utah , had $6.2 billion in
deposits and $3.1 billion in cash as of Dec. 31, according to
court documents the company filed April 15 in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington, Delaware, as part of its reorganization
plan.  The reorganized company will issue $1.25 billion in notes
to general unsecured creditors who are owed about $7 billion.
Creditors will also be given stock in the new company and some
cash.  After the assets have been given out, the biggest group of
creditors, those who hold unsecured loans and notes not
guaranteed by collateral, will recover about $3.89 billion, or
56.1 percent of what they are owed, according to the plan.  Capmark Financial, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , urged
creditors to support the plan.  “Any alternative to confirmation of the plan would result
in significant delays, litigation, lost value and additional
costs,” the company said in a disclosure statement describing
how the plan will affect creditors.  The company asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi 
to approve the disclosure statement, so it can be sent to
creditors to help them vote on the plan. Once creditors vote,
Sontchi will decide whether to approve the reorganization and
allow Capmark to leave court protection.  Capmark filed bankruptcy on Oct. 25, 2009, blaming falling
property values and a drop in lending.  While in bankruptcy, the company sold its loan-servicing
unit to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  in a deal valued at $468 million.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  