-- 
China Money Rate Surges on Speculation PBOC to Drain More Cash

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T03:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/china-money-rate-surges-on-speculation-pboc-to-drain-more-cash.html
China ’s money-market rate rose to
the highest level in almost three weeks on speculation demand
for cash will jump as the central bank steps up efforts to drain
capital from the financial system.  The rapid accumulation of China’s foreign-exchange reserves
is putting pressure on the central bank as it seeks to reduce
liquidity, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
late yesterday. The monetary authority sold 55 billion yuan
($8.4 billion) of one-year bills and 32 billion yuan of 28-day
 repurchase agreements , two days after raising banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios for the fourth time this year.  “The market speculates the central bank will drain more
capital because the strengthening yuan is attracting more
capital inflows,” said Liu Junyu, a Shenzhen-based bond analyst
at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest lender.
“It’s probably not going to withdraw cash through open-market
operations this week because the reserve-ratio hike will mop up
360 billion yuan of capital.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, gained 27 basis points to 2.97 percent as
of 10:45 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the
highest level since March 30.  China’s foreign-currency holdings jumped $197 billion in
the first quarter, the second-biggest amount on record, even as
the nation posted its first quarterly trade deficit in seven
years.  The central bank issued the one-year bills at a yield of
3.3058 percent, unchanged for a second week. A total of 191
billion yuan of central bank bills and repurchase agreements
will be redeemed this week, according to China Merchants’ Liu.  One-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, were little
changed at 3.38 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.90 percent government bond due August
2014 gained one basis point to 3.27 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 