-- 
Vanke’s First-Quarter Profit Rises 7% on More Home Sales in Smaller Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T09:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/china-vanke-posts-7-gain-in-profit-on-sales-in-smaller-cities.html
China  Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest developer by market value, posted a 7 percent increase
in first-quarter profit as it sold more homes in smaller cities
that were shielded from the effects of government curbs.  Net income climbed to 1.21 billion yuan ($185 million), or
0.11 yuan a share, in the three months ended March 31, from 1.13
billion yuan, or 0.1 yuan, a year earlier, the company said in a
Shenzhen stock exchange filing yesterday. Revenue gained 6
percent to 7.97 billion yuan.  “I’m not worried about big companies such as Vanke, even
if the government measures continued,” said Danny Bao, a Hong
Kong-based analyst for Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Ltd.,
who rates the stock “outperform.” “The company may get more
market share if it cuts prices.”  Vanke, which said it will adopt a “flexible” sales
strategy, recorded higher earnings as China’s property curbs
were aimed at speculators who mainly invest in larger cities
such as Beijing and  Shanghai . In the past three months, the
government intensified its measures to rein in prices, raising
the minimum down payment for second-home purchases and levied
taxes on residences in Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and
Guangzhou imposed restrictions on housing purchases in February,
while the central bank raised  interest rates  twice this year.  “Vanke will focus on new home sales and keep up the sales
pace,” Board Secretary Tan Huajie said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday. “The impact from the property curbs is clear in
the market as transactions have slowed down.”  Shares Fall  Vanke fell 1.7 to 8.63 yuan at the close of Shenzhen
trading, the lowest since March 24. The stock gained 5 percent
this year, compared with a 5.4 percent advance in the broader
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  and a 13 percent increase in the gauge of property
stocks on the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  “The current market changes haven’t yet exceeded the
company’s expectations,” Tan said. “We will keep a quick and
flexible sales strategy.”  Vanke entered smaller cities such as the central cities of
Qinhuangdao and Taiyuan in the first quarter, it said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week in a cabinet meeting that
the country faces challenges including rising property prices in
many cities even as real estate transactions shrink.  Slowing Price Gains  China’s new home price growth slowed in Beijing and
Shanghai in March as the government intensified property curbs.
New home prices in the capital of Beijing rose 4.9 percent in
March from a year earlier, easing from a 6.8 percent gain in
February, the statistics bureau said on its website on April 18.
In Shanghai, the country’s financial hub, prices climbed 1.7
percent last month, down from 2.3 percent growth in February. Of
the 70 cities monitored by the government, 67 cities posted
gains, down from 68 in the first two months, the data showed.  “Against the background of property curbs, the whole
sector will be affected, but Vanke will do better than other
competitors because they have better exposure in third-tier
cities,” said  Du Jinsong , a Hong Kong-based analyst for Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Vanke’s contracted sales, based on bookings of apartments
before they are built, more than doubled to 35.5 billion yuan in
the first three months from a year earlier. Developers typically
sell their homes before construction begins and book earnings
from the sales progressively. Vanke has no plans to lower its
annual construction target, Tan said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Janet Ong  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  