-- 
Chinese Stocks Slump on Inflation, U.S. Credit Rating Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T08:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/china-stocks-drop-most-in-2-months-on-s-p-cut-inflation-concern.html
China ’s stocks fell the most in two
months on concern inflation will spur the government to keep
tightening monetary policy and as Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Service cut its outlook on U.S. credit, fueling concern that a
recovery in the global economy may slow.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 3.4 percent after copper prices slid for a sixth day in
 New York . China Vanke Co. paced losses for developers after
Credit Suisse Group AG said the government may boost measures to
curb property investment. Henan Shuanghui Investment &
Development Co., the biggest publicly traded food producer,
plunged by the 10 percent daily limit amid an investigation into
illegal additives.  “The U.S credit outlook cut will have short-term negative
effects on investors’ confidence,” said Mei Luwu, a Shenzhen-
based fund manager of Lion Fund Management Co., which oversees
more than $7.8 billion. “The risks have been there and the
market is plunging now that they are exposed.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index slid 58.3 points, or 1.9
percent, to 2,999.04 at the 3 p.m. close, the biggest slump
since Feb. 22. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1.9 percent to
3,295.81.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 6.8 percent this year,
the best performer among the biggest Asian markets, as optimism
about growth in the world’s second-largest economy and corporate
earnings outweighed measures to cool inflation. The central bank
has announced 10 reserve-requirement ratio increases since the
start of 2010 and raised interest rates four times.  U.S. Outlook  In New York, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1
percent yesterday, its biggest retreat since March, after S&P
lowered its outlook on  U.S. debt  to “negative.” The ratings
agency said that more than two years after the beginning of the
financial crisis, U.S. policy makers haven’t agreed on a
strategy to reverse recent fiscal deterioration or address
longer-term fiscal pressures.  Jiangxi Copper slid for a seventh day, losing 3.4 percent
to 37.71 yuan.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  fell 3.5 percent to
25.09 yuan. PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil producer,
slipped 2.1 percent to 11.86 yuan. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
listed unit of China’s biggest coal producer, dropped 4.6
percent to 29.32 yuan.  July-delivery copper on the Comex in New York lost 0.2
percent to $4.2085 a pound, erasing gains of as much as 0.8
percent earlier. June-delivery futures in Shanghai declined as
much as 2 percent to 69,630 yuan a ton, the lowest level since
March 17.  Reserve Ratio  U.S. President  Barack Obama  unveiled a plan on April 13 to
cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. The U.S. House
passed a Republican budget on April 15 that would cut spending
by more than $6 trillion over a decade.  The People’s Bank of China said on April 17 it will lift
lenders’ reserve requirements following government reports
showing inflation rose 5.4 percent last month. That exceeded the
median forecast in Bloomberg News surveys of economists for 5.2
percent.  “We expect to see fluctuations around 3,000 for the index
as the March inflation data boosted concerns over tightening
measures,” said Mei.  China Vanke, the largest developer, declined 2 percent to
8.78 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  sank 2.5 percent to 6.76 yuan. Data
showing 50 of 70 cities recorded a month-on-month increase in
property prices invites more tightening policies, Credit Suisse
said.  Investment Increase  Foreign direct investment surged 33 percent in March,
adding $12.5 billion to  China’s economy , the Ministry of
Commerce said today.  The People’s Bank of China will raise interest rates twice
more in the next 12 months as capital inflows complicate efforts
to tame inflation, according to the cost to fix borrowing costs
in the swap market.  Two-year contracts indicate the one-year deposit rate will
be boosted 58 basis points in the next 12 months to 3.83 percent
after four increases the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. On April 6, they projected a rate of 3.71 percent. Foreign
reserves jumped $197 billion in the first quarter to a record $3
trillion.  Barton Biggs , a former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset
Management, said the move by China’s central bank, which
indicates the country is going to do whatever it takes to cool
inflation, makes him nervous about his bullish position on  Asia 
and global equities.  ’Nervous’ About Stocks  “China is the world’s locomotive,” he said. “It’s making
me nervous about my commitment to Asia, making me nervous about
my commitment to stocks in general, not just China.”  The longest rally in developing-nation stocks since 1997
may be ending as higher  interest rates  in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and China curb earnings growth.  For the first time in two years, emerging-market analysts
are cutting profit estimates more than they’re raising them,
consumer stocks are trailing energy producers and shares of
smaller companies are losing to larger equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley show.  Henan Shuanghui fell 10 percent to 70.15 yuan on their
first day of trading since a monthlong suspension. The company
yesterday confirmed a China Central Television report that an
affiliate purchased pigs fed with a banned additive that induces
the growth of lean meat.  “The incident will affect Shuanghui’s sales by between 2
billion yuan and 4 billion yuan ($612 million) in 2011,” Tong
Xun and Man Zhen, Shanghai-based analysts at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co., wrote in a report today.  Lion Fund’s Mei is cautious on small-cap food producers and
health-care companies, while favoring banks, developers, coal
producers and chemical companies.  “Overall, we are positive on the A-share market for the
second quarter given the undeterred economic growth,” Mei said.
“Valuations and the earnings outlook make some A-share
companies very attractive investments globally.”  --Irene Shen. Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  