-- 
China Vanke’s First-Quarter Profit Increases 7% on Sales in Smaller Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T11:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/china-vanke-s-first-quarter-profit-increases-7-on-sales-in-smaller-cities.html
China  Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest developer by market value, said first-quarter profit
rose 7 percent as it sold more homes in smaller cities that were
shielded from the effects of government curbs.  Net income climbed to 1.21 billion yuan ($185 million), or
0.11 yuan a share, from 1.13 billion yuan and 0.1 yuan a year
ago, the company said in a filing at Shenzhen stock exchange
today. Revenue gained 6.2 percent from a year earlier to 7.97
billion yuan.  “Against the background of property curbs, the whole
sector will be affected, but Vanke will do better than its
competitors because they have better exposure in third-tier
cities,” said  Du Jinsong , a Hong Kong-based analyst for Credit
Suisse Group AG, who rates the stock “outperform.”  Vanke’s earnings increased as China’s property curbs were
aimed at speculators who mainly invest in first-tier cities such
as Beijing and Shanghai. In the past three months, the
government intensified measures to rein in prices, raising the
minimum down payment for second-home purchases and levying taxes
on residences in Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou
imposed restrictions on home buying in February and the central
bank raised  interest rates  twice this year.  “Vanke will focus on new-home sales and maintain the pace
of sales,” Board Secretary Tan Huajie said in an e-mailed
statement. “The impact of the property curbs is clear in the
market as transactions have slowed down.”  Sales Double  The company’s contracted sales, based on bookings of
apartments before they are built, more than doubled to 35.5
billion yuan in the first three months from a year earlier.
Developers typically sell their homes before construction begins
and book earnings from the sales progressively.  Vanke fell 2 percent to 8.78 yuan at the close of trading
in Shenzhen today before the results were released. The stock
has gained 6.8 percent this year, compared with a 5.4 percent
gain in the broader CSI 300 Index and a 15 percent advance in
the gauge of property stocks on the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite
Index.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  