-- 
China Resources Power Outlook Revised to Negative at S&P

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T08:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/china-resources-power-outlook-revised-to-negative-at-s-p-1-.html
China  Resources Power Holdings Co.,
the Hong Kong-listed mainland electricity producer, had its
outlook revised to negative by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, which cited rising fuel costs.  All the company’s ratings were affirmed, including the BBB
corporate credit rating and the BBB- senior unsecured issue
rating, S&P said in a statement today. The power producer was
put on CreditWatch with negative implications on March 21.  “Soaring coal prices plus delayed adjustments of
electricity tariffs have negated the company’s efforts to
improve operating efficiency and control costs,” S&P said.  China’s current policy focus on curbing inflation makes it
uncertain when and by how much state-capped electricity prices
may be adjusted, putting China Resources Power’s financial
profile under pressure over the next 12 months, S&P said. The
ratings company expects a price increase in or before 2012.  The government raised the price of electricity that grid
operators pay  power plants  in 16 provinces to help generators
cope with rising fuel costs, state media including Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday. The increase was the first since
November 2009.  Average benchmark prices for power-station coal for
immediate delivery at Qinhuangdao, China’s largest port for the
fuel, rose 25 percent last year. China Resources Power’s fuel
bill increased 21 percent last year, according to its 2010
earnings statement.  The power producer posted a 7.8 percent drop in profit last
year. Fuel accounted for 72 percent of its operating expenses.  The shares fell 15 percent in Hong Kong trading in the past
year, compared with the 9.9 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index. (HSI)  China Resources Power dropped 1.3 percent today to
close at HK$13.84.  -- Wang Ying . Editors: Ryan Woo,  Paul Gordon .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 