-- 
Christchurch City Center Losing Bankers, Brokers After Quake

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-19T12:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/christchurch-city-center-losing-bankers-brokers-after-quake.html
Bankers and brokers are moving out
of downtown Christchurch, six miles from the epicenter of New
Zealand’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  Forsyth Barr Ltd. , the nation’s biggest trader of bonds for
retail investors, signed a six-year lease at Hazeldean, an
office park two miles southwest of the central business district
within days of the magnitude 6.3 earthquake on Feb. 22 which
killed more than 170 people, said Managing Director Neil Paviour-Smith. The Dunedin-based company was forced out of its
17-level  office tower  after its stairwells collapsed.  “We’re not going back into the CBD for at least six
years,” said Paviour-Smith, who leads a firm of 250 people at
19 locations nationwide. “We’ll have a new fit-out and walking
away from that after six years is quite an expensive decision.”  Many buildings in  New Zealand ’s second-largest city
collapsed or were so damaged that they face demolition after the
quake struck southeast of the city at 12.51 p.m., when office
workers were lunching, shopping or at their desks. Prime
Minister John Key has said that rebuilding Christchurch is one
of the government’s highest priorities, with an expected price
tag of NZ$15 billion ($12 billion).  Christchurch office rents are rising as tenants that were
in older buildings are forced to pay higher rates for new
premises, according to Harry Van Tongeren, managing director of
real estate broker  Bayleys Canterbury Commercial . Prior
incentives to attract new tenants, such as rent-free periods,
have disappeared, he said.  Staying Central  Some businesses still see their future in the city center.
Accounting firm Deloitte LLP, which may be out of its building
for 12 months or longer and has 100 staff working from a cluster
of small buildings, wants to be involved in the rebuild, said
Steve Wakefield, managing partner of the Christchurch office.  “We bought ourselves time to figure out where we might
go,” he said in an interview. “We don’t agree with those who
have signed a long lease in the hinterland.”  Hazeldean, an office precinct just outside the four avenues
that define the center of Christchurch, has 12,000 square meters
of space now fully leased and has land for three more offices
covering the same area, said Kevin Arthur, development manager
of Calder Stewart, a South Island construction company that
built the office park Forsyth Barr selected. Foundations for the
first new building are finished and there are “advanced
discussions” with prospective tenants, he said.  ‘Cold Hard Look’  “They’re having a cold hard look at whether they need to
be in the CBD,” said Arthur. “Those that have concluded they
don’t are certainly talking seriously.”  Hazeldean is being built on a former factory site and began
leasing last year, attracting tenants including the local unit
of Canon Inc. in September. The offices are no more than five
levels and the site features a cafe and a car-park building.  Developers like Calder Stewart and  Goodman Property Trust (GMT) 
are attracting companies with low-rise buildings as workers and
clients are spooked by the damage to the city’s towers.  “The days of a 15-story building are probably gone for a
while because people don’t have the confidence to go into
them,” said Arthur. “It is an emotional response but potential
tenants have expressed a desire not to be in buildings more than
4-5 levels high.”  Doomed Buildings  Civil Defense officials have listed 215 city buildings that
need demolition as at April 8, with another 65 needing to be
partially cleared and 20 needing to be made safe. The quake
death toll is the most since 256 people died after a temblor
struck the North Island city of Napier in 1931.  Christchurch International Airport Ltd., on the western
side of the city, is developing a temporary office park on some
of its spare land. The buildings will be carpeted with kitchens
and bathrooms, and offered for leases of up to three years,
Blair Forgie, general manager of property, said in an interview.
Construction of the first 1,000 square meters of space should be
completed by late June, and there is interest for another 5,000
square meters, he said.  Temporary solutions will allow firms time to assess where
new business “hubs” may emerge and what new office
developments will be available outside the city center, said
Frank Aldridge, managing director of  Craigs Investment Partners .  “It’s more likely we’ll go into one of the new
developments,” he said after the nation’s biggest brokerage had
to abandon its Christchurch office. “The team would prefer one
of those sites. It’s unlikely we’ll go back into the CBD.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  