-- 
Rajaratnam, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-19T12:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/citigroup-morgan-stanley-rajaratnam-madoff-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, at the center of largest crackdown on hedge-fund
insider trading in U.S. history, didn’t take the witness stand
as jurors heard one last wiretapped recording in his trial.  Prosecutors’ brief rebuttal of Rajaratnam’s weeklong
defense included playing a recording of a phone call between
Rajaratnam and former New Castle Funds LLC analyst  Danielle
Chiesi . During the Sept. 30, 2008, call, Chiesi asked Rajaratnam
if he had bought 1 million shares of  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) , calling the purchase “a very bold move unless you know
what we know.”  Prosecutors, who are scheduled to begin their closing
arguments to the jury today, have said Rajaratnam got a tip from
Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co. director, that Sunnyvale,
California-based AMD was about to announce the sale of a
manufacturing entity to Mubadala Development Co., a sovereign
wealth company operated by Abu Dhabi.  The close of evidence yesterday came six weeks into a trial
that might send Rajaratnam to prison for 20 years. Rajaratnam,
53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Clearwire Corp.
and Akamai Technologies Inc.  The Sri Lankan-born money manager denies wrongdoing, saying
he based his trades on research.  After prosecutors and Rajaratnam’s lawyers complete their
closing arguments, the jury will begin its deliberations.  The defense case focused on the testimony of former Galleon
U.S. President Richard Schutte and of Gregg Jarrell, the top
economist for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
1984 to 1987.  They told jurors that stock trading trends, analyst reports
and news accounts circulating in the marketplace gave Rajaratnam
a lawful basis to make the stock trades that prosecutors say
were corrupt.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  U.S. Makes Final Arguments to Jury in  Taylor Bean  Fraud Case  The case against  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. and accused mastermind in a $1.9
billion fraud, ended with U.S. prosecutors saying he stole
millions of dollars out of greed and his lawyer saying Farkas is
innocent while others made mistakes.  Farkas and the government made final arguments to the jury
yesterday in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia . U.S.
District Judge Leonie Brinkema gave the jurors instructions on
the law yesterday and had them begin deliberations on whether
Farkas is guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
securities fraud.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly told the jury that
Farkas used his employees, Taylor Bean and the defunct Colonial
Bank to carry out “one of the largest and longest-running bank
fraud schemes in the country.”  “He did it out of greed,” said Connolly, adding that
Farkas took more than $30 million from Taylor Bean for his own
use. “Without TBW, Lee Farkas couldn’t live the lifestyle he
wanted.”  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank.  If convicted of the single conspiracy charge, Farkas faces
as many as 30 years in prison.  Bruce Rogow, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said in his closing
argument that those who pleaded guilty “believed in their heart
of hearts that they didn’t do anything wrong” and were under
pressure from the government to plead.  “When you take a look, the only common sense conclusion is
that all of these people were working together, not on a
criminal conspiracy, but working together with Colonial Bank to
have Taylor Bean succeed,” Rogow said.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  J&J Asks Risperdal Judge for ‘Small Penalty,’ Not ‘Billions’  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  lawyers urged a South Carolina judge to
impose a “small penalty” after jurors found the company
violated consumer-protection laws, not the “billions of
dollars” sought by the state.  The judge heard arguments yesterday over what penalties he
should impose after a state court jury in Spartanburg ruled
March 22 that J&J sent doctors a misleading letter in 2003 on
the safety and effectiveness of its antipsychotic drug
Risperdal.  Lawyers for Attorney General Alan Wilson urged Circuit
Judge Roger Couch to impose penalties of $5,000 for each of
hundreds of thousands of violations of the South Carolina Unfair
Trade Practices Act, potentially billions of dollars. J&J said
the state vastly overstated the impact of the violations.  “We have a case here where nobody has been deceived and
nobody has been harmed,” attorney Edward Posner argued on
behalf of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J, in the Court of
Common Pleas. “At most a small penalty should be imposed.”  Lawyers representing Wilson, John White and Donald Coggins,
argued J&J should be penalized for the 2003 letter that its
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit sent to 7,194 doctors
in South Carolina. The letter went to 700,000 doctors across the
U.S.  J&J corrected the missive after the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration sent a warning letter saying J&J made false and
misleading claims that minimized the potentially fatal risks of
diabetes and overstated the drug’s superiority to competitors.  White and Coggins said J&J should pay $5,000 for each of as
many as 722,000 Risperdal prescriptions written, 183,144 calls
on doctors by J&J sales representatives, and 496,565 sample
boxes distributed. Most of those violations, they argued,
spanned 1998 to 2008. Coggins said they chose not to request a
specific dollar amount, preferring to let Couch decide.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-42-1438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  For more, click here.  Winklevoss Twins Seek Again to Re-Open Facebook Settlement  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are seeking review of an April
11 court ruling they lost enforcing a $65 million settlement
with Facebook Inc. over their claims that company founder  Mark
Zuckerberg  stole the idea for the social networking site.  A three-judge appeals court panel in  San Francisco  erred
when it rejected the Winklevoss brothers’ claims that the 2008
settlement should be voided because it was procured with fraud,
the twins’ attorney said in a court filing yesterday. The
brothers want a rehearing before a larger panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in San Francisco.  The Winkelvosses, former Harvard University classmates of
Zuckerberg’s, allege that Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate
valuation of its shares before they agreed to the cash and stock
settlement. The appeals court ruled that the accord, now worth
$100 million more than its original amount, barred any future
lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to the twins.  Whether the Winklevosses “would be better off financially
keeping the proceeds of the settlement rather than rescinding
and proceeding with their lawsuit against Facebook is a personal
judgment for them -- not an appellate court -- to make,” Jerome
Falk, their attorney, said in the court filing.  The twins hired Zuckerberg to help build dating website
ConnectU Inc. while they were students at Harvard in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, in 2003. The Winklevosses and a partner, Divya
Narendra, originally accused Zuckerberg in a lawsuit of stealing
their idea and delaying the ConnectU project while secretly
building Facebook.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
9th U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  U.S. High Court Defers Action on Virginia Health-Care Bid  The U.S. Supreme Court deferred taking action on a bid by
Virginia’s attorney general for fast-track consideration of the
state’s challenge to President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul.  Virginia, one of 27 states that say the measure is
unconstitutional, is urging the justices to take the unusual
step of scheduling arguments without waiting for rulings by the
four appeals courts that are poised to consider the law.  The case was on a list of petitions for review the justices
were scheduled to consider at a private conference last week.
The justices resolved most of those cases in a list of orders
released yesterday in  Washington . They will release more orders
a week from yesterday.  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli of Virginia said in an
interview last week that the petition was a long shot. He argued
in court papers that the dispute “is of imperative national
importance requiring immediate determination in this court.”  The states say Congress overstepped its authority by
requiring Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times,
including its 1974 decision ordering President Richard Nixon to
turn over Oval Office tape recordings and its 1952 ruling
blocking President Harry S Truman from seizing the nation’s
steel mills.  The Obama administration argued that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to that level of urgency, in part because
the disputed provision doesn’t take effect until 2014.  “The constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision
is undoubtedly an issue of great public importance,” acting
U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal argued in court papers.
“This case is not, however, one of the rare cases that
justifies deviation from normal appellate practice and requires
immediate determination in this court.”  Another appeals court, based in Cincinnati, will consider
the issue June 1, and a third, based in Atlanta, will hear
arguments June 8 in a case involving the other 26 states
challenging the law. An appeals court in Washington will
consider the matter later this year.  The Supreme Court case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v.
Sebelius, 10-1014.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Said to Reject $1.1 Billion Kirch Settlement  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rejected a 775 million-euro ($1.1 billion)
settlement proposed last month by a Munich court that may have
ended a nine-year dispute with  Leo Kirch  over the collapse of
his media group, two people familiar with the case said.  The March 24 proposal by the Munich appeals court was made
a day before Kirch testified in the case, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations were private.
The bank spurned the offer because the amount was too high, one
of the people said.  Kirch has filed suits against the Frankfurt-based bank over
a 2002 Bloomberg television interview by  Rolf Breuer , the bank’s
chief executive officer at the time. In the interview, Breuer
said “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Four months later Kirch Holding GmbH filed the
country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  The settlement would have ended all the litigation. Kirch
has filed two separate damages suits against the lender and
Breuer seeking a total of 3.3 billion euros. He has also filed
criminal complaints and civil suits challenging votes at
shareholder meetings. The bank and Breuer deny wrongdoing.  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann is scheduled to
testify May 19 at the Munich court in a hearing over one of the
lawsuits, court spokesman Wilhelm Schneider said in an interview
yesterday. The bank’s chairman, Clemens Boersig, and management-
board members Juergen Fitschen and Hermann-Josef Lamberti are
also testifying. The court summoned the men at Deutsche Bank’s
request.  In the case, Kirch is seeking 2 billion euros, claiming
Deutsche Bank had a secret plan to cause difficulties for his
media company and then force him to hire the bank to help
restructure the firm.  The Munich appeals case is OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley Cleared in Parmalat Case  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and bankers at the firms were acquitted by a Milan
court in a market-abuse case relating to the 2003 collapse of
Parmalat Finanziaria SpA, Italy’s biggest dairy company.  “The detailed examination of evidence in court brought a
clear view of the facts,” Francesco Isolabella, a lawyer for
Deutsche Bank, said after Judge Gabriella Manfrin read out the
ruling in Milan yesterday.  Milan prosecutors had claimed the banks knew Parmalat’s
true financial situation when they sold bonds and carried out
transactions on behalf of the food maker. The company, now
called  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , failed in Italy’s biggest bankruptcy and
its founder Calisto Tanzi has been convicted of misleading
investors. Parmalat’s collapse left the maker of juices and
long-life milk with 14 billion euros ($20 billion) in debt,
about eight times the amount reported to investors.  The bankers didn’t commit the alleged crimes, the court
ruled. The three judges will publish the reasoning behind
yesterday’s ruling within 90 days.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, said in a statement
that the ruling confirms the bank and its employees had no
involvement. Deutsche Bank said its employees acted
professionally and abided by Italian law, according to a
statement.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in a statement said the firm was
“pleased” with the court’s decision.  Parmalat was brought down by “some of its executives and
some of its auditors,” Bank of America said in a statement. The
ruling confirms that “none of Bank of America’s employees were
aware of Parmalat’s fraud.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Investment Funds Allege Banks Conspired to Manipulate Libor  Three investment funds accused banks including Bank of
America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays
Bank Plc and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of conspiring to manipulate
the  London  interbank offered rate. The lawsuit was filed April
15 in New York federal court.  The banks allegedly sold Libor-based futures, options,
swaps and derivative instruments “at artificial prices that
defendants caused,” thereby harming investors, FTC Capital GmbH
of Vienna, FTC Futures Fund SICAV of Luxembourg and FTC Futures
Fund PCC Ltd. of Gibraltar contend in the complaint.  Between 2006 and 2009, the banks “collectively agreed to
artificially suppress the Libor rate and, in early 2008,
‘‘during the most significant financial crisis since the great
depression,’’ the rate remained steady when it ‘‘should have
increased significantly,’’ the funds contend in court papers.  Last month a person close to an investigation on possible
Libor manipulation said regulators in the U.S. and U.K. were
cooperating in the probe. The U.S. Justice Department,
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are working together with the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority on the probe, according to two people
familiar with developments.  ‘‘We believe the suit is without merit,’’ said Danielle
Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  said he couldn’t
immediately comment. Eberhard Roll and Walter Hillebrand-Droste,
spokesmen for defendant WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, weren’t
immediately reachable for a comment.  Officials at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
weren’t immediately available to comment. A spokeswoman at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London declined to comment.  Counts in the civil complaint include fraudulent
concealment, violation of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act,
antitrust violations, and unjust enrichment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in London declined to
comment.  The case is FTC Capital v. Credit Suisse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  American Indian Tribe Sues BP for Oil Spill Damages  BP Plc (BP/)  was sued by the Pointe Au Chien tribe over claims
the Indian group’s ancestral lands and fishing grounds in
southern  Louisiana  were devastated by the 2010 oil spill.  The  tribe  ‘‘has suffered loss of use of its historical and
cultural lands, including tribal cemeteries, Indian mounds,
shell middens and traditional fisheries,” according to the
complaint, filed in federal court in New Orleans on April 15.  “Use of these lands has been lost from April 20, 2010, to
the present,” the complaint alleged, citing the date the
Deepwater Horizon rig blew up while drilling an offshore well
for BP. The tribe said it has an “an aboriginal land title
claim” to the damaged areas.  The Pointe Au Chien case is the first oil-spill damages
suit filed by any of Louisiana’s American Indian tribes. BP
faces thousands of claims and more than 350 lawsuits seeking
damages from individuals and businesses harmed by oil that
gushed from its damaged subsea well last year.  The Pointe Au Chien tribe numbers roughly 680 members and
isn’t one of four federally recognized tribal nations in
Louisiana, according to its lawyer in the case, Joel Waltzer.
The Pointe Au Chien, which has settled the reedy coastal
marshlands for centuries, are recognized by the state of
Louisiana.  The tribe seeks compensation for lost tax revenue and
income, decline in property values, spill cleanup costs,
restoration of its damaged natural resources, and punitive
damages.  BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment on the tribe’s lawsuit.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” Local Government Entities, 2:10-cv-09999, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Cameron Says Gulf Blast Wasn’t Caused by Faulty Blowout Device  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  said the Deepwater Horizon
explosion wasn’t its fault because oil and gas were already
surging toward the rig when workers tried to activate blowout-
prevention equipment the company made.  “Time does not go in reverse,” Cameron said in an April
15 filing in New Orleans federal court. “The simple chronology
of events” detailed in a post-accident report undercuts claims
that Cameron’s blowout preventer, or BOP, malfunctioned and
failed to prevent the explosion, the company said.  Cameron, along with BP Plc and other companies involved in
the Deepwater Horizon drilling disaster, faces hundreds of
spill-related lawsuits over personal and economic injuries
caused by the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Eleven
workers were killed by the April 20, 2010, rig explosion.  Plaintiffs suing the companies over the spill have claimed
Houston-based Cameron’s BOP wasn’t designed to handle the
extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found in ultra-deep
wells like the one the Deepwater Horizon was drilling for BP in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Government forensic examiners who studied the Deepwater
Horizon’s recovered BOP determined that its pincers failed to
completely sever and seal a slightly off-center drill pipe that
got jammed in the preventer by the uncontrolled flow of oil and
gas in the well.  Cameron cited findings by a U.S. presidential commission
that investigated the Deepwater Horizon blowout, as well as a
court filing by spill victims, that it says support Cameron’s
claim the BOP didn’t cause the explosion.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Apple Asks Judge to Dismiss Case Claiming ITunes Monopoly  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  asked a federal judge to dismiss a consumer
antitrust lawsuit claiming the company limited choice by linking
iPod music downloading to its iTunes music store.  Robert Mittelstaedt, an attorney for the Cupertino,
California-based company, yesterday told U.S. District Judge
James Ware in San Jose,  California , that blocking iPod music
downloads that used competitors’ software was intended to
improve downloading quality for iTunes customers.  Changes that Apple made in 2004, just days after Internet
music software company  RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK)  announced a technology
allowing songs from its online store to be played on iPods,
weren’t anticompetitive, he said.  “Apple’s view is that iPods work better when consumers use
the iTunes jukebox rather than third party software that can
cause corruption or other problems,” Mittelstaedt said at a
hearing.  Apple co-founder and chief executive officer Steve Jobs,
ordered by a separate judge to answer questions in the case, met
with plaintiff attorneys for a deposition on April 12, Bonny
Sweeney, a lawyer representing iTunes customers who sued, said
yesterday. She declined to comment further.  Jobs took a medical leave from the company starting Jan.
17. The CEO, who has battled a rare form of cancer, has taken
time off for medical reasons three times in the past seven
years.  The case is Apple iPod, iTunes  Antitrust Litigation ,
C05-0037JW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  U.S. Attorney Seeks Dismissal of Madoff Investor’s Claim  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan seeks to dismiss a
claim by an investor in Bernard Madoff’s defunct investment
company to part of a $7.2 billion settlement.  U.S. prosecutors and the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm
settled a suit against the estate of billionaire Jeffry Picower
for $7.2 billion in December. Asking a Manhattan judge to
dismiss the investor’s claim, Bharara said he was seeking a
final order of forfeiture to close the case.  The investor holding up closure of the case, Adele Fox, has
no “property interest” in the Picower funds and hasn’t yet
proved her “victimhood,” Bharara said in the April 15 filing
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  “Her attempt to have the court mandate the allocation of
forfeited funds among victims in advance of that determination
is a naked end-run around” legal limitations, he said in the
filing.  Investors seeking to recoup money from the Madoff fraud
unsuccessfully challenged a $220 million settlement between
trustee Irving Picard and the family of Norman F. Levy. A
bankruptcy judge ruled on March 30 that the deal will stand.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Foreclosure Probe Talks Said to Yield Agreements With Banks  Attorneys general negotiating a settlement of a 50-state
investigation of foreclosure practices have reached agreements
with lenders on some terms while failing so far to reach an
accord on potential monetary payments by the banks, said a
person familiar with the talks.  The probe was triggered by claims of faulty foreclosure
practices following the housing collapse which law enforcement
officials said may violate state law. Significant progress has
been made on a deal with lenders, which include Bank of America
Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., with agreements in principle
reached on several issues, said the person, who didn’t specify
the areas of accord as they may change as talks proceed.  It may take at least two months to reach a final agreement,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. An accord remains out of reach because states want
principal reductions for borrowers, which is more than banks
agreed to in deals reached with U.S. regulators last week, said
Allison Schoenthal, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells in New York.  “Principal reductions I don’t think are going to be agreed
to by banks, and I don’t think the banks see a need for a
penalty when, in their view, they haven’t done anything wrong,”
said Schoenthal, who represents lenders and servicers and isn’t
involved in the talks.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller, who leads the negotiations for the states, declined to
comment.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for New
York-based JPMorgan, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  On the Docket  Rambus Antitrust Trial Against Micron, Hynix Set for June 7  A trial over  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s antitrust lawsuit against  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  claiming $4.3
billion in alleged damages was scheduled for June 7.  The trial date was posted yesterday on the electronic
docket for the case in state court in San Francisco.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, alleges that Micron
and Hynix artificially inflated the price of Rambus-designed
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips to drive Rambus
technology out of the computer memory market. Samsung
Electronics Co. agreed to pay $900 million in a settlement that
removed it from the case.  A May 2 trial date for a separate patent-infringement
lawsuit by Rambus against Hynix and two other chipmakers in
federal court in San Jose, California, was vacated last month.
The judge in that case said March 25 that the trial should wait
until after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington has decided related cases.  Linda Ashmore, a Rambus spokeswoman, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-431105, Superior Court of California (San Francisco County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  