-- 
Citigroup's Pringle to Head Equities Trading as Unit Overhauls Management

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-19T18:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/citigroup-s-pringle-to-head-equities-trading-as-unit-overhauls-management.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, promoted Mike Pringle to a new position leading
global equities trading as the lender overhauls the unit’s
management to earn more from emerging markets.  Pringle, appointed in 2009 to lead equities in  Europe ,
Middle East and  Africa , will oversee risk, trading personnel and
use of capital, according to a memo from Derek Bandeen, who
heads equities at the New York-based bank. Adrian Faure, in
charge of equities for Asia-Pacific, will become the unit’s
global head of emerging markets, a new post, according to the
memo.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, is pushing into
emerging markets in Latin America and  Asia . The securities and
banking unit, which runs trading and investment banking, made 73
percent of its first-quarter profit from continuing operations
outside the U.S., compared with 55 percent in the same period
last year.  “I firmly believe that these changes will help build an
ever stronger business with a balanced combination of regional
strength and global connectivity,” Bandeen said in the memo,
which was confirmed by Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup
spokeswoman.  Shakil Ahmed, co-head of electronic trading with Daniel Keegan, also will oversee electronic market-making, according to
the memo. The bank last month started electronic equity trading
in Brazil and  Mexico .  Ahmed will be “concluding his role” as head of
quantitative strategies for equity markets with  Citi Capital
Advisors , a hedge-fund unit within the bank, according to the
memo.  The restructuring follows Pandit’s promotion in January of
James “Jamie” Forese to head the securities and banking
division. Citigroup’s equity-trading revenue in the first
quarter declined 12 percent from the same period a year earlier
to $1.07 billion.  The Financial Times reported the appointments earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  