-- 
Comcast Extends U.S. NHL Rights; 10-Year Deal Said to Reach $2 Billion

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e
-- 
2011-04-19T18:36:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/comcast-said-to-agree-to-10-year-2-billion-television-contract-with-nhl.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and Versus
networks said they had retained U.S. broadcast rights for
National Hockey League games in a 10-year contract that people
familiar with the agreement said was worth $2 billion.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman, joined by NBC Sports Group
Chairman Dick Ebersol on a conference call with reporters, said
the accord will expire after the 2020-21.  Bettman and Ebersol declined to disclose specifics of the
rights fee. The $2 billion price tag was confirmed earlier today
by two people who were granted anonymity because the deal hadn’t
been officially announced.  “We are looking at the most significant media deal that
this league has ever been able to participate in,” Bettman
said.  NBC and Versus had the right to match any bid as part of
their previous agreement with the NHL.  NHL television ratings in the U.S. have increased 84
percent over the last four years, and the league is in line to
set a revenue record this season, topping $2.9 billion, the NHL
said in a news release announcing today’s agreement.  The agreement calls for the networks to televise 100
regular-season games each season and air a national NBC
broadcast on the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday in late
November. It also includes national distribution of all NHL
playoff games and exclusive coverage starting with the
conference semifinal round.  Other Bidders  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Turner Sports  said in a statement
yesterday that it was pulling out of the NHL rights bidding.  Comcast, which owns Versus, in January completed the
purchase of a majority stake in NBCUniversal from General
Electric Co., which included the NBC network.  Comcast and NBC have aired NHL games as separate companies
since the league returned from a work stoppage that led to the
cancellation of the 2004-05 season. The original Comcast deal
was for $207.5 million over three years, while NBC had a
revenue-sharing agreement with the NHL and hasn’t paid a rights
fee for hockey in six seasons.  ESPN, which previously had the U.S. cable rights for the
NHL, declined to pick up its $60 million option for the 2005-06
season, saying at the time that the sport wasn’t worth half that
price.  NBC ‘Minority’  “Our wonderful, for us, run of not paying anything for a
number of years is over with this deal,” Ebersol said, adding
that a “substantial” minority portion of the new fees come
from the national NBC broadcasts.  Bettman said he didn’t have any regrets about the previous
deals with NBC.  “They have been extraordinary partners, they stood by us
through a difficult time and they are deserving of tremendous
credit for the positioning that we find ourselves in today as a
sport and media property,” Bettman said.  Versus will be renamed within 90 days to some way utilize
the NBC name, Ebersol said.  “You are the final impetus,” Ebersol said, speaking to
Bettman about the name change. “I hope that’s as meaningful to
you, your teams, your players, that based on this incredible
deal we are going to rename ourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michele Steele in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 