-- 
Community Health Seeks Dismissal of ‘Baseless’ Tenet Healthcare Suit

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-19T21:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/community-health-seeks-dismissal-of-baseless-tenet-healthcare-suit.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ,
accused in a lawsuit by Tenet Healthcare Corp. of overcharging
Medicare, moved to dismiss what it called a “baseless” legal
action.  Community Health , which has an unsolicited buyout offer for
Tenet, said in court papers that the claims must be dismissed in
part because Community Health modified its acquisition proposal
to an all-cash offer. Community Health filed its motion today in
federal court in Dallas.  Tenet, a Dallas-based operator of hospitals, sued Community
Health on April 11, charging that it would have difficulty
raising money for a buyout because its methods for admitting
patients to hospitals under Medicare could subject it to
“liability and damages of well over $1 billion.”  “In a misguided effort to score points in this contest for
corporate control, Tenet has filed this lawsuit attacking the
ethics and professional judgment of 15,000 attending physicians,
who make the decision whether to admit patients at CHS-
affiliated hospitals,” Community Health said in the filing.  Community Health offered $6 a share, or $7.3 billion, to
acquire all the stock of Tenet. Tenet rejected the offer in
December, saying it wasn’t “remotely fair.”  “This changes nothing,” Rick Black, a spokesman for
Tenet, said in a telephone interview. “We intend to vigorously
prosecute our claims.”  Tenet owns 49 hospitals. Community Health owns, operates or
leases 130 hospitals.  Tenet rose 15 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $6.64 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m. Community Health,
based in Franklin, Tennessee, climbed 70 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to $31.20.  The case is  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  v. Community Health
Systems Inc., 11-00732, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 