-- 
Copper Prices Rise as Freeport Halts Operations at Grasberg Mine

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-19T18:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/copper-rises-as-halt-at-freeport-mine-compounds-supply-concern.html
Copper rose, halting the longest
slump since June, after Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said
it suspended operations at a mine in  Indonesia .  Subsurface activity was stopped at the Grasberg mine after
an “industrial accident” killed one worker and left another
missing, said Freeport, the world’s biggest publicly traded
producer. U.S. builders broke ground on 549,000 homes at an
annual pace in March, more than analysts forecast. Copper has
gained 21 percent in the past year.  “The market is in a long-term uptrend” because global
mine output is failing to keep pace with demand, said Lannie
Cohen, the president of  Capitol Commodity Services Inc.  in
Indianapolis.  Copper futures for July delivery rose 3.1 cents, or 0.7
percent, to close at $4.2485 a pound at 1:23 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York .  Before today, prices fell for six sessions, dropping 6.3
percent, partly on concern that demand will slow as  China , the
world’s biggest consumer, tightens credit to fight inflation.  The metal gained today after a report signaled that
manufacturing remains robust in China.  “Any sort of worries over what impact the Japanese
earthquake might have had on activity in China have been put
aside now,” said Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery climbed $115, or 1.2 percent, to $9,340 a metric ton
($4.24 a pound.)  Lead, zinc, aluminum and tin also rose in London. Nickel
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  