-- 
Cuban Puts Landmark Theatres, Magnolia Pictures Up for Sale

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/cuban-puts-landmark-theatres-magnolia-pictures-up-for-sale-1-.html
Billionaire Mark Cuban has put his
Landmark Theatres and  Magnolia Pictures  up for sale, saying
entertainment companies are attracting “huge valuations.”  Cuban, 52, is “just testing the waters,” he said
yesterday in an e-mail in response to a question from Bloomberg
News. “We won’t sell unless the offer is very, very
compelling.”  Moelis & Co., a New York-based investment bank, is handling
the auction, according to a person familiar with the situation.
Bidders are expected to file their offers next week, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Landmark Theatres , founded in 1974, operates 55 cinemas
with 245 screens in 21 cities, including  New York ,  Los Angeles 
and Chicago. The decision to put it on the block comes as U.S.
box-office sales have declined 20 percent this year, according
to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Magnolia Pictures  distributes
independent films in theaters and for home entertainment.  Both are part of  2929 Entertainment , a holding company for
Cuban and business partner Todd Wagner’s media assets that also
includes the HDNet cable channel and HDNet Movies.  With Magnolia, known for films such as “Man on Wire” and
“The Girlfriend Experience,” Cuban and Wagner have
experimented with releasing movies simultaneously across
theatrical, television and home-video platforms.  Andrea Hurst, a spokeswoman for Moelis in New York,
declined to comment.  In addition to the box-office slump, cinema chains face
demands from studios to shorten movies’ exclusive theatrical
runs. The industry is also investing in digital projection
systems to upgrade facilities and offer premium enhancements
such as 3-D showings.  AMC Entertainment Group Inc., the second-largest U.S.
movie-theater owner, purchased 93 Kerasotes Showplace Theatres
for $275 million last year.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  sold its Miramax
Films in December to investors led by Ron Tutor and  Colony
Capital LLC  for $663 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  