-- 
Czechs Wedded to Nuclear Boost Utility CEZ as Germany’s Atomic Age Wanes

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-04-20T10:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/czechs-backing-more-reactors-boost-cez-as-germany-shuts-plants.html
Some couples dream of a sunset
wedding on a beach. Jana Sistikova and Antonin Pazdera exchanged
their vows at a nuclear power station’s visitor center near the
Czech Republic’s border with  Germany .  As the wedding party filed past the four giant concrete
cooling towers of the Temelin atomic plant on a cold April day,
the newlyweds applauded  CEZ AS (CEZ) ’s plans to start building two
more reactors at the site.  Like most Czechs, the couple agree with the government’s
nuclear expansion program, even as  Japan  battles the worst
atomic crisis since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. “We support
nuclear plants,” said Sistikova, 25, an elementary school
teacher who lives in the nearby village of Chrastany. “This way
of generating electricity is safe and has a future.”  An opinion poll taken after Fukushima found that 55 percent
of Czechs believe the country should build more reactors. In
Germany, by contrast, anti-nuclear sentiment stoked by Japan’s
disaster has led Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to halt the oldest
plants and press to speed up a total exit from nuclear energy.  Germany’s nuclear retreat pushed European power prices to a
19-month high this month and has boosted CEZ shares, up 8.7
percent since the accident, over utilities like  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE
AG (RWE) , both down more than 5 percent. The volume of Czech power
exports to Germany has jumped as much as fivefold.  CEZ Benefits  “The transmission capacities on the Czech-German border
are very high, hypothetically allowing the Czech Republic to
export over 20 terawatt-hours of electricity,” or about 25
percent of its total output, said  Jan Tomanik , an analyst at
Wood & Co. brokerage in Prague who advises clients to buy CEZ
shares. “It allows CEZ to fully benefit from the upward move in
the German power prices.”  CEZ shares gained as much as 1.1 percent and were up 0.2
percent to 880 koruna at 12:33 p.m. in Prague.  The  Czech Republic  currently exports one quarter of its
electricity, the biggest percentage in the European Union, which
also makes it the EU’s third-biggest exporter in absolute terms,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The government “would have to be a bunch of fools” to put
a lid on the Temelin project, Prime Minister Petr Necas said in
the aftermath of the Fukushima disaster.  Lessen Dependence  The landlocked country of 10 million with very little
seismic activity was a member of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact
during the  Cold War  and sees nuclear as a way to lessen
dependence on Russian natural gas imports. With limited capacity
for generating electricity from renewable resources such as
wind, water and solar energy, atomic generation is also a route
to cutting emissions.  Sixty-nine percent of Czechs think the nation’s six
reactors are safe compared with 14.5 percent who think they
aren’t, according to a survey by Sanep polling agency conducted
March 19, more than a week after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami that triggered a partial meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. Fifty-five percent believe the country should
increase atomic capacity, the poll found.  The Czech nuclear plants, built according to a Russian
design, are among  Europe ’s youngest. Dukovany was switched on in
1985. The construction of Temelin was temporarily halted after
the 1989 collapse of the country’s communist regime and the two
Russian-built reactors were subsequently equipped with
Westinghouse Electric Corp.’s operating and safety systems. The
plant was connected to the grid in 2000.  ‘We’re Lucky’  “We’re lucky that nuclear energy enjoys huge support in
the Czech Republic,” said Martin Roman, chief executive officer
of CEZ, central Europe’s biggest utility. “It’s the most
ecological source of energy, it has absolutely no CO2
emissions,” he said in an April 11 radio interview.  The flow of electricity to Germany is higher than the level
before Merkel ordered the shutdown, and was almost five times
that level from March 15 to March 20, according to data from
Czech grid operators CEPS.  Over one-third of state-controlled CEZ’s electricity is
generated by nuclear reactors, and the percentage may increase
if CEZ adds two more reactors to Temelin as planned.  France ’s
 Areva SA (CEI) , Westinghouse and a Russian-Czech group led by ZAO
Atomstroyexport are competing for the project, estimated by
analysts to be worth as much as $12 billion.  EU Safety Regulations  While the government has pledged it will stick to its 2013
deadline for choosing the winner of the tender, tightening of
nuclear safety regulations in the EU could slow things down and
add to the cost, Wood & Co.’s Tomanik said.  “The risk of stricter safety requirements being
implemented for new reactors could negatively affect the capex
and timeframe of the construction of the two new blocks at
Temelin,” he said. “There is a risk Germany will try to push
ahead with measures against nuclear energy on an EU-wide
basis.”  The Czechs also face opposition from neighboring  Austria ,
which feels threatened by the proximity of both Temelin and
Dukovany nuclear plants to its northern border. Austrian
activists and politicians have expressed worries about safety at
the two plants.  Back in Temelin, no such fears plagued the newlyweds. The
couple, who are due to have a baby girl in August, took their
vows in the mansion that serves as the plant’s information
center, where visitors can watch a movie on how nuclear power
works and look at models of reactors. CEZ has held two weddings
in Temelin so far this year and has bookings for six more.  “We were intrigued as soon as we saw the pictures,”
Sistikova said after the ceremony. “Then we came to visit
Temelin and decided it was perfect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in  Prague  at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  