-- 
Czech Parties Agree to Preserve Deficit-Cutting Government

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-04-19T12:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/czech-parties-agree-to-preserve-deficit-cutting-government-1-.html
The Czech three-party coalition
agreed on cabinet changes to resolve disputes that threatened to
bring down the government and hamper planned deficit cuts.  Radek John, interior minister and head of junior coalition
partner Public Affairs, will become deputy premier for fighting
corruption and will be replaced by Jan Kubice, Prime Minister
Petr Necas told Czech public  television  today after a five-hour
coalition meeting. The cabinet will send laws overhauling public
spending to parliament by the end of June and will tie them to a
confidence vote, said Necas, leader of the Civic Democrats.  “We’ve reached a genuine agreement,” Foreign Minister
Karel Schwarzenberg, the leader of Top09, told the broadcaster.
“The prime minister and this agreement have a 100 percent
support from Top09 and we are very happy that our government can
continue in its reform efforts.”  Coalition tensions increased earlier this month after Necas
said he wanted to fire John and Education Minister Josef Dobes,
also from Public Affairs, over their ties to a private detective
agency.  Necas’s pledge to overhaul the money-losing pension system
and trim the fiscal gap below the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of economic output by 2013 has helped the koruna gain
7.2 percent against the euro since May 2010 elections.  The koruna today gained as much as 0.4 percent to 24.091
per euro, its strongest intraday level in more than two months,
and traded 0.3 percent firmer at 24.120 as of 2 p.m. in Prague.  Necas said today he has changed his mind on Dobes and will
let him keep his post. A parliamentary no-confidence motion
proposed by the opposition Social Democrats last week has little
chance of passing after the agreement, the prime minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  