-- 
Data Theft From Computer Security Breaches Declines, Report Says

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-04-19T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/data-theft-from-computer-security-breaches-declines-report-says.html
 The number of compromised data
records in computer security breaches declined last year as
thieves shifted their sights to smaller, non-financial
businesses, according to a report by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   The research, conducted with the U.S. Secret Service and
the Dutch National High Tech Crime unit, analyzed 761 security
breaches and found 4 million accessed data records, Wade Baker,
director of risk intelligence at Verizon Communications, said in
an interview. That compares with 144 million compromised data
records stemming from 141 examined data breaches in 2009.  The report showed a higher proportion of breaches affecting
hotels, restaurants and retailers, with the highest number at
enterprises employing 100 workers or fewer. A reason may be that
many smaller companies don’t have the resources to defend
themselves and can often be hit by non-selective, broad attacks,
Baker said.  “The huge reduction in the amount of data stolen doesn’t
mean a green light for the financial sector, because it’s still
a targeted industry,” Baker said. “Nothing that I’ve seen
tells me that financials have done so much that they’re now
immune. It’s less that than a case of the criminals changing
direction.”  Cybercrime costs large U.S. companies an average of $3.8
million each annually, and about 9 million Americans have their
identities stolen each year, a group of U.S. senators said Jan.
26 after introducing a bill aimed at tightening Web security.  Last year, a Miami computer hacker was sentenced to 20
years in prison for leading the largest U.S. identity-theft
ring, stealing 130 million credit- and debit-card records from
 Heartland Payment Systems Inc. (HPY)  and other companies.  Low-Risk Targets  “If you look at the largest breaches in recent years, the
perpetrators are in jail or on the run now,” said Baker, who’s
based in Ashburn, Virginia. “Key arrests of the kingpins may
have taken some skill out of the scene, and could have acted as
a deterrent and made the rest of the community shift to more
low-risk targets.”  The report, which was released today and mostly captured
security breaches in the U.S. and in  Europe , showed the highest
incidence of records compromised in 2008, when 361 million
pieces of data were compromised. Verizon, the second-largest
U.S. phone company, used data captured by security services that
it provides to third parties.  A  separate report  by TrustWave Corp. said that 57 percent
of evaluated breaches affected the food and beverage industry in
2010, with retail and hospitality following at 18 percent and 10
percent respectively. About 85 percent of data compromised
related to payment cards, according to that study, with
sensitive company data and trade secrets following in second and
third places with 8 percent and 3 percent.  Fraud Schemes  The U.S.  Justice Department  said April 14 that it disabled
a “massive fraud scheme” that infected more than 2 million
computers worldwide with malicious software called Coreflood.
The program gathers passwords and financial information that was
used by criminals, spreading from one vulnerable computer to
another and creating a so-called botnet.  In a case of targeting governments, WikiLeaks.org last year
released 75,000 records from the Afghan war, 400,000 Army field
reports from  Iraq  and 250,000 cables from U.S. embassies around
the world. The website, whose stated goal is to make government
more open, prompted the Pentagon and the U.S. State Department
to reduce internal information sharing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  