-- 
Detroit Pension Boards Sue Michigan Governor Snyder Over Emergency Powers

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-19T18:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/detroit-pension-boards-sue-governor-over-emergency-powers-1-.html
Detroit  workers’ pension boards
sued Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, asking a court to declare
unconstitutional a new law granting state-appointed financial
managers emergency powers to terminate employee contracts and
suspend collective bargaining.  Snyder said the law, signed March 16, would help keep
Michigan communities out of bankruptcy. Michigan has emergency
managers running the schools in Detroit, as well as the cities
of Pontiac, Ecorse and  Benton Harbor .  The law would “impermissibly modify the Detroit city
charter and various collective bargaining agreements between the
city of Detroit and its uniformed and non-uniformed workers,”
the pension boards said in the lawsuit filed in federal court in
Detroit. The law authorizes “the modification and termination
of constitutionally protected contract rights and the seizure of
control of retirement systems,” according to the complaint.  The pension boards, which also named the  Michigan  treasurer
as a defendant, asked for a court order blocking the law from
taking effect. The complaint was filed yesterday by the General
Retirement System of the City of Detroit, the Police and Fire
Retirement System, and four individuals, including the chairs of
both boards.  The Detroit pension funds have “performed in the top 20
percent of municipal pension funds nationwide in recent years,”
despite “the recent global economic meltdown,” they said in
the complaint.  Tigi Habtemariam, Snyder’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit v. Snyder, 2:11-cv-11686, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  