-- 
DirecTV Starts Premium Film Rentals at $29.99 for 48 Hours

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-19T20:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/directv-starts-premium-rental-service-on-april-21-with-sony-film.html
DirecTV, the largest satellite-TV
operator, will offer a 48-hour rental of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Just Go
With It” for $29.99 just 10 weeks after the movie’s theatrical
release in the first such service on pay television.  Universal Pictures, Warner Bros. and Twentieth Century Fox
will also supply films to the service two months after their
theatrical release, Jade Ekstedt, a spokeswoman for El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV said today in an interview.  Studios, which are looking to pay-TV to find new ways to
sell movies and counter shrinking DVD sales, risk alienating
cinema operators such as AMC Entertainment Inc. that have
criticized plans to offer new films so quickly in homes. Regency
Theatres, based in Calabasas,  California , will pull “Just Go
With It” from its second-run theaters, where it was among the
top two titles last weekend, said President Lyndon Golin.  “We don’t want to show movies that are on TV,” Golin said
in a telephone interview. “We want to protect the movie-going
experience.”  DirecTV (DTV)  customers, the first to gain access to the premium
offering, will have two weeks to order the movie before it’s
replaced by another title, Ekstedt said. “Just Go With It” was
still in 326 theaters last weekend, according to Box Office
Mojo, an industry website.  “Working on an earlier delivery window at a premium price
makes sense”  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New
York , said in an interview. The $30 price may be too high, he
said, calling the effort a worthwhile risk in spite of angering
some cinema operators.  Maximizing Profit  “The studios are looking to maximize profitability, not
keeping all their friends happy all the time,” Greenfield said.  Sun Dee Larson, a spokeswoman for  Kansas City , Missouri-
based AMC, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest exhibitor, also didn’t respond.  “Just Go With It,” a comedy featuring Adam Sandler and
Jennifer Aniston, was released on Feb. 11 and has taken in
$102.3 million in U.S. theaters, according to  Box Office Mojo .  Regency, which operates in Southern California and  Las
Vegas , started showing the movie in second-run locations last
weekend, Golin said. He said his company, part of the National
Association of theater owners, hasn’t spoken directly with Sony.  “It’s very substantial for us,” Golin said. “Will our
little company make a difference to Sony? Probably not.”  AMC, the second-largest exhibitor behind Knoxville,
Tennessee-based Regal, is seeking a bigger share of the box-
office split with studios to compensate for the expected loss of
sales, said David Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York.  Cannibalization Fears  “It remains to be seen whether there would be
cannibalization of the initial box office releases,” Joyce said
in an e-mail. “There would be plenty of ripple effects. Studios
get paid from the premium movie channels typically based on box
office performance.”  DirecTV gained 25 cents to $46.10 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 15
percent this year. U.S. shares of Tokyo-based Sony rose 46 cents
to $29.71 on the New York Stock Exchange.  In the next few months, DirecTV will offer “The Adjustment
Bureau” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures, “Cedar
Rapids” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox and “Hall
Pass” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., Ekstedt said. All
three are still in cinemas, according to Box Office Mojo.  The service will be available only to DirecTV customers
with high-definition tuners equipped with digital video
recorders, Ekstedt said. Once purchased, the films will begin
playing immediately in full HD and surround sound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  