-- 
Dog-Poop Project in France Seeks to Turn Feces Into Fertilizer

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-04-19T22:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/dog-poop-project-in-france-seeks-to-convert-sidewalk-feces-into-fertilizer.html
Across the street from a bowling
alley in Toulouse, a French scientist in a white smock unlocks
the passageway to a hidden refrigerated laboratory where a
centuries-old blight is about to be wiped up.  “Show him Project Propec,” says Cedric Cabanes, president
of Agronutrition SAS, a boutique fertilizer company with annual
sales of 18 million euros ($26 million), which may be on the
cusp of transforming a global industry that plowed 163.7 million
metric tons of nutritional muck into the soil last year. The
metal door swings open and the foul aroma of the excremental
experiment inside the chamber overwhelms the possibility of
accurate visual observation.  “What we have here is endomycorrhiza, the molecular
detoxifying mechanism for a diffusive airborne substance with a
100 meter radius that provokes an immediate intestinal ejection
at a precise position,” microbiologist Hicham Ferhout says,
thumping shut the steel door. “In layman terms, we’ve finally
discovered how to make a dog sh*t in a specific spot, disinfect
the deposit and convert it into environmentally friendly energy
or fertilizer. I have to think like a dog.”  The origin of feces is no laughing matter in  France , where
pedestrians can come upon little piles of dog poop on pavements
in even the most fashionable of streets in cities from Paris to
Bordeaux. France has  8.8 million dogs , according to the Societe
de Protection des Animaux. At an average of 22 pounds a year
each, they produce about 194 million pounds of stools, some in
public spaces, costing the country millions to clean up,
according to Toulouse Deputy Mayor Jean-Michel Fabre.  Office of Tranquility  For the 400,000 residents of  Toulouse , says Fabre, who’s
also a veterinarian, the postcard-perfect southwestern town is
otherwise soiled by 50,000 dogs that step outside to leave tons
of their excrement annually. In tow are 300 sanitation workers,
100 of them with scoopers-at-the-ready, spending as much as 33
percent of the city’s 153 million-euro sanitation budget on
shoveling canine fecal matter.  “Toulouse has industrial quantities to offer,” says the
50-year-old Fabre who, to illustrate his point, is standing in a
sand-filled “boite de crotte,” or dog latrine, in the fragrant
Jardin Pierre Goudouli behind the town hall. “Look,” the
deputy mayor says with a sweep of the hand, “there’s merde
everywhere but in here.”  As Fabre tells it, Toulouse’s scatological action plan to
clean up the mess and turn squalor into dollars began when he in
2009 created France’s first “ Office of Tranquility .” The
city’s official grievance bureau in its first two years received
more than 600,000 calls.  Monetizing Dog Poop  “The majority of the people complained about dog merde,”
Fabre says. “We have seven dog parks, but the dogs refused to
use them.”  Historical research showed that it wouldn’t be easy or
pleasant to monetize dog droppings. The only successful venture
in this field took place in Victorian England, when the homeless
wandered city streets to collect what was then called “pure”
or “scitan” (a noun in which the “sc” is pronounced “sh”)
for use in tanning leather.  Fabre says solving the problem required a fresh strategy.
He called Cabanes and their government-private sector
partnership was born. The duo immediately decided to attack the
dilemma from the rear.  “Everyone was looking in the wrong direction for an
answer,” says Fabre, who began his veterinary career working
with goats in  Africa . “It’s not the dog owner who chooses the
place his dog will poop. It’s the dog who makes the decision and
it required a lot of deep thought and analysis to get the dog
owners of Toulouse to realize it.”  ‘Turdometers’  Back in the lab, Cabanes reckons that dogs have tricked
their masters into believing otherwise, inspiring the creation
of what the folks at  Pet Butler Inc.  in  Seattle  call the
“Turdometer.” The on-line gizmo calculates the number of
American canine egesta the poop-collection firm has picked up
since 1988. That’s 70 million and counting.  Pet Butler franchises start at $30,000 and its business --
with America’s 72 million dogs annually depositing between 14
pounds and 30 pounds of undigested kibble -- is a growth sector
in the $70 billion U.S. pet industry.  “Toulouse has so far invested 70,000 euros and
 Agronutrition  has put up 180,000 euros,” Cabanes says of the
project that will require a total of 400,000 euros to complete
and market. “I’ve absolutely no doubt that our product will
have an instantaneous global customer base. You can’t help but
smell the possibilities.”  Toxic Waste  Cabanes says the American solution, a $10.99 can of Poop
Freeze Aerosol Freeze, is not ecologically sound, even when
employed in conjunction with either Doody Danglers, Snugg-Ease
doggie diapers or the Cinch-Lock Tail Anchoring System.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, back in 1991,
categorized dog crap a “nonpoint source of pollution,” lumping
it in the same group as toxic waste and chemicals.  Research conducted by the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta show that one gram of the stuff can
contain 23 million fecal coli from bacteria, along with
camplobacter, leptospira and a boxcar load of zoonotic diseases
easily transmitted to humans.  The French haven’t fared any better in burying the problem.
According to a series of government reports over the past
decade, Paris has 200,000 dogs dropping 15 tons of stools a day
that cost the city 9 million euros a year to mop up.  The city on the Seine has tried motorcycles with vacuum
cleaners, “Pince-a-Crotte” poop tongs, “Inspecteurs de
Salubrite,’ or caca cops, and 9,100-euro fines for repeat
offenders. While fines in  New York ,  London  and other major
cities have kept the dogs at bay, the poop crisis continues
unabated in Paris.  ‘Miracle Industry’  “Bacteria, chemicals and pharmaceuticals reside in the
feces of all organisms,” Cabanes says. “The key to making dog
excrement a product is sterilizing those toxins and turning
what’s left into energy. Once we’ve done it with dogs, we can do
it with humans.”  Ferhout says the initial tests getting 34 female beagles to
poop as directed were 100 percent successful and that field
experiments at seven sites throughout Toulouse are scheduled to
begin this fall.  “The attractor is a mélange of dog feces, urine and sex
pheromones,” Ferhout says of the product that comes in easy-to-
scatter pellets or in a colorless aerosol spray. “I can’t right
now say that it will work with 100 percent certainty,” Cabanes
says. “But if it does, Toulouse will become the center of a
miracle industry.”  Not Funny  Ferhout riffles through a pile of research charts marked
“canine olfactory studies.” He says the data is the key to
successfully attracting dogs and investment capital.  “Then we collect the waste, detoxify it with
endomycorrhiza and we have organic fertilizer,” he said.  “Beagles have middle-spectrum olfactory sensitivity
capacity,” he says. “Dogs like Dobermans and German Shepherds
have the best and poodles have the worst. Getting all of them to
one spot is a question of blend. The science here is good.”  As for the secret ingredient, Ferhout will only reveal it’s
a specific meat protein irresistible to all Rovers.  Perched on a stoop overlooking a colossal silo that’s
whipping up a batch of Axofol SR, a luxury organic fertilizer
designed to enhance the fruity flavor of white-wine grapes,
Cabanes says his 64 employees view Project Propec as a
homeopathic solution to a growing global health and energy issue
that others are too squeamish to tackle.  “Project Propec is all about sustainability” the 53-year-
old agronomist says over the machine’s great groaning blades.
“What we’re developing is a business based on dog sh*t. People
will find it either offensive or funny -- until they step on
it.”  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 