-- 
ECB Raising Rates May Turn Into Mistake Weakening Euro, Standard Life Says

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-20T10:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ecb-raising-rates-may-turn-into-mistake-weakening-euro-standard-life-says.html
The  European Central Bank ’s policy
of raising  interest rates  may not be “appropriate” and could
drive the euro down 16 percent or more as the region’s fiscal
crisis persists, according to Standard Life Investments.  The currency may weaken below its “fair value” of $1.20
to $1.25, said Ken Dickson, investment director for currencies
at the Edinburgh-based company, which oversees about 157 billion
pounds ($256 billion).  “The euro is a particularly risky currency at these levels
because the increasingly restrictive policy and the financial
conditions are not really appropriate,” Dickson said in an
interview. A series of rate increases “is not appropriate for
the conditions or economics of  Europe  as a whole,” he said.  Investment strategists at Standard Life, Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc and Scottish Widows Investment Partnership said
last month that the biggest risk to markets was the possibility
of policy makers getting decisions wrong. While ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said this month’s quarter-percentage-point
increase in the main refinancing rate wasn’t necessarily the
start of a series, colleagues signaled more are to come.  Ewald Nowotny, an ECB governing council member and governor
of Austria’s central bank, told Bloomberg News in  Washington  on
April 16 that investor expectations that the rate will rise an
extra 50 basis points in 2011 are “well-founded.” Belgian
counterpart Luc Coene said on April 17 that monetary
“conditions are still too accommodative.”  Yo-Yo Rates  Dickson said at his office on April 18 it was “feasible”
the ECB may raise the cost of borrowing by more than is
justified by the outlook for the economy and inflation, and then
be forced to cut rates again.  The ECB in  Frankfurt  lifted its main rate to 1.25 percent
on April 7, the first increase since July 2008, as it sought to
contain an inflation rate that exceeded its 2 percent target.  The central bank is trying to balance the need for tighter
policy in countries including  Germany , whose economy is booming,
against the risk of exacerbating the debt crisis afflicting
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . Inflation accelerated to 2.7
percent in March, the fastest since October 2008.  The euro has declined 0.2 percent against its nine most-
actively traded peers since April 7, trimming this year’s gains
to 3.4 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted indexes show. The
euro traded at $1.4507 as of 11:43 a.m. in  London , up 8.3
percent against the dollar since Dec. 31.  Policy ‘Fear’  Strategists in Scotland said at a discussion in Bloomberg’s
Edinburgh office on March 23 that the timing of rate increases
in developed economies,  China ’s accelerating inflation, the
European debt crisis and the U.S. fiscal deficit all posed
bigger threats to markets than higher  oil prices .  “Our fear is that tightening policy, both from interest
rates and through further appreciation in the euro is not the
right economic formula for Europe at this time,” Dickson said.
“We expect the euro to move to an undervalued position. It’s
feasible that it could take longer than this year but we think
the end of this year the clear direction of travel would be for
the euro to weaken.”  Dickson advises Standard Life money managers on currency
investments. The company boosted assets under management by 13
percent last year, while Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, the
largest fund company in  Scotland , increased its funds 27 percent
to 183.3 billion pounds. Scottish Widows Investment Partnership
lifted assets 3.2 percent to 146 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at  at
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at  at
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  