-- 
EDF Advances After France Sets Nuclear Power Price at Level Utility Wanted

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-19T16:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/edf-advances-after-france-sets-nuclear-power-price-at-level-utility-wanted.html
Electricite de  France  SA shares
jumped after the French government matched the price requested
by the utility for the sale of its nuclear power to competitors.  EDF climbed 1.03 cents, or 3.9 percent, to 27.66 euros in
Paris. The stock has fallen 11 percent this year, valuing the
company at 51.1 billion euros ($73.2 billion).  The company will be able to sell nuclear power to
competitors at a wholesale price of 42 euros a megawatt-hour
starting Jan. 1, 2012, Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a
statement today. The price, fixed by the government under a law
aimed at overhauling the French power market,  Europe ’s biggest
after  Germany , is higher than a rate of 35 euros a megawatt-hour
wanted by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the atomic utility’s biggest rival.  “This is not about favoring EDF or penalizing GDF,”
Besson said in an interview on Europe 1 radio. “It’s about
securing supplies for the French and easing things for EDF,
which is a major company for French electricity, and takes into
account preemptively the work EDF will need to undertake
following Fukushima.”  The law, known as Nome and passed by parliament last year,
aims to open up the power market by forcing EDF, operator of the
country’s 58 reactors and the dominant power supplier, to sell
as much as a quarter of its output to competitors such as GDF
Suez. The wholesale price will determine whether rivals can
compete in France’s regulated market.  Not Competitive  The new prices “won’t permit, contrary to the commitments
France made to the European Commission, the establishment of
efficient competition on electricity supply in France,” GDF
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We expect EDF’s share price to react fairly positively on
the back of this news,” UniCredit analyst Vincent Ayral said in
a note to investors today. “The market has been concerned about
the possibility of a postponement or cancellation of the Nome
reform.”  The law is due to take effect July 1, when EDF can charge
rivals 40 euros a megawatt-hour, before it’s raised to 42 euros.
The legislation was aimed at avoiding European Commission
sanctions that could have resulted in fines for EDF.  The French government asked for a report by Paul Champsaur,
architect of the overhaul, to determine how to set the wholesale
price. The Champsaur report had recommended a range of between
38 euros and 40 euros a megawatt-hour.  Production Costs  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has said the
company’s production costs are 45 euros a megawatt-hour and the
utility based 2011 financial targets on obtaining government
approval to sell wholesale nuclear power at 42 euros a megawatt-
hour. The country’s energy regulator said at the start of the
year the price could range from 38.50 euros a megawatt-hour to
more than 42 euros.  Proglio has repeatedly warned that a price lower than 42
euros a megawatt-hour would amount to a “fire sale” and the
“pillage” of EDF. GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet has said this level would open France up to sanctions
from the European Commission.  EDF’s share price fell to a two-year low this month
following a government announcement to cap electricity price
increases and uncertainty about the planned market overhaul. The
utility’s shares have also been hurt by the possibility that the
Japanese nuclear disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant will
curtail atomic expansion worldwide and force EDF to make
expensive safety modifications to existing reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  