-- 
EDF’s Nuclear Power Wholesale Price Set at $60 a Megawatt-Hour From 2012

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-19T07:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/edf-s-nuclear-power-wholesale-price-set-at-60-a-megawatt-hour-from-2012.html
Electricite de  France  SA will be
able to sell nuclear power to competitors at a wholesale price
of 42 euros ($59.8) a megawatt-hour starting Jan. 1, 2012,
Industry Minister Eric Besson said, matching the price the
company had sought.  The price, fixed by the government under a law aimed at
overhauling the French power market,  Europe ’s second-biggest
after  Germany , is higher than a rate of 35 euros a megawatt-hour
backed by GDF Suez SA, the atomic utility’s biggest rival.  “This is not about favoring EDF or penalizing GDF,”
Besson said in an interview on Europe 1 radio. “It’s about
securing supplies for the French and easing things for EDF,
which is a major company for French electricity, and takes into
account preemptively the work EDF will need to undertake
following Fukushima.”  The power law, known as Nome and passed by French
parliament last year, aims to open up the  electricity market  by
forcing EDF, operator of the country’s 58 reactors and dominant
supplier, to sell as much as a quarter of its output to
competitors such as  GDF Suez. (GSZ)  The wholesale price will determine
whether rivals can compete in France’s regulated market.  The law is due to take effect July 1, when EDF can charge
rivals 40 euros a megawatt-hour, before it’s raised to 42 euros.
The legislation was aimed at avoiding European Commission
sanctions that could have resulted in fines for EDF.  EDF shares rose as much as 4.3 percent in Paris trading.
They were 3.8 percent higher at 27.65 euros as of 9:07 a.m.  Champsaur Report  The French government asked for a report by Paul Champsaur,
architect of the overhaul, to determine how to set the wholesale
price. The Champsaur report had recommended a range of between
38 euros and 40 euros a megawatt-hour.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has said the
company’s production costs are 45 euros a megawatt-hour and the
utility based 2011 financial targets on obtaining government
approval to sell wholesale nuclear power at 42 euros a megawatt-
hour. The country’s energy regulator said at the start of the
year the price could range from 38.50 euros a megawatt-hour to
more than 42 euros.  Proglio has repeatedly warned that a price lower than 42
euros a megawatt-hour would amount to a “fire sale” and the
“pillage” of EDF. GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet has said this level would open France up to sanctions
from the European Commission.  EDF’s share price fell to a two-year low this month
following a government announcement to cap electricity price
increases and uncertainty about the planned market overhaul. The
utility’s shares have also been hurt by the possibility that the
Japanese nuclear disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant will hurt the expansion worldwide of the energy and force
EDF to make expensive safety modifications on existing reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  