-- 
Hedge-Fund Gods Meet Sexpot Killer in Vonnegut Thriller: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/hedge-fund-gods-meet-sexpot-killer-in-thriller-by-morgan-s-vonnegut-books.html
It’s December 2007, markets are
dancing into a Grand Canyon, and Jimmy Cusack’s lead investor
has just uttered the four scariest words in Hedgistan:  “I want my money,” he says.  Norb Vonnegut’s second thriller, “The Gods of Greenwich,”
is off to a thumping start.  The demand amounts to financial defenestration for Jimmy,
who’s locked into a lease in the Empire State Building and a $3
million mortgage on a condo in  Manhattan ’s Meatpacking District.
There goes $120 million -- 85 percent of the money managed by
the Irish Catholic kid who left  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
start his own fund.  Jimmy’s troubles are just beginning. As markets flip from
mean to life-threatening, he folds the fund, puts on his crooked
grin and lands a job with Cyrus Leeser of LeeWell Capital in
hedgehog heaven, Greenwich,  Connecticut . With his winning
streak, hush-hush hedges and shoulder-length black hair, Cy is a
legend in the making.  What Jimmy doesn’t know is that Cy has placed a pair of
massive wagers -- one betting that shares in an Icelandic bank
will plunge, the other assuming that alternative energy company
Bentwing (ticker: BEG) will fly. What neither knows is that the
Icelanders have wealthy friends in  Qatar .  Seductress With Syringe  As the book opens, everyone is hiding something, not least
Rachel Whittier, a sultry 27-year-old nurse to a Park Avenue
plastic surgeon. She has a mysterious scar on one hand, a Texas
twang and a taste for murder -- a seductress with a syringe and
no scruples. Has Vonnegut, a former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  wealth
manager, written himself into a corner? No chance: The pieces of
this plot mesh as smoothly as a well executed trade.  Vonnegut, a distant relation to Kurt Vonnegut Jr., has
matured since his debut novel, “Top Producer.” His characters
have become less cartoonish -- not as realistic as I would like,
yet convincing enough to make me suspend my disbelief and enjoy
the ride. They arrive in Dickensian quantities, too.  There’s Siggi Stefansson, a Reykjavik art dealer with a
craggy face. And Cy’s trophy wife, Bianca Santiago, a best-
selling romance novelist with “latte-cream skin.” Jimmy’s
daddy-in-law, Caleb Digby Phelps III, is a Harvard man (and
Porcellian Club member) who has become a big wheel in New
England business.  Alpha Dogs  As in “Top Producer,” Vonnegut uses alpha-dog patter to
good effect, as in this warning from LeeWell’s head trader:
“Just remember, Cusack. There are two kinds of people in the
world. The ones who make money.”  “And?”  “Oxygen thieves.”  Vonnegut also displays his penchant for over-the-top
similes. Sometimes this works, as with the trader who, pigging
out a cheeseburger, makes guttural sounds that could be
“mistaken for walrus sex.” Elsewhere, you wish his editor had
taken a firmer hand. Can Jimmy’s wife Emi, a herpetologist,
really “hibernate through heavy metal concerts”?  Emi isn’t deaf, though she does suffer from a disorder that
screams “plot point.” She has prosopagnosia, meaning her
ability to recognize faces is impaired.  Though the foreshadowing lacks subtlety, the plot keeps you
going. In “Top Producer,” the solution became obvious after a
few chapters. This time around, the biggest piece of the puzzle
remains hidden even as Jimmy hurtles toward the final showdown
in a decrepit BMW belching smoke.  “The Gods of Greenwich” is from  Minotaur  (322 pages,
$24.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 