-- 
TeliaSonera First-Quarter Net Declines to $740 Million, Missing Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-19T11:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/teliasonera-first-quarter-net-declines-to-740-million-missing-estimates.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  reported first-
quarter sales and profit that missed estimates and lowered its
full-year revenue forecast as European markets lagged behind
growth in central Asia.  Net income fell 1.6 percent to 4.65 billion kronor ($736
million), from 4.72 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-
based TeliaSonera said in a  statement  today. Revenue slipped 5.6
percent to 24.7 billion kronor. The average estimates of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg were for profit of 4.81 billion
kronor and sales of 25.4 billion kronor.  TeliaSonera is encountering tougher competition in its home
Nordic markets as rivals including Tele2 AB and Elisa Oyj step
up sales of smartphones and data packages. Lower handset revenue
and higher regulatory charges contributed to slippage in the
region, the company said. Central  Asia  sales gained 9.2 percent,
driven by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.  “Revenue weakness extended across all units with the
exception of Norway and Eurasia, which was merely in line,”
Ulrich Rathe, a London-based analyst at Jefferies International
Ltd., wrote in a note. “The major contributors to the group
revenue shortfall were fixed wholesale and ‘other,’ both
contributing 81 percent to the miss. Both units are areas of low
visibility and minor contributors to value.”  Shares Fall  TeliaSonera shares declined as much as 2.8 percent to
48.36 kronor, and traded 1.4 percent lower at 49.07 kronor as of
1:26 p.m. in  Stockholm .  TeliaSonera said it expects net sales growth in local
currencies and without acquisitions to be about 3 percent this
year, down from an earlier forecast of 4 percent.  The company has said it is willing to expand by
consolidating in its markets and has bid for Polkomtel SA, the
second-largest mobile company in  Poland , which adjoins its
Baltic operations. Five companies or groups were bidding,
Polkomtel Deputy Chief Executive Officer Krzysztof Kilian said
on April 6. Polkomtel may go for more than $5 billion, based on
the valuation of a 2008 stake sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S.  “There are many bidders, which means the price is probably
going to be not cheap,” Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg
said in an interview. “I don’t think Polkomtel is strategically
necessary for us but if we can get it for a decent price and we
believe that we can improve that business then maybe we have a
case. But we are not there yet, not at all.”  Turkcell Plans  TeliaSonera aims to stick with Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri
AS, the Turkish operator in which it holds a 38 percent stake
and is now trying to get more independent directors appointed to
the board, Nyberg said.  “If you as the biggest owner consider leaving because a
company is going through some difficulties, you are then more of
short-term investor,” Nyberg said. “TeliaSonera is a telecom
operator, we love this asset and we intend to keep it.”  TeliaSonera never planned to merge Turkcell with Russian
operator OAO MegaFon, in which it also holds a stake, Nyberg
added.  A 2009 plan to combine TeliaSonera’s holdings in the two
companies with those  Russia ’s  Alfa Group  to simplify governance,
without combining operations, has been delayed by conflicts over
shares in Turkcell. Nyberg wouldn’t speculate on the outcome of
Turkcell’s annual investor meeting scheduled for April 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  