-- 
Emanuel Said to Select Lois Scott to Be Chicago's Chief Financial Officer

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-19T17:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/emanuel-said-to-select-lois-scott-to-be-chicago-s-chief-financial-officer.html
Rahm Emanuel ,  Chicago ’s mayor-
elect, will announce that he has chosen Lois Scott as chief
financial officer for the third most-populous U.S. city, a
person familiar with the decision said.  Scott, president of the Chicago financial advisory firm
 Scott Balice Strategies,  will be named to the post tomorrow,
according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the selection. The Bond Buyer reported earlier that she
was being considered for the post.  Scott, who co-founded Scott Balice in 2003 after 20 years
in public finance and government, didn’t immediately respond to
a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment. She would replace
Gene Saffold, a former managing director for national accounts
at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  who Mayor  Richard M. Daley  appointed to the post in March 2009.  Emanuel, 51, elected  mayor  on Feb. 22, will be sworn in on
May 16, succeeding Daley, who is retiring after 22 years.
Emanuel said before the election that the city needs a spending
freeze and $75 million of immediate budget cuts to tackle the
financial challenges it faces.  He will enter office facing a declining population, a 2012
 budget deficit  forecast at more than $600 million and shortfalls
in the pension funds for city workers.  Emanuel has pledged to maintain a defined-benefit pension
system for city workers, while calling for sacrifices from all.
He has said he will forgo a pension as mayor.  Repeated use of reserve funds to balance the city’s budgets
led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5
by one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  