-- 
EnBW to Spend $11 Billion on Renewable Energy Amid Germany's Nuclear Exit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-04-19T10:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/enbw-to-spend-11-billion-on-renewable-energy-amid-germany-s-nuclear-exit.html
EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) 
plans to spend about 8 billion euros ($11 billion) on renewable
energy by 2020 to help plug a shortfall as  Germany  phases out
nuclear power.  The country’s third-largest utility will add about 3
gigawatts of renewable capacity to its 3.1 gigawatts in the next
10 years, Chief Executive Officer Hans-Peter Villis said today
in a copy of speech handed to reporters in Karlsruhe, Germany,
where shareholders are attending their annual meeting.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on April 15 that the
country plans to exit nuclear power as quickly as possible after
explosions at Japanese reactors stoked safety concerns. EnBW
faces added incentives to invest in alternative energy after the
anti-nuclear Green party won an election in the state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg, which holds 46.5 percent of the utility.  “We recognize that after the events in  Japan , the majority
of Germans oppose nuclear power,” Villis said in the statement.
“The coming weeks will show until when and in what form nuclear
power will be politically desired. Naturally, a new framework
for the overhaul of Germany’s energy supply can’t be politically
decided today, just five weeks after the events in Japan.”  EnBW plans to partner with local utilities, municipalities
and mid-sized companies on decentralized  renewable energy 
projects, Villis said. The company may also cooperate with
municipal utilities on its Baltic 2 offshore wind park, he said.  Investment Plans  While EnBW plans to cut costs to boost earnings by a figure
in the “mid-three-digit million-euro range” starting in 2013,
changes to the target are “likely given the current energy
policy debate,” the company said.  Last month, Merkel ordered the idling of the country’s
seven oldest reactors, including two operated by EnBW, for a
three-month safety review after the partial meltdown at Japan’s
Fukushima plant. The company has a total of four reactors.  Neckarpri GmbH, Baden-Wuerttemberg’s investment vehicle,
and OEW, a group of municipalities, each own 46.5 percent of
EnBW. The southwest German state bought an initial 45 percent
stake from Electricite de France SA for 4.7 billion euros in
February.  The Greens are poised to enter the regional government in
Baden-Wuerttemberg after March 27 state elections conducted
after the Fukushima accident. The party is set to lead its first
state administration, ejecting Merkel’s  Christian Democrats ,
who’ve held power in Stuttgart for 58 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  