-- 
Tesco Full-Year Profit Rises Less Than Estimated as Quarterly Sales Drop

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-19T07:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/tesco-full-year-profit-gains-7-8-as-overseas-growth-offsets-u-k-weakness.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket company, reported full-year earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates and said it expects the domestic market to
remain “challenging” after a drop in fourth-quarter sales.  So-called trading profit rose 7.8 percent to 3.68 billion
pounds ($6 billion) in the year ended Feb. 26, the Cheshunt,
England-based retailer said today. The average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.74 billion pounds.  Asia  and
Europe contributed almost 70 percent of the profit growth, while
losses widened at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain, Tesco said.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke , who took over from
Terry Leahy in March, faces a stagnant grocery market in the
U.K., the retailer’s largest by revenue, where growth is being
driven mostly by inflation. Tesco said it plans to give more
space to non-food items and add new general-merchandise ranges.
More than three-quarters of store openings in the coming year
will be in international markets such as  China .  “The headline numbers are slightly disappointing,
particularly in the U.K., where Tesco’s non-food offer clearly
needs some work,” Philip Dorgan, an analyst at Panmure Gordon,
said by e-mail. “The shares are too cheap if Tesco can execute
better in the U.K., drive higher international returns and
generate cash.” Dorgan has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Shares Drop  Tesco fell 4.35 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 395.65 pence at
8:21 a.m. in London trading. The stock has fallen 6.8 percent
this year, compared with rival  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) ’s 9.9 percent
decline and a 1.9 percent fall at  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year fell 0.7 percent
in the fourth quarter, excluding value-added tax and gasoline,
said Tesco, whose domestic market share has hovered around 30
percent for more than five years.  “Customers are looking for value, they’re eating out less,
they’re using their car less,” CEO Clarke said on a conference
call. “That’s why we’re saying specific steps include a greater
level of innovation, much more effort on food, and a big push to
reallocate space and bring new ranges in general merchandise,
into home, into non-food.”  The retailer said Asia,  Europe  and the U.S. should benefit
from the improvements in the global economy. Tesco will add 11
million square feet (1.02 million square meters) of new space
this year, a similar level to last year, Finance Director Laurie McIlwee said on the call. About 8.4 million square feet of that
will be outside the U.K.  5,000 Stores  Tesco, which has more than 5,000 stores in 14 countries,
plans to sell and lease back up to 1 billion pounds of property
including assets in U.S. and China annually to fund expansion.  “This could be an opportunity for Philip Clarke to make
his mark,” Execution Noble analyst Caroline Gulliver said
before the release. “We do not think Tesco’s performance has
been significantly worse than its competitors in the U.K. and we
think the international growth opportunity is excellent.”
Gulliver has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  The trading loss at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain widened to
186 million pounds in the year as the unit bought two suppliers.  Trading profit in Asia climbed 30 percent to 570 million
pounds, boosted by sales in  Thailand  and  South Korea . China,
where the retailer is opening five-storey shopping malls, failed
to make a profit in the second half, weighed down by “slower
consumer demand growth” and fewer store openings than planned.  Total revenue for the year rose 7.1 percent to 60.9 billion
pounds, excluding value-added taxes.  Tesco plans to pay a total dividend for the year of 14.46
pence a share, a 10.8 percent increase on the previous year.  Net income for the year rose to 2.66 billion pounds, or
32.94 pence a share, from 2.33 billion pounds, or 29.19 pence, a
year earlier, the retailer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 