-- 
Tesco CEO Plans New Ranges to Address ‘Below Par’ U.K. Profit

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-19T10:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/tesco-s-new-ceo-clarke-hatches-plan-to-address-below-par-u-k-earnings.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s new Chief Executive
Officer  Philip Clarke  plans to introduce extra food ranges and
broaden its offering of non-food goods to address last year’s
“below par” profit at the largest U.K. supermarket chain.  The retailer’s domestic business has “lost a bit of
momentum,” Clarke said today on a conference call. U.K. profit
growth last year was “below plan,” according to the CEO, who
took over from Terry Leahy in March.  Tesco today reported full-year earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates and said the domestic market is likely to
remain “challenging” after sales slid in the fourth quarter.
About 70 percent of profit growth last year came from operations
in  Asia  and  Europe , according to Tesco, whose domestic market
share has hovered around 30 percent for more than five years.  “The picture in the U.K. market is looking increasingly
bleak,”  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. Equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Stockbrokers, said by e-mail.  Tesco fell 4.45 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 395.55 pence at
11:41 a.m. in London trading. The stock has fallen 6.9 percent
this year, compared with rival J Sainsbury Plc’s 10 percent
decline and a 2 percent fall at Carrefour SA.  Tesco, based in Cheshunt,  England , will extend its online
offer of general merchandise, electronic goods and clothing by
almost four times to 100,000 products and plans more
“sharpness” in its communication with shoppers, Clarke said.  Expansion Plans  “The new CEO is clearly aiming to drive further growth,
both through innovation and the release of capital for further
expansion,” said Hargreaves Lansdown’s Hunter.  Tesco, which has more than 5,000 stores in 14 countries,
plans to sell and lease back as much as 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) of property including assets in U.S. and  China  annually
to help fund expansion. About 11 million square feet (1.02
million square meters) of new space will be added this year,
Finance Director Laurie McIlwee said on the call, of which about
8.4 million square feet will be outside the U.K.  U.K. same-store sales declined 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, excluding gasoline and value-added tax, Tesco said.
Non-food revenue “faltered” since November, particularly sales
of higher-priced non-essential items.  “It was not an easy consumer environment through last year
and current conditions are clearly still challenging,” as
households tackle higher fuel costs, rising inflation and public
sector cuts, Clarke said on a conference call with analysts.  ‘Work to Do’  “We’ve got some work to do,” the CEO said. “The issues
are not structural, it’s really all about the detail.”  So-called trading profit rose 7.8 percent to 3.68 billion
pounds in the year ended Feb. 26, Tesco said today. The average
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.74 billion
pounds. Tesco defines trading profit as earnings before tax,
property gains and one-time costs. Earnings on that basis rose
3.8 percent to 2.5 billion pounds in the U.K.  “The headline numbers are slightly disappointing,
particularly in the U.K., where Tesco’s non-food offer clearly
needs some work,” Philip Dorgan, an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London, said by e-mail. He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  The trading loss at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain widened to
186 million pounds in the year from 165 million pounds a year
earlier as the unit bought two suppliers.  Trading profit in Asia climbed 30 percent to 570 million
pounds, boosted by sales in  Thailand  and  South Korea . China,
where the retailer is opening five-storey shopping malls, failed
to make a profit in the second half, weighed down by “slower
consumer demand growth” and fewer store openings than planned.  Total revenue for the year rose 7.1 percent to 60.9 billion
pounds, excluding value-added taxes.  Tesco plans to pay a total dividend for the year of 14.46
pence a share, an 11 percent increase on the previous year.  Net income for the year rose to 2.66 billion pounds, or
32.94 pence a share, from 2.33 billion pounds, or 29.19 pence, a
year earlier, the retailer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 