-- 
EU Hits India With 5-Year Tariffs on Stainless Steel Bars, Rods

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-19T11:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/eu-hits-india-with-5-year-tariffs-on-stainless-steel-bars-rods.html
The European Union imposed five-
year tariffs on stainless steel from  India , saying EU producers
including  Acerinox SA (ACX)  are victims of subsidies to Indian
competitors such as  Mukand Ltd. (MUK)   The EU duties as high as 4.3 percent aim to counter alleged
trade-distorting Indian aid to exporters of stainless steel bars
and rods, which are used in domestic appliances, cars and
medical instruments. The levies affect EU imports worth around
40 million euros ($57 million) in 2009.  European producers that also include Ugitech SA and Aceros
Inoxidables Olarra SA suffered “injury” as a result of
subsidized imports from India, the 27-nation EU said in a
decision today in Brussels. The five-year duties match
provisional measures introduced in  December  and will take effect
after being published in the EU Official Journal by April 30.  Indian exporters of stainless steel bars and rods increased
their combined share of the EU market to 11.8 percent in the 12
months through March 2010 from 10.4 percent in 2007, according
to the bloc. It said three aid programs based on India’s Foreign
Trade Act and one program stemming from the country’s Banking
Regulation Act led to unfair export subsidies.  The duty rates are 3.3 percent against four manufacturers
in the Venus group, 3.4 percent against Chandan Steel Ltd., 4
percent against 19 manufacturers including Mukand and  Shah
Alloys Ltd. (SA) , and 4.3 percent against Viraj Profiles Ltd. and any
other Indian exporters.  The anti-subsidy -- or “countervailing” -- duties are the
outcome of an investigation that the EU opened in April 2010
after a complaint by the  European Confederation of Iron and
Steel Industries , also known as Eurofer, on behalf of producers
representing more than 25 percent of the bloc’s output of
stainless steel bars and rods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  