-- 
EU Parliament Panel Supports Trichet Over Sarkozy on Tougher Budget Rules

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-19T19:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/eu-parliament-panel-supports-trichet-over-sarkozy-on-tougher-budget-rules.html
A European Parliament panel blunted
a French-German push to dilute tougher budget rules, supporting
central bank chief  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s call for a more
credible threat of penalties against big-spending governments.  The Parliament’s economic committee voted for more
automatic sanctions against high-deficit nations such as  Greece 
to limit the risk of future debt crises. European Union
governments led by France and  Germany  agreed last month that
penalties against budget violators should be left in political
hands, a position that Trichet has criticized as president of
the  European Central Bank .  At stake is an overhaul to toughen and speed up punishment
of governments that head over the budget-deficit limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product and the debt ceiling of 60
percent of GDP. The European Commission, the EU regulator,
proposed that fines be applied after no more than three votes by
euro-area governments, which allowed for a fourth round of
scrutiny. The Parliament committee turned the extra political
buffer into a near-automatic step toward penalties.  “We want more automaticity in the enforcement of the rules
to avoid political horse-trading among governments,”  Corien
Wortmann-Kool , a Dutch member helping to steer the draft
legislation through the 736-seat EU Parliament, said in an
interview today in Brussels after the committee vote.  The stand pits Trichet, commission President  Jose Barroso 
and the Parliament against French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as the EU seeks to strengthen
the threat of fiscal penalties that have never been imposed in
the euro’s 12-year history. Greece, which sparked the debt
crisis last year by requiring a 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
rescue, has gone the whole period with a deficit over the limit.  Market Tensions  Trichet has urged euro-area governments to go further in
tightening fiscal legislation and warned them against relying on
the ECB to ease debt-market tensions through bond purchases on
the secondary market and emergency liquidity measures. Trichet,
who in early April oversaw the ECB’s first increase in  interest
rates  in almost three years, has called for a “quantum leap”
in the way euro-area governments coordinate and enforce budget
policies.  The Parliament economic committee’s vote will be the basis
of negotiations with national governments over the new
legislation, which the commission proposed in September and
Sarkozy and Merkel first pledged to scale back in October.
Approval by the EU Parliament as well as by governments is
required.  Six-Piece Package  The EU aims to endorse a six-piece package of legislation
on economic management by mid-year. The central pillar of the
proposals is the system for fining the 17 nations that make up
the euro area as much as 0.2 percent of GDP for failing to heed
fiscal targets.  Penalties  starting with interest-bearing deposits could be
imposed before a country bursts over the limit, with the money
confiscated if the government balks at repeated EU demands to
fix the budget. It is in this area where governments added an
extra layer of political scrutiny over any members deviating
from their targets before the imposition of fines, which would
involve confiscating non-interest-bearing deposits.  The Parliament’s economic committee kept the extra
evaluation step while turning it into a formality on the path to
penalties unless opponents can muster support from a weighted
majority of governments within 10 days to block the process.  A second part of the package would tackle debt more
aggressively, applying the tougher surveillance system to
nations that veer from the 60-percent-of-GDP limit.  The Parliament’s economic committee endorsed a proposal by
the commission that countries over the debt limit would have to
hit an annual reduction target equal to 1/20th of the excess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  