-- 
EU Says UN Emissions Board Not Reasonable on Margins of Error

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-19T12:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/eu-says-un-emissions-board-not-reasonable-on-margins-of-error.html
The European Union said a draft
 United Nations  standard on margins of error for greenhouse gas-
cutting projects may be unreasonable,  according to a submission .  The International Emissions Trading Association, the
Geneva-based industry lobby group, requested more than two years
ago that regulators adopt a 5 percent margin of error when
estimating how much heat-trapping gas they remove from the
atmosphere. A draft standard by the Clean Development Mechanism
Executive Board would apply 5 percent for small-scale projects
and 0.5 percent for projects that yield more than 500,000 metric
tons a year of tradable credits.  “An absolute level of assurance” contained in the board’s
draft would mean that every parameter was checked to ensure that
every material error was taken into account, according to a
submission to the UN Framework Convention on  Climate Change  in
Bonn by  Hungary  on behalf of the EU. “This level of assurance
cannot reasonably be asked,” it said.  The EU emissions trading system and the Voluntary Carbon
Standard require a “reasonable level of assurance” during
verification, the bloc said. “The EU would be in favor of using
this standard.”  Adoption of margins for error will cut transaction costs in
the market, the world’s biggest offset program, according to a
submission by the UN Development Programme based in  New York .  ‘Pedantic Application’  “Currently, transaction costs and times, particularly for
unusual, unique or first-of-a-kind projects, can easily surpass
$100,000 and well over a year, just to reach registration,” it
said. “The increased complexity of procedures, and the pedantic
application of meticulous rules has delivered no significant
improvement in environmental integrity of the CDM,” the UNDP
said, citing the  World Bank .  A submission from  China  said the introduction of the
concept of materiality should help to improve the efficiency of
the CDM, providing more flexibility to audit firms that validate
projects and count emission reductions.  The EU proposed a category recognizing “micro-scale”
projects such as  power plants  with capacity of less than 5
megawatts and a 10-percent margin of error. Wind turbines can
have capacities of as much as 7 megawatts.  The CDM board should implement the concept of materiality
in validation of projects, verification of emissions cuts and
reviews “as soon as possible,” the EU said.  In December, UN climate negotiators dropped an option to
include the concept. A draft decision published Dec. 6 at talks
in Cancun,  Mexico , included the possibility of introducing the
“concept of level of assurance and materiality” by last month.
A later draft requested a UN body “consider the issue of
materiality” and perhaps make a recommendation later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  