-- 
EU Sees Possible Restart of Turkish Talks After One-Year Pause

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-19T16:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/eu-sees-possible-restart-of-turkish-talks-after-one-year-pause.html
The European Union said  Turkey ’s
entry talks may restart in June after a one-year pause, as
Turkey faulted the EU’s dominant governments for putting the
brakes on the process.  Turkey has a chance to start negotiations on adopting
European antitrust and state-aid policies in June, EU
Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said.  “If Turkey takes the few remaining steps in time, the
competition chapter can hopefully still be opened,” Fule told
reporters after an EU-Turkey meeting in Brussels today. “It is
in everybody’s interest to give the negotiations a new
momentum.”  Turkey and  Croatia  started the EU entry marathon on the
same day, in October 2005. Croatia today moved closer to
wrapping up its talks, while opposition by leaders including
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has held Turkey back.  “Nobody can blame Turkey” for the deadlock, Turkish
Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said. “There is a need for
strategic political will by all member countries of the EU.”  While Turkey has started negotiations in 13 of 35 EU policy
areas, it has completed them in only one. On merits, Turkey
should have been allowed to open 29 and complete 13, said Egemen Bagis, Turkey’s EU entry negotiator.  With elections set for June 12, the Turkish officials also
faulted the EU for not moving fast enough to grant Turkish
citizens visa-free access to European countries.  Fule said Turkey must guarantee “genuine, substantive
debate” during the election campaign, while declining to
intervene in an uproar over the ineligibility of 12 pro-Kurdish
candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  