-- 
Europe Ends Three-Month Curbs on Carbon Registries After Hacking Thefts

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-19T16:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/europe-ends-three-month-curbs-on-carbon-registries-after-hacking-thefts.html
The European Union allowed the
Lithuanian carbon registry to reopen tomorrow, bringing back to
normal all emission registries in its cap-and-trade system after
a string of thefts triggered three months of restrictions.  The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, closed the
registries that track the ownership of emission permits on
Jan. 19 after thieves stole more than 2 million permits valued
at about 34 million euros ($49 million) at today’s prices. The
national carbon trackers were required to demonstrate that
their systems were secure from hacking attacks before getting
permission to reopen.  “Tightening the security of the registries system has been
the top priority,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard 
said in a statement in Brussels today. “All registries are now
up and running with enhanced security measures in place.”  The closure of registries in January drove spot carbon
markets to a halt for 15 days before the first centers were
allowed to reopen. The European emissions trading program, known
as the ETS, includes 27 EU nations as well as Norway, Iceland
and Liechtenstein. The registry in Iceland is not yet active.  EU permits for delivery in December rose 1 percent to 16.84
euros as of 5 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.
They have gained 18 percent so far this year.  Damaged Reputation  Even though the allowances stolen in January accounted for
only 0.1 percent of the European Union average annual cap in the
2008-2012 trading period, the attacks hurt the reputation of the
ETS and sparked criticism from some analysts that the
supervision of the system is not adequate.  The thefts followed instances of “carousel fraud”
involving value-added tax collection and password “phishing”
in previous years. Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at
the commission, said on Jan. 28 that some member states and
firms neglected security rules and national authorities are
working with  Europol  to catch the fraudsters.  While the countries attacked by hackers in January managed
to locate some of the missing permits, legal questions about how
to prevent recirculation of the stolen allowances are keeping
investors at bay from spot trading. The recovery of any
allowances transferred illegally has not been harmonized in the
27-nation bloc and is a matter for national law and local
enforcement authorities.  Know Your Customer  The commission and national registries would immediately
boost confidence in the market by isolating stolen allowances,
installing a mandatory four-hour delay for every transaction and
requiring strict “know-your-customer” tests for all traders,
said Simone Ruiz, European policy director at the International
Emissions Trading Association.  IETA urged yesterday that EU nations and the commission
ensure that the arrangements for the next phase of the ETS from
2013 “stop any recurrence of these unnecessary and frankly
embarrassing problems.” It also renewed calls on the commission
to reveal more information about the minimum security measures
that national registries had to implement, requests that the EU
has said could mean “educating the gangsters.”  The ETS imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
companies including  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG
and  Italy ’s biggest utility Enel SpA, allowing those that emit
less than their quota to sell surplus permits. One permit gives
the right to discharge one ton of CO2. EU-wide solutions would
require backing from member states.  Improving Security  The commission has already demanded that national
registries implement additional identification checks and is now
drafting regulatory changes that may be presented as soon as
this or next month. The EU is also examining improved oversight
rules for spot carbon trading.  “We are working on a set of measures to further improve
security on all fronts such as a delivery delay mechanism,
improved management of registry accounts and detection and quick
response mechanisms,” Hedegaard said.  “With these measures
and a more unified approach for the third phase of the ETS due
to start in 2013, we have definitely strengthened the integrity
of the European carbon market.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  