-- 
Hewlett-Packard Hires Homlish of SAP as Chief Marketing Officer

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-04-19T21:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/hewlett-packard-hires-homlish-of-sap-as-chief-marketing-officer.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  hired Martin Homlish as chief marketing officer, the latest attempt by  Leo Apotheker , chief executive officer since November, to reshape
management of the world’s largest computer maker.  Homlish was formerly marketing chief at  SAP AG (SAP) , the top
maker of business-management software, and will report to
Apotheker, said  Bill Wohl , a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard.  The move follows the exit in January of former marketing
head Michael Mendenhall and comes a day after Hewlett-Packard
said Jan Zadak will run business-computing sales, replacing the
departing Tom Hogan. Apotheker, who succeeded Mark Hurd as CEO,
is appointing new deputies as he aims to broaden software
operations and revive sales in the personal-computer business.  Marketing at SAP will be led on an interim basis by
Jonathan Becher, an executive vice president, Walldorf, Germany-
based SAP said in a statement via e-mail. The company has begun
a search for Homlish’s successor.  Hewlett-Packard issued a profit forecast in February that
missed analysts’ predictions, underscoring the challenge facing
Apotheker as he aims to transform Hewlett-Packard into a
provider of more computing and programs via the Internet and
lessen its dependence on PC sales to consumers.  Homlish, who joined SAP in 2000, overlapped with Apotheker,
who worked at 22 years at SAP and was CEO from 2009 until his
ouster last February. Shelly Lazarus, chairman of Ogilvy &
Mather Worldwide, said in an interview in December that Homlish
is close to Apotheker and has worked directly for him.  SAP hired Homlish, an American who works in  New York , from
Sony Corp., where he spent 15 years and helped introduce the
company’s PlayStation video-game console in 1995.  Apotheker helped appoint five new directors in January and
unveiled plans in March to push Hewlett-Packard more deeply into
software.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , gained 24
cents to $39.99 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. It has slipped 5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Diane Brady at  at
 Dbrady11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  