-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas Found Guilty on All 14 Counts in Fraud Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ex-taylor-bean-chairman-convicted-of-conspiracy-fraud-1-.html
Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., was found guilty of 14
counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.  A federal jury in Alexandria, Virginia, yesterday returned
the verdict after one day of deliberations. Farkas, who was free
during the trial, was taken into custody. He faces a maximum
sentence of 30 years on the conspiracy and bank-fraud charges
and 20 years or more on the wire-fraud and securities-fraud
counts when he’s sentenced on July 1.  Prosecutors said Farkas, 58, orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S. that duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of  Taylor Bean  and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , head of the
 Justice Department ’s criminal division, said Farkas’s fraud
“poured fuel on the fire” of the financial crisis.  “The financial crisis has many faces and today Lee
Farkas’s face is one of them,” Breuer, who attended part of the
trial, said after the verdict in a conference call with
reporters.  ‘Ongoing’ Investigation  Breuer said the government’s investigation into the fraud
scheme is “ongoing.” He declined to say whether additional
people might be charged.  Prosecutors spent eight days laying out the allegations for
jurors. The government called 23 witnesses, including officials
at  Freddie Mac ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  Six
of those who testified were former colleagues or associates of
Farkas who had pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges.  Farkas used Taylor Bean as his own “personal piggy-bank”
and stole more than $30 million from the company he built to buy
homes, cars, airplanes, restaurants and other side businesses,
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly during closing
arguments.  Farkas, who denied any wrongdoing, testified on his own
behalf and called two former Taylor Bean employees and a
forensic accountant in his defense.  William Cummings, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said the defense
team is disappointed with the verdict.  “We fought hard,” said Cummings, a former U.S. attorney
in Virginia. “Getting six former colleagues to plead guilty and
testify is a difficult obstacle to overcome.”  Cummings said he was surprised U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema ordered Farkas to be jailed, adding that the judge said
she would hear arguments next week on whether he should be
released while he awaits sentencing.  Rolls Royce  Prosecutors are seeking to seize properties that Farkas
owns in  Florida  and  Georgia , as well as nine vehicles, including
a 1929 Ford Model A and 1963 Rolls Royce.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala, Florida, was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  Prosecutors allege the fraud began in 2002 when Farkas had
trouble meeting operating expenses, such as payroll and
mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to the government-
sponsored Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.  With assistance from officials at  Colonial Bank , at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas masked shortfalls of
about $15 million a day by moving money from another Taylor Bean
account into the company’s master account, then returning the
money later in the day, according to a related lawsuit by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Overdrawn Account  By December 2003, Taylor Bean was overdrawing its account
by about $150 million a day, the SEC said.  Farkas, in about four hours of testimony, denied ordering
anyone to move money among the Taylor Bean accounts and said he
and Taylor Bean officials didn’t have authority to do it.  The government alleges that Farkas and other conspirators,
in a scheme they called “Plan B,” began sending mortgage data
to Colonial Bank for loans that didn’t exist or that Taylor Bean
had already committed or sold to other investors.  Fake Loans  By the end of 2007, the scheme consisted of about $500
million in fake residential  mortgage loans  and about $900
million in unmarketable residential mortgage loans and
securities, said Patrick Stokes, deputy chief of the U.S.
Justice Department’s fraud section, during closing arguments.  Farkas and his co-conspirators diverted cash from Ocala
Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by Taylor
Bean, to cover its losses, prosecutors said.  Ocala Funding issued asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institutions including Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, and Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP) , according to court
papers. By August 2009, Ocala’s deficit had grown to $1.5
billion, according to prosecutors.  As Colonial Bank struggled to stay afloat, Farkas tried to
raise $300 million from private investors to secure a $550
million cash infusion from the federal Troubled Asset Relief
Program, according to  Paul Allen , the company’s former chief
executive officer who pleaded guilty to the conspiracy. Farkas
was convicted of falsely representing that he had commitments
from investors for the money.  Colonial never got the TARP funds, the U.S. said.  Taylor Bean accounted for about 2 percent of the mortgages
for single-family homes by volume bought by Freddie Mac in 2009,
according to a company filing. The firm said it filed a claim in
Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy for $1.8 billion, with $440 million
relating to funds deposited with Colonial Bank.  Alabama regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was appointed as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup and Taylor Bean filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  