-- 
Farmers Get Rich as Wheat Drives Deere Profits: Freight Markets

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-04-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/farmers-get-rich-as-wheat-trade-gives-deere-record-profit-freight-markets.html
The biggest U.S. wheat shipments in
a generation mean record income for farmers, the most profit
ever for  Deere & Co. (DE)  and the nation’s lowest jobless rate in
North Dakota, the largest grower.  The U.S. will control 28 percent of global wheat exports
this year, up from 18 percent in 2010, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  says. With prices averaging about $8 a bushel this
quarter and the next, the most in three years, farms will earn
$94.7 billion, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg and a USDA estimate. North Dakota’s jobless rate was
3.6 percent in March, compared with 8.8 percent nationally.  The surge in income is spurring lawmakers to propose farm-
subsidy cuts and aiding President Barack Obama in his goal of
doubling exports in five years. It also means Deere, the largest
farm-equipment maker, will report a 42 percent rise in profit
this year, and  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the biggest seed producer, will
earn 38 percent more. Shipping lines may benefit the least
because the U.S. is replacing lost supply from Russia and
Ukraine, and global exports will drop 8.6 percent in 2011, the
USDA says.  “We’re the supplier of last resort,” said Jerry Fruin, an
agricultural economist at the University of Minnesota in St.
Paul, specializing in logistics. “The U.S. generally has stuff
in the bins, and we have the logistics system to get it to you,
since we face both oceans.”  Wheat rose 71 percent in the past 12 months to $8.21 on the
Chicago Board of Trade, as flooding from  Canada  to  Australia 
last year hurt crops.  Russia , once the second-biggest exporter,
banned shipments in August and Ukraine followed with curbs in
October. That gave the U.S. an opportunity to expand in markets
across northern Africa and the Middle East, traditional buyers
of grain from the Black Sea region.  Middle East Protests  U.S. shipments to  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat buyer,
reached 3.27 million metric tons in the marketing year that
began in June, seven times more than a year earlier, USDA data
show. Countries including Jordan, Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia , Oman,
 Libya  and Syria have purchased U.S. wheat this year, after
buying none at the same time last year, the data show.  Buyers in the Middle East and northern  Africa  accelerated
purchases this year to bolster stockpiles and damp prices that
contributed to protests across the region.  “Russia has hurt its image of reliability as a supplier,”
said Dan Manternach, a wheat economist with Doane Advisory
Services, an agricultural research company in St. Louis. “The
countries that had been dependent on Black Sea-region wheat will
no longer allow themselves to stay dependent, so they’ll
diversify sources. Even if Russia has a monster crop this year,
I expect we’ll lose some market share, but not all of it.”  Ban on Sales  The U.S. will ship 34.7 million tons of wheat in the crop
year ending May 31, compared with almost 24 million tons a year
earlier and the most since 1993, USDA estimates show. Russian
exports slumped to 4 million tons, from 18.6 million tons, and
the government said March 25 it would maintain the ban on sales
until after the harvest that begins in September.  That means more opportunities for U.S. growers. Agriculture
accounted for 8.3 percent of  North Dakota ’s economy in 2009,
more than any other state, the most recent government data show.
Agriculture employs more than 29,000 people, compared with about
7,000 in natural resources such as oil and gas production,
according to the state Commerce Department.  Wheat generated almost $7 billion for North Dakota last
year, according to Erica Olson, a marketing specialist with the
Bismarck-based North Dakota Wheat Commission. About half of the
state’s wheat crop is exported, with 25 percent of that going by
rail to ports in the Pacific Northwest, where it’s loaded onto
vessels bound mostly for  Asia , she said.  Equipment Dealers  “The farm economy has been strong, and equipment dealers
are having a good year because producers are updating
equipment,” said Harlan Klein, who farms 15,000 acres of wheat,
canola, sunflowers and corn in Elgin, North Dakota. “Probably
the biggest place we’re seeing competition is in labor. It’s to
the point where it’s difficult to find people to work.”  Cargill, the Minneapolis-based grain exporter that’s the
largest closely held U.S. company, reported a 30 percent jump in
third-quarter profit April 13. Deere, based in Moline,  Illinois ,
will report record earnings of $6.21 a share in its fiscal year
ending in October, compared with $4.35 a year earlier, according
to the mean of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Monsanto, based in St. Louis, will make $2.83 a share in the
year ending in August, up from $2.01, the mean of six estimates
shows.  Growing profit for agricultural producers contrasts with
slumping earnings for the shippers companies that haul the
wheat. Grains are most commonly carried on panamaxes, the
largest vessels able to transit the Panama Canal.  Daily Rates  Returns on the carriers fell 21 percent this year to
$11,666 a day because of a glut of vessels, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange  in  London , which publishes daily rates
for more than 50 maritime routes. Rates are volatile, moving 34
percent or more in 10 of the last 11 years.  The surge in U.S. wheat exports “helps a bit, but if you
look into what’s driving the bus, it’s  iron ore , then coal,”
said Steve Rodley, co-managing director of M2M Management Ltd.,
a hedge fund that operates vessels and trades freight
derivatives used to bet on or hedge future transport costs.  Global grain and soybean shipments will advance 3.5 percent
to a record 355 million tons this year, according to  Clarkson
Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. Iron-ore cargoes will rise
7.4 percent to 1.06 billion tons, with coal gaining 6 percent to
954 million tons, the London-based company estimates. About 90
percent of global trade moves by sea, according to the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations.  Shipping Shares  The 12-member Bloomberg Dry Ships Index, in which Seoul-
based STX Pan Ocean Co. has the biggest weighting, fell 9.8
percent this year. That compares with a 6.6 percent advance in
the Bloomberg World Agriculture Index of 32 companies.  Almost 40 percent of last year’s U.S. wheat shipments moved
through ports on the Columbia River, including the Port of
 Portland ,  Oregon , which handled the most grain since 1995, USDA
data show. The Port of South Louisiana, located in LaPlace,
ships grains and soybeans carried from the Midwest on the
Mississippi River.  In North Dakota, the state government is forecasting a $122
million budget surplus for the two-year cycle ending in June,
more than the $79.6 million anticipated in November. The
 Congressional Budget Office  is projecting a federal budget
deficit of $1.5 trillion for this year.  Higher commodity prices “really extend all throughout the
state,” said the North Dakota Wheat Commission’s Olson. “The
local elevator companies work directly with exports, so the
increase is beneficial for them, and that creates jobs. Even
with the trade part aside, the farm economy is going to produce
a lot of jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  