-- 
Rodent Droppings ‘Too Numerous to Count’ Found on Delta Jet

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-19T18:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/fda-discovers-rodent-excrement-during-delta-jet-inspection-1-.html
Rodent droppings “too numerous to
count” were found by U.S. health inspectors near a  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  jet’s galley where food and drink are stored.  The excrement and mammalian urine turned up in inspections
from Jan. 26 through Feb. 2 at a Delta hangar at its Atlanta
headquarters, the  Food and Drug Administration  said in an April
13  letter  to the airline. Delta said today the plane was cleaned
and returned to service within days.  Mechanical traps probably would be preferable to chemicals
in trying to end a rodent infestation on a plane, said Chad
Artimovich, who is the president of pest-control company Atlanta
Wildlife Solutions LLC and has exterminated rats in recreational
vehicles, mobile homes and a hot tub.  “You don’t want to use poison because then you have to go
through the process of tracking it down and finding it and maybe
tearing the whole airplane apart,” Artimovich said in an
interview. “A dead rat stinks to high heaven.”  Delta took the rodent case “very seriously” and resolved
the issue by temporarily parking the jet and “humanely catching
the animal,” said Ashley Black, a spokeswoman for the Atlanta-
based carrier.  International Plane  Black declined to specify the type of plane involved, other
than that it was used on international flights. It was returned
to service within days after the rodent’s removal, she said.  “We believe this was an isolated incident and we
cooperated with the FDA immediately to resolve it earlier this
year,” Black said. “The health and safety of Delta’s customers
and employees are Delta’s top priority.”  The FDA said rodent excrement was discovered above the
right and left forward galleys and mammalian urine was detected
in six areas on ceiling panels over a galley. Delta’s response
to the agency didn’t include steps to prevent a recurrence,
which is “likely” unless such measures are taken, the FDA
said.  Federal regulations for transportation companies require
that “all places where food is prepared, served, or stored
shall be constructed and maintained as to be clean and free from
flies, rodents and other vermin,” the FDA said.  The animal most likely to be involved in an airplane
infestation is a roof rat, a species prevalent in Atlanta,
Artimovich said.  Those rodents leave as many as 50 droppings a day, and a
jetliner provides “everything a rat needs” with spilled nuts
and pretzel crumbs and sources of water, he said.  “Once it gets in there and gets established, there’s no
reason to leave,” he said. “The real concern is if a rat
started chewing on wires. Almost every house I go into where
there are rats, they’ve chewed on wood and wiring and ornaments.
Their teeth are harder than iron and they have to keep them
gnawed down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 