-- 
Fiat, Ford Lead European Car Sales Drop as Consumers Hold Back on Buying

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-19T08:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/fiat-ford-lead-european-car-sales-drop-as-consumers-hold-back-on-purchase.html
Fiat SpA (F) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 Renault SA (RNO)  led a drop in European car sales for the 11th time in
the last 12 months as consumers shunned buying vehicles.  Registrations in the region fell 4.7 percent in March to
1.6 million vehicles, the  European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association  said today in a statement. Fiat sales plunged 20
percent, Ford dropped 16 percent and Renault shed 14 percent.  “Fiat, Ford and Renault are suffering most from the end of
government incentives, whose major effects ended in March,”
said Gian Primo Quagliano, president of Centro Studi Promotor GL
Events SpA research group in Bologna,  Italy . “We expect the
trend to reverse from April.”  European car deliveries have declined every month except
one in the last year after the expiration of government cash-
for-clunker programs damped demand. Consumers are also holding
back spending as  Europe  battles a debt crisis. Portuguese and
Greek government bonds slumped yesterday, pushing two- and 10-
year yields to euro-era records.  Auto registrations fell last month by 28 percent in Italy,
29 percent in  Spain  and 7.9 percent in the U.K., the Brussels-
based manufacturers’ association, or ACEA,  said . Demand
increased 11 percent in  Germany  and 6.1 percent in  France .  Growth at Volkswagen  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, benefited from
the sales rebound in its German home market as the region’s
largest economy grows. The VW group recorded a 4 percent
European sales increase last month to 346,817 vehicles. VW’s
market share increased to 21.6 percent from 19.8 percent a year
earlier.  Fiat, which also runs Chrysler Group LLC, continued to shed
market share, falling to 6.7 percent from 7.9 percent. Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said earlier this month he
needs to give more attention to Turin, Italy-based Fiat’s
European operations, which he acknowledged have suffered while
the Chrysler integration has consumed so much time.  Marchionne postponed model introductions, including an
updated Panda compact, until the second half, when he expects a
recovery of Europe’s car market. Fiat will offer a total of five
new cars this year, compared with nine in 2012 and 11 in 2013.  European sales by Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford dropped
16 percent last month to 142,789 vehicles. Renault, based in
Boulogne-Billancourt, France, lost 14 percent to 141,711 cars.
Its French peer PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest
automaker, sold 204,347 vehicles, 6.9 percent fewer than a year
earlier.  Luxury Brands’ Targets  Luxury carmakers, including Volkswagen’s Audi division,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
brand, which didn’t benefit as much from incentives targeted at
smaller and more fuel-efficient cars, are aiming for record
global sales this year. European registrations by Audi rose 7.4
percent last month and BMW excluding the Mini marque gained 3.5
percent. Sales by Mercedes-Benz fell 0.6 percent.  Industrywide sales have declined in the region for the last
three years, dropping to 13.8 million vehicles in 2010 from 16
million in 2007, the last year that deliveries gained, according
to ACEA figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 