-- 
Raul Castro Named Cuban Communist Party’s First Secretary as Members Meet

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/fidel-castro-says-he-won-t-be-part-of-communist-party-s-central-committee.html
Cuban President Raul Castro was
named first secretary of the island’s Communist Party and
revolutionary hero Jose Ramon Machado became second in command
as officials gathered to debate ways to revive growth.  Raul’s brother, former Cuban President  Fidel Castro , said
he had resigned from the party’s leadership and called on a new
generation of leaders to bolster the Caribbean island’s economy.  “Raul knew that at this time I wouldn’t accept any role in
the party,” Castro, 84, wrote in a  column  published on Cuba
Debate, a state-run website.  Party members are debating changes to Cuba’s economic
system, which has been battered by a U.S. embargo and the global
financial crisis. Proposals being discussed include eliminating
the monthly ration books that provide Cubans with subsidized
food and providing loans to individuals who start independent
businesses.  Fidel attended the closing session of the Communist Party
summit today, according to state-run newspaper Juventud Rebelde,
which published a photo of Castro wearing a blue warm-up jacket
at the meeting.  In a column yesterday, Castro said new leaders are well-
prepared intellectually for a task that would be more difficult
than the challenges faced by his generation when they took power
in 1959. Castro said he wrote the comments after listening to
debates during the summit, which started April 16.  Castro Surgery  Castro began transferring control to Raul in July 2006,
when he underwent intestinal surgery, and officially stepped
down as president in 2008. Raul, 79, has since initiated some
measures to open the economy.  “There is no margin for error in this moment in human
history,” Castro said in the first  column . “The new generation
is being called upon to rectify and change without hesitation
everything that should be rectified and changed.”  Raul Castro  said on April 16 that the country needed to
impose  term limits  for elected officials to no more than two
consecutive periods of five years each, state-run newspaper
Juventud Rebelde reported.  Raul, who was shown submitting his ballot in a photograph
in state-run media yesterday, was previously the second in
command in the party’s central committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  