-- 
Fiscal Conservatives Dodge $10 Trillion Debt: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/fiscal-conservatives-dodge-10-trillion-debt-simon-johnson.html
Washington  is filled with self-
congratulation this week, with Republicans claiming that they
have opened serious discussion of the  U.S. budget deficit  and
President Barack Obama’s proponents arguing that his
counterblast last Wednesday will win the day.  The reality is that neither side has come to grips with the
most basic of our harsh fiscal realities.  Start with the facts as provided by the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office . Compare the CBO’s budget  forecast 
for January 2008, before the outbreak of serious financial
crisis in the fall of that year, with its  latest version  from
January 2011. The relevant line is “debt held by the public at
the end of the year,” meaning net federal government debt held
by the private sector, which excludes government agency holdings
of government debt.  In early 2008, the CBO projected that debt as a percent of
gross domestic product would fall from 36.8 percent to 22.6
percent at the end of 2018. In contrast, the latest CBO forecast
has debt soaring to 75.3 percent of GDP in 2018.  What caused this stunning reversal, which in dollar terms
works out to a $10 trillion swing for end-year 2018 debt, from
$5.1 trillion to $15.8 trillion?  Almost all of this increase is due to the severe recession
that followed the financial crisis of late 2008. This lowered
output and employment, and therefore reduced  tax revenue .  Revenue Drought  For example, look at the tax revenue numbers for 2011, as a
percent of GDP. The earlier expectation for 2011 was that the
federal government would collect revenue equal to 19.3 percent
of GDP. The forecast now is for revenue of 14.8 percent of GDP.  Whatever you think about the fiscal stimulus of 2008 (at
President  George W. Bush ’s instigation) or 2009 (from Obama),
those had relatively little impact compared with the automatic
stabilizers, such as  unemployment benefits , that are triggered
by deep recession.  Why did we have a severe recession with such a crippling
fiscal consequences? On this issue, most politicians from both
sides of the aisle fall silent.  What isn’t in doubt is that this was a financial-sector
crisis of classic proportions. In terms of the negative fiscal
repercussion, it reads like an episode straight from Ken Rogoff
and  Carmen Reinhart ’s “ This Time Is Different ,” a history of
financial crises.  But the political elite that now profess to be bothered by
the fiscal deficit made no serious effort to make the financial
sector any safer after the events of September-October 2008.  Three Responses  When you press politicians and their advisers on this, you
will hear three kinds of responses in candid moments.  First is the notion that banking crises are rare. This is a
favorite of the Treasury Department. Perhaps that was true in
the past, but our big banks have become bigger, and too-big-to-
fail banks have major incentives to take on very high levels of
risk. After all, the downside isn’t their problem.  Second is the idea that we fixed it with the Dodd-Frank
Act, a line heard most often from Democrats on  Capitol Hill .
Almost no one holds to that view, including  William Dudley ,
president of the New York Federal Reserve, and  Sheila Bair , head
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Both have  expressed 
concerns that the roadmap for closing a large troubled bank
remains elusive.  And the idea that new international rules will force banks
to increase their capital enough to reduce the risk of systemic
crisis is regarded as ludicrous, at least by leading independent
finance experts, such as Anat Admati of Stanford’s Graduate
School of Business. Forcing banks to raise more equity in an
appropriate way would lower risk, strengthening the financial
system at little or no cost to the broader economy,  according  to
Admati.  ‘Markets Evolve’  Third, “Let the markets evolve the way the markets
evolve.” This was a  recent quote  from Anthony Santomero, former
president of the Philadelphia Fed and current Citigroup Inc.
director. Citigroup has blown up repeatedly in the past 30
years, not surprising for a complex and unwieldy megabank with
260,000 employees worldwide.  Each time, it was saved through some form of external
assistance, usually from the government, in part because
responsible policy makers feared what Citigroup’s collapse would
do the broader economy. Do we really think that the next time a
bank with  200 million clients  worldwide gets in trouble that the
U.S. will let it go bankrupt, regardless of the consequences? Is
that what  Vikram Pandit , the chief executive officer, or  Timothy Geithner , the Treasury secretary, argued for in 2008 or will
argue for next time?  Right Way  The right way to think about future budget deficits is in a
probability-based fashion: What is the chance something bad will
happen, and how bad will that be for debt levels? The odds of
another major financial calamity next year are small, but the
risk over a 10- to 20-year period is high. That’s the right time
horizon to use in the coming budget debate.  The impact of a new financial crisis on the U.S. public
balance sheet would be huge. Anyone who wants to be taken
seriously as a fiscal conservative must stop dodging this issue
and start proposing solutions.  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown” and a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  