-- 
Flyers, Penguins Win to Lead NHL Playoff Series 2-1; Red Wings Go Up 3-0

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-19T05:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/flyers-penguins-win-to-lead-nhl-playoff-series-2-1-red-wings-go-up-3-0.html
The  Detroit Red Wings  pushed the
 Phoenix Coyotes  to the verge of postseason elimination with a 4-
2 victory in one of three National Hockey League playoff games
decided by the same score.  The Philadelphia Flyers defeated the Buffalo Sabres 4-2 on
the road for their second straight win, while the Boston Bruins
beat the Montreal Canadiens 4-2. The Pittsburgh Penguins topped
the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-2 in yesterday’s other playoff game.  Ruslan Salei and Drew Miller each scored goals for Detroit
less than three minutes into last night’s game at Jobing.com
Arena in Glendale, Arizona. Valtteri Filppula and Johan Franzen
added goals for the Red Wings as the third seed in the Western
Conference went up 3-0 in the best-of-seven playoff series.
 Detroit  can complete a sweep with a road win in Game 4 tomorrow.  The  Vancouver Canucks  are the only other team that could
sweep its first-round series and visit the defending Stanley
Cup-champion Chicago Blackhawks tonight with a 3-0 lead.  The Los Angeles Kings host the  San Jose Sharks  in today’s
other Western Conference playoff game.  Jeff Carter,  Danny Briere , Nikolay Zherdev and Kimmo Timonen scored goals yesterday for the Flyers, who never trailed
at HSBC Arena in Buffalo.  Philadelphia, the second seed in the Eastern Conference,
took a 2-1 series lead. The Flyers have totaled nine goals in
the past two games after being shut out in the opener.  The Sabres host Game 4 tomorrow.  David Krejci, Nathan Horton and Rich Peverley scored as the
third-seeded Bruins opened a 3-0 lead and held off the Canadiens
at Bell Centre in  Montreal . Chris Kelly added an empty-net goal
with 26 seconds left for Boston, which lost the first two games
of the series at home and now trails 2-1.  Tyler Kennedy’s third-period goal snapped a 2-2 tie for the
fourth-seeded Penguins at the St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa,
Florida. Pittsburgh rebounded from a 5-1 home loss in Game 2 to
take a 2-1 lead in the series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  