-- 
Ford to Make Compact SUVs in China, Boost Marketing Spend

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T11:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ford-to-make-compact-suvs-in-china-boost-marketing-spend-1-.html
     April 19 (Bloomberg) --  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it will make
the next generation of its Kuga compact sport-utility vehicle in
China and boost marketing spending to help win sales in the
world’s largest auto market.  “We have to make sure our advertising spend is high enough
as a percentage of our revenue,”  Jim Farley , the company’s
group vice president for global marketing, sales and service,
said today at the Shanghai auto show. He didn’t elaborate on how
much the company planned to spend.  The addition of the Kuga, a C-segment or compact vehicle,
is part of Ford’s plans to introduce 15 models in China by 2015.
The Dearborn, Michigan-based company also intends to double its
number of dealerships to 680 to help challenge market leaders
General Motors Co. and Volkswagen AG.  “To be a volume player in  China , you have to execute the
C-segment flawlessly,” Farley said. The automaker didn’t say
when China production of the Kuga may start.  Ford, which sells the Focus compact and Fiesta subcompact
in China, has a market share of 2.4 percent, according to
industry researcher J.D. Power & Associates. The automaker
expects China’s car market to grow as much as 10 percent this
year, with its own sales outpacing the industry.  Last year, Ford’s China deliveries rose 40 percent to
582,467, surpassing the 32 percent industry average.  The company is banking on emerging markets to help it
maintain profits after posting $6.56 billion in net income last
year, the most since 1999. It is building a new vehicle plant
through its China venture in Chongqing and it has plans for a
new engine plant in the southwestern city.  --Liza Lin. Editors: Neil Denslow, Jamie Butters  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  