-- 
Foreign Direct Investment in China Rises 33% on Fast Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T05:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/foreign-direct-investment-in-china-surges-33-as-zhou-eyes-excess-of-cash.html
Foreign direct investment  surged 33
percent in March from a year earlier as rising inflation and
interest rates failed to damp overseas confidence in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  Foreign investments added $12.5 billion to China’s economy,
the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement in Beijing today.
Investments increased at an annual rate of 29 percent in the
first quarter.  China’s central bank said April 17 it would ratchet up
lenders’ reserve requirements for the fourth time this year,
aiming to prevent excess cash from fueling inflation that
accelerated to the fastest pace in almost three years in March.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said last month it may buy more land to
build shops in the world’s most populous nation, which it
predicts will be the largest grocery market by 2014.  “ China  outpaces the growth of other major economies in the
world, consequently, the investment flows are continuing,” said
 David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics who
formerly worked for the U.S. Federal Reserve. “The PBOC will
need to raise reserve requirement further during the upcoming
months to absorb the inflows, so that it doesn’t trigger a surge
in inflation.”  Cohen expects China to raise the banks’ reserve requirement
ratios by 50 basis points by June, and another two to three
times in the second half this year.  Record Ratio  The latest increase in reserve ratios will take effect on
April 21, pushing the requirement to a record 20.5 percent for
the biggest lenders.  China increased  interest rates  four times since October, to
curb inflation that accelerated to a 5.4 percent annual pace in
March. Liquidity remains “excessive,” Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
said in Beijing last night, a day after the People’s Bank of
China announced the fourth increase in lenders’ reserve ratios
this year.  The investment surge will lead to “more political pressure
for Beijing to continue to allow the appreciation of the yuan,”
Cohen said.  Gradual appreciation of the yuan’s nominal exchange rate
against the  U.S. dollar  will help the country overcome
inflation, PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said April 15. Former
Chinese central bank adviser Yu Yongding said this month that
China should allow its currency to strengthen against the dollar
to keep a lid on consumer prices.  $3 Trillion Reserves  The fastest-growing major economy is attracting money from
investors betting on the strength of its expansion and prospects
for gains in the yuan. China’s foreign-exchange reserves jumped
to a world-record $3 trillion in March, a level that exceeds the
nation’s needs, Zhou said after a speech at  Tsinghua University 
in Beijing last night.  Gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, exceeding economists’ estimate of
9.4 percent, supporting the case for more monetary tightening.  “China is not yet done with tightening,”  Qu Hongbin ,
chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , said
before today’s release. “Inflation is likely to accelerate
further before a cool-down begins,” he said, predicting a half
percentage point of reserve-ratio increases in coming months and
a quarter-point boost to benchmark interest rates.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
said it aims to increase their presence in China by boosting the
number of outlets in China to 1,500 by 2015.  --Victoria Ruan, Zhang Dingmin, Chinmei Sung, Sophie Leung. With
assistance from Jay Wang. Editors: Lily Nonomiya, Cherian Thomas  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  