-- 
Galleon Ex-Trader Zvi Goffer, Brother Plead Not Guilty to New Indictment

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-19T22:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/former-galleon-trader-goffer-pleads-not-guilty-to-latest-insider-charges.html
Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , accused of leading one of three insider-trading rings
that are the subject of a U.S. probe, pleaded not guilty to new
federal charges in an amended indictment.  Goffer and his brother Emanuel Goffer, along with Craig Drimal and Michael Kimelman, today entered not guilty pleas to
the new indictment filed by the U.S. on April 7.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York granted
defense lawyers’ request for a one-week delay in the trial,
which was originally set to begin May 9. The attorneys said they
needed time to review evidence because of the new charges.  “I’m not persuaded that a lengthy adjournment is
appropriate,” Sullivan told the lawyers, some whom asked for a
two-month delay. “It seems an awful lot of what happens in
trial preparation happens in the month before trial.”  Prosecutors filed a superseding indictment against five
defendants. All the defendants were traders, except for Jason
Goldfarb, who is a lawyer. Sullivan said Goldfarb wasn’t in
court today because of a religious observance.  New Charges  The indictment added new charges of  securities fraud 
against Zvi Goffer, who now faces two counts of conspiracy and
12 counts of securities fraud. It also removed as defendants
 David Plate , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, and
Arthur Cutillo, who was a lawyer at the firm Ropes & Gray LLP.
Plate pleaded guilty in July while Cutillo pleaded guilty
Jan. 14.  Sullivan today rejected a bid by defense lawyers to dismiss
the new indictment.  “I don’t think that the superseding indictment, no matter
how much people don’t like it, there’s virtually no
authorization to do that,” the judge said.  Prosecutors said the Goffer ring traded on stock tips
originating from lawyers at Ropes & Gray in  New York  and from
Gautham Shankar, an ex-trader at New York-based Schottenfeld.  Zvi Goffer, the founder of Incremental Capital LLC, was
part of the second wave of cases made by the FBI and Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in 2009 after Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s arrest on insider-trading charges. The U.S. placed
Zvi Goffer at the center of the scheme and claimed his
accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a reference to the 1983
James Bond movie, because of his many sources of information.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyers dispute the characterization.  Attended Trial  Zvi Goffer has frequently attended the Manhattan Federal
Court trial of Galleon’s Rajaratnam. Closing arguments are
scheduled to begin in that case tomorrow. Rajaratnam has pleaded
not guilty, claiming his stock purchases were the result of
legitimate research.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 