-- 
LG Chem Profit Beats Estimates as Asian Recovery, Japan Quake Boost Demand

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-04-19T08:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lg-chem-profit-beats-estimates-as-asian-recovery-japan-quake-boost-demand.html
LG Chem Ltd. (051910) ,  South Korea ’s biggest
chemicals maker, posted a 27 percent gain in first-quarter
profit, beating estimates, as economic recovery in  Asia  and an
earthquake in Japan boosted demand.  Net income rose to 656.6 billion won ($601 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from 517.7 billion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a regulatory filing
today. That compares with the mean estimate of 585 billion won
of 11 analysts in a survey compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained
24 percent to 5.49 trillion won.  Orders from customers in Asia, including  China , the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, boosted South Korean  exports  of
materials used to make plastics and synthetic rubber by 24
percent last month. The March 11 magnitude-9 temblor that
disrupted operations at Japanese chemical producers also helped
increase demand.  “The earthquake in  Japan  is spurring demand for substitute
chemicals at a time when consumption in the region, driven by
China, is already strong,” said Lee Hee Cheol, an analyst at HI
Investment Securities Co. “That’s helping to lift LG Chem’s
petrochemical margins to near a 12-month peak.”  Petrochemical margins at LG Chem reached $579 a metric ton
in the first quarter, compared with $250 a ton on average to
break even in the past 10 years, Hwang Kyu Won, an analyst at
Tong Yang Securities Inc., wrote in a report on April 6.  LG Chem’s petrochemical division posted a 735.6 billion-won
operating profit in the quarter, up 50 percent from a year
earlier, according to the filing.  Shares of LG Chem rose 1.4 percent to close at a record
520,000 won in  Seoul  trading, before the earnings announcement.
The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 0.7 percent.  Operating Profit Rises  “The petrochemical division will sustain high
profitability in the second quarter as regular maintenance at
its rivals will limit supply while demand for chemicals is
rising,” Chief Executive Officer Kim told investors in Seoul.  Overall operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods
sold and administrative expenses, reached 835.3 billion won in
the first quarter, up from 652.4 billion won a year earlier.  Operating profit at the electronics division, which makes
batteries for notebooks, cell phones and electric cars, dropped
36 percent to 112.7 billion won. The division will slowly
recover in the coming quarters, Kim said.  The chemicals maker finished building a plant this month
that can supply  lithium-ion batteries  for 100,000 electric cars
a year. Sales from  car batteries  may exceed the company’s
estimates by 20 percent this year, Kim said, without giving a
value. Revenue may surpass 1 trillion won next year, he said.  Polysilicon Business  LG Chem is preparing to develop its polysilicon business
independently, Kim said.  “We are confident we can develop it with our own
technology, and at low cost, to compete with existing players,”
according to Kim. “We have potential buyers who have signed
memorandums of understanding.”  The company will hold a board meeting in the first half to
discuss a plan to build a plant to make polysilicon, used in
solar cells, with a goal of starting production in the second
half of 2013, Kim said.  LG Chem will join chemicals producers including Hanwha
Chemical Corp. in betting orders for solar-power equipment will
gain as governments take steps to cut  carbon emissions  blamed
for global warming. Kim said the polysilicon plant may have an
annual capacity of 5,000 to 10,000 metric tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 