-- 
LG Display Shares Advance on Earnings Outlook, Narrower-than-Expected Loss

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-19T10:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lg-display-shares-advance-on-earnings-outlook-narrower-than-expected-loss.html
LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of flat screens, rose the most in more than two
years after reporting a loss that was smaller than analysts’
estimates and forecasting a profit this quarter.  LG Display gained 6.9 percent to 38,600 won at the close of
trading in Seoul, the biggest jump since January 2009. The stock
was the third-best performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  The maker of liquid-crystal displays for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,
may post a profit in the second quarter, helped by demand for
panels in tablet computers and 3-D TVs, the company said
yesterday after announcing its first-quarter results. LG Display
aims to supply at least half of all 3-D TVs sold globally this
year, betting on demand for its technology.  “The worst is behind us,” Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based
 fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $30 billion. “As the outlook is expected to improve
from the second quarter, investors are scrambling to buy the
shares.”  The company had a net loss of 115.4 billion won ($106
million) in the three months ended in March, LG said yesterday.
That compared with an average estimate for a loss of 208.4
billion won in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts before the
announcement. Sales fell 8.7 percent to 5.37 trillion won.  LG Display may post a profit of 149 billion won in the
current quarter and boost that to 549 billion won in the third
quarter, according to the average of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  LG Versus Samsung  While panels for TVs accounted for less than half the
overall sales in the first quarter, falling from 54 percent a
year ago, demand for 3-D TVs will help boost profit, Chief
Financial Officer James Jeong said. LG aims to account for 50
percent to 70 percent of the 25 million to 30 million 3-D TVs
expected to be sold worldwide this year, he said.  LG is promoting a technology called Film Patterned
Retarder, or FPR, which uses polarized glasses to view 3-D
images with visual information sent to both eyes simultaneously.  It offers an alternative to the shuttered-glasses approach
used by Samsung Electronics Co., which produces a 3-D image by
sending visual information to each eye sequentially. LG said its
polarized glasses will be lighter and more comfortable to wear,
with less eye strain, than shuttered glasses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 