-- 
Gain in March Starts of U.S. Homes Probably Failed to Make Up Lost Ground

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/gain-in-march-starts-of-u-s-homes-probably-failed-to-make-up-lost-ground.html
A gain in housing starts in March
probably failed to make up for ground lost the prior month as
U.S. homebuilders continued to struggle almost two years into
the economic recovery, economists said before a report today.  Work began on 520,000 houses at an annual pace, up 8.6
percent from the prior month, according to the median estimate
of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Starts fell 23
percent in February, the most since 1984, to the lowest level in
almost two years.  Housing, which pushed the economy into the recession,
remains the weak link in the recovery and continues to weigh on
 consumer spending  as  home prices  fall. The prospect of more
foreclosures and joblessness forecast to average 8.7 percent
this year means any recovery in housing may take time to develop.  “Builders can’t sell homes and make a profit with so many
distressed homes on the market,” said  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“What’s keeping activity down now are foreclosures and falling
prices.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 475,000 to 620,000.  Building permits increased to a 540,000 annual pace, up 1.1
percent from a 534,000 rate, according to the survey median.
Permits slumped 5.2 percent in February.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders fell in April, led by a
decline in the outlook for sales. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index declined to 16 this
month from 17 in March, data from the Washington-based group
showed yesterday. A measure of sales expectations for the next
six months dropped to the lowest level since October.  Record Low  New-home sales fell to a record-low annual rate of 250,000
in February, the Commerce Department reported on March 23. The
median price dropped to the lowest level since December 2003.  Sales of existing homes, which make up more than 90 percent
of the market, rose 2.5 percent to a 5 million annual pace in
March, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the National
Association of Realtors may report tomorrow. Existing-home sales
have been gaining market share from new homes due to increased
cash purchases of distressed homes.  Lending rates are rising as the broader economy recovers.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.98
percent the week ended April 8, the highest since Feb. 18,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . Borrowing costs
have climbed since reaching 4.21 percent in October, the lowest
since the group’s records began in 1990.  Foreclosure Forecast  Even with home seizures currently clogged in the pipeline
as banks and state attorneys general struggle to agree on new
guidelines, foreclosure filings will climb about 20 percent in
2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac Inc.
said Jan. 13.  CoreLogic Inc. last month estimated about 1.8 million homes
were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing homes already
on the market.  “Activity in the housing market continued to be depressed,
held down by the large inventory of foreclosed or distressed
properties on the market and by weak demand,” Federal Reserve
policy makers said in minutes of their March 15 policy meeting
released April 5.  Homebuilders aren’t optimistic.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-
based homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, this month
reported a bigger-than-expected loss for the quarter ended Feb.
28 as orders plunged.  Buyer Concerns  “Today’s consumers remain very cautious, whether they have
concerns about home prices falling further, their job status,
their ability to qualify for a loan, or general confidence in
the economy,” President and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call with analysts on April 5.
“A sustained, broad-based housing recovery will not occur until
we start to experience material job creation.”  Homebuilders have underperformed the broader stock market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has
gained 1.4 percent so far this year, compared with a 3.8 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  