-- 
Gasoline Falls on Concern Higher Pump Prices Will Lower Demand

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-04-19T20:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/gasoline-falls-on-concern-higher-pump-prices-will-lower-demand.html
Gasoline fell to the lowest level
in a week as prices at the pump reached a 31-month high,
increasing concern that rising fuel costs will slow the U.S.
economic recovery and reduce demand for motor fuel.  Futures slipped a second consecutive day as regular retail
gasoline rose 0.2 cent to $3.835 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its website. Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday that he expects a “soft” first quarter
in the U.S. because of the impact of rising gasoline prices on
 consumer spending .  “The market is showing sensitivity to the economic outlook
again,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “We have gas prices above $4
in some areas. Elevated  price levels  will reduce fuel demand.”  Gasoline for May delivery dropped 1.97 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $3.2331 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Futures touched a low of $3.1979 before paring losses as
equities rebounded and the dollar retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent as of 3:06
p.m. in  New York  as companies from Johnson & Johnson to Burberry
Group Plc. reported earnings that beat expectations. The euro
gained 0.7 percent against the U.S. currency on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will raise rates, increasing the
investment appeal of dollar-denominated commodities.  “The stock market is positive now, the dollar is on the
lows, there’s little volume and the market was probably oversold
on yesterday’s” Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services reducing its
outlook on the U.S.’s long-term sovereign credit rating, said
Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Negative Outlook  Prices fell yesterday after Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services revised its outlook on the U.S.’s long-term sovereign
credit rating to negative from stable, and  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said that the “market is oversupplied.”  U.S. gasoline supplies probably shrank 1.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 13 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report on oil
inventories for the week ended April 15 at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow
in Washington.  Gasoline stockpiles sank 7 million barrels in the week
ended April 8, according to department data, as refiners cut
rates, imports slipped 17 percent and demand jumped to a five-
week high.  Refinery Rates  Refinery utilization probably increased 0.9 percentage
point last week to 82.3 percent, according to the survey.  “Prices are extremely overextended, and this week’s report
is likely to show an increase in utilization,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover
Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut . Beutel, who participated in the
survey, estimates refinery rates increased 0.8 percentage point.  Heating oil for May delivery declined 2.43 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.1585 a gallon on the exchange.  Inventories of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, rose 300,000 barrels, according to the survey.
Stockpiles in the week ended April 8 dropped 2.68 million
barrels to 150.8 million, the lowest level in almost a year,
according to department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  