-- 
Geithner Sees Progress Toward Accord to Reduce Record U.S. Budget Deficits

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-04-19T21:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/geithner-sees-progress-toward-accord-to-reduce-record-u-s-budget-deficits.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s confident U.S. political leaders will bridge
their differences and move toward a long-term plan to narrow
record budget deficits and reduce the debt.  “We have an opportunity now over the next two months to
make some real progress,” Geithner said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “What we agree on is putting in
place strong targets for savings, deficit reduction over a
specific time frame with enforceable limits,” he said.  Geithner also said he “absolutely” didn’t have to
reassure overseas buyers of  U.S. debt  after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the outlook on the nation’s AAA rating to “negative”
yesterday. President Barack Obama today begins a tour promoting
his proposal to cut long-term budget deficits as Democrats and
Republicans use the S&P decision to bolster their competing
arguments on the best way to reduce gaps.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.37 percent at 5 p.m.
in  New York  today. The yield is down from 3.80 percent a year
ago and below the average of 5.21 percent over the last two
decades, even with the U.S. projected to post a deficit in
excess of $1 trillion for a third consecutive year.  “There’s a lot of confidence in the capacity of this
economy to grow, to make sure that we can meet our commitments
or obligations,” Geithner said. “You can see that in the price
at which we borrow every day.” In a separate interview with Fox
Business Network today, he said the U.S. will “absolutely”
keep its AAA credit rating.  Top Rating  S&P said the government risks losing its top rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce deficits and the
national debt. The company maintained the rating on U.S. long-
term debt while lowering its outlook for the first time.  Geithner also said today that so-called entitlement
programs “have to be” part of the discussion on deficit
reduction.  “The only way to do this in a way that’s responsible is to
do a balanced, comprehensive package,” he said. The
administration and Congress need to work together in coming
months to agree on a framework for cutting deficits, he said.  Turning to  Europe , Geithner said leaders are following
through on pledges to help  Greece  and Ireland weather the
sovereign-debt crisis.  “If you look at what the governments of Greece, of Ireland
and many others are doing, they are doing incredibly difficult
reforms to help make sure they bring their deficits down, their
economies are restructured, financial systems stronger,” he
said.  European leaders “have the capacity to do this” and
“have said they will do whatever is necessary to make sure they
can help those countries manage those challenges, get through
this problem,” Geithner said. “They’re making some progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at   pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 