-- 
Georgia Joins Dissenters Opposing Writedown Plan in State Foreclosure Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-19T22:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/georgia-joins-dissenters-opposing-writedown-plan-in-state-foreclosure-deal.html
Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens
said he has “significant concerns” about a proposal to reduce
loan balances for some homeowners as part of a settlement of a
nationwide foreclosure probe, joining at least seven other
states that have criticized such a plan.  A deal with the top mortgage servicers in the U.S. that
includes writedowns could encourage homeowners who are current
on their loans to stop making payments, Olens, a Republican,
said today in a telephone interview.  “You’re declaring in advance who the winners and losers
are,” Olens said. “I’m a little concerned that this process
disengages the normal market forces.”  Republican  attorneys general  in  Virginia ,  Texas ,  Florida ,
 South Carolina , Oklahoma, Nebraska, and  Alabama  have signed
letters opposing the imposition of writedowns, which proponents
call the most effective way to modify a home loan.  State and federal agencies, including the U.S. Justice
Department, last month submitted proposed settlement terms to
five banks as a starting point for negotiations to set standards
for mortgage service and foreclosure. The 50-state effort began
last year after homeowners complained of faulty foreclosure
practices in the housing collapse.  The state-federal proposal calls in part for monetary
payments by banks to go toward a loan-modification program that
includes principal reductions.  Proposal Supporters  Supporters of the proposal include attorneys general of
Iowa, Connecticut and  Illinois , according to representatives in
their offices.  “Our position has been that principal reductions are one
tool in the toolbox, and should only be used in appropriate
circumstances,” Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is
leading the investigation for states, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have never advocated broad-based principal
reductions that would pick winners and losers or trigger
strategic defaults.”  A separate agreement with 14 mortgage servicers announced
April 13 by federal regulators was a “big step forward,”
though it was “vague” on details that he hopes the attorneys
general will clarify, Olens said.  Standard & Poor’s , the New York-based ratings company, said
in a Feb. 7 report that trimming mortgage balances is the “most
effective” and “least frequent” modification. Fewer than 3
percent of workouts include writedowns.  Borrowers who have loan balances in line with their home
values have an incentive to keep paying and a cushion if they
lose a job or face other financial setbacks, Cristian deRitis, a
director at Moody’s Analytics Inc., said in an interview earlier
this month.  Olens today echoed concerns of the other dissenting
attorneys general that writedowns could cause additional
defaults as homeowners stop making payments so they can qualify
for reductions.  “Market forces generally work better than government
dictates,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  