-- 
Giants, Jets to Play Christmas Eve Game in 2011 Schedule Released by NFL

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/giants-jets-to-play-christmas-eve-game-in-2011-schedule-released-by-nfl.html
The past two  Super Bowl  champions
will meet in the opening game of the National Football League’s
2011 regular season, which will feature a Christmas Eve clash
between  New York ’s Giants and Jets.  The NFL yesterday released its full  2011 schedule , which is
contingent on owners and players resolving a labor dispute that
has led to a five-week lockout.  “We’re doing all we can to prepare for the 2011 season,”
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said in a televised interview on
NFL Network. “The release of the schedule is an important point
where fans start looking ahead to the season.”  The season is set to begin Sept. 8 with a Thursday night
game between the  Green Bay Packers  and  New Orleans Saints  at
Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The Packers won the Super
Bowl last season and the Saints captured their first NFL title
two years ago.  The  Washington  Redskins host the Giants three days later,
10 years to the day after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on New
York and Washington. The game will be played in Landover,
Maryland, about 12 miles (19 kilometers) east of the U.S.
Capitol in Washington and 15 miles from the Pentagon, which was
struck by one of the hijacked planes.  The Jets also begin their season that night, with a
primetime game against the  Dallas Cowboys  that will be
nationally televised by Comcast Corp.’s NBC network. The matchup
pits Jets coach  Rex Ryan  against his twin brother, Rob, who is
the defensive coordinator for the Cowboys.  “They’ve had a back and forth already, so it’s going to be
a fun night for everybody,” Cowboys coach Jason Garrett told
NFL Network.  Season in Limbo  The 2011 season is in limbo because owners and players have
failed to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement.
Players seeking to halt an owner-imposed lockout began mediation
this week with the league before a federal magistrate judge in
 Minneapolis .  The NFL said two days ago that it won’t play a game in
 London  this season if the labor situation isn’t resolved by Aug.
1. The  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and  Chicago Bears  are scheduled to
play at London’s Wembley Stadium on Oct. 23, the seventh week of
the 17-week regular season.  The Giants and Jets are set to play Dec. 24, one week
before the end of the regular season.  The Giants also visit the  Philadelphia Eagles  in a Week 3
game on Sept. 25, host the Packers on Dec. 4 and play the
division rival Cowboys twice in the final four weeks, including
their season finale at New Meadowlands Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  Primetime Games  The Jets finish their regular season on Jan. 1 in Miami
against the Dolphins. The Jets are one of six teams scheduled to
play a league-high five primetime games this season, along with
the Packers, Eagles, Indianapolis Colts, Baltimore Ravens and
Pittsburgh Steelers.  The American Football Conference champion Steelers kick off
their season on the road Sept. 11 against the division rival
Ravens. Baltimore then hosts the Jets the following week in a
Sunday night game on Sept. 18.  Also in Week 2, the Eagles visit the  Atlanta Falcons ,
marking Michael Vick’s first game against his former team as a
starting quarterback.  Colts quarterback Peyton Manning returns home to  New
Orleans  on Oct. 23 to face the Saints in a rematch of the Super
Bowl two seasons ago.  Thanksgiving History  On the Nov. 24 Thanksgiving Day holiday, the Ravens host
the San Francisco 49ers, making Johnand Jim Harbaugh the first
brothers in NFL history to face each other as head coaches.  “Thanksgiving, family, sharing a meal and a football game
together, what could be better than that?” Ravens coach John
Harbaugh said on NFL Network. “It’s going to be historic. We’re
working on mom and dad, but they said they’re not going to be
within three time zones of the game.”  The Packers visit the Lions and the Cowboys host the
Dolphins in the other Thanksgiving games.  Green Bay  also plays on Christmas night, hosting the rival
Chicago Bears on Dec. 25 in a rematch of last season’s National
Football Conference championship game. The Packers complete
their schedule against Detroit on Jan. 1, becoming the first
team in NFL history to play games on Thanksgiving, Christmas and
New Year’s Day in the same season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  