-- 
Gladiator, Doctor Who Visual-Effects Maker Gets LBO Funding

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-19T15:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/gladiator-doctor-who-visual-effects-maker-gets-lbo-financing.html
The Mill, an Oscar-award winning
video-content provider for the movie “Gladiator” being
acquired by Barclays Private Equity Ltd., raised debt financing
for the buyout.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Bank of Ireland Plc and General
Electric Capital Corp. provided loans for the deal, the
leveraged buyout unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said today as it agreed to
buy the Mill from  Carlyle Group  in a transaction that values it
at 119 million pounds ($194 million).  The Mill , established in 1990, won an Academy Award for its
work on Ridley Scott-directed film “Gladiator” in 2001 and a
British Academy Film Award, or Bafta, for the creation of images
for drama “Doctor Who” in 2009. The company also produces
visual effects for brands including Nike.  “The proliferation of the opportunities for brands to
interact with their customers via the moving image play to the
Mill’s core strengths,” Steven Silvester, a director at Barclays
Private Equity, said in the  statement .  The investments will help support the expansion of the
Mill, based in London,  New York  and Los Angeles, into markets in
 Asia  and  South America , Barclays said.  Buyout firms, which fund acquisitions by taking out debt in
the name of target companies, arranged $7.7 billion of loans in
 Europe  in the first quarter, a more than three-fold increase
from last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expansion Under Carlyle  Carlyle Europe Technology Partners  bought  the Mill in 2007,
valuing the company at about 50 million pounds, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  Under Carlyle, Mill’s annual sales almost doubled to 74.2
million pounds, according to Robert Easton, co-head of the
private-equity firm’s European technology division. Carlyle
boosted headcount to 625 from less than 300.  “There is a secular trend for increased use of computer-
generated images by the media, which makes it a very attractive
industry to invest behind,” Easton said today in a telephone
interview. “Software is a big focus for us.”  Global advertising spending will rise by 4.2 percent this
year to $470.8 billion, Barclays said, citing a March forecast
from Zenith Optimedia Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  