-- 
GM Aims New Malibu at Retaking U.S. Sales as Chevy Goes Global

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-19T01:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/gm-aims-new-malibu-at-retaking-u-s-sales-as-chevy-goes-global.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  redesigned its
Chevrolet Malibu with better fuel economy and sportier looks as
the automaker seeks to regain sales in the U.S. and improve the
Chevy brand’s global reputation.  The new model, which will be revealed on a global webcast
and at the Shanghai auto show today, will feature styling cues
from the Camaro sports car and should exceed 30 mpg in highway
fuel economy when it goes on sale in January 2012, said Mark
Moussa, GM’s chief engineer for mid-sized and full-sized cars.  The car, which was engineered to use mostly the same parts
globally, may sell in 100 markets with about 400,000 deliveries
a year, said  Michael Robinet , vice president of IHS Automotive.
The car likely will be built in Hamtramck, Michigan;  Kansas
City , Kansas; and internationally in  China , South Korea and
Uzbekistan, Robinet said.  “This will be GM’s first truly global mid-sized sedan,”
said Robinet, who’s based in Northville, Michigan. “GM finally
got the memo. They have figured out that they don’t need to
reinvent the wheel all over the world.”  GM pursued a similar strategy of global production with the
Chevy Cruze compact, which went on sale in September. Bob Lutz,
who retired as GM vice chairman a year ago, pushed the automaker
to globalize engineering to save money on some parts and free up
cash for features with more consumer appeal, Robinet said.  GM told suppliers earlier this year that it would start
producing the Malibu in January 2012 instead of April of that
year. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing to speed
the development of new models after the Detroit-based company’s
2009 bankruptcy forced cuts in its engineering and new-model
budgets, resulting in a dearth of new vehicles.  U.S. Market  In the U.S., GM is aiming to deliver more than the almost
199,000 Malibu sedans  Chevrolet  sold in 2010, Russ Clark,
director of the brand’s product marketing, said in an interview,
without giving a specific target. The company also hasn’t
provided a global sales target for the Malibu.  The Malibu’s share of the U.S. mid-sized car segment fell
to 7.1 percent in the first quarter from 9 percent a year ago,
according to Autodata Corp. About 5 percent of people shopping
for mid-sized cars online in February researched the Malibu,
about one-third of the percentage from three years ago,
according to Edmunds.com. Deliveries have dropped 1.2 percent
this year, according to Autodata in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  The Malibu will offer only a 190-horsepower, 4-cylinder
engine and not a V-6 engine as in previous versions. The car
will be competitively priced with the current Malibu, which
starts at $22,735 including freight charges, Clark said, without
giving a particular price.  Fleet Sales  Chevrolet aims to shrink the percentage of sales to fleet
customers such as rental-car companies to about 15 percent to 20
percent of the model’s total deliveries from more than 20
percent of the current car’s sales volume, he said.  The Malibu is a vital piece of Chevy’s attempt to build up
the brand’s image, Clark said.  “The mid-sized car market is the largest in the U.S. and
the most competitive,” he said. “It’s the segment by which
your brand gets judged.”  The Malibu will face competition from quickly growing
models such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Sonata,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ’s
Optima and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Jetta, Edmunds CEO  Jeremy Anwyl  said.  “They desperately need the new Malibu,” Anwyl said.
“Chevy re-established credibility in the mid-size car market
with the current Malibu. The car is just the victim of a long
product cycle.”  GM is spending almost $4,200 on sales incentives and
discounts for each Malibu sale, according to  Santa Monica ,
California-based Edmunds. The discounts are large enough that
the Malibu has taken some buyers who entered showrooms intending
to buy the Cruze, Anwyl said.  “GM needs to be able to sell the car, not the deal,” Dave
Sullivan, an analyst at AutoPacific Inc. in Troy,  Michigan , said
in an interview. “That’s the problem GM has had for so long.
People are going to be attracted to this vehicle for its style,
technology and powertrains. That’s a step in the right
direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  at   dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in  New York  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  