-- 
GM Defying China Slowdown May Reclaim Sales Lead from Toyota

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T00:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/gm-defying-china-slowdown-may-reclaim-sales-lead-from-toyota.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  expect to boost vehicle sales in China faster than the
nation’s economic growth rate, defying government policies to
curb sales and threatening  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s standing as the
world’s largest carmaker.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, plans to double sales in
China to 5 million vehicles by 2015, the Detroit-based company
said at this week’s Shanghai auto show.  Germany ’s Volkswagen,
the biggest maker of passenger cars in China, said it may
outpace industrywide sales growth of as much as 12 percent.  Carmakers are boosting sales and production plans even
after the government ended industry subsidies and as cities
including Shanghai and Beijing restrict new car licenses to
fight pollution and ease traffic. GM’s sales target may enable
it to retake the global sales title it lost to Toyota in 2008.  “You get used to not worrying about variations around the
trend line,”  Kevin Wale , GM’s China president, said yesterday.
“In the past 10 years, China’s growth rate has only been below
10 percent in one year. The underlying trend is very strong.”  GM’s prediction of 5 million sales compares with Toyota’s
goal of doubling deliveries in the nation by 2015 from 846,000
vehicles last year. The Japanese company sold 8.42 million
vehicles globally last year, compared with GM’s 8.39 million.  Realistic Forecast  “If the market doesn’t have any major setbacks, GM’s
forecast isn’t unrealistic,” said  Ashvin Chotai , managing
director of consultant Intelligence Asia Automotive. “We’ve been
wrong in the past with conservative forecasts.”  China is already GM’s biggest market, with 2.35 million
sales last year, compared with 2.21 million in the U.S. The
carmaker aims for market share of more than 14 percent in  China 
by 2015, Wale said yesterday in an interview.  Industrywide auto sales in the nation may grow as much as
12 percent a year over the medium term, Karl-Thomas Neumann,
chief executive officer for China at Wolfsburg, Germany-based
Volkswagen, said yesterday.  Volkswagen’s deliveries may increase at a faster rate, he
said. “We’re bracing for more rather than less,” Neumann said.  The company sold 1.92 million vehicles in China and has
said it aims to be the world’s biggest carmaker by 2018,
surpassing Toyota and GM. VW sold 7.14 million vehicles globally
in 2010.  China GDP Growth  The carmakers’ sales estimates compare with economic growth
of 10.3 percent in China last year, a rate that may ease to 9.6
percent this year, according to the  Asian Development Bank . The
world’s second-largest economy expanded by a more-than-estimated
9.7 percent in the first quarter of this year, even after the
government raised  interest rates  to rein in inflation.  China overtook the U.S. as the world’s largest auto market
in 2009, when sales jumped 46 percent from the previous year.
The growth slowed to 32 percent last year as the government
began phasing out tax breaks and subsidies for car buyers. The
market may expand by less than a previous forecast of 10 to 15
percent this year, Dong Yang, vice chairman of the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said this month.  Carmakers are unworried about lower growth because China,
the world’s most populous nation, still dwarfs all other markets
and two-thirds of Chinese customers are first-time car buyers,
said Joe Hinrichs, head of Asia Pacific and African operations
at  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Catching Toyota  “A market as big as this one, even 5 to 10 percent growth
is very significant,” Hinrichs said. “I’d take 10 percent
growth forever.”  Ford plans to add 15 models in China by 2015, the company
said April 15.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  said yesterday it’s considering
building a fourth plant in Beijing, while Nissan Motor Co., the
biggest Japanese automaker in China, said it expects sales to
rise to 1.5 million in 2012 from 1.02 million in 2010.  GM and VW’s growth plans may help both automakers catch up
with Toyota, whose growth has lagged behind rivals in China.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker may miss this year’s
target to sell more than 900,000 vehicles in China after  Japan ’s
record earthquake on March 11 caused parts shortages, Masayoshi
Hori, the automaker’s executive coordinator for China, said
yesterday at the  Shanghai  show.  While Toyota would like to increase its market share, the
company is focused on improving vehicle quality, service and
customer satisfaction, Hori said.  “We’re not in the business of prioritizing market share,”
he said.  Chinese Car Companies  Chinese car companies are also planning expansion. SAIC
Motor Corp., GM and VW’s local partner, is aiming for 6 million
deliveries by 2015, compared with 3.6 million last year, it said
yesterday. Dongfeng Motor Group Co., the partner of Nissan and
Honda Motor Co., aims to produce and sell 5 million models a
year by 2015, it said yesterday.  SAIC and Great Wall Motor Co. also aim to raise sales
outside China. Shanghai-based SAIC said it’s aiming to sell
800,000 cars a year in other countries by 2015. Great Wall said
exports may account for 30 percent of its sales by then.  While automakers’ growth plans are realistic, government
measures to limit car sales in cities may become a concern,
Chotai said.  China will start curbing vehicle ownership in cities with
more than 10 million people from 2011 to 2015 to ease congestion,
China’s Economic Observer reported March 31. The government has
also passed a new law requiring vehicles with larger engines to
pay more taxes, starting next year.  License Restrictions  Beijing’s government said Dec. 23 it would set a monthly
quota of 20,000 new vehicle licenses in the Chinese capital.  “Beijing demand will be down 45 percent this year just
because of license-plate restrictions, and more cities will
follow,” Chotai said. “Cities in  Guangdong province , Shenzhen,
Chengdu, Shanghai are all possibilities because of high
congestion rates and levels of pollution.”  Tightening measures to slow  China’s economy  may also deter
car sales. The nation increased interest rates four times since
October to curb inflation that accelerated to a 5.4 percent
annual pace in March. Liquidity remains “excessive,” central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing on April 18, a day
after the People’s Bank of China announced the fourth increase
in lenders’ reserve ratios this year.  That may not be enough to slow rising auto sales or
Toyota’s replacement as the leading global automaker, said  Koji Endo , an analyst at Advanced Research Japan in  Tokyo .  “Automakers ought to get out there and grab market share,
because the Chinese market will grow unless something unexpected
happens,” he said. “You can expect the Chinese market to expand
to something like 40 million by 2020, and obviously there’s a
possibility Toyota may be surpassed.”  --Liza Lin, Makiko Kitamura, Andreas Cremer, Tian Ying, Yuki
Hagiwara, Jamie Butters in Shanghai, and Terje Langeland and
Anna Mukai in Tokyo. Editors: Ian Rowley, Kae Inoue  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  