-- 
Goldman Sachs First-Quarter Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-19T12:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/goldman-sachs-net-income-beats-analysts-estimates-on-trading-revenue.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank , posted a 21 percent drop in first-
quarter profit, a smaller decline than analysts estimated, as
fixed-income trading revenue more than doubled from a weak
fourth quarter.  Net income fell to $2.74 billion from $3.46 billion a year
earlier, the New York-based firm said today in a statement.
Earnings per share, which includes the cost of preferred
dividend payments to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
dropped to $1.56 from $5.59. The average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 81 cents.  Under Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, Goldman Sachs has relied on fixed-income,
currencies and commodities trading for the biggest piece of its
revenue. After reaching a record in 2009, earnings failed to
attain their year-earlier mark in the last four quarters as
competition and regulation increased. Wall Street’s fixed-income
trading revenue in the fourth quarter dropped to the lowest
level since the financial crisis.  “Trading was good this quarter, not bad,” Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who recommends buying
Goldman Sachs shares, said before the earnings were reported.
“There’s been a lot of concern in the marketplace about whether
what we saw in the fourth quarter was an early warning of a
continuing slowdown in fixed income.”  Share Performance  Goldman Sachs rose to $155.80 at 8:15 a.m. in New York
trading, from $153.78 at the close yesterday. The stock has
performed worse this year than rivals including New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Net revenue fell 7 percent to $11.9 billion, the statement
showed. Compared with last year’s fourth quarter, revenue
increased 38 percent. Annualized return on average common
 shareholders’ equity , a measure of how well the firm reinvests
earnings, decreased to 12.2 percent from 20.1 percent in the
first quarter of 2010.  First-quarter revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies
and commodities dropped 28 percent to $4.33 billion from $6.02
billion a year earlier, and jumped 164 percent from $1.64
billion in the fourth quarter.  “Looking ahead, we continue to see encouraging indications
for economic activity globally,” Blankfein said in the
statement.  JPMorgan Chase  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported
last week that its fixed-income trading revenue fell 4 percent
to $5.24 billion from a year earlier, and was up 82 percent from
the fourth quarter.  Equities-trading revenue at Goldman Sachs fell 7 percent to
$2.32 billion from $2.49 billion a year earlier and was up from
$2 billion in the fourth quarter.  Revenue from investing and lending, the firm’s second-
biggest segment after trading last year, climbed 37 percent to
$2.71 billion from $1.97 billion a year earlier and compared
with $1.99 billion in the fourth quarter. Investing and lending
includes Goldman Sachs’s holding in  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China (1398)  Ltd. as well as stakes in companies and other assets
held by units like the Special Situations Group or  Principal
Investment Area .  Compensation and benefits, the company’s largest expense,
fell 5 percent to $5.23 billion from $5.49 billion a year
earlier and accounted for 44 percent of revenue.  Litton Business  Non-compensation expenses rose 23 percent to $2.62 billion,
driven in part by an impairment charge of about $220 million on
assets held for sale, the firm said. The primary cost related to
the firm’s Litton Loan Servicing LP unit, a residential
mortgage-servicing company that the firm has said it is trying
to sell.  Investment-banking revenue increased 5 percent to
$1.27 billion from $1.2 billion. Advisory revenue, which
includes fees for takeover advice, declined 23 percent to $357
million from $464 million a year earlier, while fees from debt
underwriting climbed 32 percent to $486 million and equity
underwriting revenue advanced 15 percent to $426 million.  The firm ranks third this year among advisers on announced
mergers, down from the top spot at the same point last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs tops underwriters of equity and equity-linked
offerings globally so far this year and is fifth among managers
of high-yield debt sales worldwide, up from seventh at the same
point last year, Bloomberg data show.  Backlog Grows  Goldman Sachs’s backlog of investment-banking transactions
increased compared with the end of 2010, the company said.  Revenue from  investment management  rose 16 percent to $1.27
billion from $1.1 billion a year earlier. Assets under
management were unchanged at $840 billion.  Blankfein, who is approaching his fifth anniversary as
Goldman Sachs’s chairman and CEO, is grappling with new  capital
requirements  drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  along with limits on the firm’s proprietary trading
and investments in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds imposed
by the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law.  In a filing on March 1, Goldman Sachs estimated its
“reasonably possible” losses from legal claims could reach
$3.4 billion as the firm faces suits related to its activities
before, during and after the financial crisis.  Last week, Senator Carl M. Levin, the Michigan Democrat who
leads the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, issued a
report based on two years of investigation into the financial
crisis and accused Goldman Sachs of misleading clients and
Congress. Goldman Sachs has denied that it misled anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 