-- 
Goldman Sachs Shares Fall on Concern Profits Rely on Unpredictable Revenue

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-19T20:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/goldman-sachs-shares-decline-on-concern-earnings-growth-can-t-be-sustained.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined
in New York trading after first-quarter profit fell 21 percent
and analysts said the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  relied on
unpredictable investment gains to beat estimates.  Goldman Sachs dropped $1.92, or 1.3 percent, to $151.86 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest closing
price since Oct. 15. Net income slid to $2.74 billion, the New
York-based company said today in a statement.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
56, depended on trading and investments with the firm’s own
money to generate 79 percent of first-quarter revenue. The
investing and lending segment, which accounted for 23 percent of
revenue, is unreliable because results are tied to market moves
and because regulators might add restrictions to the business,
said some analysts and investors.  “A large part of that beat was driven by larger-than-
expected investment gains, which are volatile and could easily
fall sharply into the next quarter,” said Richard Staite, an
analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in  London  who rates the stock
“neutral.” “It is still unclear under the new regulations
just how much proprietary trading and investing Goldman can
do.”  Earnings per common share, which includes the cost of
preferred dividend payments to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., dropped to $1.56 from $5.59, beating the 81-cent
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Basel, Dodd-Frank  Goldman Sachs’s biggest businesses, trading and investing,
are the ones most affected by new  capital requirements  drawn up
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and by limits on
the firm’s proprietary trading and investments in  hedge funds 
and private-equity funds imposed by the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul law.  Results from the other main businesses,  investment banking 
and asset management, were disappointing, according to analysts
including  Glenn Schorr  at Nomura Holdings Inc. and  Richard Bove 
at Rochdale Securities LLC.  The results show “solid trading, better-than-expected
Investing & Lending, and some softness in investment banking and
asset management,” Schorr, who rates the company’s shares a
buy, said in a note to investors. “Some may question the
sustainability of some of the gains in Investing & Lending.”  Bove cut his rating on Goldman Sachs stock to “neutral”
from “buy” even as he raised his earnings estimates.  ‘Particularly Disappointing’  “Particularly disappointing were the advisory results,”
Bove wrote in a note to investors, referring to Goldman Sachs’s
revenue from providing takeover advice. “ Investment management 
activity was weak.”  Goldman Sachs’s overall net revenue fell 7 percent to $11.9
billion, the company said. Compared with last year’s fourth
quarter, revenue increased 38 percent. Annualized return on
average common  shareholders’ equity , a measure of how well the
firm reinvests earnings, decreased to 12.2 percent from 20.1
percent in the first quarter of 2010.  First-quarter revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies
and commodities, the firm’s biggest source of revenue, dropped
28 percent to $4.33 billion from $6.02 billion a year earlier,
and more than doubled from $1.64 billion in the fourth quarter.  “Looking ahead, we continue to see encouraging indications
for economic activity globally,” Blankfein said in the
statement.  JPMorgan Chase  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, reported last week that its fixed-income trading revenue
fell 4 percent to $5.24 billion from a year earlier, and was up
82 percent from the fourth quarter.  Equities-trading revenue at Goldman Sachs fell 7 percent to
$2.32 billion from $2.49 billion a year earlier and was up from
$2 billion in the fourth quarter.  Revenue from investing and lending, the firm’s second-
biggest segment after trading last year, climbed 37 percent to
$2.71 billion from $1.97 billion a year earlier and compared
with $1.99 billion in the fourth quarter. The business includes
Goldman Sachs’s holding in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398) 
Ltd. as well as stakes in companies and other assets held by
units like the Special Situations Group or  Principal Investment
Area .  David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
told analysts on a conference call that about 20 percent to 25
percent of the investing and lending segment’s revenue is from
interest on loans.  “So that is going to be recurring, but that’s a small part
of it,” he said.  Trading, Investing  Without the better-than-expected trading and investing
lines, Goldman Sachs wouldn’t have been able to exceed
estimates, said Benjamin Wallace, analyst at Grimes & Co. in
Westborough,  Massachusetts .  “The beat that was delivered was from things people look
at as less predictable,” said Wallace, whose firm manages about
$1 billion and doesn’t own Goldman Sachs stock. “It goes back
to the grand point that Goldman still relies on its trading
operations.”  Compensation and benefits, the company’s largest expense,
fell 5 percent to $5.23 billion from $5.49 billion a year
earlier and accounted for 44 percent of revenue.  Non-compensation expenses rose 23 percent to $2.62 billion,
driven in part by an impairment charge of about $220 million on
assets held for sale, the firm said. The primary cost related to
the firm’s Litton Loan Servicing LP unit, a residential
mortgage-servicing company that the firm has said it is trying
to sell.  Advisory Revenue  Investment-banking revenue increased 5 percent to $1.27
billion from $1.2 billion. Advisory revenue, which includes fees
for takeover advice, declined 23 percent to $357 million from
$464 million a year earlier, while fees from debt underwriting
climbed 32 percent to $486 million and equity underwriting
revenue advanced 15 percent to $426 million.  The firm ranks third this year among advisers on announced
mergers, down from the top spot at the same point last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs’s
advisory revenue fell short of JPMorgan’s $429 million in the
quarter.  Goldman Sachs tops underwriters of equity and equity-linked
offerings globally so far this year and is fifth among managers
of high-yield debt sales worldwide, up from seventh at the same
point last year, Bloomberg data show.  Backlog Grows  Goldman Sachs’s backlog of investment-banking transactions
increased compared with the end of 2010, the company said.  Revenue from investment management rose 16 percent to $1.27
billion from $1.1 billion a year earlier. Assets under
management were unchanged at $840 billion as clients withdrew
$12 billion from Goldman Sachs’s funds and market gains
increased the value of the assets by an identical amount, the
firm said.  “That’s going to be a business where they don’t have the
kind of competitive advantage that they do in the others,” said
 David Trone , head of U.S. banks and brokerage research for JMP
Securities LLC in  New York , who recommends buying Goldman Sachs
shares. “You’re as good as your last performance, not your
brand name.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 