-- 
Microsoft’s Turner Says Japan Business Has Been ‘Very Strong’

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   L i z a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-19T06:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/microsoft-s-turner-says-japan-business-has-been-very-strong-.html
Kevin Turner, chief operating
officer of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , comments on the world’s biggest
software maker’s business performance in  Japan  and other markets
and its plans to invest in cloud computing. Turner spoke to
reporters in Singapore today.  On business performance:  “Our business in Japan has been really strong. We’re
certainly working through the national disaster that they’re
dealing with in their economy. We don’t know what’s going to
happen there. But certainly, we’ve had a very good and a very
healthy business for a very long time and certainly year to
date, it’s been very strong.  ‘‘If you look across markets like Singapore, our business
is growing extremely well and very rapidly. The beautiful thing
about the global economy is that there’re always some strong
markets and always some markets that are going through
opportunity.  ‘‘Our developed markets have been really, really strong all
out as a company. In emerging markets, it’s really relative to
what’s going on in the various environments, some are really off
the charts and some are going through an opportunity to
correct.”  On cloud technology, or computing delivered over the Internet:  “Office 365 is a game changer for our customers. Our plan
is to continue to invest in our cloud capabilities. Today more
than 75 percent of Microsoft’s R&D engineering talent is devoted
to cloud-related services and products. Over the next year, we
expect that number to grow in excess of 90 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in  Singapore  at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Tan in Singapore at 
 ltan104@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  