-- 
Middle East Oil-Shipping Costs Slump for Seventh Day in a Row

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-19T15:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/middle-east-oil-shipping-costs-slump-for-seventh-day-in-a-row.html
The cost of shipping Middle East
oil to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, fell
for a seventh day as an excess supply of vessels cut the amount
owners could charge for charters.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route dropped 0.3
percent to 49.92 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic
Exchange in  London . Returns from the voyage, which take fuel-
cost changes into account, declined 11 percent to $2,272 a day,
the lowest level since Oct. 8.  “The tonnage list refuses to shrink,” Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo, said by
e-mail today. Any recovery in charter costs “appears to be put
on hold” until the vessel glut decreases “radically,” he
said.  The VLCC fleet’s transportation capacity will expand by 6.9
percent this year to 172 million deadweight tons, according to
data from  Clarkson Research Services Ltd. , a unit of the world’s
biggest shipbroker. That would be more than double the 2.8
percent increase in demand it predicts.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a measure of crude-oil
transportation costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
rose 1 percent to 844 points, according to the  Baltic Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  