-- 
Indian Weddings Face Curbs as Minister Targets Food Waste

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-04-19T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/indian-weddings-face-menu-curbs-as-minister-targets-food-waste.html
Indians planning lavish wedding
parties may face pressure to slim down their menus, as the
government considers curbing celebrations that highlight a
growing gulf between rich and poor.  Food Minister K.V. Thomas said April 18 that a panel will
consider limiting the number of guests who can be invited to
weddings and other social events, as well as the dishes they can
be served. Neighboring Pakistan restricts such revelers to one
plate of food, he said, something  India  could emulate.  While India’s government is reacting after soaring food
prices dented the popularity of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ,
leading to nationwide protests, wedding planners and policy
experts said the proposals would be impossible to enforce and
fail to address the root cause of food insecurity in India, home
to 42 percent of the world’s undernourished children, according
to the  International Food Policy Research Institute .  “It’s absolutely ridiculous, it’s a reactionary, poorly
thought through, populist measure which I don’t think is
implementable,” said  Ashish Abrol , a former Deutsche Bank AG
wealth manager and employee of International Business Machines
Corp., who started the wedding planning firm Big Indian Wedding
last year.  Consumer-price inflation at 9 percent is the highest in the
Group of 20 nations after Argentina and  Russia . Thomas says up
to 30 percent of food is wasted at weddings in India. About 40
percent of India’s fruit and vegetables rot before they can be
sold because of a lack of cold storage facilities and poor
transport infrastructure, according to government figures.  Wal-Mart, Carrefour  “To think that it is going to have an impact on the food
crisis is completely foolish,” Biraj Patnaik, a campaigner for
securing food rights for the poor and an adviser to the  Supreme
Court , said of Thomas’s plan by phone yesterday.  Foreign retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
Carrefour SA, barred from selling goods directly to Indian
consumers, argue they can improve the quality of the supply
chain if restrictions are relaxed.  Regional political parties within Singh’s ruling alliance
oppose such a move, saying that it would threaten the
livelihoods of millions of small shopkeepers and drive down
farmers’ incomes. India  ranked  67 out of 84 nations, below
Rwanda, Zimbabwe and  Pakistan , on the food policy institute’s
Global Hunger Index compiled last year.  Indian middle-class weddings are renowned for their over
indulgence and growing wealth in the country, fuelled by
economic expansion that may reach 9.25 percent this fiscal year,
has led to ever more extravagant celebrations.  Helicopter Gift  Kanwar Singh Tanwar, a businessman and a member of Singh’s
 Congress  party, invited about 30,000 people to celebrate his
son’s marriage to a fellow politician’s daughter, the Indian
Express reported in March.  Tanwar’s son received a  Bell 429  helicopter from his
parents-in-law and the reception had over 500 counters serving
food, the newspaper said. Responding to criticism the wedding
was excessive, Tanwar said that the celebration was a “simple”
affair, the  Express  said.  Prakash Javadekar, a spokesman for India’s main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party , vowed to support government plans to
crack down on excessive spending at weddings, which, he said,
risks increasing social unrest in a country where so many people
are hungry.  “Lavish parties create a divide between the rich and the
poor,” said Javadekar, who sits in parliament’s upper house,
the Rajya Sabha. “We need simpler marriages.”  Food Subsidies  In India, about 80 percent of the population controls only
30 percent of the nation’s wealth, according to a study in 2006
by the  University of Western Ontario ,  Canada . Singh’s government
will spend about $13.6 billion this fiscal year on food
subsidies for the poor.  Thomas said the panel that will consider measures to rein
in parties will meet in the middle of May and then discuss the
matter with representatives of state government in June. Its
members have not yet been named, he said.  Food-price inflation averaged 16 percent in the last fiscal
year after the late arrival of rains caused disruption in the
supply of fruits and vegetables including onions, a staple in
the local cuisine. Prices of milk, eggs and meat have also
gained as rising incomes spur consumer demand.  Then Pakistan Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  in 1997 imposed
curbs on the amount of food that could be served at weddings as
part of austerity measures. Sharif’s brother, Shahbaz Sharif,
imposed similar curbs in Pakistan’s Punjab province when he was
elected chief minister in 2008.  Curry, Rice  Hosts can serve a curry, rice and a sweet dish, according
to Siddiq-ul-Farooq, a spokesman for the Sharifs’ Pakistan
Muslim League. Parties must end by 11 p.m.  “This law is working in Punjab and people are benefitting
from it,” Farooq said by phone from Islamabad. “Poor people
now have a very good reason to avoid overspending on these
occasions. In the past, they were forced to follow the rich
under social pressure.”  Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  has periodically called on
party colleagues to avoid displays of wealth, including telling
officials to fly economy class, cut down on phone bills and
restrict their use of government-provided vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  