-- 
India Solar Projects Face Rising Costs, Deadline Crunch, Moser Baer Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T09:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/india-solar-projects-face-rising-costs-deadline-crunch-moser-baer-says.html
Some companies may miss deadlines
to build  India ’s first solar power plants this year while others
face rising costs as they compete for contractors and labor, the
second-biggest solar-cell maker in India said.  Developers are having trouble obtaining financing from
banks wary of lending to the new sector, which delays them from
starting on their projects, K.N. Subramaniam, chief executive
officer of the solar systems division of  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) ,
said in an interview.  “If everybody is going to compete at the same time for
resources, for contractors, for mechanical fabrication or labor,
the cost is bound to go up,” said Subramaniam, who heads the
engineering, procurement and construction activities of Moser
Baer’s solar unit. “They may not be available for completion in
time.”  India, which averages 300 sunny days a year, has awarded
licenses to build 1,579 megawatts of capacity under two solar
programs that aim to create one of the world’s biggest markets
for producing electricity from the sun. Most of that capacity
needs to be completed this year or developers risk fines.  Developers need to select contractors by May 31 if they’re
to complete their projects on time, he said. Moser Baer is in
talks for some of those contracts, he said, declining to
elaborate.  The central government awarded licenses in December for 620
megawatts to be built under its national Solar Mission program,
which calls for 20,000 megawatts of solar power capacity by
2022. Gujarat, under its own state-level program, has awarded an
additional 959 megawatts of capacity.  India’s currently has  less than 18 megawatts  of grid-
connected solar power, according to the Ministry of New and
 Renewable Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 