-- 
Indonesia Must Change Anti-Terror Strategies, Crisis Group Says

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-04-19T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/indonesia-must-change-anti-terror-strategies-crisis-group-says.html
Indonesia ’s government must adopt
new strategies to target terrorist acts carried out by
individuals after authorities dismantled or disrupted larger
organizations, the  International Crisis Group  said.  The country’s National Anti-Terrorism Agency should
“immediately” take measures such as creating a database of
schools and mosques whose attendees have been arrested for
terrorism, the Brussels-based group said in a report released
today. Authorities should also compile examples of communities
that have rejected extremist preachings, the report said.  “A database is critical because if you look at the pattern
of radicalization and recruitment, it tends to concentrate in
certain areas,” Sidney Jones, a senior adviser with Crisis
Group in Jakarta, said by e-mail today. “One mosque in Laweyan,
Solo, Central Java, for example, has been producing extremists
for the last decade.”  The actions are necessary as individuals without clear ties
to larger groups have carried out bombings over the last two
years in isolated acts of religious intolerance, the group said.
Examples include a suicide attack in a mosque in Cirebon, West
Java that killed the bomber and wounded 30 people on April 15
and bombs concealed in books delivered in Jakarta in March.  “With 800,000 mosques across the country, it would be a
huge waste of time and money to try and reach them all. You have
to target the programs where the problem is,” Jones said.  The formation of small groups acting independently of
larger jihadist organizations is in part the result of the
weakening of the Jemaah Islamiyah, Jama’ah Anshorut Tauhid and
other groups, the report said. The October 2002 attacks on a
Bali nightclub that killed 202 people including 88 Australians
are blamed on Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda linked group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net . 