-- 
Indonesia's Regulator Says 21 Extra LNG Cargoes May Go to Quake-Hit Japan

-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-04-19T06:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/indonesia-s-regulator-says-21-extra-lng-cargoes-may-go-to-quake-hit-japan.html
Indonesia , the world’s third-
largest exporter of liquefied natural gas, may send as many as
21 additional cargoes of the fuel to  Japan  this year, an
official at the nation’s energy regulator said.  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state oil and gas company, has
agreed to ship seven cargoes from its Bontang plant in East
Kalimantan province to Tohoku Electric Power Co. in April and
May, said an official at  BPMigas , asking not to be identified as
the sales haven’t been made public. Three cargoes for May to
June delivery are under negotiation with buyers and 11 are
available for June to December, the official said.  Nanang Untung, senior vice president of gas at Jakarta-
based Pertamina, said the plan is being discussed by the
government, declining to give further details. Gde Pradnyana, a
spokesman for BPMigas, said the shipments will come from cargoes
slated for the spot markets.  Japan, which relies on fuel imports for most of its energy
needs, is seeking to expand supply of alternative sources after
the nation’s biggest earthquake recorded on March 11 forced the
shutdown of 20 percent of the country’s nuclear output. The
nation consumed 35 percent of the world’s LNG in 2009, more than
any other country, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review.  Indonesia may divert cargoes to Japan from BP’s Tangguh LNG
plant in West Papua province that were originally to be shipped
to  Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s terminal in  Mexico ’s  Baja California , Energy
and Mineral Resources Minister Darwin Saleh said March 23.  LNG is natural gas chilled to liquid form for
transportation by ships to places not connected by pipelines.
Qatar and Malaysia are the world’s largest and second-biggest
exporters of the fuel, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 