-- 
Indonesian Millionaire Uno Sees More Buyouts as 3i Seeks Deal

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-19T22:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/indonesian-millionaire-uno-sees-more-buyouts-as-3i-seeks-deal.html
Sandiaga Uno, co-founder of one of
 Indonesia ’s three biggest private-equity firms, said asset sales
by companies with diverse units will lead to more buyouts.  “It’s not easy finding a deal in Indonesia, but I’m
predicting that there will be more buyout opportunities going
forward,” Uno, co-founder of Jakarta-based Saratoga Capital,
said in an interview in  Singapore . “Conglomerates are selling
non-core assets.”  There were only two private-equity transactions worth a
combined $1.2 billion in Indonesia last year, about 12 percent
of the amount invested in  China , according to the Hong Kong-
based  Centre for Asia Private Equity Research Ltd . The world’s
fourth-most populous nation is attracting more interest from
buyout firms including the U.K.’s CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
London-based  3i Group Plc (III)  as China’s and  India ’s demand for
Indonesia’s resources boosts raw-material prices.  “We have spent the last 12 months looking at Indonesia in
a serious and focused way,” said Mark Thornton, 3i’s head of
 Southeast Asia . “There’s a lot of talk about the private-equity
opportunity in Indonesia. Still, the number of completed deals
is relatively small.”  3i, which is focusing on consumer companies, hopes to make
an investment in Indonesia this year and expects the number of
deals in the country to double, he said.  Consumer confidence  has
been buoyed by political stability under President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono not seen since the ouster of former dictator
Suharto in 1998.  CVC  CVC agreed last month to invest in PT First Media, a
Jakarta-based cable-television and Internet company. This was
the second investment by the buyout fund in the Lippo Group,
which owns property, media and retail assets, following CVC’s
purchase of the retail unit of PT Matahari Putra Prima in 2010.  Indonesia’s larger family businesses are also competing
with the funds “to provide capital for the most interesting
transactions,” said Dennis Barsky, Singapore-based partner at
the law firm  Jones Day , whose clients include private-equity
funds investing in  Asia .  The holding company for several listed units of Bakrie
Group, a palm oil-to-property empire controlled by Indonesian
billionaire politician Aburizal Bakrie and his brothers, said in
December 2009 that it planned to start new funds aimed at
foreign investors.  “The local players have a significant advantage because of
their on the ground presence, the connections that they’ve
developed over long periods of time, their ability to conduct
effective due diligence, understanding the nuances of the market
and how things are being done there,” Barsky said.  More Deals  Saratago, which has made about $1 billion of investments in
Indonesia since it was set up in 1998, expects to “close two to
three deals” this year, said Uno. The 41-year-old, who founded
Saratoga with Edwin Soeryadjaya, the 13th richest man on
 Forbes’s Indonesia list , said last year the firm plans to raise
$300 million for a new fund. Uno has a net worth of $795
million, according to the magazine.  Northstar Pacific Partners, TPG’s Indonesian partner, and
Quvat Management Pte, run by a former executive of Farallon
Capital Management LLC’s Indonesian affiliate, are also raising
their third private-equity funds to invest in the country.  “We will not compete on price basis because there’s no way
we can add value in the process,” Uno said. “We will focus
more on our strength, which is finding investments through our
network and relationships through proprietary deal origination
and sourcing.”  Energy Industries  Saratoga, which owns almost 20 percent of PT Adaro Energy,
Indonesia’s second-largest coal producer, plans to focus on
natural resources and the industries that support it, such as
mining services companies, Uno said.  “For coal mines, the valuations are already very high,”
he said. “The Chinese and Indians have dominated this space and
it’s going to be very hard for financial investors to compete
with them.”  Saratoga will also invest in infrastructure companies and
those that will benefit from growing consumption in Indonesia,
Uno said. Saratoga listed PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure, a
Jakarta-based telecommunication tower operator, in October.  More than 7 million people jumped from the low-income
bracket to the middle class each year since 2003, Uno said,
citing the  World Bank . Yudhoyono is targeting annual growth of
6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his term ending
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  