-- 
Intel Forecasts Second-Quarter Sales That May Top Estimates; Stock Surges

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T00:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/intel-forecasts-second-quarter-sales-that-may-top-estimates-shares-climb.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, forecast second-quarter sales that may top analysts’
estimates, evidence of booming demand for machines that deliver
computing over the Internet.  Revenue will be $12.8 billion, plus or minus $500 million,
Intel said today in a statement. That compares with $11.9
billion, the average of analysts’ projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares surged as much as 6.7 percent in late trading.  The company is benefiting as mobile devices including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad drive demand for online services provided by Intel-
powered servers. Even as PC sales came under pressure last
quarter, Intel’s 80 percent share of the microprocessor market
boosts sales when companies upgrade their server and PC fleets.  “This is the strength of a new product cycle,” Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc., said
in an interview. “There’s a refresh cycle occurring in the
servers space, and they are probably gaining share.”  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , rose as high as
$21.19 in extended trading after the report. The shares had
gained 24 cents to $19.86 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The stock has lost 5.6 percent this year.  First-quarter net income rose 29 percent to $3.16 billion,
or 56 cents a share, from $2.44 billion, or 43 cents, a year
earlier. Analysts on average had estimated profit of 46 cents.
Sales increased 25 percent to $12.8 billion, compared with an
average prediction of $11.6 billion.  Cloud Demand  Customers are snapping up the machines needed to deliver
computing, software and storage over the Internet -- via the so-
called cloud. Sales of servers used to deliver cloud computing
may rise to $6.4 billion in 2014, representing 1.3 million
units, from $3.8 billion, or 600,000 units, last year, according
to researcher IDC.  “The server business exceeded our expectations as strong
demand from the data-center segment continued,” Intel Chief
Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in a  statement  posted on
Intel’s website.  Gross margin, the only indicator of profitability that
Intel forecasts, will be 61 percent, plus or minus a couple
percentage points, this quarter, the company said. Gross margin
-- the percentage of sales remaining after deducting production
costs -- was 61 percent in the first quarter.  Server Sales  The company’s sales of chips for servers, storage and
networking devices should reach $10 billion this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said on a conference call to
discuss earnings.  “What we are witnessing is an explosion of computing
devices that connect to the Internet, and Intel is a big part of
this trend,” Otellini said.  The chipmaker also expects more companies to buy computers
based on its microprocessors as they continue to refresh their
PCs. Intel estimates that 75 percent of corporate computers
still run Microsoft Corp.’s Windows XP software. PC sales should
grow at a percentage in the low double digits in 2011, Otellini
said.  Intel also faced challenges in the first quarter. The
company said in January that one of the support chips it makes
for its microprocessors had a flaw that would cost it $300
million in sales in the first quarter. It predicted having to
spend $700 million on replacing faulty chips and systems.  On April 13, IDC said global personal-computer shipments
unexpectedly fell 3.2 percent in the first quarter as businesses
and consumers held off on purchasing new PCs. The market-
research firm also said the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  and unrest in the Middle East may have disrupted PC sales.  Mobile, Tablet Laggard  The results may help quell investors’ concerns that the
company has yet to parlay its dominance in PCs into market share
for mobile-phone and tablet chips.  Apple’s iPad tablet works on a mobile-phone processor based
on technology from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)  Some makers of rival
tablets have opted for less power-hungry chip designs than Intel
now offers. The popularity of tablets is cutting into sales of
cheaper  laptop computers , said Christopher Danely, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  On April 11, Intel announced a new product, called Oak
Trail and sold under its Atom brand, that is 60 percent smaller
than its predecessor and will provide “all-day” battery life
in touch-screen computers. And the company has designed a
handset that may be manufactured by  China ’s ZTE Corp., according
to two people with knowledge of the plan.  On the call today, the company touched on how it plans to
gain ground in mobile devices, particularly chips for phones, a
market dominated by rivals like Qualcomm Inc.  Some 35 tablets based on Intel’s chips should come out this
year, the bulk of them based on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, Otellini said. He said he would be “very disappointed”
if there’s not a phone based on Intel’s chips available for sale
in 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 