-- 
Hip-Replacement Patients' Readmissions Rise With Shorter Stays, Study Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-04-19T22:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/hip-replacements-spur-quicker-hospital-discharges-while-more-return-trips.html
Patients undergoing hip-replacement
surgery are being released earlier, while more make return trips
to the hospital within 30 days of the procedure, an analysis of
Medicare recipients found.  The number of days patients who had total hip replacements
stayed in the hospital fell 60 percent as more people were sent
to nursing and rehabilitation facilities than in the past,
according to research published today in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association . Deaths from the surgery also fell
or remained stable from 1991 to 2008 even as sicker patients
underwent the hip operations.  About 280,000 total hip replacement surgeries are performed
each year in the U.S., costing more than $12 billion, the
authors wrote. Today’s study was one of the first to analyze how
hip replacement outcomes have changed over time, lead author
Peter Cram said. The results show the challenge of controlling
Medicare spending, he said.  “Length of stay has gotten shorter, but what’s happening
is patients are going to rehabilitation, which is also
expensive,” Cram, an associate professor of medicine at the
 University of Iowa  in  Iowa  City, said in an April 15 telephone
interview. “They’re being readmitted, which is also expensive.
This shows the real challenges of controlling Medicare
spending.”  Surgery Revisions  Total hip replacement involves cutting off the head of the
thigh bone, replacing it with a metal shaft and inserting a
plastic cup in the pelvis. The study also included patients who
needed revisions to their original surgery, Cram said. From
25,000 to 50,000 of these repeat procedures are conducted each
year, he said.  The global market for hip implants is expected to grow to
$5.45 billion this year, and increase of 3.2 percent from 2010,
according to a Feb. 28 report by Joanne Wuensch, an analyst at
BMO Capital Markets in New York.  The DePuy Orthopaedics unit of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  is the leading maker of hip implants.
Biomet Inc. and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , both based in Warsaw,
 Indiana , Arlington, Tennessee-based  Wright Medical Group Inc. (WMGI) ,
London-based  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , and Kalamazoo, Michigan-based
 Stryker Corp. (SYK)  are among the makers of the implants.  Researchers looked at data on 1.45 million Medicare
recipients who had total hip replacements from 1991 to 2008 and
about 348,000 who had revision hip replacement surgery. Medicare
is the U.S. government’s health program for the elderly and
disabled.  Older Patients  By 2008, the patients were older and more likely to be
sicker, with conditions such as diabetes, congestive heart
failure and obesity, the researchers found.  The number of patients who had total hip replacements who
were sent home after surgery fell to 48 percent in 2007-2008
from 68 percent in 1991-1992, while the percentage of patients
sent to a skilled nursing home or rehabilitation center doubled,
the authors found.  About 8.5 percent of patients were readmitted to the
hospital within 30 days of discharge in 2007-2008, compared with
5.9 percent in 1991-1992. Cram said it’s unclear why readmission
rates rose.  “What that might suggest is we’re sending patients home
more quickly, but more of them have to come back into the
hospital for complications or something related to their
surgery,” Cram said. The researchers are analyzing the data to
try to determine why readmission rates increased, he said.  DePuy Recall  In August, DePuy announced a voluntary recall of its ASR XL
Acetabular System and ASR Hip Resurfacing System after 93,000
had been implanted in patients worldwide, including 37,000 in
the U.S. J&J said DePuy withdrew the hips for safety reasons,
while denying in court papers that the devices are defective.
The company is facing 1,000 lawsuits tied to the faulty
artificial hips.  Cram said researchers didn’t consider whether the recalls
contributed to the higher readmission rates seen over the study
or whether it led to more revision hip surgeries.  “We really were looking broadly at an 18-year period,” he
said today. “During that 18-year period, lots of things happen.
There might be recalls, there could be infection outbreaks at
individual hospitals, but we were really looking at things much
more broadly. But that’s a really good area for future
research.”  Lorie Gawreluk, a DePuy spokeswoman, didn’t return an e-
mail and telephone call seeking comment on the study.  Extra Care  Carlos Lavernia, president of the Rosemont, Illinois-based
 American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons , said patients are
often readmitted to the hospital, not because of complications
from their surgery but because they are sicker or because the
doctors at the rehabilitation or nursing facility send them back
to the hospital if something seems to be “off.” This is often
true in “destination” practices or centers that send the
patients to rehabilitation in far-away cities, he said.  “Hip surgeons are doing such great jobs with patients.
Patients are much sicker now, and our  mortality rate , even
though we’re dealing with much sicker patients, has remained
very, very steady,” said Lavernia, an orthopedic surgeon in
private practice in Miami, in an April 17 telephone interview.
Lavernia was not an author on today’s paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  