-- 
Irish Authorities ‘Seriously Misjudged’ Risks, Report Shows

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/irish-authorities-seriously-misjudged-risks-report-shows.html
Irish regulatory authorities
“seriously misjudged” risks from the country’s property bubble
and didn’t have sufficient oversight of bank lending, a
government-appointed investigator said.  “Risks went undetected or were at least seriously
misjudged by the authorities whose actions and warnings were
modest and insufficient,”  Peter Nyberg , a former director
general for financial markets at  Finland ’s finance ministry,
said in a report published today in Dublin. There was
“unhindered expansion of the property bubble,” supported by
“government policies and pronouncements.”  Ireland may spend as much as 100 billion euros ($145
billion) to solve  Europe ’s worst banking crisis, including 29
billion euros injected into Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which was
nationalized in 2009 as loan losses soared. The country, forced
into an international bailout in November, is struggling to
convince investors its debt is sustainable after the collapse of
a domestic real-estate bubble in 2007.  “Banks appear to have emphasized loan sales skills above
risk, credit skills,” said Nyberg, who was hired in July to
lead an investigation into the crisis. The problems causing the
crisis were the result “of domestic Irish decisions.”  ‘Gullible’  The report also said that expansion by bank lending during
the property boom wasn’t matched by a “corresponding necessary
strengthening of governance.”  The crisis pushed Ireland’s budget deficit to about 32
percent of gross domestic product last year, 10 times the
European Union limit.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday that
Ireland’s solvency is “fragile” and forecast that national
debt may rise to 116 percent of GDP in 2013 to 2014.  “Ireland as a whole used up money from elsewhere and lived
above its means,” Nyberg said at a press conference in Dublin.
“Paying money back means it will have to live below its means”
for some time.  He also said it is “quite remarkable” that fiscal policy
didn’t react to a “very heated  property market ,” and that
bondholders of banks were “among the gullible” during the
banking boom. Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said yesterday
that Anglo Irish senior bondholders may be treated differently
than those at  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc,
which the government says won’t have losses imposed on them.  ‘Thoughful’  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today the report
“represents a thoughtful and multi-faceted analysis into the
causes of the banking crisis.” It “bears careful and measured
consideration by all concerned,” he said.  Nyberg said bank auditors fulfilled their duties “to the
letter but to a quite narrow framework” and that it would have
been “useful” if they had held discussions with their clients
“on emerging risks.”  On Anglo Irish, Nyberg’s report said credit management
structures “were in practice deficient.” It called credit
management at Irish  Nationwide Building Society  “unusual in
many respects” with policies applied “very flexibly.”  Nyberg’s document follows two reports last year, one by
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan , who concluded
macro-economic and budgetary policies “contributed
significantly to  economic overheating .” The second said that
the country’s banking crisis “was in crucial ways  home-made .”  The central bank instructed the country’s four so-called
viable lenders, Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish, Irish Life &
Permanent Plc and EBS Building Society, on March 31 to raise 24
billion euros after a third round of stress tests. The
government, which has already injected 46.3 billion euros into
the banks over the past two years, will provide whatever capital
they can’t generate by sharing losses with subordinated
bondholders, asset sales or share sales.  Ireland has also paid more than 30 billion euros in the
past year for banks’ risky real-estate loans.  “The crisis was created because of very widespread lack of
prudence in Irish society,” Nyberg said. Ireland was part “of
a more general trend” and there was the “same kind of happy-
go-lucky” attitude elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  