-- 
Miro Show at Tate Has Fanciful Blobs, Squiggles, Turds: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-04-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/miro-tate-show-has-fanciful-blobs-squiggles-earthy-turds-martin-gayford.html
There’s a certain amount of crap in
the new exhibition, “Joan Miro: The Ladder of Escape,” at  Tate
Modern  in  London .  That doesn’t prevent it from being a fine show, which not
only contains many of the artist’s most celebrated works, but
transforms your ideas about him.  Indeed, the crap is part of the point. It appears
unforgettably in the title of the 1935 painting “Man and Woman
in Front of a Pile of Excrement.” As the critic Robert Hughes
pointed out in his book “Barcelona,” that’s an extremely
Catalan subject. Miro (1893-1983) was a most Catalan artist --
industrious and anarchic, mystical and earthy.  In Catalonia, Hughes wrote, an unusual figure is on sale
for the Christmas crib. “A red Catalan cap, or barretina,
flopping over his head, the fellow squats, breeches down, with a
brown cone of excrement connecting his buttocks to the earth.”  An infant in just this posture is to be seen in the center
of Miro’s early masterpiece, “The Farm” (1921-2), an
encyclopedic catalog of the Catalan countryside: the animals,
plants, ancient buildings and fertile soil (being fertilized
further by the small individual in the middle).  This powerful painting would have been a perfectly
distinguished climax to an artistic career. For Miro, it was
only the beginning of half a century of dizzying exploration.
Moving to Paris, he allied himself with the Surrealists.  Radical Lines  His images of the countryside became the theme of
increasingly radical, almost abstract pictures. The Catalan
peasant was reduced to a few fine lines, plus that
characteristic cap, on a canvas of carefully painted nothingness
suggesting an empty sky or the nebulous backdrop to a dream.  Then, in the mid-1930s, as the politic crisis in  Spain 
turned to civil war, Miro’s art became harsher and more
grotesque (as in that couple with the pile of excrement). In
1937, he created an extraordinary apocalyptic still life,
“Still Life With Old Shoe.” It’s one of the greatest of
Spanish paintings, in which the horrors of contemporary conflict
are evoked by a few humble objects: a broken bottle, as Miro
said himself, “like a burning house,” an apple speared by a
“cruel fork.”  Miro fled the German invasion of  France  in 1940, moving
first to the coast of Normandy, eventually back to his native
land, then ruled by Franco. During this flight, he produced a
series of marvelous paintings on paper, the “Constellations”
(1940-41). These consisted of his personal symbols -- colorful
squiggles and blobs denoting “bird,” “star,” “woman” --
strewn across an airy background.  Scorched Canvases  Miro might simply have gone on repeating this idiom -- and
he did frequently. The exhibition focuses on a series of
adventurous works he produced in the 1960s and 1970s. There are
violent-looking burned pictures from 1973 in which he allowed
fire to mutilate the canvases. They’re startling.  Even more impressive are series of huge three-piece works
in a sort of zen-abstract manner, including one triptych in
which a single fine line wanders across the monochrome white
surface of each enormous picture. This sounds boring yet is
actually a compelling demonstration that even less can be more.
The three “Fireworks” I-III (1974) were created by throwing
paint at the canvases, which sounds silly though looks
exhilarating.  It isn’t clear whether Miro was leading or following
younger artists such as Cy Twombly. Still, you leave the show
wondering whether he might have been his most audacious at the
age of 80.  “Joan Miro: The Ladder of Escape” is at Tate Modern,
London, through Sept. 11, supported by the Institut Ramon Llull,
sponsored by British Land Co., Finsbury Ltd. and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  The exhibition will travel to the Fundacio Joan Miro,
Barcelona, in October 2011, and to the National Gallery of Art,
Washington D.C., in May 2012. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 