-- 
Iron Mountain to Return Cash, May Sell Digital Assets

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-20T14:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/iron-mountain-may-become-reit-to-avoid-elliott-proxy-contest-2-.html
(Corrects story that ran April 19 to show Iron Mountain is
considering selling only parts of its digital business.)  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM) , the world’s
largest document storage company, said it will return cash to
shareholders and may sell parts of its digital unit after
pressure from hedge fund investor Elliott Management Corp.  Iron Mountain also agreed to consider converting to a real
estate investment trust, a move that Elliott encouraged, Iron
Mountain said in a statement today. One of Elliott’s nominees
will join the Iron Mountain board, staving off a proxy fight in
which the  fund manager  run by  Paul Singer  had sought four seats.  The New York-based hedge fund, which owns less than 5
percent of Iron Mountain, called for a review of the storage
company’s strategy, operations and capital in a statement March
10, saying the company’s stock could more than double to $77 a
share if it converted to a REIT and implemented its other
proposals.  “Investors should be pleasantly surprised that the return
of capital is quite significant,” said Andrew Wittmann, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee , who is neutral on
the stock. “The 12-month plan is pretty aggressive, so they’re
going to have to start pretty soon.”  The document-storage company plans to return about $1.2
billion to shareholders during the next 12 months through stock
repurchases and dividends and distribute about $2.2 billion
through 2013, according to the statement. Iron Mountain took
most of Elliott’s suggestions, Wittmann said.  Digital Business  Iron Mountain, based in  Boston , provides business storage
and maintains documents including records, electronic files,
medical data and e-mail. Iron Mountain’s effort to expand its
international and digital businesses hasn’t been profitable
enough, Elliott said in March.  Iron Mountain rose $1, or 3 percent, to $34.90 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has risen
33 percent since March 9, the day before Elliott called for a
strategic review of the company.  “We strongly support the board of directors’ plan to
increase stockholder value with the actions announced today,”
Ken Charles Feinberg, co-portfolio manager at New York-based
Davis Selected Advisers LLP, Iron Mountain’s largest investor as
of March with a 21 percent share, said in the statement.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  Iron Mountain’s management “concluded that the company
could not continue investing in technology development and meet
its return requirements and that exploring strategic
alternatives for the digital business was in the best interest
of Iron Mountain’s stockholders,” according to the document-
storage company’s statement. Options include a potential sale of
the company’s digital archiving and online backup services.  Less than two weeks after Elliott’s proposal, Iron Mountain
adopted a so-called poison-pill provision, meant to keep
investors from gaining control of the company. The shareholder-
rights plan was a reaction to “extraordinary trading activity”
in the company’s securities, said Stephen Golden, vice president
of  investor relations  at Iron Mountain.  Last week, Iron Mountain Chairman Richard Reese took on the
chief executive officer role after Bob Brennan stepped down as
president and CEO.  As part of its pact with Elliott, Iron Mountain today
agreed to nominate Allan Loren, one of Elliott’s candidates, to
its board of directors at the 2011 annual meeting, scheduled for
June 10. Elliott agreed to withdraw its other nominees for the
board at the event, Iron Mountain said.  Constantin R. Boden, a board member for more than 20 years,
is retiring, according to the statement. The company will work
in tandem with Elliott and Davis Selected Advisers to fill the
position with an independent candidate, Iron Mountain said.  Iron Mountain’s board plans to form a committee, chaired by
Reese, to evaluate ways to maximize value through alternative
financing, capital and tax strategies and will make the analysis
of a REIT conversion “first priority,” the company said.  J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are serving as
financial advisers for Iron Mountain, and Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP and Sullivan & Worcester LLP are serving as legal advisers.
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP is the legal
adviser to Elliott.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Kucera at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  