-- 
Liverpool's Comolli Is Planning Triple French Swoop, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-19T10:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/liverpool-s-comolli-is-planning-triple-french-swoop-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Liverpool’s French Foray  Liverpool technical director Damien Comolli has identified
Lyon goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris , Paris Saint-Germain defender
Mamadou Sakho and Rennes midfielder Yann M’Vila to bolster the
Reds next season,  the Sun  reported.  The trio would cost between 45 million pounds ($73.2
million) and 55 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Liverpool would finance the signings by selling players
including  Alberto Aquilani . The Italian midfielder has spent
this season on loan at Juventus a year after joining for 20
million pounds from Roma, the Sun added.  Wall Beaten  The Football Association may invoice  Manchester United  for
damage to a wall in the Wembley locker-room that occurred after
the team’s 1-0 F.A. Cup semifinal defeat to Manchester City last
weekend, the  Sun said .  The newspaper said someone “took out their frustrations”
on the wall in the manager’s side of the dressing room during
the trip to the London stadium.  Ben Arfa Back  Newcastle may get Hatem Ben Arfa back from his broken leg
for the last three games of the season,  the Daily Mail said.   The Frenchman has been out since suffering a double
fracture following a challenge by Manchester City’s Nigel de
Jong in October.  Carlo for Madrid?  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  could replace  Jose Mourinho 
as Real Madrid coach, the  Mail  said.  Ancelotti is on a shortlist to take over from Mourinho,
whose future looks uncertain amid strains with bosses and the
Spanish media, the newspaper said.  Ancelotti’s own future at Chelsea is also in doubt. The
Italian said he doesn’t know if he’ll be coaching the Blues next
season.  Berbatov Doubts  There’s a question mark over the future of Manchester
United’s Bulgarian forward Dimitar Berbatov following a poor
performance in the F.A. Cup semifinal loss, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Berbatov has a year left on the contract he signed when he
joined for a club record 30 million pounds in September 2008.
He’s unsure if United will trigger a clause allowing the team to
extend the deal by a further 12 months, the Mirror said.  Berbatov has been benched in recent matches as coach  Alex
Ferguson  preferred to pair  Wayne Rooney  with Mexican forward
 Javier Hernandez . Berbatov will return to the sidelines for
tonight’s match with Newcastle as Rooney is returning from
suspension, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  