-- 
J&J's Penalty on Risperdal Marketing Violations Postponed by State Judge

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   G a r y   H e n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T16:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/j-j-judge-defers-ruling-on-risperdal-penalty-in-south-carolina.html
A  South Carolina  judge today
deferred a decision on the penalties he will impose on a Johnson
& Johnson unit for violating consumer-protection laws in a case
in which the attorney general seeks billions of dollars.  Circuit Judge Roger Couch ended a two-day hearing by saying
Attorney General Alan Wilson and lawyers for J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-
Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit had two more weeks to file written
arguments.  Jurors ruled March 22 that Janssen sent doctors a
misleading letter in 2003 on the safety and effectiveness of its
antipsychotic drug Risperdal. The panel also said the letter and
the drug’s package label violated the South Carolina Unfair
Trade Practices Act.  “I obviously have received a great deal of information,”
Couch said in the Court of Common Pleas in Spartanburg. “I’ll
report to you once I have my findings.”  Lawyers for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Janssen urged
Couch to impose minimal damages. They said the letter sent to
7,194 doctors in South Carolina wasn’t untrue, and that no
company had ever faced “substantial penalty” for a package
insert approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  “The question is whether anybody was hurt,” Janssen
lawyer Edward Posner argued today to the judge. “There’s no
evidence that anybody was deceived, or that a doctor, patient or
the state was harmed by the violation.”  $5,000 Per Violation  An attorney for South Carolina, Donald Coggins, urged the
judge to impose the maximum penalty of $5,000 for each of
thousands of violations. Those violations, the state argues,
include as many as 722,000 Risperdal prescriptions written,
183,144 calls on doctors by Janssen sales representatives, and
496,565 sample boxes distributed.  “It is the public policy of the state of South Carolina
that we don’t want companies coming in and engaging in unfair
and deceptive trade practices,” he said. “For that law to have
any teeth, the court needs to impose penalties that are
significant and substantial. To do less, would not only make a
mockery of this proceeding, it allow this behemoth to laugh at
us.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s total
sales, according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million last year, according to a January earnings report.  Risperdal Consta, the long-acting version of the
antipsychotic drug, generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , officials said this month.  Third State Trial  The case is the third of about 10 state lawsuits to be
considered by jurors over J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaigns.
In June, J&J won dismissal of  Pennsylvania ’s suit alleging the
company hid the drug’s diabetes risk and tricked regulators into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine.  A Louisiana jury ordered the drugmaker in October to pay
$257.7 million in damages to that state for making misleading
claims about Risperdal’s safety. A judge later added $73 million
in legal fees to the award.  A West Virginia judge in a 2009 non-jury trial awarded
$3.95 million, finding the company misled doctors about the
risks and benefits of Risperdal. The state dropped its Risperdal
claim after J&J won an appeal, company officials said in
February.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-42-1438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Washington at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Henderson in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
at   wgaryh@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  