-- 
J&J-Synthes Takeover Obscuring Recalls in Makeover: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-19T20:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/j-j-synthes-merger-obscures-product-recalls-in-instant-makeover-real-m-a.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , reeling from
more than 50 drug and device recalls since the start of 2010, is
trying to recapture its younger self by digesting  Synthes Inc. (SYST)   Synthes, the largest maker of devices to treat bone
fractures and trauma, has an operating margin of 35 percent, the
highest among medical-products makers including J&J with market
values of more than $5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Synthes has increased the amount of net income
generated per dollar of revenue for seven straight years to the
best in the industry, while J&J’s profit margin declined in two
of the past four years, the data show.  J&J, with almost $28 billion in cash at its disposal, is in
talks to acquire Synthes, a $19.4-billion company with only $98
million in debt, as it seeks to revive its image after product
recalls and lawsuits over failed artificial hips. The world’s
second-biggest maker of health-care products would gain a device
company with almost 50 percent of the trauma market. Synthes’s
operating margins are 45 percent higher than  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,
which investors had speculated was a target for J&J.  “J&J had a severe challenge to its premier reputation
given all the recalls,” said Michael Holland, who oversees more
than $4 billion, including J&J shares, as chairman of Holland &
Co. in New York. “This relatively bold step to buy a premier
company is a significant move to regain their luster.”  Share Gains  J&J’s shares rose as much as 1 percent yesterday before
closing down 0.2 percent at $60.46 on the New York Stock
Exchange. That was still the third-best performance in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average, which slid 1.1 percent as  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its outlook on U.S. long-term debt to “negative.”  Synthes advanced 5.6 percent to 146.5 Swiss francs in
Zurich yesterday to give it a market value of 17.4 billion Swiss
francs ($19.4 billion). The West Chester, Pennsylvania-based
company said in a statement that it’s in talks with J&J about a
possible combination. Synthes doesn’t intend to provide more
information until a definitive agreement is reached or talks are
terminated, it said.  William Price, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J, declined to comment in an e-mail.  J&J climbed 3.7 percent to $62.69 on the NYSE today after
the company reported first-quarter earnings that beat the
average estimate from analysts and raised its full-year
forecast. Synthes gained 0.6 percent to 147.4 francs in Zurich.  ‘Change the Focus’  J&J is considering an acquisition of Synthes after product
recalls cost the company $900 million in sales last year. J&J
removed almost 200 million packages of Tylenol, Motrin and other
over-the-counter medications tainted by nauseating odors or
improper ingredients. Its DePuy unit has also withdrawn 93,000
hip implants that failed at higher-than-expected rates, forcing
repeat surgeries.  After the company’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit was
charged on March 10 with violating U.S. law, the Food & Drug
Administration expanded oversight of three manufacturing plants
for at least five years. The settlement doesn’t preclude future
criminal charges, the agency said at the time.  “They want to change the focus of the conversation,” said
 Erik Gordon , a University of Michigan business professor in  Ann
Arbor  who studies the biomedical industry. J&J is “probably
thinking, ‘Let’s have the conversation be the potential upside
of something,’” he said.  While Synthes and J&J may “fit together,” J&J should be
focused on fixing its in-house recall problems, he said.  ‘Great Margins’  Synthes had an operating margin of 35 percent in 2010, the
best among 17 medical-product companies with market values
greater than $5 billion, including J&J at 27 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s efficiency turning
revenue into operating income also topped rivals specializing in
medical instruments such as Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,
St. Jude Medical Inc. in St. Paul, Minnesota, and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  in Natick, Massachusetts.  Synthes improved its profit margin to 24.6 percent last
year from 6.1 percent in 2003, the data show.  “They have great margins,” said Michael Liss, a Kansas
City, Missouri-based portfolio manager at American Century
Investments, which oversees $109 billion and owned about 7.8
million shares of J&J as of Dec. 31. “It only helps J&J’s
margins overall.”  Synthes has attractive margins because it’s in the
orthopedics market and has implemented efficiencies, Gilgian
Eisner, a spokesman for the company in Solothurn, Switzerland,
said yesterday.  Artificial Hips  J&J had looked at buying Smith & Nephew,  Europe ’s biggest
marker of artificial hips and knees, a person familiar with the
plan who declined to be identified because the discussions were
private said in January. The U.K. device maker had a 16 percent
profit margin in the 2010 calendar year. The London-based
company declined 3 percent yesterday, the most since January,
after Synthes confirmed it was in talks with J&J.  An acquisition of Synthes would push J&J’s share of the
$5.5 billion orthopedic trauma market to 54 percent from about 5
percent, and boost earnings between 4 percent and 5 percent in
each of the next three years,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo &
Co. analyst in  New York , said in a note to clients yesterday.  The trauma market will grow faster than replacement hips
and knees, according to Biegelsen.  J&J’s share of the $9 billion spinal-care market would
almost double, he said. The company may have to divest some of
Synthes’s spine business, according to Lisa Bedell Clive, a
London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  ‘Called Into Question’  Prices for Synthes’s trauma devices may succumb to the
pressure that has narrowed margins for other medical devices,
according to  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
in New York.  The sustainability of Synthes’s profits “has been and
should be called into question,” he wrote in a note yesterday.  Synthes’s exclusive arrangement with the Swiss AO
Foundation may draw antitrust scrutiny from U.S. regulators,
Bernstein’s Clive said. The non-profit teaches courses for
surgeons using only Synthes products, leading to many becoming
Synthes customers, she said.  Like J&J, Synthes has also grappled with product recalls.
After reports that its Synex II Central Body components had
failed in six people, leading to pain and loss of height for
some, Synthes recalled the spinal implants in 2009.  Credit Ratings  The company was also ordered to sell its Norian unit, which
pleaded guilty in November to one felony and 110 misdemeanor
counts for conducting an unauthorized trial of its bone-mending
cement products. Three patients died, according to the U.S.
Justice Department.  J&J built up $19.4 billion in cash and near cash items and
$8.3 billion in short-term investments as of the end of last
year that could be tapped for acquisitions, compared with $16.8
billion in total debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The maker of health-care products is one of only four U.S.
companies to have the top credit rating from both Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ; Microsoft Corp. of Redmond,  Washington ; and
 Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP)  in Roseland,  New Jersey , are the
others, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  J&J is also ranked AAA in Bloomberg’s Company Credit
Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness,
profitability and other financial ratios. Even if J&J added
long-term debt equal to the current market value of Synthes, it
would still have a rating of A2L, the fourth-highest investment
grade level. J&J’s combined cash and short-term investments
outstrip the market capitalization of Synthes by about $8.2
billion, the data show.  Biggest Deal  Synthes, which is not rated by S&P or Moody’s, had total
debt of $98.4 million at the end of last year, compared with
$736.6 million in cash and near-cash items and $1.25 billion in
short-term investments, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An acquisition of Synthes for about $20 billion would be
the biggest deal in J&J’s 125-year history, surpassing the $16.6
billion purchase of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s consumer health
care business in 2006. Pfizer is the world’s largest maker of
medical products by sales.  “J&J is what it is. It’s a big powerhouse,” said Harry Rady, who oversees $270 million as chief executive officer of
Rady Asset Management LLC, a hedge fund in  La Jolla ,  California .
“They could choose to allocate resources to fight all these
small battles, or they could make a transformational acquisition
like this to really change the face of the company.”  Overall, there have been 7,336 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $713.1 billion, a 29 percent increase from
the $553.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 