-- 
Japan’s Exports Slump a More-Than-Expected 2.2% After March 11 Earthquake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-20T01:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/japan-s-exports-slump-a-more-than-expected-2-2-after-march-11-earthquake.html
Japan ’s exports fell more than
economists expected in March as shipments of automobiles tumbled,
declines analysts said may worsen as companies struggle to
restore facilities and output in the wake of a record earthquake.  Overseas shipments declined 2.2 percent from a year earlier,
the first drop since November 2009, the  Finance Ministry  said in
Tokyo today. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.1 percent drop.  Car exports fell 28 percent from a year earlier and
shipments for electronic devices also slid as the disaster
prevented companies from transporting goods. Automakers
including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. were forced to
reduce production after the March 11 disaster.  “We’ll definitely see a deeper drop in exports this month
given that the damage to the supply chain will become more
apparent,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Overseas demand is still
solid but overcoming the supply constraints hinges on how
quickly companies can restore facilities.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose for the first time in
four days as investors focused on signs of a rebound in the  U.S.
economy , Japan’s second-largest overseas customer, rather than
the trade figures. The Nikkei gained 1.5 percent and the yen
traded at 82.77 per dollar as of 10:13 a.m. in Tokyo.  Disaster Damage  The earthquake and tsunami killed or left missing more than
27,000 people. The government estimated the damage from the
disaster may swell to as much as 25 trillion yen ($302 billion).  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said on April 1 that all
vehicles at Sendai port in the stricken northern region were
swallowed by last month’s tsunami. The catastrophe also damaged
a nuclear plant northeast of Tokyo and disrupted supply chains
and power supply. Honda Motor will need two to three months to
restore its production at Japan auto plants back to normal
levels, Chief Executive Officer Takanobu Ito said on April 8.  Reports since the temblor have shown consumer and corporate
sentiment have slumped and economists forecast the economy will
shrink this quarter. The drop in overseas shipments, the driver
of the nation’s expansion, will accelerate, according to
economist  Yoshimasa Maruyama .  “The year-on-year drop will be a double-digit figure” in
April, said Maruyama, a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo. “The plunge in exports is going to depress the economy
considerably.”  ‘Downward Pressure’  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on April 11
that the economy will face “strong downward pressure” after
the quake because of a slowdown in corporate output. His board
this month unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan program to
banks aimed at getting funds to companies hit by the quake.  A report yesterday showed  consumer confidence  fell by the
most since comparable figures were made available in 2007, an
indication that households may start paring back spending
following the earthquake.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  plans to unveil what he says may
be the first of multiple supplementary budgets this month. While
Kan has yet to detail how the spending will be paid for, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano indicated yesterday the government
may consider using taxes to fund projects.  Even if Japan’s economy contracts in the second quarter, it
may start bouncing back from the third quarter, supported by
reconstruction demand and overseas demand, economists say.  Today’s report showed shipments to  China  rose 3.8 percent
despite the disaster, an indication of resilient demand in
Japan’s largest market. Shipments to Europe rose 4.3 percent.
Shipments to the U.S. slid 3.4 percent and those to Asia were
unchanged.  “A recovery in production and exports may get underway
faster than a rebound in  consumer spending , as long as overseas
demand is strong and supply constraints are resolved,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief Japan economist at RBS in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  