-- 
Japan Domestic Steel Demand to Fall as Carmakers Cut Operations

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-04-19T07:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/japan-domestic-steel-demand-to-fall-as-carmakers-cut-operations.html
Demand for steel in  Japan , the
world’s second-largest producer, will likely fall this fiscal
year as customers including carmakers slash production following
the nation’s worst earthquake, an industry chief said.  “The earthquake has had a serious impact on Japanese
manufacturers,” Japan Iron and Steel Federation Chairman  Eiji Hayashida  told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “Even if there’s
demand for restoration and reconstruction, domestic demand will
likely fall.”  The 9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan
on March 11 prompted automakers and electronics companies to
shut plants, delaying steel sales to customers. New car sales in
Japan decreased 37 percent in March from a year earlier, the
biggest drop for the month, according to the Japan Automobile
Dealers Association.  The industry has yet to give an updated forecast for steel
production after the quake, Hayashida said today. In December,
the federation said domestic steelmakers will produce about 110
million metric tons of crude steel for the financial year
through March 2012, little changed from the year earlier.  While the disaster created an emergency demand for steel
used in temporary houses for evacuees, the amount is not
significant, Hayashida said.  Steelmakers expect demand for steel used in reconstruction
of areas affected by the earthquake and tsunami will increase
after the summer, the industry group chief said. He is also the
president of  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ’s steel unit, Japan’s largest
mill after  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)   Steelmakers will also unveil a plan by the end of this
month on how the industry can save electricity, Hayashida said.
The earthquake prompted Tokyo Electric Power Co. to shut  power
plants  including the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
facility.  The government wants companies to reduce power use by as
much as 25 percent this summer to avoid large-scale blackouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  