-- 
Japan Voices Support for Treasuries After S&P Cuts U.S.'s Credit Outlook

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-19T04:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/japan-voices-support-for-treasuries-after-s-p-cuts-u-s-s-credit-outlook.html
Japanese policy makers signaled
their commitment to holding Treasuries after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered its outlook for the U.S.’s AAA credit rating to
“negative” for the first time yesterday.  “We continue to see U.S. debt as an attractive
investment,” Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. Treasuries would still be “extremely
good-quality securities” even if the grade was lowered,
Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said.  Japan  is the world’s second-largest holder of U.S.
Treasuries after  China , with $890.3 billion investment as of
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P yesterday
said the outlook change indicates that there’s a one-in-three
chance that the rating might be cut within two years.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.5 percent to 9,417.28
as of 12:39 p.m. in  Tokyo , and the yen rose against the dollar
as investors flocked to safer assets after the S&P announcement.
Japan’s currency traded at 82.50 per dollar.  Japan, which has the largest debt burden in the
industrialized world, had its own sovereign rating lowered to
AA- by S&P in January. It lost the AAA grade in 2001.  Debt constraints in the aftermath of a record March 11
earthquake prompted Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano to
signal today the government may consider raising taxes to pay
for rebuilding efforts.  ‘Including’ Taxes  The ruling Democratic Party of Japan “is considering
various measures including this,” Edano told reporters today in
Tokyo. “The government hasn’t reached the stage where we’re
considering specific means for revenue.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  may raise the 5 percent
consumption tax to 8 percent for three years starting in 2012 to
help finance rebuilding, the Yomiuri newspaper reported today,
without citing anyone. When asked about a possible tax increase,
Noda said the government is focusing on rolling out its first
stimulus package by the end of this month.  Between 58 percent and 69 percent of voters favor higher
taxes to help pay for reconstruction, according to polls
released yesterday by the Nikkei, Asahi and Mainichi newspapers.
Asked how Japan should finance the effort, 38 percent said tax
increases, 13 percent chose bond sales, and 31 percent said a
combination of both, according to the Nikkei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  