-- 
Japanese Consumer Confidence Plunges on Record Earthquake

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-04-19T05:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/japanese-consumer-confidence-plunges-on-record-earthquake-1-.html
Japan’s  consumer confidence  tumbled
last month after a record earthquake, adding to signs the
world’s third-largest economy may contract this quarter.  The household sentiment index dropped to 38.6 in March from
41.2 in February, according to seasonally adjusted figures
released by the Cabinet Office today in Tokyo.  Retailers including Seven & I Holdings Co. forecast a slump
in profits as the nation reels in the aftermath of the
magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami, which crimped power supply and
led to a nuclear crisis on par with Chernobyl. The risk is that
a slump in sentiment precipitates a “downward spiral” where
spending cuts weigh on the economy, in turn reducing incomes and
jobs, according to economist David Rea.  “It is important not to overlook the intangible effects of
the disaster on ‘animal spirits,’” Rea,  Japan  economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said before the report. “The
bias towards austerity will not lift any time soon.”  Today’s report echoes the result of the merchant sentiment
report from April 8, which showed confidence slumped at the
fastest pace on record since the Cabinet Office began that
survey in 2000.  Seven & I, owner of the 7-Eleven convenience-store brand,
said net income may drop 22 percent because of the March 11
temblor. Fast Retailing Co.,  Asia ’s biggest apparel chain, said
sales at its Uniqlo stores in Japan fell 12 percent last month.  Respect for Victims  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  urged
households outside the disaster regions to return to their
normal lives, warning that cutting back out of respect for the
quake’s victims would damage the economy.  That reluctance to spend, in addition to supply disruptions
that may crimp exports, is prompting economists to downgrade
their projections for Japanese gross domestic product. The
economy may shrink at an annual 3 percent pace in the three
months ending June, according to the median estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Cabinet Office today started releasing monthly
seasonally adjusted figures for the confidence index. Previously,
adjusted figures were provided only every quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  