-- 
J&J Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast After Weaker Dollar Boosts Sales

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-19T20:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/johnson-johnson-profit-falls-23-amid-recalls-of-drugs-artificial-hips.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of health products, increased its annual
earnings forecast after quarterly profit beat estimates on drug
sales and a weak dollar. The shares rose the most since 2008.  Earnings in 2011 will be $4.90 to $5 a share, above a
January forecast of $4.80 to $4.90,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J said in a statement today. Chief Financial Officer
Dominic Caruso said he saw signs that a drop-off in medical
procedures that hurt sales last year may be easing.  Revenue concerns are part of the motivation behind J&J’s
takeover talks with  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , a Swiss medical-device maker,
said  Jeff Jonas , a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye,  New York . While
consumer-product sales fell after the company pulled more than
40 brands,  prescription drugs  beat estimates for the quarter, he
said. A stronger flu season helped, as did new medicines for
psoriasis and arthritis, Jonas said.  “The story’s been delayed for a year and half because of
all the consumer recalls, but they do have a good drug
pipeline,” Jonas said in a telephone interview. “You could
potentially see accelerating revenue as they launch their new
drugs and recover on the consumer line.”  Shares Rise  Johnson & Johnson gained $2.23, or 3.7 percent, to $62.69
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, making
it the best performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . It
was the biggest one-day increase since November 2008 for J&J,
which has fallen 5.1 percent in the past 12 months.  Quarterly profit excluding one-time items of $1.35 topped
by 10 cents the average estimate of 16 analysts. Net income
dropped 23 percent to $3.48 billion, or $1.25 a share, hurt by
withdrawals of over-the-counter drugs and artificial hips.  Revenue rose 3.5 percent to $16.2 billion. About half of
the increase came from translating foreign currencies into
dollars, the company said.  “The market will probably like this, although currency was
49 percent of their growth so it’s not as rosy as the first read
will make it look,” said David Maris, a Credit Agricole analyst
in New York, in a telephone interview.  J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit pulled Tylenol,
Motrin and other consumer medicines last year because of
incorrect ingredients or a musty smell that sickened some
customers. The company doesn’t expect to get all of the products
back to the market until 2012, CFO Caruso said on a conference
call with analysts.  Recall Costs  Caruso said fixing the quality problems will cut earnings
this year by 12 cents a share, double January’s estimate, after
J&J signed a consent decree in March giving U.S. regulators
expanded oversight of three manufacturing plants. First-quarter
sales of J&J’s over-the-counter drugs fell 6.5 percent, led by a
27 percent drop in the U.S., because of the recalls.  Investors “are concerned about this damaging the
reputation of J&J,” said  Linda Bannister , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . “The company needs to make it right,
to get these things fixed.”  Synthes, which leads the $5.5 billion global market for
tools to treat broken bones, said in a  statement  yesterday that
it was in talks about being acquired by J&J. With a market value
of $19.5 billion, the  West Chester , Pennsylvania-based device
maker would be J&J’s biggest takeover ever.  Caruso declined to comment on any potential deal. J&J’s
priority for using its approximately $27 billion in cash and
near-term investments remains raising the dividend, he said.
After that, the company wants “to grow the business.”  Increasing Scale  “We’re the largest med-tech business in the world, so we
believe that having a broad base of med-tech businesses, of
scale, is important,” Caruso said. “And obviously where we
don’t have sufficient scale, we’d love to increase the scale
over time in the appropriate manner.”  Pharmaceutical division sales climbed 7.5 percent to $6.06
billion, J&J said. Revenue for psoriasis drug Stelara rose 91
percent to $166 million, while arthritis treatment Simponi’s
sales climbed 36 percent to $53 million. Sales of Levaquin, an
antibiotic, jumped 17 percent to $434 million because of a
higher incidence of flu and respiratory illness, the company
said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, is the largest health
products maker by annual sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  