-- 
Juniper’s First-Quarter Profit Meets Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-19T21:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/juniper-second-quarter-profit-forecast-misses-estimates-1-.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
largest maker of Internet networking equipment, reported first-
quarter profit that matched analysts’ estimates, a sign that
carriers are still spending to support surging Web use.  Revenue rose 21 percent to $1.1 billion from $912.6 million
in the year-earlier quarter, the Sunnyvale, California-based
company said today in a statement. Profit excluding some items
was 32 cents a share, matching analysts’ estimates.  Juniper is benefiting from Internet and telecommunications
service providers buying network gear to handle the flood of
data on smartphones and on computers running bandwidth-hungry
videos. Concern that spending from one of Juniper’s biggest
customers,  AT&T Inc. (T) , might decline did not materialize, said
Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in  New York .  “There’s nothing to be concerned about here,” said
Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New York. “There
was a concern about AT&T and Verizon cutting back on spending.
Nothing has changed in terms of their competitive strategy.”  Revenue in the current quarter will be $1.13 billion to
$1.18 billion, Juniper said in the statement. Profit excluding
some items will be as much as 34 cents a share. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expected $1.16 billion in sales and 36
cents a share of profit.  Juniper rose $1.18, or 3.1 percent, in late trading on the
York Stock Exchange composite trading after closing up 21 cents
to $38.47 at 4 p.m. The stock has climbed 23 percent in the last
12 months.  Second-Quarter Forecast  Juniper forecast second-quarter profit of 31 cents to 34
cents a share, missing the 36 cents estimated by analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Since joining Juniper in 2008, Chief Executive Officer
 Kevin Johnson  has expanded the company’s capabilities by
introducing security and data-center products and going after
larger rival  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Juniper gets most of its revenue from service providers
that buy routers to direct the flow of cell-phone text messages,
voice and data over their networks. The company is now pursuing
growth by going after the large businesses that have
traditionally bought switches from Cisco to manage data centers.  The company is continuing to “play offense” as it tries
to gain ground on competitors, Johnson said in an interview.  “Our performance in the first quarter is consistent with
our long-term financial goals,” Johnson said. “We’re on target
to meet or exceed those goals.”  New Gear  Juniper introduced the first product in a new family of
data-center gear in February, heightening its rivalry with  San
Jose , California-based Cisco. The company poured more than $100
million into the QFabric suite of products it spent three years
developing.  Companies buy Juniper’s switches for their networks, while
phone and Internet-service providers such as  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and AT&T typically purchase its more
expensive routers. About 70 percent of Juniper’s business is
from carriers, according to Sandeep Shyamsukha, an analyst at
Auriga USA LLC in San Francisco.  At the same time, Juniper faces a slower pace of corporate
spending on technology than in 2010 and steeper competition from
networking companies in  China , including  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Huawei
Technologies Co., and Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  