-- 
Kazakhstan Urges Russia, Belarus to Coordinate Currency Policies

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-04-19T14:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/kazakhstan-urges-russia-belarus-to-coordinate-currency-policies.html
Kazakhstan urged  Russia  and Belarus
to align currency policies between the three members of a
customs union and avoid “sharp, unilateral” devaluations.  “If we move toward a joint economic space with Russia and
Belarus, we need to form coherent currency policies,” Kazakh
central bank Governor Grigori Marchenko told reporters in Almaty
today. The central Asian nation was forced to weaken the tenge
twice in the past 16 years “not for domestic reasons but as a
result of sharp devaluations in neighboring countries.”  The three former Soviet republics entered a customs union
in July and plan to form common economic space by next year. The
adoption of a joint currency would be the “next logical step”
after creating a common market, Igor Shuvalov, a Russian first
deputy prime minister, said last year.  Belarus today abolished restrictions on trading the ruble
between banks as it seeks to stem the slide in the nation’s
foreign-currency reserves. The decision is “equivalent to a
devaluation,”  Barbara Nestor , an emerging-markets strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London , said by e-mail.  The former Soviet republic, which devalued its currency by
about a fifth in January 2009, may need to reduce the ruble’s
value by as much as 30 percent, Herbert Stepic, chief executive
officer of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , said on April 11.  The comments were echoed in an April 15 interview by  German Gref , chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, who predicted  the “government won’t be able to avoid a
devaluation.”  ‘Rather Complicated’  The customs union will delay steps to synchronize currency
policies until Belarus “resolves” its “rather complicated
situation,” Marchenko said.  The three partners have agreed to work toward integrating
currency policies in the union, he said. The National Bank of
Kazakhstan devalued the tenge by 63 percent in 1999 and 25
percent in 2009, according to Marchenko.  Russia’s central bank drained more than $200 billion, or
about a third of its reserves, in the six months through January
2009 as it managed a 35 percent devaluation of the ruble to the
dollar. The government defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt
and devalued the ruble in 1998.  Marchenko also urged the customs union to coordinate fiscal
programs to avoid the euro region’s mismatch between uniform
monetary policies and diverse approaches to spending among
governments in the currency bloc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 