-- 
Kenny Says Ireland Seeks Lower Bailout Rates (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-19T07:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/kenny-says-ireland-seeks-lower-bailout-rates-transcript-.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
gives a speech about the country’s economy, housing market and
the terms of its loan from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund .  Bloomberg Dublin bureau chief Dara Doyle moderates a
question and answer session following the speech yesterday at
Bloomberg’s European headquarters in London. (Source: Bloomberg)  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  ENDA KENNY, PRIME MINISTER OF IRELAND: I’m glad to be here
in Bloomberg and have this opportunity to say a few words to you
about our situation. I want to give you a flavor of what the new
Irish government, Irish, how we intend to continue our progress
of acting decisively to help engineer a recovery in our country
as quickly as possible.  The purpose of my visit to  London  today is threefold.
Firstly, earlier this morning I met with representatives of the
Irish community in Britain. Obviously you would be aware of the
very long traditional ties between Ireland and Britain in the
context of business, and work and employment and trade, social
activities, over very many years.  And I wanted on my first official visit to London as
Taoiseach to recognize the contribution that local authorities
make here, that the British government make here and that the
organizations which are funded by the Irish state through our
diplomat services make in respect of our citizens who live here
in Britain. That contribution is oftentimes not recognized as
wisely as it should be, both in Britain and at home in Ireland
and it was important for me as somebody who has a deep
understanding of this and the long history associated with it
that I should do that on one of my first official engagements
this morning.  Secondly, I want to communicate widely through the media
and through this particular event with key opinion formers and
the broader business community what the new government is
actually doing to address Ireland’s economic challenge. So I am
grateful to Bloomberg for hosting us today and to all of you for
coming along to both listen and to participate. I had some
interaction with Bloomberg in  Washington  when I was there
recently for the St. Patrick’s Day festivities.  And, finally, later this afternoon I am going down to
Downing Street to meet with Prime Minister Cameron and we will
discuss a range of issues there of mutual interest between
Ireland and Britain. We met at a number of recent European
Council meetings, but this afternoon’s meeting will focus
primarily on the unique bilateral relationship between our two
countries, Britain and Ireland. And that relationship is one of
mutual respect, one of trust and one of opportunity. It is one
of friendship and support, including financial support in these
more difficult times.  As Taoiseach and as leader of the Irish people it is a
friendship that I value, that I prioritize and that I intend to
develop. This friendship has been achieved through decades of
working together towards the goal of peace in  Northern Ireland .  Many of you, if you have taken any passing interest in that
complex problem over 40 years, will understand and appreciate
the degree to which all parties and politicians of all parties
have put their minds and their intent on bringing about a
lasting solution to this which is now in place and being
implemented through the Good Friday agreement. As we speak here
the election campaign is underway for election to the Northern
Ireland Assembly.  That Assembly has just completed the first full term of
power sharing government ever in Northern Ireland after decades,
indeed centuries of division and violence. So that’s a powerful
symbol of what Democratic politics can achieve when everybody
actually applies their minds to it. It demonstrates to us all
that in politics there is no problem, political, economic or
social that cannot be resolved.  The historic process of peace and reconciliation will be
underscored, as John has pointed out, by the historic visit next
month of  Queen Elizabeth  to Ireland, the first such visit of a
reigning monarch in 100 years and since independence. It is an
event of truly historic importance and it will demonstrate how
both nations have come to terms with a difficult past, but it is
also a visit that looks forward and shows how two neighboring
islands intend to cooperate together for an even stronger
future.  You will also be aware that the visit of the Queen will be
followed a few days later by a visit by the President of the
United States, President Obama. That visit will also reflect the
unique and the historic ties that exist between Ireland and the
 United States  and that visit will reflect the unique and
historic ties that exist in so many ways over so many centuries.  And taken together I believe that these two events in this
place of one week will provide a springboard for our people to
look forward with hope and with confidence to a brighter future.
I also believe that they show that whatever else people say
about Ireland the Irish we are no ordinary country and we are no
ordinary people.  We have seen dark days before, very dark days indeed. We
have dealt with and overcome adversity in the past. We will do
so again with the creativity and the imagination of our people
alike to the help of our friends and partners in Britain, in
 Europe  and in the wider world.  It’s my belief that we will emerge from our current
challenges as stronger than before. And to lead that comeback is
the fundamental challenge of the government that I now lead. And
I have no illusions, none, about the scale of the challenge that
we face.  As John pointed out, no government in the history of our
state has faced the scale of economic challenge that our
government now faces. Well, equally so, no government in the
history of our state has been given the strength of democratic
mandate that the government I lead now has.  I know that this audience is well informed on these matters
and you will have your own views on Ireland’s prospects for
economic recovery, so I am not here to promise the unachievable
or to offer quick and easy solutions when there are none. Nor am
I here to ask skeptics to change their minds overnight. I am
here to say a few words about how I believe that Ireland will
actually recover.  And all I ask of this audience with a wide and diverse set
of opinions is to listen carefully and to think maybe to think
again about the future of our country. For the first time in
several years there is a real debate about Ireland’s genuine
prospects for export-led recovery and I invite you to debate
with us and to participate in that debate in the months ahead.  And as we debate that future I am reminded of the old joke
that equity markets have predicted ten out of the last five
recessions. And I am also told that according to IMF research
the bond markets, the bond markets have managed to predict 36 of
the last seven defaults. Think about that. We have predicted 36
of the last seven. Unfortunately, I didn’t bring the statistics
for politicians predicting a better future. That might be the
other way.  Ultimately, I recognize of course that economic outcomes
will speak for themselves. I know that we will be judged by our
results, not our rhetoric, and it results and not rhetoric that
actually interest me.  I lead a government, as I said, with an overwhelming
mandate from the people to do what is necessary, to do what is
necessary, to bring about economic recovery and to sort out our
own problems. Our people are very pragmatic. They want to know
what the scale of the problem is. They want to know the range of
options and solutions that have been put forward and they want
clarity, and decisiveness and leadership from their government
to end the days of uncertainty and confusion and bring about
clarity of decision so that people can say I can now plan for
the future and for the future of our children.  The mandate I’ve been given, the largest in the history of
the state, gives my government the authority to make the changes
that count. And that gives us the opportunity to give clear
leadership and to take hard and tough decisions. And we will
make those both with courage and with fairness.  The task that I set for the new government which I lead is
to carefully formulate and then to implement decisively the
policies that are required to address all of our problems. Now
after five weeks in office, having inherited a particular legacy
and having looked at the scale of that we have already made some
significant progress.  We have commenced an intensive engagement with all our
international partners and that includes discussions I have had
already with my fellow members of the European Council on a
number of occasions, as well as with the Troika of the EU, the
ECB and the IMF. Among the leaders that I have had discussions
with and talked with already have been  Chancellor Merkel ,
President Sarkozy, Prime Minister Cameron, the Presidents of the
European Council, the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank , President Obama and US Treasury Secretary Geithner.  My ministerial colleagues have been engaged in intensive
contacts with their counterparts in the finance ministries and
the foreign ministries of Europe. We have made major decisions
on the future of our banking system in response to the most
severe and the most transparent stress tests carried out with
the assistance of highly reputable international experts.  We have committed in our program for government to meet the
fiscal consolidation targets that have been agreed in the EUR,
IMF program and we are on target to do that. In our first five
weeks in office we have initiated a far reaching, comprehensive
spending review that will be completed in September and that
will form a solid base for deficit reduction in the years ahead.  For those of you who might not appreciate what’s involved
here, for years in our country the Ministry for Finance did the
bilateral arrangements with all of the different ministries,
money allocated by vote of Cabinet to those departments, but
there was never the capacity to actually determine how
effectively that money was being spent, what value was achieved,
being achieved for that money, of where duplication or waste
occurred. We have split that department into two separate
departments, one which is the Department of Finance for that
bigger picture, but the second in respect of senior ministry
dealing with the area of public service reform and public
expenditure.  And this comprehensive review will go into every element of
every vote of every department to see how that money is being
spent, how it’s being used, where that program should be
abolished, where the program should be limited or where the
program should be enhanced. And that process will be completed
by September, which will allow for the first time a really true
and accurate picture of the Irish internal budgetary situation
as we prepare a program for the 2012 budget which will be
introduced later in the year.  Last week we concluded successfully, I might add, the first
review of the EU’s ECB, IMF Troika team in Dublin. The Troika
agreed that Ireland is fully compliant in respect of the
conditionality set out on the EU, IMF program to the end of the
first quarter.  It expressed the strong support for the actions adopted by
the new government in relation to bank restructuring and bank
recapitalization. We agreed to change some aspects of the
program that were concluded with the previous government and to
replace those with proposals that we included in our own new
program for our government. These include changes in the minimum
wage with a compensatory adjustment on employers’ social
insurance and a new fiscally neutral jobs initiative which will
be announced in the Irish Parliament in May.  There was also an important agreement that a transfer of
loans with a value below EUR20 million to the National
Management Agency will not proceed. Instead, the banks will
manage down their exposure to these loans themselves in line
with the government’s new policy.  While our problems lie predominantly in the world of
banking and economics, I also believe that part of the solution
lies in the world of politics and political reform. The new
government program actually contains the most far reaching
political reforms since independence. These reforms will be
vigorously and swiftly implemented.  I can speak with some authority and experience in this
regard as I happen to be the longest serving member of the Irish
Parliament. In that sense I know the perception and the
frustration that citizens have when they see a never ending
series of circles about how government does its business in its
broadest sense and we intend to change that.  We have taken clear action to reduce pay and perks for
politicians and to change how we appoint persons to serve on
state boards and in the senior public service. As you would be
aware, there are already have been significant changes in the
leadership of our central bank and financial regulator, as well
as in the management of the banks, more to follow.  We have reorganized the machinery of government to give the
highest priority to public service reform and to  job creation ,
while we are bringing new methods and new expertise in key areas
such as banking policy to give an injection of competence and
managerial experience from the outside to the public service. We
are also planning a series of important national referenda to
modernize our Constitution. It is my intention that the pace and
the quality of that reform will be maintained and indeed
enhanced over the next number of months.  I believe that just as Ireland had seen the worst of many
aspects of the global economic crisis we can now show the way to
new ways of doing business that become a model for other
countries for the future. Of course, I fully acknowledge that
there is a long and difficult road ahead to get to that
destination.  Politics was never meant to be a bed of roses. The
challenge facing me, and my government and the government I lead
are unappreciated in that regard. There are questions we have to
answer on that route about our banking system, about our fiscal
sustainability and about our prospects for economic growth.  I would like to offer a few observations on these issue if
I may, which are the key dimensions of our economic equation. On
banking the key objective for my government is to strengthen
fiscal sustainability by separating bank risk from that of the
sovereign.  Clearly this will only be achieved by returning the banking
system to health. The recent capital and liquidity assessment
exercises, the so-called PCAR and PLAR exercises by the Irish
Central Bank have achieved considerable attention.  They have been extremely thorough and transparent. The
input of the respected international consultants, including
Blackrock, ensured a really high degree of external valuation.  The process was also subject to close scrutiny by the IMF,
by the European Commission and by the ECB. It has set the bar
very high indeed in respect to the standards now expected of
both Irish and foreign banks by Irish regulators.  A radical reorganization of the banking sector in Ireland
is now underway. The banks will be required to unwind EUR77
billion of non-core assets so that they refocus on the core
business of supporting real economic activity in Ireland and in
Northern Ireland.  There will be major consolidation within the sector. We
will move to two pillar banks of roughly equal size, along with
competition from foreign banks already in the market. The
analysis suggests that a capital injection of EUR24 billion is
required. This figure was calculated to absorb shocks of
exceptionally higher levels to the banking system over the next
three years.  It should be noted that EUR5.3 billion of this represents a
buffer over and above what was required to meet the requirements
of the stress tests. Moreover, EUR3 billion of this figure will
represent contingent capital.  We also expect that the institutions will raise a not
insignificant proportion of this capital by themselves.
Accordingly, therefore as losses emerge over the next few years’
capital level will remain high by international standards, even
under a distressed highly and likely scenario.  The reaction to the stress tests from the markets and
others has been very encouraging. It reinforces our belief that
the tests were extremely credible and robust. The EUR24 billion
required by the banks for capital purposes is within the funding
element available for this purpose from the EU, IMF program.  We will also seek direct contributions by requiring further
significant contributions from subordinated debt holders, by the
sale of assets to generate capital, and where possible, by
seeking private sector investors. We will make our banks
smaller, more focused, better funded and better capitalized. We
will transform our banking system to effectively serve our
economy and to contribute to full recovery.  On the public finances there are some positive signs in
relation to Ireland’s fiscal position, although there are
undoubtedly, undoubtedly serious challenges as well if the
economy does not perform as well we expect. 2010 was a year of
stabilization. The overall Exchequer position was in line with
the Department of Finance estimates set in December 29 with tax
revenues finishing the year above target.  The underlying general of the government deficit, that is
the deficit excluding the capital support committed to some of
our financial institutions, is also expected to have met the
target set in December 2009. The Exchequer returns of revenue
and spending for the first quarter of this year, 2011, were also
broadly consistent with expectations with tax revenues, despite
being a little behind target, up almost four percent in the
first quarter of 2010.  In the past two weeks you may have noticed there have a
number of announcements from the various credit rating agencies
regarding Ireland’s sovereign rating. The news has been mixed,
but it is important to state that all of our ratings remain
within the investment grade band.  Our external partners have acknowledged that Ireland is
making, as they say, good progress in overcoming the crisis. We
have reached our targets up to the end of March by a comfortable
margin, as they point out. This reflects our seriousness, our
absolute seriousness in doing what is necessary.  Our balance of payments, current account, is expected to
move into surplus this year. This is an important indicator of
the long-term sustainability of the Irish economy. We have
recovered from a higher level of debt interest burden in the
past, achieving a dramatic turnaround through fiscal discipline
and high levels of growth. This can and will be achieved again.  As a member of a monetary union we also rely on the support
and the solidarity of other members and we are grateful for
that. And we will continue to engage with our European partners
to ensure that the program delivers the outcome, which is in all
our interests, Ireland’s interests and Europe’s interests.  I am confident that Ireland will meet our obligations under
the program. We will also continue to make the strong case for a
reduction in the interest rate payable for funds under the
program. It should not be dependent on Ireland making a
concession that will threaten the economy’s growth potential.
That would be awfully self-defeating.  That is why we simply could not accept any adjustment in
the Irish corporation tax rate as it would damage the prospects
for our recovery. That is not to say that the new government
will not take tough or unpopular decisions. We fully recognize
that confidence and recovery depend upon stabilizing the public
finances.  So the new government is determined to continue the program
of fiscal consolidation, including by legislating for an
increase in the pension age, a reduction in the size of the
public workforce by 12 percent from its peak, and establishing a
new fiscal council and enacting groundbreaking fiscal
responsibility legislation. By 2014 Ireland will have delivered
a financial consolidation equivalent to 20 percent, 20 percent
of GDP, most of which has already been secured.  The Irish people are determined to pick ourselves up, to
pay our own way and to contribute to the future progress of the
European Union. And I believe our partners will continue to
support us and work with us to ensure that the program
facilitates an early return to the markets. We require greater
flexibility, not more money, to enable us to do so.  On economic growth the underlying reason for confidence is
the medium-term growth potential of the Irish economy. As you
know, Ireland is one of the world’s most open economies and our
exports our performing very strongly.  Right now we export 80 percent of what we produce. In 2010
our exports grew by 9.5 percent. By the end of 2011 we expect
our exports to exceed our record pre-recession level. This shows
the economy rebalancing towards exports.  We also continue to attract significant levels of inward
investment, despite the turbulent global economy in which,
according to the OECD, foreign direct investment declined,
declined by eight percent. Our inward investment agency, the
Industrial Development Authority of Ireland, secured 126
investments in 2010 and its’ client companies created almost
11,000 new jobs. From that perspective there has never been a
better time to invest in Ireland.  Intel, Google, eBay, Facebook, Citigroup, Boston Scientific
are just some of the world-class global companies that expanded
operations or increased their R&D in Ireland in the last 12
months. These companies know our country and they see a bright
future there.  We remain, according to independent international studies,
fourth in the world for availability of skilled labor, fourth
for being open to new ideas, sixth for labor productivity and
seventh for the flexibility and the adaptability of our people.
We will maintain Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporation tax, which
is a longstanding and necessary part of our enterprise strategy.  One of the positive outcomes of our recent difficulties is
that our cost competitiveness has improved significantly. And
one of the challenges for us is to explain that in the context
of where competition lies for us around the world.  Our unit labor costs have fallen significantly. The
European Commission forecasts an improvement of 14 percent
relative to the euro area by 2012. Consumer price inflation has
been below that of the rest of the euro area since the beginning
of 2009, which delivered substantial reductions in relative
costs.  We are implementing structure reforms to put more downward
pressure on costs. In other words, we are delivering a real
exchange devaluation within the monetary union.  These cost reductions are already translating into
substantial trade and employment benefits in an open business-
friendly economy like Ireland now has. While all of the rating
agencies have recognized the recent weaknesses evident in the
Irish economy, they have also pointed to the underlying
strengths in order to leave a flexible open economy and that the
ongoing recovery in export growth will drive a rising trade and
current accounts surplus.  The general view contained within these assessments is that
the economy is stabilizing and that our long-term growth
potential remains high. In this regard, the agencies all point
to our social stability and strong political commitment to
fiscal consolidation as being a key support to Ireland’s credit
rating. The importance of those factors, especially following
the recent general election decision, should never be
underestimated.  Last week the Irish Central Bank projected 0.9 percent
growth in 2011. And most other forecasters expect a modest
return to GDP growth this year. The government will publish our
own revised forecasts later this month.  The key element, therefore, of our economic recovery
strategy is to develop policies that would allow job growth and
sustainable enterprise to flourish. To this end, we will deliver
a jobs initiative next month which will, among other things,
reduce the lower rate of VAT, have the lower rate of employer
social insurance contributions, enhance our labor market
policies and accelerate labor-intensive capital projects.  This initiative aims to underpin domestic confidence and
therefore help reduce precautionary savings which are currently
at very elevated levels. Our strategy for growth is to play to
our considerable strengths, while taking swift and decisive
action to comprehensively address our weaknesses. We are
convinced that growth is the key and that it can and will be
achieved.  So, in conclusion, my key message is to you here in
Bloomberg today are as follows. We are meeting our targets under
the IMF, EU program of support. We are getting on top of our
banking crisis. We have taken decisive action to restructure and
recapitalize our banking system, which will be finished by July,
at costs that are within the envelope provided for the, provided
for by the IMF, EU program. The costs will also be offset by
measures involving subordinated bond holders, asset sales and
private finance.  We are beginning to get our public finances in order. We
are working with our regional partners to make sure the program
operates in a way that facilitates early return to the markets,
including the level of interest rate charged. We have taken
dramatic action to reduce our fiscal deficit and we will
continue on this path to make the target of a three percent
deficit by 2015. And nothing will deviate us from that plan.  Economic growth is the key factor in debt sustainability.
We are taking early policy decisions to accelerate growth in job
creation and the economy will return to growth this year.  We have made significant improvements in competitiveness,
including an estimated 14 percent improvement in unit labor
costs relative to the euro area by 2012. Our balance of payments
current account is due to go positive this year, which is an
important indication of sustainability.  We remain a magnet for foreign investment by providing a
competitive business-friendly environment and a skilled,
imaginative and creative workforce. We will retain our rate of
corporation tax, a longstanding part of our enterprise strategy.  We are also working very hard to rebuild Ireland’s
reputation, both inside the European Union and beyond, but
ensuring the progress that we are making is communicated
effectively and by assuring other governments of our seriousness
of intent in this matter. As we speak, all of the ambassadors of
the European Union are being called today to our Department of
 Foreign Affairs , are being spoken to by the Tanaiste or deputy,
a deputy head of government in respect of the program that we
adopt and what we are about.  We intend to recall all our own ambassadors from around the
world, our enterprise people, our industrial development
authority people to talk to them about their mission, about the
program we have in mind for them and how important it is to let
the word there that this new government has a different sense of
priority, a different sense of commitment, a different level of
seriousness in sorting out our fundamental problems at home so
that we can play our part, pay our way and be responsible and
central for the continued progress of the European Union and
rebuild our reputation beyond the borders of the Union. To that
extent I intend to travel again to the States early in May to
meet with business interests, banking people and the political
forces in  New York .  So this is a work in progress with the emphasis on the
world progress. We have proven before how a small and regional
economy can grow at a fast rate over a sustained period. And we
can do so again. My belief as somebody who meets people
constantly, both in business and who would like to be in
business, that the frustration that has been endemic in our
people and our economy for quite some time has been released in
part by the evidence that this government is now taking
decisions that are in our country’s interests.  And I believe that when we fix the parts of our economic
engine that have not been working in the way they should the
fuel of confidence that we can supply to our people will bring
about a resurgence of growth, a resurgence of spending capacity,
a resurgence of interest in employment, in job creation, career
opportunities which will be the driving force to restore
Ireland’s good fortunes.  So I thank you for listening and will take whatever
questions you have to ask in, over the next few minutes. Thank
you very much indeed.  UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Thank you very much, Taoiseach, for
that comprehensive overview. So without further ado I will pass
you over to Dara Doyle, our Dublin Bureau Chief, who will
moderate the Q&A session.  DARA DOYLE, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Thanks very much, John. First
of all, thank you to the Taoiseach for coming into the bear pit
that is Bloomberg at times, much appreciate it. We have,
unfortunately, not much time for questions, 13 minutes to be
precise, so I am going to have some quite strict ground rules
with questions, if that’s okay.  It’s one question per person and if you could state your
name and the organization you are from. And what we are going to
do is to include the questions in three and the Taoiseach can
take them in the order they are looking first. Okay, who would
like to open the opening question, the fine here? Yes, say
something.  QUESTION: Hi. I’m Thomas Costrick (ph) from (inaudible)
Bank. Mr. Prime Minister, your government seems to have
backtracked on the minimum wage. How should we interpret this in
the framework of your strategy of an export-led recovery? Thank
you.  DOYLE: Okay. Second question?  EDA CARANY: (OFF-MIKE)  DOYLE: You see. It’s away from the mic (inaudible)  EDA CARANY: Eda Carany, GIG Partners. You have made
reference numerous times throughout the speech about Ireland’s
willingness to pay your way independently and I would to get a
bit more clear about obviously in respect to the banking sector
you have tiered the banks, two core banks, Anglo Irish and other
banks, and what’s your sort of strategy going forward for these
banks?  DOYLE: And one last question please, so the gentlemen here
at the back and thank you.  DERRICK HALFPENNY: Derrick Halfpenny from the Bank of Tokyo
Mitsubishi. Taoiseach, you mentioned the fact that Ireland in
the past has managed to get out of economic problems like we
have at the moment. Of course back then though, historical
examples, we had our own currency and our own monetary policy.
In that regard, does it not concern you that the financial
markets are currently pricing in about 100 basis points of
monetary tightening over the next 12 months, which is resulting
in a very strong gain for the euro against both the pound and
the dollar?  DOYLE: Okay. So, Taoiseach, that first that’s questions
there, the euro, the minimum wage and banking strategies he said
there.  KENNY: Well, first of all, in respect of the question with
backtracking on the minimum wage, in fact it’s the other way
around. Prior to the general election we agreed that we would
restore the minimum wage to what it was. And the Troika last
weekend agreed with that.  I met with the Troika as leader of the Party in opposition
before Christmas, before the election. And we discussed a range
of issues with the Troika. And while the agreement had been put
together by the previous government the Troika agreed that
sectors of that agreement within the overall conditions could be
transposed one with the other.  And from that point of view we set out that we would
restore the minimum wage to what it was. It affects two percent
of our workforce. Obviously we didn’t want to have a situation
where you had a free for all in terms of the labor market. And
there are other issues that have already been agreed about
arrangements where there are obstacles to labor employment, and
to employer positions dealing with overtime, and joint labor
agreements and so on that are going to be a part of a separate
package which will compensate on the other hand in respect of
the minimum wage.  So it’s not a case of backtracking. It’s a case of actually
having agreement from the Troika in implementing what is part of
our program for government.  In respect of the banking position, obviously we had six
dysfunctional banks and the problem with the Irish economy, if
you like, as a patient staggering along, but unable to
contribute. So our government looked at this and we took a
series of serious decisions about it. So we are going to have
two core pillar banks, the Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish
Bank.  Anglo Irish Bank is a bank being wound down and obviously
has been central to the catastrophe that affected so many
people, as a consequence of the Irish economic crisis. So our
two pillar banks are going to be the Bank of Ireland and AIB,
together with the EBS. And we expect that the deleveraging that
will take place now will provide a core element of at least
EUR10 billion in credit for lending over each of the next three
years. And these banks have been required now by law this
position to core and non-core elements, core is with Ireland, to
Northern Ireland, and non-core is beyond that.  So in addition to that, in respect to the jobs initiative
which we will introduce in May, there will be an insurance, a
credit insurance team drafted there because one of the problems
for the real economy and real business is that they can’t get
credit from the banks. Overdrafts have been cut and people who
wanted to change direction or diversify simply haven’t been able
to get credit.  So where you have talk of credit being lent it didn’t
actually apply. So from that point of view an element of our
jobs initiative will be in respect of a credit insurance scheme
which will lessen the risk for the banks, provide greater
flexibility, and therefore allow for that sense of confidence to
come back into the market, which we believe our people have
always been really practical about and interested in. And I
expect a strong resurgence there.  I might say that in visiting loads of firms over the last
six weeks before the election many of them said, you know, we
had 50 employed or 100 employed. We are now less than half that
or a third of it. I would like to get back again to the point
where we can have that measure of confidence.  In respect of the charge in respect of the  interest rates ,
at the meeting in Brussels of the heads of government we didn’t
actually make a decision in respect of Ireland in that because
the reason was that I spoke to President  Van Rompuy  the
difficult stress tests were not completed in respect of Ireland
and we agreed that that would be better left to the ministers of
finance who have carried that on. That wasn’t dealt with in
Budapest, which was an informal meeting. The Portuguese
government have applied for assistance under the bailout fund.
IMF officials are there at the moment.  But it did - the meeting in Brussels did say that it would
be - it was agreed that countries participating in the bailout
package under the EFSF program should have their interest rates,
interest rate reductions applied. Now  Greece  got a 100 percent,
a one percent reduction, 100 basis points, but they are not in
that package. And they got also an extension of the period
involved there.  So interest is not due, in respect of Ireland’s case, until
October, November, as we have got time now to reassure our
European colleagues of how serious we are about this. The IMF
have recently said that an interest rate reduction should apply
in the case of Ireland. We believe that our economic growth
projections will allow us to meet our requirements in this
matter. And hopefully when we can bring about a reduction of
interest rate and that would be to our advantage also.  DOYLE: Okay. Two more questions please, surely, period. And
the gentleman here?  QUESTION: Ofanga Pickly, Reg Group (ph). Around the 70
percent of the mortgages are already in arrears now. Most of
them are a variable rate. The ECB is hiking. Is that the next
big challenge for the government? If so, what have you got up
your sleeves to tackle that problem? Thank you.  DOYLE: Second question from some?  QUESTION: Tshock James McGrain (ph) with the London Irish
Graduate Network, and my question is regarding graduates. Very
recently we have noticed a huge significance, a significant
increase in the mass exodus of graduates from Ireland. These are
graduates that the governments have invested huge, vast sums of
money in and they are very important to the development to the
economy in the future. I would just like to know what the
policies are for this government to retain these graduates or
what policies they have to bring them back into the country.
Thank you.  QUESTION: (inaudible) and  BBC . We - this morning we had
another round of rumor and counter rumor in the markets. FT was
saying that the Greeks had started a new, renegotiating or in
extending their schedule of payments, rescheduling them. This
kind of rumor and counter rumor, surely that needs to - that’s
not going to stop before some sort of grand bargain involving
some sort of rescheduling of debt for all three countries is
sorted, or the rates come cascading down to pre-recessionary
levels.  DOYLE: Graduates.  KENNY: Well, obviously the question about mortgage arrears
is obviously one of serious concern for us. Some people have
been in the negative actually for quite some time. Others have
had some difficulty in meeting their mortgage arrears and as a
consequence of the latest increases others will have difficulty
from here on.  Obviously a moratorium has been introduced. There are a
number of issues that the Minister of Finance will present to
the Irish Parliament to the Dail in the near future dealing with
distressed mortgages, which is of a daily concern to so many
people. It’s a serious issue for us and government are going to
focus on that with a series of announcements, some of which have
already been made, over the next couple of weeks.  With respect to the graduates, I was at a conference in
Dublin Castle on, today’s Monday, on Friday. And one of the
points being made by international experts was you ask a class
of leaving certificate students in Ireland how many are going to
form their own business the average response is about 20 to 25
percent, as against places in the United States where it would
be 80 or 90 percent.  Well, the thing is to get a sense of, on the one hand, of
the stream of education does, but on the other to have a culture
that’s far stronger in the context of business. And we don’t
want to see graduates having to go to  Vancouver , or  Seattle , or
 Australia  or wherever unless they want to go by choice. And
that’s why in the context of the comprehensive spending review
we want to see that the Irish taxpayers’ gets the best impact of
what it should be at.  And I don’t see any reason why we get the fundamental
problems sorted out here that we can’t have real growth in the
Irish economy where that level of creativity and ingenuity,
which is now being exported and drifting abroad, cannot stay at
home. In fact, I don’t see why many companies who have received
substantial assistance from the IDA don’t continue their
programs of graduate employment and graduate training, take them
on.  So as part of our own jobs initiative we will free up that
labor market for the graduate employment. And I might say, as
you well know in an organization like Bloomberg, the next decade
will see massive changes with the information in genetics, and
biotech, and robotics and nanotechnology. And our colleges of
technology, our universities, we need to gear up for those
changes and those challenges.  I might say that the evidence from over the years is that
our young people they can measure up to the scale of challenge
and competition from their peers around the world. And our
education system has got to redirect itself to deal with that
opportunity.  So while some would obviously go because they want to go,
we want to provide a situation whereby serious government
decisions you create a country where people who want to stay,
where it’s attractive for them to stay, where they are not taxed
out of existence and where the opportunity exists to give them,
give vent to their flare and their ability.  I have read the - heard Joe there, have read about the
report about the Greek government renegotiating their position.
Obviously there are some serious challenges here for a number of
countries. We are focusing on ours and our problems, we believe,
are surmountable and that’s why, that’s why the mandate given to
me and the government is to sort this problem out and deal with
the fundamental issues that have been around for a long time
now.  I spoke to Mr. Papandreou prior to the last meeting in
Brussels. He was happy at that time to have a reduction of one
percent given to him and a longer period. So, and from our
perspective the issues that relate to our economy and its
potential to growth are surmountable. That’s where we are
focused, and as I say, we want to get back to a position as
quickly as possible where we can goodbye to the IMF and the EU
in terms of this particular deal, and get back to the bond
markets and be in charge again of our economic destiny. That’s
the big challenge.  And as I say, we are not looking to get into a program. We
are in a program. And the IMF and the EU are now assessing every
issue that Ireland has to deal with, so within those constraints
we want to give freedom to our people to grow and have growth in
our economy and get back to a point where we can restore our
reputation nationally, internationally and prove our point.  So that’s the challenge of politics. Nobody before me who
sits in the Office of the Taoiseach has had to deal with the
scale of the challenge. Equally so, nobody before me has had the
mandate from the people to sort it out. They expect action. They
expect change. They expect decisiveness and that’s what they are
going to get.  DOYLE: Okay. So this is a good point to wrap it up.
Unfortunately, we don’t have any time for any more questions,
but just to let you know that the Taoiseach has graciously
agreed to do a Bloomberg interview later on, so that will be
aired this afternoon and there will be many more questions asked
there.  And just to wrap up I would like to thank some people.
First of all, I would like to thank all the clients for
attending today, much appreciate your interest obviously. And
second of all, I would like to thank Florence for organizing
this fantastic event and third, and most importantly, I would
like to thank the Taoiseach for agreeing to -  KENNY: Well, I would like to thank all the people here for
taking the time to come along, and listen to us and participate
here. And I hope you get a flavor of the seriousness of intent
that we have got here. I believe our country is going to come
through this stronger, with a better sense of values, will have
a much stronger element in which to build the future. And I look
forward to your participation in that. Thanks very much.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS
TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-
COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS
SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE
PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE
VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<186166.5610485.2.1.87.23378.25>#
-0- Apr/19/2011 07:32 GMT
 