-- 
Kingdom First-Quarter Profit Rises 20% on Investment Gains

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/kingdom-first-quarter-profit-rises-20-on-investment-gains-1-.html
Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , the  investment
company  controlled by Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin
Talal, said first-quarter profit advanced 20 percent because of
investment gains and a decline in expenses.  Net income rose to 90.6 million riyals ($24 million), from
75.2 million riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company
said in a statement to the Saudi bourse today.  Profit gained as the company “sold Swissotel Kunshan in
 China  and a piece of land in Riyadh,” Kingdom said. On April 10
Kingdom completed the sale of Kunshan for $60.6 million. Net
income rose also because of “a drop in general and
administrative expenses,” the company said.  Performance worsened at some affiliated companies and
international hotel managing companies because of unrest in the
Middle East, Kingdom said. More than four months of protests
have rocked the Middle East and North Africa as citizens demand
civil rights, better  living standards  and the ouster of
entrenched autocratic regimes.  Operational profit rose 59 percent to 103.9 million riyals.
Earnings per share were 0.02 riyals, unchanged from the year-
earlier period, the company said.  “I’m confident that the outlook for the company’s
continuing profitability is very promising,” especially in real
estate in  Saudi Arabia , Shadi Sanbar, Chief Financial Officer,
said in a separate e-mailed statement.  On March 18, Saudi King Abdullah announced a plan to spend
$67 billion to build 500,000 homes and turned the country’s
housing authority into a ministry with a budget of 15 billion
riyals. Three weeks earlier, he pledged to increase funding for
housing by $15 billion.  Kingdom’s shares dropped 1.8 percent to 8.35 riyals before
the earnings were released, giving the company a market value of
30.9 billion riyals. The stock has gained 1.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  