-- 
Kurdish Protests Turn Violent in Turkey as Politicians Barred

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-04-19T12:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/kurdish-protests-turn-violent-in-turkey-as-politicians-barred.html
Kurdish protesters clashed with
police in  Turkey ’s southeast and thousands gathered in Istanbul
and Ankara after 12 pro-Kurdish politicians were banned from
running in elections in two months time.  Kurds threw Molotov cocktails at police in the southeastern
cities of Van and Hakkari, television footage published by news
channels including  NTV  showed. Police fought back with tear gas
and water cannons. In Istanbul, riot police were sent to the
central Taksim Square, where protesters had gathered.  Turkey’s High Election Board ruled yesterday that the 12
Kurdish candidates were ineligible to run in the June 12
election due to previous criminal convictions. The ruling meant
the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party may boycott the vote,
party official Selahattin Demirtas said, according to the state-
run Anatolia news agency.  A boycott would raise the probability that Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s  Justice and Development Party  may win a
two-thirds majority in parliament at the election, allowing it
to pass legislation including constitutional amendments
unopposed,  Inan Demir , chief economist at Istanbul-based
Finansbank AS, said in an e-mailed report today.  ‘Tensions’  The election board’s decision “will lead to heightened
tensions in the long-troubled southeastern region, with a likely
end to a ceasefire” by militant Kurdish separatists affiliated
with the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, Demir said.  Peace and Democracy is the only serious challenger to the
governing party in the mainly-Kurdish southeast, Erdogan said in
an interview, Milliyet newspaper reported yesterday.  Parliament speaker and ruling party member Mehmet Ali Sahin
said today that the election board’s ruling “weakens
parliament’s mission” and should be reviewed, Anatolia
reported.  Kemal Kilicdaroglu, leader of the main opposition
 Republican People’s Party , called for an emergency session in
parliament to find a solution and to debate the 10 percent vote
threshold for parties to win seats in parliament, according to
televised comments from Ankara.  The banned politicians, who are allied to Peace and
Democracy, were running as independent candidates to circumvent
the 10 percent threshold.  The politicians won’t be able to name substitutes, Hasan Gerceker, head of Turkey’s  Supreme Court , told Anatolia.  “If they were running for a party, then maybe they could
run a new candidate,” he said. “Because they’re running as
independents, I don’t think that’s possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 