-- 
Nasdaq OMX Offers to Pay NYSE $350 Million Should Merger Fail

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-19T14:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/nasdaq-omx-offers-to-pay-nyse-350-million-should-merger-fail.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  said they are willing to pay NYSE
Euronext $350 million if antitrust authorities block their
proposed takeover, an offer they say is now based on “fully
committed financing” of $3.8 billion.  The statements were included in a letter to NYSE Euronext’s
board, which on April 10 rejected the unsolicited $11.3 billion
proposal and affirmed its February agreement to merge with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  for $9.5 billion in stock. The agreement with
Deutsche Boerse AG includes a payout of 250 million euros ($357
million) should that deal fall apart. Nasdaq OMX and ICE said
they received $3.8 billion in commitment letters from lenders.  “NYSE shareholders are probably very concerned about
antitrust issues, and here they’ve done a couple things to try
to address their concerns,” said  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “That’s at the heart of what
will decide their fate.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s board said it favored the Deutsche Boerse
merger because the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid would lead to too much
debt and had “unacceptable” risks, including antitrust review.
Both sides have been meeting with NYSE Euronext shareholders to
convince them their deal is superior and discuss further
financial incentives.  Director Support  Greifeld and Sprecher said they are in discussions with the
antitrust division of the U.S.  Justice Department . The companies
also plan to buy $66 million of NYSE Euronext stock with  voting
rights , an action that they said will trigger the Justice
Department’s procedure for vetting antitrust concern. NYSE
Euronext’s annual shareholder meeting is April 28, where owners
will vote on board members and the right to call special
meetings.  “We view the addition of the reverse break-up fee in the
event we fail to obtain antitrust or competition law approvals
as being a significant improvement to your proposed Deutsche
Boerse transaction, as well as demonstrating our confidence that
we can address any antitrust or competition issues,”  Robert Greifeld  and Jeffrey Sprecher, chief executive officers at
Nasdaq OMX and ICE, wrote in the letter.  Rich Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Bid Price  While the reverse breakup fee may set shareholders at ease
about antitrust barriers, Nasdaq OMX and ICE stopped short of
raising the price of the offer, which includes $14.24 a share in
cash. Last week, four people with direct knowledge of the matter
said that NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse are considering
financial incentives to win support for their merger.  At $42.67 a share as of 9:28 a.m. New York time, the
unsolicited bid is 20 percent higher than  Deutsche Boerse ’s
$35.56, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext
shares fell 1.8 percent to $38.32, curbing their advance since
the April 1 Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal to 9 percent.  Nasdaq OMX is using stock and debt for its portion of the
deal, with $2.1 billion from banks including Bank of America
Corp., Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm  and Skandinaviska Enskilda
Bankeen AB and UBS AG. In addition to shares, ICE plans to offer
$1.65 billion, financed by Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of
America, according to the statement today. Nasdaq OMX reiterated
its commitment to maintaining an investment-grade rating.  Antitrust Concern  The so-called reverse breakup fee is designed to allay
concerns that the U.S. government may reject a Nasdaq OMX-NYSE
Euronext takeover because it would create a monopoly in stock
listings. The Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid would break up NYSE Euronext,
giving Atlanta-based ICE the Liffe derivatives markets and
Nasdaq OMX, based in  New York , the listings, equities and
options businesses, saving costs on overlapping units and
technologies.  Agreeing to the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would “require
shareholders to shoulder unacceptable execution risk,” NYSE
Euronext’s board said in an April 10 statement affirming its
commitment to Deutsche Boerse. Directors also cited concern the
offer would entail too much debt and destroy its “human
capital,” a reference to the firings it said would occur in the
merger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  