-- 
NATO Sees Limit to Airstrikes’ Power to Stop Qaddafi Forces

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-04-19T22:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/nato-sees-limit-to-airpower-s-ability-to-stop-qaddafi-attacks-on-misrata.html
A NATO commander said “there is a
limit” to the alliance’s ability to stop the Libyan regime’s
shelling of Misrata, as the U.K. sent a team of military
advisers to assist rebels fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-
year rule.  Qaddafi’s troops have been using artillery and rockets in
Misrata, under siege for about 50 days, with rebels holding part
of the city and the port area that is their only supply link.
Unicef, the UN Children’s Fund, said a ship carrying first aid
kits, drinking water and other supplies for up to 25,000 people
was expected to reach the port today, and the  World Health
Organization  described Misrata Hospital as “overwhelmed,” with
120 civilian patients in need of emergency evacuation.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization reported its
warplanes hit a mobile rocket launcher, which was firing into
the city, and a loyalist convoy of armored vehicles heading
there. NATO Brigadier General Mark van Uhm said that Qaddafi’s
forces fire “indiscriminately” and that allied airstrikes seek
to protect civilians under the United Nations Security Council
mandate.  “But there is a limit to what can be accomplished by
airpower to stop fighting in a city,” he said yesterday at a
press conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels. NATO must
limit strikes in urban areas to avoid inadvertently causing
civilian casualties, he said.  Oil Sales  The Italian government is helping Libyan rebels sell oil
from opposition-held parts of the country, Italian Foreign
Minister  Franco Frattini  said at a press conference in Rome
after meeting with the head of Libya’s rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  The rebels have agreed to honor existing treaties between
Italy and Libya, Frattini said. Oil exports from Libya, which
has Africa’s biggest oil reserves, dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said last month.  Oil rose for the fourth time in five days. Crude oil for
May delivery rose $1.03, or 1 percent, to settle at $108.15 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  In other regional developments,  Syria ’s cabinet endorsed a
draft decree to lift a 48-year-old emergency law, the main
demand of protesters challenging President Bashar al-Assad’s
rule. Syrian activists said at least 18 protesters have died in
clashes in the three days since Assad ordered the cabinet to
make changes aimed at calming dissent.  Regional Turmoil  In Yemen, protesters were injured by gunfire and stones as
clashes erupted between with police in the center of the Yemeni
capital, Sana’a, during a crackdown on an anti-government
demonstration, witnesses said in telephone interviews.  In Bahrain, Foreign Minister Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa
said in a posting on Twitter that troops from Persian Gulf
allies will remain in Bahrain to counter Iranian influence.
Bahrain’s Sunni monarchy called in security forces from  Saudi
Arabia  and other Sunni-led neighbors to forcefully suppress
Shiite protests, which it blamed in part on Shiite  Iran .  The U.K is sending a contingent of “experienced British
military officers” to help Libyan rebels organize
communications and logistics, Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said in a statement from  London . As many as 20 military
personnel will be involved, the  Associated Press  said.  “Developments change on the ground so what we have to do
to implement the UN resolution does change over time,” Hague
said in a Sky News television interview. “I expect other
countries also to be involved in this but they must make their
own announcements.”  British Officers  British officers won’t be involved in training or arming
rebels or planning military operations, the government said.
They will operate “within the legal authority” of the five-
week-old United Nations mandate authorizing military action,
Hague said on ITV. UN Security Council resolution permits “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”  The U.S. supports the U.K. action, said State Department
spokesman Mark Toner. “That doesn’t necessarily mean that we’re
going to follow suit and bring our capabilities to bear in areas
where they’re already bringing their capabilities to bear,” he
told reporters.  As the situation deteriorates in Misrata, the third largest
city, the rebels are struggling to take and hold cities in
 Libya ’s central coastal areas, the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in mid-February. NATO has targeted
tanks -- some 40 near Misrata alone -- which has prompted many
Qaddafi forces to shift to  pickup trucks , which are difficult to
be targeted for airstrikes since they are similar to those used
by the rebels.  ‘Up and Down’ Situation  “At the moment on the ground, I don’t know if it’s a
stalemate; certainly it’s not necessarily moving forward,”
Admiral Giampaolo di Paola, the chairman of NATO’s Military
Committee, said yesterday in Rome. “The eastern front is
constantly moving up and down.”  NATO is seeking to reduce Qaddafi’s ability to sustain
attacks by hitting supply lines and targets considered “command
and control” locations, van Uhm said.  Allied targets reported by NATO yesterday included the
headquarters south of Tripoli of the elite 32nd brigade, which
has been commanded by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s youngest son, Khamis.
That military force has spearheaded operations threatening
civilians, NATO said.  More Warplanes  Five days after NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told alliance foreign ministers in Berlin that
commanders needed more ground-attacks jets, van Uhm said the
alliance had more military assets than it did last week. He
declined to say what the new assets were or which countries had
supplied them.  NATO aircraft flew 53 “strike” missions seeking to
identify and engage ground targets on April 18, down from 60 a
day earlier.  The World Food Program said it moved wheat, flour and other
food aid into western Libya for the first time since conflict
erupted in February. The Rome-based UN agency said eight trucks
crossed into Libya from Tunisia April 18 and that the Libyan Red
Crescent will deliver the supplies to the “crisis-affected
population, particularly women and children,” in Tripoli,
Zintan, Yefrin, Nalut, Mezda, Al Reiba and Al Zawia.  The trucks carried enough food to feed 50,000 people for 30
days, the WFP said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  