-- 
Nestle Timeline on L’Oreal May Concern Investors, Analyst Says

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-19T08:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/nestle-timeline-on-l-oreal-may-concern-investors-analyst-says.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ’s intention to wait
until 2014 before deciding the future of its  L’Oreal SA (OR)  stake
may cause investors in the world’s largest food company to worry
that it will acquire the cosmetics maker, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein said.  Nestle said April 14 it will decide what to do with its
30 percent L’Oreal stake in 2014, the year that restrictions on
selling the holding to a third party are lifted.  Andrew Wood , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said that makes him “slightly
more wary” that Nestle may bid for the remainder, in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  “The prospect of a value-destroying, risky, strategically
inconsistent deal, made against the wishes of most investors,
within three years, is hardly going to be forgotten in the
meantime,” the New York-based analyst wrote.  Nestle Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe said taking three
years to decide will give the company time to reflect on its
strategy. “Everyone can relax,” Roddy Child-Villiers, head of
 investor relations  at the Vevey, Switzerland-based company, said
on April 15.  Nestle bought a stake in Paris-based L’Oreal in 1974 from
the Bettencourt family, which still owns about 31 percent. The
maker of KitKat bars has agreed with L’Oreal’s 88-year-old main
shareholder, Liliane Bettencourt, not to raise the stake until
six months after her death. L’Oreal has a market value of about
50 billion euros ($71 billion), compared with 181.9 billion
Swiss francs ($203 billion) for Nestle.  Nestle and the Bettencourt family gave each other a right
of first refusal over their stakes that runs through April 29,
2014, according to their agreement. After that, Nestle would be
able to sell its stake to a third party without offering it to
the Bettencourt family.  The food company is probably considering selling the stake
or holding it,  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura, wrote in an
April 15 note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 