-- 
Alzheimer’s Guidelines Encourage Research Into Early Stages

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/new-alzheimer-s-guidelines-encourage-research-into-early-stages.html
Doctors should screen for
 Alzheimer’s  as soon as mild cognitive symptoms occur and
encourage genetic testing for patients, according to the first
new guidelines for the disease in almost three decades.  While early diagnosis won’t help patients fight off
Alzheimer’s, it can help them prepare for when dementia worsens
and decisions become difficult. Encouraging patients to
enroll in trials that offer gene tests and brain scans may add
knowledge about roots of the disease, according to guidelines 
published today in the journal  Alzheimer’s and Dementia .  The new guidance reflects advances since 1984, including
the discovery of 10 genes tied to Alzheimer’s, cerebrospinal
fluid tests to help differentiate from other forms of dementia
and better scanning techniques. They place Alzheimer’s along a 
degenerative spectrum with dementia as the final stage.  “We’ve been an advocate for early diagnosis for many
years,” said William Thies, chief scientific officer of the
 Alzheimer’s Association , an advocacy group, in a conference call
with reporters. “It allows people to anticipate what will
happen and plan their lives to minimize the impact of what’s
coming for them.”  The guidelines are the work of the Chicago-based  Alzheimer’s
Association , the National Institute on Aging and the  National
Institutes of Health . They solidify those proposed in July at
the International Conference on Alzheimer’s disease.  Brain Scans, Spinal Fluid  Brain scans and spinal-fluid tests allow doctors to detect
beta amyloid. Companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in
Fairfield,  Connecticut , and Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
are developing dyes for brain scans that attach to amyloid
protein, a signature marker of the disease.  Because biomarkers aren’t standardized, they aren’t ready
for regular use in the doctor’s office, said  Marilyn Albert ,
director of the division of cognitive neuroscience at  Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine  in Baltimore, and an
author of disease guidelines on mild cognitive impairment.
Getting more patients tested will improve research knowledge 
and expand databases on Alzheimer’s biomarkers, which may 
lead to better care and treatment.  Use of the new guidelines also will help better 
characterizing early stages, said  Reisa Sperling , director 
of the center for Alzheimer’s research and treatment at 
 Harvard Medical School  in  Boston .   Questions still remain about these biological measures,
such as whether the accumulation of beta amyloid is the first
stage of Alzheimer’s, Sperling said.  Important to Patients  Getting diagnosed early is important for getting on
medication early, said Terry Christiansen, 77, who was diagnosed
with Alzheimer’s in 2005. He is treated with  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s Namenda and Novartis AG’s Exelon patch.
Christiansen, of Rochester, New York, participates in research
and sits on his local Alzheimer’s Association board and is the
first patient to serve, he said.  “Every year I get a blood test, an MRI, an oral evaluation
and a lumbar puncture,” Christiansen said in a telephone
interview. “What I like most is that I always get a report back
on the progression of the disease.”  He and his wife, Patty, said they try to live normal lives.
They’ve informed their family and have received support from
Patty’s sister and husband-in-law and their children, they said.
They’ve made burial arrangements, and Patty has begun taking
over chores Terry used to handle, such as paying the bills.  Terry was diagnosed after he mentioned to his primary care
physician that he was a bit more forgetful than usual, and his
doctor referred him to the Alzheimer’s Association.  Gathering Data  About 5.4 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s disease ,
according to the Alzheimer’s Association. By 2050, that number
is expected to increase to as many as 16 million.  By encouraging doctors and patients to seek a diagnosis
earlier, rather than later, doctors also can begin to gather
data to determine how often patients progress from a potential
precursor state called mild cognitive impairment, Sperling said.
It would also enable researchers to create better clinical
trials in people that scientists know will likely progress to
full-blown Alzheimer’s, she said.  In the meantime, the psychological testing done by most
doctors for Alzheimer’s disease remains the same, said Guy McKhann, a professor of neurology at Johns Hopkins medical
school.  “That hasn’t really changed much from a practical point of
view,” McKhann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 