-- 
Nigeria Elections, Crude Price Savings ‘Promising’ for Rating, Fitch Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-19T10:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/nigeria-elections-crude-price-savings-promising-for-rating-fitch-says.html
Nigeria ’s presidential elections
and an increase in oil savings are “promising” for the credit
profile of Africa’s biggest oil producer, according to  Fitch
Ratings .  “The credible elections are a real positive for Nigeria,
their news about the excess crude account building up is
encouraging,”  Veronica Kalema , a London-based director in
Fitch’s sovereign group, said in a phone interview today. “We
would now need to see what the new government would do in
implementing some reforms, which would shield the excess crude
account from election cycles and would reform the sovereign-
wealth fund.”  Fitch lowered its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating to
“negative” from “stable” on Oct. 22, due to concerns that
the nation was making withdrawals from the excess crude account,
a windfall saved when the price of crude goes above the
benchmark used for the country’s budget, and foreign-currency
reserves dropped. The nation’s oil account rose to $6.9 billion
in March from $3 billion in December,  ThisDay  newspaper reported
April 12, citing acting Accountant-General Aderemi Ogunsanya.
The West African nation depends on oil exports for 95 percent of
foreign-exchange income, which provided $59 billion of revenue
last year.  Incumbent leader Goodluck Jonathan won presidential
elections in  Africa ’s most populous country this weekend,
described as “credible” by observers from the Commonwealth
group of nations. The last elections, in 2007, were seen by
international and local monitors as flawed by intimidation of
voters and ballot fraud.  Rating Visit  “We’re due to do a ratings visit around August, by then
they will have had enough time to start implementing reforms,”
said Kalema. “Then we will see what to do.”  Nigeria’s Eurobonds due 2021, rated three levels below
investment grade by Fitch, rose for a third day, gaining 0.3
percent to 103.19 cents on the dollar as of 11:34 a.m. in
London, the highest level since the debt was issued in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.31 percent. The
$500 million of bonds are Nigeria’s only international notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  