-- 
Nokia Profit May Fall 49% as Pressure Grows on Elop's Symbian Handset Goal

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-20T07:35:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/nokia-net-may-fall-49-as-pressure-grows-on-elop-s-handset-goal.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  may tomorrow report a 49
percent decline in profit and forecast further erosion before
the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones introduces its first
smartphones using Microsoft Corp.’s operating system.  First-quarter net income at Espoo, Finland-based Nokia may
drop to 177 million euros ($253 million) from 349 million euros
a year earlier, according to the average of 19 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The operating margin for devices and
services adjusted for some items probably fell 3.6 percentage
points to 8.5 percent, the average of 23 estimates shows.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a former Microsoft
executive, said in February Nokia will adopt Microsoft’s Windows
Phone 7 as its main smartphone operating system, replacing the
Symbian platform it has used for more than a decade. Investors
want to know how long it will take to reach a goal of selling
150 million more handsets on the last versions of Symbian.  “I’ll be looking at the slope of the decline -- whether or
not the second quarter ends up being weaker than the first
quarter and therefore by implication how deep the trough might
be before we get a new product-driven recovery,” said Stuart Jeffrey, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London  who
has a “reduce” rating on the stock.  Operating Margin  Nokia hasn’t provided a full-year forecast, citing
uncertainty caused during the transition to Microsoft’s
software. On Feb. 11, the day it announced the agreement, Elop
set a long-term target to increase handset sales faster than the
market with an adjusted operating margin of 10 percent or more
after the shift to Windows Phone, which he expects to take place
during 2011 and 2012.  The shares added 7.5 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 5.86 euros
at 10:30 a.m. in Helsinki, valuing the company at 21.9 billion
euros. Before today, Nokia had lost 29 percent since announcing
the Microsoft partnership.  Investors will look for guidance on how long handset
margins will stay below last year’s  10.9 percent level , and how
big the reorganized company will be.  Elop has predicted “substantial reductions” in jobs from
cuts that analysts say may slash a third of the 3 billion-euro
annual research and development budget.  Job Cuts?  “As the current Symbian portfolio matures and actually
starts to expire without any new Windows devices coming out in
the near future, I think the second half and specifically the
third quarter might be very, very difficult,” said Mikko Ervasti, a Helsinki-based analyst at Evli Bank.  Symbian’s market share, at 37.6 percent in 2010, will fall
to 19.2 percent this year and 5.2 percent in 2012, according to
 forecasts  by researcher Gartner Inc., which measures sales to
consumers. In the fourth quarter, Nokia had a smartphone share
of 30.8 percent, down 20 percentage points since  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
shipped its first iPhone in 2007, according to Gartner.  Apple, which reports results today, may say profit rose 64
percent to $5.03 billion on sales of about $23.4 billion.
Nokia’s own first-quarter forecast for devices and services
sales is 6.8 billion euros to 7.3 billion euros, with an
operating margin in devices, adjusted for restructuring charges
and amortization of acquired assets, of 7 percent to 10 percent.  Apple,  Sony Ericsson   Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd., which shifted to
Android from Symbian last year, yesterday reported a surprise
profit of 11 million euros after the company sold more higher-
priced handsets.  Nokia will report earnings at about 1 p.m. local time
tomorrow, with a  conference call  at 3 p.m. that can be monitored
through the company’s website.  “My sense is that the temptation will be quite strong for
Elop to kitchen-sink this quarter -- try to set a clear canvas
by saying it’s possible we could be down 20 percent year on year
in unit shipments,” said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London.                    Nokia device shipments in the first quarter, typically the
company’s weakest, probably slipped 1.6 percent from a year
earlier to 106.1 million units, according to analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The company’s portfolio in the quarter included
the N8 touchscreen phone that it used to release an improved
Symbian in September, along with three related models including
the C7, which  T-Mobile USA  is selling as the Astound.  Android, IPhone5  First-quarter revenue probably rose 6.5 percent to 10.14
billion euros, the average of 39 estimates, as Nokia rolled out
the new models to more operators and markets.  Nokia last week unveiled a further update to Symbian and
two smartphones to ship in summer, when they’re likely to
compete with Apple’s iPhone 5 and the latest models running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system from vendors including Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest handset vendor, and
 HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese manufacturer that passed Nokia in
market value this month.  Gartner predicts Android will run on  38.5 percent  of
smartphones sold this year. The Google software is moving into
cheaper hardware and starting to compete with the high-volume,
low-margin phones business that made up half of Nokia’s handset
revenues and 78 percent of its unit sales last year.  “Investors will want to get a sense of how long a tail
Symbian will have, how quickly it’ll ramp down,” said Stephen Patel, a San Francisco-based analyst at Gleacher & Co. “ It’ll
depend on consumer reaction to Nokia going end-of-life with
Symbian. Some don’t care and others don’t want to buy a product
that isn’t going to be around in a few years.”  Japan  Effect  Investors will also look for guidance on whether
disruptions following the earthquake in Japan last month will
affect shipments in the second and third quarters, Patel said,
adding that it could offset the usual seasonal increase.  “I’ll be looking at the potential impact of Japan
especially in terms of supply chain, potential bottlenecks, and
the margins -- whether or not the deterioration we’ve seen
during the last year will continue,” said Leon Cappaert, a  fund
manager  at KBC Asset Management in Brussels with 330 million
euros under management, including Nokia shares in a general fund
for weighting purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  