-- 
Northern Irish Tax Cut Would Help Beat Terrorism, Paterson Says

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-04-19T23:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/northern-irish-tax-cut-would-help-beat-terrorism-paterson-says.html
Northern Ireland  is counting on
reducing its company tax rate to the same level as its southern
neighbor to help boost the flagging economy and stifle a
recurrence of terrorist activity in the province.  Cutting the rate to the Republic of Ireland’s 12.5 percent
from the U.K.-wide 28 percent is among measures put forward in a
consultation paper by Owen Paterson, the secretary of state in
the British government who is responsible for Northern Ireland.  “We need to do something really radical to help revive the
economy,” Paterson said in a telephone interview. Better
economic prospects would “take away any incentive for people to
join” dissidents, he said.  Northern Ireland holds elections on May 5 for its power-
sharing  assembly  after the economy shrank by 5 percent over the
past three years and unemployment doubled. Voting takes place
amid a growing threat from dissident republicans still using
terrorism to push for a united Ireland six years after the Irish
Republic Army gave up their weapons.  Members of one group killed a policeman, Ronan Kerr, in a
car bomb on April 2. Yesterday, police said a bomb left in a
wooded area of south Belfast was an attempt to kill officers
lured to the area with a hoax call. The device didn’t explode.  “Stability will keep them in check but there will always
be poor young people,”  Peter Shirlow , a politics lecturer at
Queen’s University in  Belfast , said in an interview. “Reviving
the economy shouldn’t be overstated. The dissidents are
ideologues, militarists. Their goal is about keeping the flame
of republicanism, as they see it, alive.”  Northern Squeeze  The province is being squeezed by government budget cuts in
the rest of the U.K. to the east and the collapse of Ireland’s
economy to the south. Northern Ireland is more dependent on
public jobs than anywhere else in the U.K., and Paterson said
77.6 percent of spending is derived from the state.  “The economy survives here on public spending,” Paterson
said on April 13. “That is simply unsustainable.”  Last month, Patterson opened a public consultation on
reducing company tax further than the U.K. Treasury is currently
proposing. It would allow the assembly in Belfast to decide on
the level rather than the government in  London .  “The choice of setting the rate would be in local hands,”
Patterson said. The consultation period ends in June and the
U.K. government will discuss it afterwards, he said.  More Autonomy  The U.K.’s corporate tax rate will fall to 26 percent this
month and by one percentage point every year for the next three
years, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
parliament in his budget speech on March 23.  The  Scottish National Party  wants to lower  Scotland ’s
company tax rate further to make the country more competitive,
First Minister  Alex Salmond  said in an interview last month. The
SNP runs the devolved government in Edinburgh and is seeking re-
election on May 5 to push for more autonomy.  “I support Northern Ireland getting control of  corporation
tax ,” Salmond said at the SNP headquarters in Edinburgh. “Once
the principle is conceded of differential rates then it’s very
difficult” to say no to Scotland. “If we win the election then
this will happen,” he said.  Northern Ireland’s  assembly  was revived in 2007 after the
IRA decommissioned its weapons. It is headed by the pro-U.K.
 Democratic Unionist Party  and pro-united Ireland Sinn Fein
party, one-time allies of the IRA.  Top Priorities  First Minister Peter Robinson said boosting the economy and
defeating the dissidents are his top priorities. They are trying
to reignite a conflict that claimed 3,500 lives before largely
ending in 1998 with a peace deal.  Terrorists have killed two British soldiers and two
policemen since ramping up their campaign in 2009. A week after
the murder of policeman Kerr, dissidents left a 500-pound bomb
on the border with Ireland.  Activity by armed dissident groups soared by 60 percent in
2010 from a year earlier, according to Justice Minister David Ford. They are funded by alcohol and cigarette smuggling, drugs
and racketeering, Paterson said.  “We are in a very different place from where we were 30 or
40 years ago,” said Patterson. “But we need to rebalance the
economy and that will take a generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  