-- 
Grete Waitz, Norway’s Nine-Time Winner of New York Marathon, Dies Aged 57

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-04-19T18:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/norwegian-marathon-record-setter-grete-waitz-dies-at-57-after-long-illness.html
Grete Waitz, the record nine-time
winner of the  New York City Marathon , died after a six-year
struggle with cancer. She was 57.  She died at Oslo’s Ullevaal Hospital at 4:10 a.m. today
with her husband, Jack, at her side, said Helle Aanesen, who co-
founded  Active Against Cancer  with Waitz in 2007. Aanesen
declined to specify what type of cancer the athlete had died
from, as she had chosen not to disclose it to the public.  “Grete was a fantastic athlete and someone who paved the
way for female runners,” Aanesen said by phone. “She had a
will, a talent and led a life that was simply extraordinary.
She’ll go down in the history books as one of the greats.”  Waitz ran, and won, her first  New York  City Marathon in
1978, invited by Fred Lebow, then president of the New York Road
Runners Club and the founder of the city’s marathon, which runs
through all five boroughs and last year attracted more than
45,000 runners from around the world. As she returned to win the
New York race eight more times, Waitz and Lebow became friends.  Waitz ran her final marathon in 1992 alongside Lebow, who
had been diagnosed two years earlier with  brain cancer . They
crossed the finish line together with their clasped hands held
high, registering a time of 5 hours, 32 minutes, 35 seconds.  ‘Most Emotional’ Race  “It was the most emotional race of my life,” Waitz told
the New York Daily News in 2008. “We both ran the last two
miles crying.” Lebow, whose cancer had been in remission long
enough for him to train for and run the race he created, died in
1994.  Waitz, who was born in Oslo as Grete Andersen on Oct. 1,
1953, rose to prominence in her teenage years with national
junior titles in the 400 meters and 800 meters, and a European
junior record in the 1,500 meters. She set her first of two
world records in the 3,000-meters in 1975.  Her biggest achievements came in the marathon, including
the nine New York wins, from 1978 to 1988, and becoming the
first woman to finish in less than 2 1/2 hours. She also took
the gold medal at the World Championships in Helsinki in 1983
and an Olympic silver in  Los Angeles  in 1984.  ‘Fairy Tale’  “For a shy Norwegian schoolteacher to grow up and become
one of the iconic New York City sports stars is a fairy tale,”
said Richard Finn, a spokesman for  New York Road Runners .  “She was as much New York and synonymous with the marathon
as the marathon was synonymous with her,” Finn said.  Each October the New York Road Runners hosts a 13.1 mile
race around Central Park called “Grete’s Great Gallop,” where
Waitz would appear and high-five runners. Waitz attended the
2010 race.  “If Grete had to go, it is somehow fitting that she lived
until the day after one of the greatest weekends in the sport of
marathon running,” Mary Wittenberg, president and chief
executive officer of the New York Road Runners, said in a
statement, referring to yesterday’s Boston Marathon and the
London Marathon on April 17.  Cyclist  Lance Armstrong , who overcame testicular cancer to
win the  Tour de France  seven times, said he was “sad to hear”
of Waitz’s passing, referring to her as a “good friend and an
incredible athlete,” in a Twitter posting.  ‘Amazing Champion’  “Sad, sad news today as Grete Waitz passed away,” Paula Radcliffe, the fastest women’s marathon runner in history,
tweeted. “She was an amazing champion and more amazing
person.”  Waitz came to New York in 1978 to celebrate her retirement
and prepare to have children and a teaching career, Waitz said
in a 2008 interview on the New York Road Runner’s website.
“But, instead, I quit my job teaching and never had kids. I
always got excited when I came to New York for the marathon,”
she said.  Waitz was appointed a Knight 1st Class of the Royal
Norwegian Order of St. Olav in 2008 by King Harald V. She also
stands as a statue in front of Oslo’s Bislett Stadium and was
pictured on Norwegian stamps in 1997. In 1984, she started the
annual Grete Waitz run for women in Oslo, which went on until
2003.  Waitz’s funeral is expected to be held next week and will
be a small private arrangement, according to the wishes of the
athlete, Aanesen said.  ‘Brightest Flames’  “One of the brightest flames of the modern athletics era
has been extinguished,” International Association of Athletics
Federations President Lamine Diack said in a statement. “The
dedication, perseverance and fortitude with which Grete carved
out her athletics career on the track, across the country and on
the road is an example to us all, as is the positive way she
tackled the illness that beset her life in recent years.”  The family of Samuel Rudin, whose name adorns the winners’
trophies at the New York City Marathon, said that it was
unlikely that anyone would surpass Waitz’s nine victories in the
event.  “While she may have been from  Norway , Grete Waitz
possessed the true New Yorker’s spirit and determination,” the
family said today in an e-mailed statement. “She will be
greatly missed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net 
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  