-- 
Novartis Rises as Profit, Sales Beat Estimates on Generic Lovenox, Gleevec

-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-04-19T15:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/novartis-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-flu-vaccine-sales-1-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  gained the most in four
months in Zurich trading after first-quarter sales and profit
surpassed analyst forecasts on higher revenue from a generic
blood thinner and the Gleevec cancer medicine.  Net income dropped 6 percent to $2.77 billion from $2.93
billion a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based company
 said  today. Analysts forecast profit of $2.57 billion, the
average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past
month. Sales increased 16 percent to $14 billion, beating the
average estimate of $13.7 billion.  Novartis, Europe’s second-largest drugmaker by sales,
expects new products such as the copy of  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ’s
Lovenox and Gilenya for multiple sclerosis to fuel growth in
coming quarters as patents start to expire on the company’s
best-selling treatments, including Diovan for hypertension.  “This is a really strong underlying performance heading
into Diovan pressures in 2012,”  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at UBS
AG in  London , said in an interview today. The company’s sales
growth is “a standout” in the industry, Amusa said.  Revenue gains this year will be “around the double-digit
mark” at constant currency rates, the company said, repeating
its forecast from Jan. 27. Novartis aims to improve core
operating income margin in constant currencies while absorbing
price cuts, generic competition and the loss of flu-vaccine
sales, according to the statement. Novartis doesn’t forecast
earnings.  Diovan Competition  Profit fell in the quarter as sales of influenza vaccine
sank following the end of the flu pandemic last year. The
addition of revenue from  Alcon Inc. (ACL) , the eye-care company in
which Novartis bought a majority stake in August, failed to
offset the vaccine drop. Novartis completed the acquisition of
the rest of Alcon this month.  Novartis rose 1.68 Swiss francs, or 3.5 percent, to 50.30
Swiss francs at the close of Zurich trading. The gain was the
biggest since Dec. 15. Before today, the stock had lost 10
percent in the past year including reinvested dividends,
compared with a 3.7 percent return for the Bloomberg  Europe 
Pharmaceutical Index.  Diovan, the company’s best-seller in 2010 with $6.1 billion
of sales, began to lose patent protection in Europe this year
and faces generic competition in the U.S. in 2012. The Gleevec
cancer medicine, the No. 2 product, will start to face cheaper
copies in the U.S. in 2015.  Joicela Application  Novartis’s efforts to replace lost revenue from Diovan and
Gleevec were set back today when the European Medicines Agency
said the company withdrew its application to market the Joicela
pain pill. The Swiss company wasn’t able to provide information
to regulators in the time allowed, the agency said in a
 statement . The EU filing was the company’s second attempt at re-
introducing the drug for osteoarthritis patients who don’t carry
a specific genetic marker.  The application withdrawal “has nothing to do with
biomarkers or genetic tests,”  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for
Novartis, said in a telephone interview. The group of
painkillers that includes Joicela “remain a challenging
environment.”  Novartis won’t ask EU regulators to approve its LBH589 drug
to treat Hodgkin’s lymphoma. LBH589 will continue to be
developed for other uses, Novartis said.  Generic Drugs  Revenue from the  Sandoz  generic-drug unit advanced 16
percent to $2.3 billion, boosted by $247 million of sales of the
Lovenox copy. Novartis and  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  began
selling the treatment in July after approval by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration.  Sales of branded medicines gained 7 percent to $7.8
billion. Diovan generated $1.4 billion in revenue, down 3
percent. Doctors wrote fewer Diovan prescriptions in the first
quarter as generic competitors went on sale in  Spain ,  Canada  and
 Brazil .  The loss of Diovan sales to generics was not as severe as
expected, Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said on a
conference call. Competition will increase late in the year when
the drug loses patent protection in more European countries, he
said.  Sales of Gleevec, used to treat the blood cancer chronic
myeloid leukemia, rose 4 percent to $1.08 billion.  Gilenya revenue totaled $59 million, according to the
statement. Sales were “significantly ahead of what we
expected,” Jimenez said. More than 6,500 patients in the U.S.
are using the drug, which was approved by regulators in
September, he said. Gilenya, the first oral medicine approved in
the U.S. for multiple sclerosis, costs about $48,000 a year, a
price that rivals cancer medicines such as  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Avastin.  Vaccines and diagnostics sales fell 73 percent to $371
million as pandemic-flu revenue plunged by $1.1 billion.
Novartis’s consumer-health unit had revenue of $1.6 billion, up
11 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich Bureau at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  