-- 
Obama Tells Backers He’s Committed to Immigration Overhaul

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-19T22:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/obama-to-meet-with-bloomberg-schwarzenegger-on-immigration-laws.html
President Barack Obama today told
supporters of an overhaul of U.S. immigration laws that he
remains committed to their goals, according to participants in a
meeting on the issue.  “He will not let this issue go away,” Eric Garcetti,
president of the Los Angeles City Council, said after attending
the meeting.  Obama met for about an hour at the White House with
business, political, religious and law enforcement officials to
discuss ways to revamp immigration laws.  The president “reiterated his commitment to comprehensive
immigration reform that both strengthens security at our borders
while restoring accountability to the broken immigration
system,” according to a White House statement.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and former California
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , along with Garcetti, were among
public officials invited. Bloomberg is the majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Others invited included Cargill Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Greg Page, Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka , and former Florida
Republican Senator Mel Martinez, who works at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , according to a White House statement.  Obama was a supporter of an overhaul of U.S. immigration
laws when he was a U.S. senator, and he has continued to push
for new legislation as president.  Obama’s Approach  The president backs an approach that includes new efforts
to secure the nation’s borders, hold businesses accountable for
employing illegal workers and create a way for immigrants in the
country illegally to gain legal status while also allowing new
workers to come to the U.S., according to the White House
statement.  The White House said Obama urged participants at the
meeting to take a public role advocating for new immigration
legislation and “lead a constructive and civil debate on the
need to fix the broken immigration system.”  “Immigration reform is something America needs,” the
Reverend Al Sharpton, president of the New York-based  National
Action Network  civil rights group and a meeting participant,
said after the session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  