-- 
Obama Embarks on Tour to Sell Debt Plan, Not Dwell on S&P's U.S. Outlook

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-19T16:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/obama-embarks-on-tour-to-sell-debt-plan-not-dwell-on-s-p-report.html
President  Barack Obama  began a tour
promoting his proposal to cut long-term budget deficits with a
new urgency after  Standard & Poor’s  said the nation’s AAA credit
rating is in peril.  The divide between Republicans and Democrats in Congress
over combating the nation’s debt was spotlighted by Standard &
Poor’s lowering of the long-term U.S. credit outlook to
“negative,” with each side saying the alert bolsters their
competing arguments.  At a town hall-style meeting today in Annandale, Virginia,
Obama said the nation’s mounting debt posed a threat to the
strength of the economic recovery.  “Now that the economy has begun to grow again, if we keep
on spending more than we take in, it’s going to cause serious
damage to our economy,” Obama said at a gymnasium filled with
students and faculty at Northern Virginia Community College.  Obama’s cross-country campaign-style swing is billed in
part as an effort to build support for cuts in popular programs
and he didn’t mention yesterday’s S&P report. Administration
officials said they don’t expect him to refer to it unless he is
asked.  Chris Lehane , a Democratic strategist who worked on Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, said any president would
prefer to minimize attention to an unfavorable assessment of the
nation’s creditworthiness.  ‘Political Paralysis’  Local newspapers and television stations would be likely to
report “Wall Street questions U.S. long-term credit because of
political paralysis in Washington,” Lehane said. “That’s not
the headline you want when you’re looking at re-election.”  Obama is scheduled to spend three days traveling through
states crucial to his 2012 re-election campaign to publicize his
plan to reduce cumulative deficits by $4 trillion over 12 years.
The plan includes spending cuts on defense and domestic programs
and calls for raising taxes on the wealthy.  In  Virginia , he said he was optimistic the White House
could overcome differences with congressional Republicans to
reach an agreement on the deficit, citing deals the two parties
struck on tax cuts last December and government funding in
April.  “I believe that Democrats and Republicans can come
together to get this done,” Obama said. “Both sides have come
together before. I believe we can do it again.”  Town-Hall Meetings  He will also hold forums on the deficit-reduction plan
later this week at Facebook Inc.’s headquarters in  Palo Alto ,
 California , and in Reno,  Nevada .  Democrats say New York-based S&P’s revision in the U.S.’s
long-term credit outlook helps make the case for a broad
agreement based on the debt-cutting plan Obama outlined last
week. Republicans say the ratings firm’s report reinforces their
call for deeper spending cuts than the president and other
Democrats have been willing to consider.  S&P said the government risks losing its AAA credit rating
unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget
deficits and the national debt. The company maintained its top
rating on U.S. long-term debt while lowering the outlook to
“negative” for the first time.  Negative Outlook  The White House downplayed the negative outlook, saying it
was based on a faulty appraisal of the political climate.  Austan Goolsbee , chairman of Obama’s Council of Economic
Advisers, said yesterday that the outlook was based on a
“political judgment” of prospects for a deficit-reduction
agreement that doesn’t deserve “too much weight.”  Charles Schumer of  New York , the Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat, said bipartisan agreement exists on the need to reduce
the debt by $4 trillion over roughly the next decade.  “Now we just need to resolve how to do it,” Schumer, who
is traveling in  Asia  during a two-week congressional break, said
in a statement. Obama’s “balanced plan -- which relies on
shared sacrifice, as opposed to simply ending Medicare -- makes
a long-term deal highly possible,” the senator said.  Republicans have proposed scaling back entitlement programs
such as Medicare and reject Obama’s push for tax increases to
help reduce debt.  ‘Wake-up Call’  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
called the S&P revision “a wake-up call for those in  Washington 
asking Congress to blindly increase the debt limit” without
significant spending cuts.  The negative outlook on long-term  U.S. debt  issued by S&P
“makes clear that the debt-limit increase proposed by the Obama
administration must be accompanied by meaningful fiscal reforms
that immediately reduce federal spending and stop our nation
from digging itself further into debt,” Cantor said.  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the government’s $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The Treasury
Department projects that it will hit the cap on May 16, though
it could use emergency measures to avoid default until about
July 8.  Obama and members of his economic team have said that
failure to approve an increase could have catastrophic
consequences for the  U.S. economy  and financial markets.  Reliability Questioned  S&P revised the U.S. government’s long-term outlook to
negative on concern the White House and Congress will fail to
reach agreement on cutting medium- and long-term debt.  Some of Obama’s Democratic allies questioned S&P’s
reliability, citing the top rating it gave to mortgage-backed
securities that later crashed in value and contributed to the
2008 financial crisis.  “Given that the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  called 
the credit rating companies ‘key enablers of the financial
meltdown,’ it’s difficult to know how much credibility S&P
should be given,” said Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist who
helped to run  Bill Clinton ’s first presidential campaign in 1992
and served in the Clinton White House as a political adviser.  Members of the so-called Gang of Six, a group of six
Democratic and Republican senators who are seeking to negotiate
a compromise deficit-reduction plan, said the S&P move shows the
markets are watching for signs that policy makers will confront
the debt.  “If we fail to take this seriously, and if our deficit and
debt discussions turn into just another game of political
brinksmanship, this could result in the most predictable
economic crisis in our history,” Senator Mark Warner of
Virginia, the Democratic leader of the group, said in a
statement.  ‘Debt Crisis’  Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , a Republican member of the
group, said the S&P’s change should create a sense of urgency
for tackling “our debt crisis.”  The White House said yesterday that Vice President Joe Biden will open a round of negotiations with members of Congress
on long-term deficit reduction with a meeting at Blair House on
May 5.  The Obama administration has been bracing for the change in
outlook for about two months as S&P reviewed its assessment of
U.S. debt. During the period, David Beers, the head of the
company’s public finance unit, was in touch with Mary Miller,
the assistant Treasury secretary for financial markets,
according to a person familiar with the discussions.  Deficit Plan  About 10 days ago, Treasury Department officials gained a
stronger sense that S&P would issue a negative outlook, the
person said. That was shortly before the April 13 speech in
which Obama presented his deficit plan.  While Treasury officials sought to persuade the company
that Congress and the administration were determined to reduce
the deficit, S&P told the Treasury Department of its final
outlook on the afternoon of April 15 and of its plan to make an
announcement yesterday.  White House and Treasury officials prepared their response
over the weekend, seeking to convey a message of optimism
without appearing to be in denial about the challenges of
reaching an agreement on long-term deficits, said the person
familiar with the discussions.  Less than half an hour after the S&P announcement, Miller
released a statement saying the outlook “underestimates the
ability of America’s leaders to come together.”  First Since 1996  The announcement was the first time the U.S. credit outlook
has been questioned since 1995 and 1996, when a dispute between
Clinton and House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Georgia Republican,
led to two government shutdowns.  Fitch Ratings  put U.S. debt on
a “negative ratings watch” in November 1995 until spring 1996,
and Moody’s Investors Service put some U.S. government bonds on
review for a possible downgrade in January 1996.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.1 percent to 1,306.46 at 12:29
p.m., after falling 1.1 percent yesterday. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose 0.2 percent to 12,222.29, after a 1.1
percent decline yesterday.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped as
high as 3.45 percent yesterday in the minutes after the S&P
report, then fell back to 3.37 percent as investors focused on
speculation that  Greece  will be unable to avoid a default,
driving them to the relative safety of U.S. debt.  In trading today, 10-year yields fell 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.35 percent at 12:35 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  A gauge of the dollar yesterday advanced the most since
November against the currencies of major trading partners on
increased demand for a refuge as  Europe ’s debt crisis outweighed
the negative S&P U.S. credit-rating outlook.  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index increased 0.9
percent to 75.508 at 5 p.m. in New York yesterday, from 74.832
on April 15. The gauge tracks the dollar against the euro, yen,
pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish krona. The index
fell 0.5 percent today to 75.115.  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.4319 as of 12:38 p.m.
Yesterday, the dollar appreciated 1.4 percent to $1.4235 per
euro in New York from $1.4430 on April 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  