-- 
Lockheed, Austal’s Littoral Ships to Cost At Least $37 Billion

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-19T20:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lockheed-austal-s-littoral-ships-to-cost-at-least-37-billion.html
The U.S. Navy program to develop
and build 55 vessels for close-to-shore operations will cost at
least $37.4 billion -- not including equipment required for a
full range of missions, according to new Pentagon figures.  Development of the Littoral Combat Ship is estimated at
$3.5 billion and construction of the fleet at $33.7 billion in
inflation-adjusted dollars, according to the estimate disclosed
April 15 in an annual Selected Acquisition Report to Congress.
Another $236 million is included for construction of facilities
to support the ships.  Prior to the April 15 report and  summary , the Navy
published only a development cost estimate. Pentagon officials
April 8 approved moving the program into the engineering and
manufacturing phase -- an act that requires a formal estimate of
the procurement costs.  Two teams led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  are
designing and building respective LCS versions. The first two
vessels have been commissioned into the Navy. Six others are
under contract.  The 37-page report estimates the ships will cost about $535
million apiece in fiscal 2010 dollars. It estimates future-year
costs of as much as $636 million in inflation-adjusted dollars.  Those estimates are for ship construction only and don’t
include money for as many as 64 so-called mission modules --
interchangeable systems on each vessel for mine-hunting, anti-
submarine missions and surface warfare against small boats,
according to the report obtained by Bloomberg News.  Total Cost Unknown  “More than nine years after the program was first
announced and six years after the start of the sea frame
procurement, there is still no official Pentagon estimate for
the total cost of the LCS program,” said Ronald O’Rourke, a
naval analyst with the non-partisan  Congressional Research
Service .  “I’m not sure how many other Defense Department weapon
procurement programs of comparable size have proceeded for that
long into the procurement phase without an official estimate of
total cost,” he said in an e-mail.  The mission modules are being developed as a separate
program, and there isn’t yet a procurement cost estimate, the
report to Congress said.  The $37.4 billion figure likely will elevate the LCS’s
profile as the White House and Congress look for ways to reduce
the federal deficit. The White House last week directed the
Pentagon to begin a “comprehensive review” to find $400
billion in spending cuts as part of President Barack Obama’s
plan to reduce the debt.  Biggest Programs  One area for review is the $14 billion average expenditure
the Navy plans to spend annually on shipbuilding, including the
LCS program.  Another area is Lockheed Martin’s F-35 fighter jet. The
U.S. Government Accountability Office in a report said the F-35
is anticipated to require “unprecedented demands for funding,”
averaging about $11 billion a year.  The LCS vessels are expected to last about 25 years and
cost about $36.6 million a year apiece to operate or support,  That’s about $50 billion over the program’s life, when
calculated in 2010 dollars, or $87 billion in inflation-adjusted
dollars, according to the report.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, and Marinette Marine
Corp. of Marinette, Wisconsin, are working together on one
model, while the other is being developed by the Mobile,
Alabama-based U.S. subsidiary of Australia’s Austal and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)   General Dynamics is providing combat systems designed at
its Pittsfield, Massachusetts, facility for the Austal vessel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  