-- 
Oilseed Output to Rise 1.2% as Farmers Seed More, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-19T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/oilseed-output-to-rise-1-2-as-farmers-seed-more-oil-world-says.html
Global oilseed production will rise
1.2 percent this year after farmers expanded planting, mostly in
 South America , the U.S. and  India , on higher prices, according
to Oil World, a researcher based in Hamburg.  Output of soybeans, cottonseed, ground nuts, sunflower
seed, rapeseed, palm kernels and copra from coconuts will total
438.3 million metric tons, Oil World said in a report today.
That’s up from 433 million tons a year earlier and last month’s
estimate of 435.3 million tons, it said. Soybean output will
rise 0.6 percent to a record 261.3 million tons, Oil World said.  “Farmers sizably expanded the area under oilseeds,” Oil
World said. “Most of the upward revision from our previous
estimates occurred in soybeans, primarily in South America.”  Soybean futures have gained 37 percent in the past year,
partly because of increased demand from  China , the biggest
consumer of the oilseed.  Soybean production in  Brazil , the world’s third-biggest
shipper behind the U.S. and  Argentina , will rise 4.8 percent
to 72 million tons in 2011, Oil World said. Southern Hemisphere
output will increase 2.2 percent from last month’s estimate to 134.3
million tons, according to the report.  Wet Weather  Some U.S. farmers who planned to seed more corn after
prices more than doubled in the past year rather than soybeans
may be hindered by weather, Oil World said. Wet weather in the
northern Plains may prevent growers from seeding corn who will
then switch to soybeans that can be planted later, it said.  “It is now considered possible that farmers will try to
plant a larger than intended area with corn at the expense of
soybeans,” Oil World said. “This will only be possible if
weather conditions improve in the main U.S. growing areas. It
was too cold and wet in the first half of April, delaying
fieldwork and corn plantings.”  Global soybean stockpiles will gain 3.3 percent to 68.6
million tons, Oil World said. Soybean crush, or processing into
meal and oil, will surge 9.1 percent to 226.3 million tons
through August, according to the report.  “World soybean crushings will show an extraordinary
increase,” Oil World said. “It should be noted, however, that
most of this already occurred in the first half of the season
owing to insufficient supplies of other oilseeds and products as
well as strong demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 