-- 
Skyscraper Boom Reaches End as City of London Goes 'From Vanity to Sanity'

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-04-20T16:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/london-skyscraper-boom-ends-as-city-goes-from-vanity-to-sanity-.html
London  property developers are
sacrificing height and glitz for better returns as the craze for
building iconic skyscrapers comes to an end, said Ken Shuttleworth, the architect of the landmark Gherkin building.  “The age of bling is over,” said Shuttleworth, who led
the team at  Norman Foster ’s firm that designed the seven-year-
old tower in the  City of London  financial district. He said it
would never get off the ground today. “Money now drives
everything, so if you can build something for half the price,
you will,” he said.  While skyscrapers with nicknames such as the Shard, the
Cheesegrater and the Walkie Talkie are joining the 40-story
Gherkin as part of the British capital’s skyline, those
buildings reflect past rather than present considerations. All
of the office towers that are due to open in London by 2014 were
conceived before the financial crisis and developers are
increasingly adopting cheaper, less ambitious plans.  Commercial Estates Group Ltd., a privately held developer,
last month said it will review a plan to build a 63-story
property adjacent to  Canary Wharf .  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , a real estate
investment trust that owns seven London office buildings, in
January abandoned its design for a 32-story tower and block in
the City in favor of a 15-floor office complex.  “A tall building was proving very expensive, so we went
back to the drawing board,” Martin Jepson, Hammerson’s managing
director for London, said by telephone.  New York  Revival  Developers in New York are reviving projects to capture
rising rents and office construction is set to rebound after the
credit crisis curbed building. One World Trade Center, which
will be the western hemisphere’s tallest tower when it opens in
2013, is one of several skyscrapers that may be built by the end
of the decade, according to New York-based property broker
Cassidy Turley.  In London, high-rise buildings cost 50 pounds to 150 pounds
more per square foot than shorter ones because of their stronger
frames and typically more irregular shapes, said Steve Watts,
the partner responsible for tall structures at real-estate
adviser Davis Langdon, part of  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM)   That means the money needed to construct a skyscraper with
500,000 square feet (46,000 square meters) of space can be 150
million pounds, twice as much as a lower-rise structure with the
same space.  Extra Rent  What’s more, many tenants won’t pay the typical 15 percent
to 20 percent extra rent for being in a tower, given the
economy’s weakness, said Mark Swetman, project director for
 Hines Interests LP . Texas-based Hines is developing the 389,000
square foot, eight-story Cannon Place project in central London.  Tall buildings are also less attractive to investors than
shorter ones because tenants can’t start moving in until the
construction work is over, said Mark Farmer, a partner at
London-based property adviser  EC Harris LLP . That’s not the case
for a development divided into two or three low-rise buildings.  “You can’t occupy floors below a building site, so it
takes a very long time to get the first money through the
door,” he said.  The move away from office towers is a “flight from vanity
to sanity,” Farmer said. “Bankers are all over the viability
of high-rise like a rash and are indirectly shaping London’s
skyline, not architects,” he said.  Cheaper Techniques  In the meantime, Stuart Lipton of Chelsfield Partners LLP
is trying to find cheaper ways of putting up skyscrapers.
Lipton, who built most of Broadgate in London between 1984 and
1991, plans to import techniques from the U.S. to make tall
buildings more profitable.  Last year, Lipton, 68, asked Watts at Aecom to design a
prototype 40-story tower costing close to 125 pounds per square
foot to erect, about half of the average cost. Watts said he cut
the cost to between 135 and 150 pounds by “keeping everything
as simple and repetitive as possible.”  “This is a new opportunity rather than the death of high
rise,” Lipton said by telephone. “The latest towers are
wibbly-wobbly fancies of the sky, but with a more disciplined
approach to architecture and standardized components, you can
get elegant and efficient designs for much less money.”  The Gherkin reflected a booming economy and the aspirations
of Ken Livingstone, the London mayor from 2000 to 2008 who
championed futuristic office buildings with colorful names.  Miles of Steel  More than 22 miles (35 kilometers) of steel was used to
build the Gherkin, located at 30 St. Mary Axe. The 180-meter
(591-foot) tower’s exterior is made up of 24,000 square meters
of glass, enough to cover  five soccer fields , according to its
website. The only piece of curved glass is the dome at the top.  Shuttleworth’s design for a new 700,000 square-foot
building at the Broadgate complex, near Liverpool Street
Station, has 13 stories and little more than a third of the
outside walls will be glazed to cut energy costs. The property,
approved by city planners yesterday, will be occupied by  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
the Swiss bank that’s already Broadgate’s biggest tenant.  Tenants are demanding “austere and efficient” buildings
that are more likely to be “ground-scrapers” than high-rises,
said Shuttleworth, 58. “The tall glass box is dead.”  In December, Bloomberg LP announced a plan to have a
property constructed on a site close to the  Bank of England  that
will be the company’s European headquarters. The building will
be designed with Foster + Partners, the firm Shuttleworth worked
for when he did the Gherkin. Bloomberg is the parent of
Bloomberg News.  Space Shortage  Demand for  office space  in the City of London evaporated in
2008, as Britain entered its worst recession since World War II
and the government was forced to bail out Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. Vacancy levels have since fallen and a shortage of
space is causing rents to outpace Canary Wharf, the city’s
second, smaller financial district.  By January of this year, the market had recovered enough to
enable  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND)  to revive the Walkie Talkie
near the Bank of  England  and British Land Co. to start work on
the Leadenhall Building high-rise known as the  Cheesegrater .  The Shard, architect  Renzo Piano ’s 1,016-foot pyramid next
to  London Bridge , will have more than twice as much glass as the
Gherkin and will be Britain’s tallest tower when it’s completed
next year. It’s being funded by Qatar-based companies.  The developers aim to capitalize on a shortage of prime
office space that, according Capita Symonds Ltd., caused rents
in the City to increase by 16 percent in the past 12 months.
Within two years, tenants may be charged about 65 pounds a
square foot, up from 55 pounds now, the London-based property
broker said in an April 1 report.  Financial-services companies in the capital will add 11,000
employees in the next three years and will require the
equivalent of four Shards to accommodate them, BNP Paribas SA’s
real estate unit said in an April 15 report.  “Towers aren’t built because people want to move into
them, but because developers want to maximize their return on a
piece of land,” EC Harris’s Farmer said. “There will always be
that gravitational pull upwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 