-- 
Hong Kong Office Rents, World’s Highest, Jump to Twice London’s; Tokyo 3rd

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-04-19T02:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/hong-kong-office-rents-jump-to-almost-twice-london-s-level-colliers-says.html
Hong Kong ’s prime office rents, the
world’s highest, jumped more than a third in 2010 with tenants
paying almost double the cost in the City of  London , according
to  Colliers International Research .  Prime office buildings in Hong Kong fetched $2,066.35 per
square meter (11 square feet) as of Dec. 31, 2010, compared with
$1,523.31 a year ago, Colliers said in its Global Office Real
Estate Review. London’s West End was the second-most expensive,
costing $1,431.82 a square meter, while the City of London was
fifth at $1,073.92 a square meter.  Tokyo  and Paris were in third
and fourth place, at $1,130.21 and $1,099.53 respectively.  All of the top 20 cities tracked by Colliers recorded
higher office rents in the second half. Office construction is
highest in the Asia-Pacific region, accounting for 42 percent of
global building, driven by growth in demand, particularly in
 China ,  India ,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines , Colliers said.  “Most regions showed further signs that the worst of the
global financial crisis had passed and tenants were back in the
market with a renewed appetite for office space,” Ross J.
Moore, chief economist of Colliers’ U.S. division, wrote in the
report. “The outlook for 2011 is for continued growth, but the
recent surge in energy prices and the geopolitical tensions in
the Middle East and North Africa are reasons for concern.”  Crude oil has jumped 30 percent in the past six months as
months of conflict in the Middle East, and ongoing tensions in
Libya, raised concerns about a possible shortage.  Derailing the Recovery  Higher  oil prices  “could derail what appears to be a
reasonably strong recovery,” Moore said. “However, because of
the usual lags, any future deceleration won’t be apparent until
the second half of the year.”  While limited building in the U.S. and a pick-up in leasing
activity pulled vacancies down 30 basis points to 16.1 percent
as of Dec. 31, existing excess supply in many markets continued
to push rents down, Colliers said.  Construction in  Europe , Middle East and Africa was down at
the end of the year, partly due to big declines in Dubai and  Abu
Dhabi , which saw their combined development pipeline falling by
25.8 million square feet, according to the report.  Riyadh had the highest vacancy rate, at 40 percent,
followed by Dubai at 35 percent. Canada’s Regina had the lowest
at 1.3 percent, followed by Rio de Janeiro at 1.6 percent. Hong
Kong’s vacancy rate of 3.1 percent is the fifth-lowest among the
cities tracked by Colliers.  The biggest shortage of prime  office space  in Central
London since at least 1980 will cause rents to jump in the next
two years, with the West End seeing a jump to 100 pounds a
square foot, London-based property broker Capita Symonds Ltd.
said on April 1.  Sales  London recorded the most sales in 2010, at $15.3 billion,
followed by Tokyo at $11.7 billion and  New York  at $8.5 billion.  Office prices rose in the Americas, with yields falling by
131 basis points. In the European region, yields remained little
changed, while in the Asia Pacific, property yields climbed 31
basis points, according to the report. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “A more robust global economy combined with improved
financial markets is clearly boosting both transaction volume
and also pricing,” Moore said. “While access to debt is still
a challenge in certain markets, and much uncertainty remains as
to the sustainability of the economic expansion, real estate
markets around the world appear to be shaking off the
difficulties created by the global financial crisis and are once
again on the buy list of investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  