-- 
Toyota Extends N. American, China Output Cuts to June

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-04-21T02:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/toyota-plans-to-adjust-production-in-may-due-to-parts-available.html
(Corrects the date of production in fourth paragraph of
story originally published on April 20.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest automaker, extended production cuts at its North
American and Chinese plants because of a shortage of parts after
Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami last month.  The company’s North American unit  said  today that plants in
the region will continue to be closed on Mondays and Fridays and
run at 50 percent on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays through
June 3. Toyota will also shut U.S. plants for one week starting
May 30 and in Canada from May 23. In  China , the utilization rate
at factories will generally be 50 percent of normal levels and
may fall as low as 30 percent from April 21 to June 3, it said
in a statement.  “This is not going to be over soon,” said  Jesse Toprak ,
an analyst for Truecar.com, an automotive pricing and data
website based in  Santa Monica , California. “The impact of
reduced production could mean that Toyota’s sales in the U.S.
are impacted as much as 10 percent this year.”  Toyota lost production of 150,000 units in  North America 
and 80,000 units in China from March 11 to June 3, said  Paul Nolasco , a spokesman for the carmaker. In 2010, Toyota made
1,458,000 units at its plants in North America and 770,000 in
China.  Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are working to
restore full plant operations in Japan and at factories abroad
that are running short of parts. Toyota estimates it lost
production of 260,000 units in  Japan  from March 14 to April 8
and 35,000 units of North American auto production this month
due to quake-related shutdowns.  Shares in Toyota rose 1.4 percent to 3,170 yen in Tokyo.
The stock has dropped 12 percent since the March 11 temblor.  ‘Plant Improvement’  Employees at Toyota’s North American plants won’t be laid
off because of the production cutbacks, the company said.
Workers will use the “non-production time for training and
plant-improvement activities,” Toyota said.  “We are trying to continue production as much as possible
and keep our workforce intact in order to facilitate a smooth
transition back to full production when all parts are
available,” Steve St. Angelo, executive vice president for
North American production, said in a statement today.  Toyota, which canceled five days of North American output,
from April 15 through April 25, said its production plans after
June 3 will be decided later. The company’s U.S. sales unit is
based in Torrance,  California .  “No one knows how long production will remain at about 30
to 40 percent of the usual level,” said  Koji Endo , an analyst
at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. “Customers who are not
willing to wait for Japanese vehicles may switch to buying
American, Korean and European cars instead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Koenig in Detroit at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  