-- 
Panasonic to Move U.S. Headquarters to Newark for $102 Million

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/panasonic-moving-u-s-headquarters-to-newark-for-102-million.html
Panasonic Corp. (PC) , the world’s
largest maker of plasma televisions, plans to move its North
American headquarters to  Newark , New Jersey, using a tax
incentive to stay in the Garden State, a company spokesman said.  The move from nearby Secaucus, scheduled to be announced at
a press conference in Newark today, was supported by a $102
million tax credit from the  New Jersey Economic Development
Authority , an incentive that faces a court challenge by
Panasonic’s current landlord,  Hartz Mountain Industries Inc.   “We’re looking forward to being able to commit to a future
in Newark,” Jim Reilly, a spokesman for Panasonic, said in a
telephone interview from Secaucus. He declined to discuss
financial details or the timing of the move.  Granting tax credits to relocate a company within  New
Jersey  violates the intent of the Economic Development
Authority, a not-for-profit organization that is supposed to use
incentives to create jobs in the state, said Allen Magrini,
senior vice president for Hartz Mountain.  “It’s ludicrous,” Magrini said in a telephone interview
from Secaucus. “It’s terrible public policy to finance
intrastate moves.”  New Jersey faces a budget gap of as much as $10.5 billion
in the fiscal year starting July 1, more than one-third of the
current $29.4 billion spending plan, the state Office of
Legislative Services projected in July.  Hartz Mountain filed an appeal of the Economic Development
Authority’s decision with the state superior court’s appellate
division in Trenton on March 30, Magrini said.  ‘Favorable Determination’  The appeal “is baseless and we look forward to a favorable
determination by the court,” Reilly said. “The company was
looking at a number of options for relocations over many months,
in New Jersey and elsewhere.”  Laura Jones, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development
Authority, didn’t respond to a telephone message and e-mail
seeking comment.  Panasonic, which moved to Secaucus in 1973 from what is now
the MetLife building at 200 Park Ave. in  Manhattan , has 800
employees and about 200 contract workers at its headquarters
campus, Reilly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  