-- 
Payrolls Rise in 38 States, Led by Texas; Unemployment Rate Declines in 34

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-19T15:30:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/payrolls-rise-in-38-states-led-by-texas-unemployment-rate-declines-in-34.html
Payrolls rose in 38 U.S. states in
March, indicating improvement in the labor market is broadening.  Texas , with a 37,200 increase, and Missouri, at 24,300,
showed the biggest gains in employment from February, figures
from the Labor Department showed today in Washington. The
jobless rate fell in 34 states, with the largest decline in  New
Mexico , where it fell by 0.6 percentage point to 8.1 percent.  The report is consistent with government figures released
April 1 that showed the nation added 216,000 workers in March,
the most since May 2010, and unemployment dropped to a two-year
low of 8.8 percent. Improvement in hiring across a wider swath
is helping sustain  consumer spending , the biggest part of the
economy.  “We’re seeing a broadening out in the jobs recovery,”
said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in  New York .
“It gives us more confidence that the labor market is shifting
gears.”  Florida,  North Carolina  and Oklahoma rounded out the top
five states with the largest increases in employment last month.
California, Connecticut, Louisiana and Maryland were among the
states with the biggest payroll decreases.  North Dakota had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
falling to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent the prior month.  Unemployment rose in seven states, including Louisiana and
Connecticut. Nevada remained the state with the highest jobless
rate at 13.2 percent.  Broad Improvement  “Most districts reported that labor market conditions were
generally stronger than in their last reports,” the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book report released April 13.  Central bank policy makers will likely keep  interest rates 
near zero and maintain plans to buy $600 billion in Treasury
securities by June to boost the pace of growth.  An improving jobs outlook is drawing people back into the
workforce, causing unemployment to rise in some states. New
Jersey’s jobless rate rose to 9.3 percent in March, the second
straight monthly gain, as more people resumed a search for work,
state figures showed. Employers added 4,600 jobs in New Jersey,
the second- wealthiest  U.S. state by per-capita income.  Cutbacks at state and local governments will restrain the
recovery. States face projected deficits totaling $112 billion
in the next fiscal year because revenue hasn’t bounced back from
the recession while spending on unemployment and Medicaid has
swelled.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  