-- 
Pfizer, J&J Must Train U.S. Doctors on Safe Use of Painkillers

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-19T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/pfizer-j-j-must-train-u-s-doctors-on-safe-use-of-painkillers.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP)  will have to train doctors
before they can give patients extended-release painkillers under
a U.S. plan aimed at reducing prescription drug abuse.  Sixteen  companies  that make 25 pain patches and pills must
create a program to teach medical professionals when these drugs
should be used to combat pain and how to recognize signs that
the treatments are being misused, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today. The Obama administration is urging
Congress to mandate the training as part of licensing required
by the Drug Enforcement Administration every three years.  The FDA began discussing in February 2009 how best to
prevent deaths and side effects from overdose or tampering of
long-acting painkillers to get high. While the agency has
stopped short of restricting drug distribution, tougher controls
may follow if abuse isn’t curbed, said  Janet Woodcock , director
of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.  “There’s an epidemic of prescription drug abuse that is
beginning to rival that of illegal drug abuse,” Woodcock said
in a telephone interview. “It’s either the kids who get it out
of their medicine cabinet or someone who gets multiple
prescriptions.”  The medicines cited by the FDA include New York-based
Pfizer’s Avinza and Embeda morphine capsules; Duragesic, a
fentanyl patch made by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and
generic competitors;  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based Endo’s
Opana oxymorphone tablets; and OxyContin, an oxycodone tablet
made by closely held Purdue Pharma LP of  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  High-Dose Painkillers  The drugs are sustained-release, high-dose painkillers
derived from the opium poppy, also known as opioids. Doctors
considered these medicines to be a major breakthrough for cancer
and chronic pain when they were introduced in the mid-1990s,
though it became clear the drugs were easy to manipulate. Purdue
agreed in 2007 to pay $634.5 million to settle claims that
promotions for OxyContin from 1996 to 2001 misled doctors about
the drug’s risks.  The risk-minimization program is the largest ever imposed
by FDA, Woodcock said. The agency gained the authority to
require these types of plans as a condition for marketing under
2007 legislation. An estimated 23 million prescriptions for
extended-release opioid drugs are written annually, representing
about one-tenth of prescription painkillers, according to the
FDA.  Pfizer’s King Pharma division, acquired last month, has
been developing drugs with physical and chemical properties to
resist tampering. Embeda, the first of these medicines, is
included in the training program because it hasn’t been proven
to be safer than the older medicines, Woodcock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 