-- 
Poker ‘World Series’ to Air in July as Scheduled After Sponsors Indicted

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-19T20:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/poker-world-series-to-air-in-july-after-sponsors-indicted.html
The “ World Series of Poker ” on
ESPN and “World Poker Tour” on Fox Sports Net will air as
scheduled following the indictments of gambling websites that
spent almost $27 million on TV ads last year.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN will carry the “World Series of
Poker” in July, Chris LaPlaca, a spokesman, said today in an e-
mail. The network pre-empted last night’s “North American Poker
Tour Presented by PokerStars.net.” News Corp.’s Fox Sports Net
has pulled PokerStars.net ads from “World Poker Tour,” said
Lou D’Ermilio, a New York-based spokesman.  “There is no direct sponsorship connection between the
indicted websites and ‘World Poker Tour,’” D'Ermilio said in an
e-mail. “But PokerStars had purchased advertising time, which
has been pulled as a result of the indictments. At present we
have no plans to change policy as it relates to promotional
clothing players choose to wear.”  ESPN, based in Bristol,  Connecticut , won’t air the 10 hours
of “PokerStars,” the network said. FullTiltPoker.net and
PokerStars.net, two sites charged with fraud and money-
laundering by the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, spent $26.8
million in 2010 on TV advertising, researcher Kantar Media said.
PokerStars spent another $8.3 million on Web and magazine ads.  Many of poker’s best-known players have endorsement
agreements with the indicted companies. They don hats and shirts
displaying the logos on the programs to promote the websites.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC airs the “ National Heads Up
Championship ” and “Poker After Dark,” while the Game Show
Network, owned by  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , broadcasts “ High
Stakes Poker .”  ‘High Stakes Poker’  Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for NBC Sports in  New York ,
didn’t respond to requests for comment. Sean Jennings, a
spokesman for  Santa Monica , California-based Game Show Network,
couldn’t comment. The seventh season of “High Stakes Poker,”
hosted by comedian Norm MacDonald, started Feb. 26, the channel
said on its  website .  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , gained 15 cents to
$41.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have climbed 10 percent this year.  News
Corp. (NWSA) , located in New York, fell 11 cents to $16.88 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading and the Class A stock has increased 16
percent this year.  Caesars Entertainment Corp., the closely held casino
company, owns the World Series of Poker.  The U.S. froze bank accounts in 14 countries and seized
websites, sidelining  PokerStars  and  Full Tilt Poker  -- major
sponsors of televised tournaments. ESPN, NBC, Fox Sports and the
Game Show Network have made poker a TV staple, with 47 programs,
including reruns, scheduled this week,  Cardplayer.com  said.  U.S. Indictments  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan announced on April
15 a revised indictment against the founders of PokerStars, Full
Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  PokerStars , based on the Isle of
Man, Ireland’s  Full Tilt Poker  and  Absolute Poker  of  Costa Rica 
are the leading online poker sites doing business with U.S.
customers, according to prosecutors. Five sites displayed
notices yesterday that the FBI had seized the domain names.  The indictment names two principals from each company and
others who allegedly worked with them to illegally process
payments. Five domains were seized, according to Carly Sullivan,
a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan . They are:
Pokerstars.com, Fulltiltpoker.com, Absolutepoker.com,
Ultimatebet.com and UB.com.  About 76 bank accounts have been frozen, preventing players
from accessing balances held by the online betting companies,
said  Kelly Langmesser , an FBI spokeswoman in New York.  Out in the Cold  T.C. Sun, 27, who works for Princess Cruises in  Valencia ,
California, was among the players who couldn’t get his money
from PokerStars.net last weekend.  “When I first heard about black Friday, I wasn’t too
worried about it, and then on Saturday night I tried to withdraw
my funds,” Sun said in an interview. “It let me process the
withdrawal. Right now it shows I have zero money in my account,
but I’m checking my bank account daily to see if it comes
through. As of last night, no it has not.”  Players who use the sites can’t be prosecuted under federal
law and U.S. states that have laws against making bets rarely
use them against “mere customers,” said I. Nelson Rose, an
Encino, California-based consultant to governments and industry
on gambling laws.  “I’d say there’s probably a better chance that they’ll win
the  World Series  of Poker than that they will be arrested,”
Rose, who doesn’t work for any of the companies named in the
indictment, said today in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  