-- 
Richest Polish Banker Bets on Mortgages for 10% Growth

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-04-19T10:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/poland-s-richest-banker-czarnecki-sees-home-loans-pushing-growth-above-10-.html
Leszek Czarnecki, the Polish
banking billionaire who owns  Getin Holding SA (GTN) , says rising
demand for mortgages and corporate banking services will keep
his group’s annual asset growth over 10 percent in coming years.  Getin, Poland’s best-performing financial stock this year,
is considering more takeovers to spur growth after buying banks
from  Allianz SE (ALV)  and Ally Financial Inc. in 2010 as foreign
investors sold assets amid the global credit crisis, Czarnecki
said in an interview in his Warsaw office. Its biggest
competitors are units of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  as well as Poland’s PKO Bank Polski SA.  “Most of the Polish banking sector is owned by huge global
players, whose appetite for growth, new portfolio and new credit
was reduced significantly,” Czarnecki said. “This is actually
our window for growth” either by acquisitions or by expanding
current operations.  Shares of Getin, which owns Getin Noble Bank SA, insurer
Europa SA and financial-services broker Open Finance SA, fell
0.5 percent to 14.82 zloty at 12:21 p.m. in Warsaw, trimming
this year’s gain to 30 percent to value the group at $3.8
billion. Czarnecki owns 56 percent of Getin, whose assets more
than doubled in the last three years to 47 billion zloty.  “After the 2009 slowdown we have a rebound, and this year
and 2012 should be really good” for the banking industry,
Marcin Materna, an analyst at Bank Millennium SA, said by
telephone. “Revenue and fees keep rising, and Getin has the
fastest growth pace in the sector.”  Profits Surge  In  Poland , the largest central European country and the
only economy to avoid recession in 2009, banking profits surged
41 percent in 2010 from a year earlier. Gross domestic product
is expected to grow by about 4 percent this year and next,
according to government estimates, compared with forecasts for
the euro region of 1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in
2012, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The projections for growth in central and eastern  Europe 
are of 3.7 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012.  “My feeling is really very positive, at least for the next
three to five years,” said Czarnecki, 48, the third-wealthiest
Pole after  Jan Kulczyk , who owns brewing, automotive and
infrastructure assets and Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, a media investor,
according to the local edition of Forbes. “I strongly believe
that we will reach double-digit growth while the whole Polish
banking sector may grow about five or eight percent” a year.  Ukraine, Belarus,  Russia   Getin was the second-largest mortgage lender in Poland last
year and started Idea Bank SA, a lender for small and medium-
sized enterprises. It’s also expanding banks in neighboring
Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.  “In consumer finance, I would expect double-digit growth
as the level of retail loans in Poland is far below that in
developed countries,” said Czarnecki. “Corporate banking will
probably be the most rapidly growing segment in Poland, in all
kinds of forms, including credits, leasing, factoring and
corporate finance.”  Polish banks awarded 48.6 billion zloty in home loans last
year, up 26 percent from a year earlier, according to data on
the banking association’s  website . The industry group expects
this year mortgages will be close to the 2010 level.  Czarnecki, who holds the world’s record for the longest
passage in  cave-diving , in 2001 sold Europejski Fundusz
Leasingowy SA, Poland’s first leasing company, to  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  for 412 million euros and a 25 percent stake in the
French bank’s Polish unit, and reinvested the money into the
Getin group.  Underwater Engineering  The leasing company was founded in 1991 after Czarnecki
sold the underwater engineering company he started five years
earlier.  Czarnecki, a graduate in sanitation engineering who holds a
Ph.D. in economics has no plans to sell his stake in Getin even
as valuations are more than twice the European average. Banks
listed on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  on average trade at 2 times
book value, compared with the 0.9 times average for banks in the
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. Getin
trades at 2.4 times book value, Bloomberg data showed.  “We have no plans to sell Getin but on the other hand I
must say I’m a very pragmatic man,” Czarnecki said. “We’re in
no talks and no one has approached us to buy the group.”  Poland is also one of the few markets where bank assets are
for sale as some Western lenders pull out to repair balance
sheets or comply with European Union conditions for state aid.  Basel Requirements  Because western banks will also need to prepare for higher
 capital requirements  under the Basel III regulations, Czarnecki
expects fewer foreign investors to bid for Polish financial
assets than a decade ago.  “Nevertheless, some players will still seek to expand in
Europe and will come to Poland,” he said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  of  Spain  in March completed a 4 billion-
euro ($5.8 billion) purchase of Poland’s  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) 
from Allied Irish Banks Plc, and  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI)  of Austria in February agreed to buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA’s Polish business in a 490 million-euro transaction that will
allow it to almost double assets in the country.  “Poland is a European Union member, expands quite rapidly
and is a very interesting market for everybody,” Czarnecki
said. “I believe that a few more players will still want to
throw their weight around in Europe and will come to Poland.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  