-- 
Popolare di Milano May Join Intesa, Paschi in Selling Shares This Year

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-19T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/popolare-di-milano-may-join-intesa-paschi-in-selling-shares-this-year.html
Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl,
 Italy ’s oldest cooperative bank, may join Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA in selling new shares
this year to boost capital.  The board of the Milan-based lender will meet today to
consider a rights offer after the  Bank of Italy  sent a letter
asking it to reinforce its capital, two people familiar with the
situation said April 14. Popolare Milano, which has to reimburse
a 500 million-euro ($725 million) government bond by 2013,
rejected two weeks ago a proposal to sell new shares to boost
its  capital ratios , according to the people.  Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  in February urged the
country’s lenders to use profits to strengthen their reserves
and said he expects banks to raise money ahead of this year’s
stress test, which should be completed by June.  Popolare di Milano would be the fifth Italian lender to
announce a capital increase. Banco Popolare SC concluded a 2
billion-euro share sale in February, while Unione di Banche
Italiane SCPA in March asked investors to buy 1 billion euros of
new shares. Intesa and Monte Paschi, the country’s No. 2 and No.
3 banks, have approved rights offer of 5 billion euros and 2
billion euros respectively.  Basel Rules  “Rights issues are unavoidable for Italian banks to have
an adequate capital base to face new Basel rules,” said Angelo Manca, a portfolio manager at Ockham Capital Partners in  London .
“Recent decisions taken by banks traditionally seen as solid,
such as UBI and Intesa, confirm that.”  The Group of 20 nations last year endorsed rules proposed
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that would triple
the highest-quality capital that lenders need to hold. The
committee may also apply tougher rules to European banks
considered “systemically important financial institutions.”  UniCredit SpA, which raised 7 billion euros in the last
three years through two capital increases, is the only bank
among Italy’s top five lenders that hasn’t asked for money from
its investors this year. Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said April 2 that the capital of Italy’s biggest bank
is sufficient and its ratios already meet the Basel III
requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  