-- 
U.K. Pound Declines Versus Euro on Bets BOE Will Increase Rates After ECB

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/pound-declines-versus-dollar-for-third-day-boe-interest-rate-bets-decline.html
The pound depreciated against the
euro, snapping four days of gains, amid speculation the  Bank of
England  will raise  interest rates  at a slower pace than its
European counterpart.  Britain’s currency gained versus the dollar before the
central bank releases minutes of policy makers’ April 7 meeting
tomorrow. Short-sterling futures due in December have declined
just twice since April 6, with the yield dropping 32 basis
points during that time as investors trimmed bets on higher
borrowing costs. Data last week showed U.K. consumer price
inflation unexpectedly declined in March.  “Even before the CPI data, the market was pricing out an
early rate hike,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “Unless the euro falls
through the floor on the back of the peripheral issues, sterling
will continue to be vulnerable against the euro in the next one-
to-three months. It’s quite possible that the euro will continue
to find decent support from interest-rate differentials.”  Sterling weakened 0.3 percent to 87.76 pence per euro as of
4:45 p.m. in  London . Against the dollar, the pound rose 0.3
percent to $1.630.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 3.55 percent.
The 30-year yield was at 4.28 percent.  The 30-year breakeven rate, a gauge of U.K. inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between index-
linked and conventional bonds, gained for the first day in
eight, reaching 3.53 percentage points. It earlier slipped to
3.51 percent, the lowest since Dec. 7. U.K. consumer price data
for April will be published on May 17.  “The rate situation in the U.K. is going to hinge on the
next consumer-price index print,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a
Geneva-based market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA. “It would
be very damaging to the pound’s prospects if next month’s CPI is
going to be another downside surprise.”  The Debt Management Office today auctioned 900 million
pounds of inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2050, with
investors demanding 1.97 times the amount of securities on
offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 