-- 
Public-Worker Retirements Surge as States Cut Benefits to Shrink Deficits

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/public-retirees-surge-as-states-cut-benefits-to-shrink-deficits.html
Teri Essex retired a year earlier
than planned when she was offered $56,000 to leave her
elementary-school teaching job in Elk Grove,  California .  Instead of accepting a salary cut, larger classes and less
money for supplies from spending reductions made last year by
California lawmakers closing a $19 billion  budget deficit ,
Essex, 60, took the money over nine years to retire in 2010
after 21 years of teaching.  “The financial buyout was a no-brainer,” said Essex,
whose school was 15 miles (24 kilometers) outside  Sacramento .
Even though she’ll give up about $300 monthly by quitting early,
she said, “Once you start thinking about retiring, it was like,
‘Oh yeah, I want to do this.’”  California,  Florida  and Texas are seeing more retirements
as rising benefit costs, pay cuts and looming furloughs prompt
workers to leave. Inducements to quit early also boosted
departures in  New York  as U.S. states tackled budget gaps
totaling more than $540 billion since fiscal 2009,  according to  
the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. In New Jersey,
Wisconsin and Ohio, added motivation came from attacks on unions
over costs that strained budgets.  “These are people electing to retire because they’re
worried,” Jeffrey Keefe, who teaches labor and employment
relations at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
said in a telephone interview. “They are demoralized by the
current public-employee condemnations.”  Potential Brain Drain  One-third of state and local workers with special skills,
such as teachers, nurses, legal staff, engineers and managers,
will be eligible to retire within five years, said  Elizabeth
Kellar , president of the Washington-based Center for State and
Local Government Excellence, a nonprofit research organization.
Retirements delayed by the recession and an increase in eligible
workers contributed to the recent increases.  That may exacerbate a brain drain at states and
municipalities, where employment has fallen by 2.5 percent since
its peak in August 2008, according to U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics data. Since 1995, the number of state employees
outside education is little changed.  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  likened the teacher’s
union in his state to “political thugs” in an April ABC
interview with Diane Sawyer. He said on NBC’s Today Show in
February that benefits were “out of control.” When a teacher
at a public event last May complained about the salary at her
job, Christie told her, “you don’t have to do it.”  May Spike Again  Retirement applicants in New Jersey rose 60 percent in 2010
from 2009. Applications to retire in the first seven months of
this year fell 16 percent and may “spike” again if lawmakers
pass a measure to increase employee contributions to health
insurance, said Andrew Pratt, a state Treasury Department
spokesman. Christie has proposed workers pay 30 percent of their
health care.  In  Wisconsin , retirement applications jumped 79 percent in
the three months that ended in March from the period last year,
 according to the pension system . Governor Scott Walker has
signed a law limiting unions’ collective-bargaining rights,
requiring workers to contribute 5.8 percent of salaries to
pensions and pay 12.6 percent of health-insurance costs. The law
faces a court challenge.  Ohio saw a 27 percent annual rise in retirement filings and
inquiries in March, Julie Graham-Price, a pension-system
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Legislators last month passed a
law limiting union bargaining rights, restricting local-
government pension contributions and requiring workers to pay at
least 15 percent of their health-care costs.  ‘Dramatic Reductions’  Mona Hauenstein, a 30-year state employee, quit in 2009 as
a secretary at the Emergency Management Agency after hearing
about a proposal to reduce employer pension contributions, which
would have likely led to “dramatic benefit reductions,”
according to the pension system’s  annual report.    “I was going to be a big loser if I didn’t, I felt,
because of the reforms that were going to come,” Hauenstein,
50, said in a telephone interview from  Lima ,  Ohio .  California teacher retirements rose 20 percent in fiscal
2010 from a year earlier to 15,621, Patrick Hill, a spokesman
for the  California State Teachers’ Retirement System , said in an
e-mail. Other state and local retirements jumped almost 23
percent to 30,119 in 2010,  according to  the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System .  $15 Billion Gap  The number is likely to grow again this year as lawmakers
consider pay and benefit reductions, said Brad W. Pacheco, a
Calpers spokesman, to cope with a projected $15 billion 2012
budget gap.  “We expect to see an increase in retirements because of
pension reforms,” he said in a telephone interview, “and the
continued threat of furloughs and pay cuts.”  Mike Dennis, 61, who teaches in  Willows , 140 miles north of
 San Francisco , will retire in June from what he said was “the
greatest calling I ever had.” Growing class sizes, cuts to
student programs and “combative” salary and benefits
negotiations are reasons, he said in a telephone interview.  “It’s the political environment,” said Dennis, a 16-year
first-grade teacher and former police officer. “I don’t even
know that I’m considered a valuable person anymore.”  The  Employees Retirement System of Texas  expects about
5,400 retirements in the fiscal year ending Aug. 31, up from
3,500 in a typical year, said Mary Jane Wardlow, a spokeswoman.  Insurance Premiums  Texas  legislators may require employees to pay for 10
percent of their health-insurance premiums to help narrow the
state’s budget deficit, Ann Fuelberg, executive director of the
retirement system, said at an April 5 legislative hearing.  In Florida, retirees entering the pension system rose to
14,306 in the first seven months of fiscal 2011 from 11,639 in
all of fiscal  2010 , Kris Purcell, a spokesman for the state’s
Department of Management Services, said in an e-mail.  Governor  Rick Scott , facing a $3.8 billion deficit, wants
workers to pay 5 percent of their salaries to their pensions and
to lower the portion of state-paid health-insurance premiums.  The number of New York public employees who retired in 2010
grew 65 percent to 12,281, after a program that ended Dec. 31
allowed some  to leave with full benefits after 25 years rather
than 30, said Eric Sumberg, a spokesman for Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli.  Iowa ,  Michigan ,  Minnesota ,  Oklahoma  also offered early-
retirement enticements in 2010, according to a Nov. 23  report  of
the Denver-based National Conference of State Legislatures.  Fiscal Health  Most such incentives are unlikely to have a “significant
impact” on pension systems’ fiscal health because costs tend to
be spread over time, Bill Hallmark, chairman of the Washington-
based  American Academy of Actuaries  public plans subcommittee,
said in a telephone interview from  Portland ,  Oregon .  State pensions have $479.6 billion of liabilities not
covered by assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
the latest available filings. The assets covered an average of
about 77 percent of liabilities, less than the 80 percent
actuaries consider adequate.  Illinois is the worst-funded system, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in September, with assets to cover 50.6
percent of liabilities. In that state, 2,600 employees are
expected to retire in 2011, up 27 percent from two years ago,
because of legislative proposals to cut their benefits, said Tim Blair, executive secretary of the State Retirement Systems.  “We’re going to see over the next several years more
people retiring at any given age,” he said in a telephone
interview. It’s going to be “a steady stream of folks going out
the door.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 