-- 
Transneft Says Higher Dividends Would Deprive Orphans, Sick

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-19T13:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/transneft-says-increased-dividends-would-deprive-orphans-sick.html
OAO Transneft,  Russia ’s monopoly
pipeline operator, says paying more dividends would curtail aid
to orphans and other charity work.  Transneft made 3.2 billion rubles ($112 million) of
charitable contributions in 2009, 7.8 times more than the
dividends it paid to private investors, according to the
company’s financial reports. That spurred preferred shareholders
such as Prosperity Capital Management Ltd. and East Capital to
demand more information as they seek a larger slice of profit.  Higher dividends would reduce money destined for “the
sick, supporting sport, renovating churches and monasteries,”
Moscow-based Transneft said in a document dated March 16 and
filed as part of the company’s appeal against a  ruling  requiring
it to release board minutes.  Alexey Navalny, a shareholder activist who filed the suit
to uncover details of the state-owned company’s philanthropy,
put the appeal on his  website  today. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks to improve safeguards for minority shareholders
to lure foreign capital and plans to set up a $10 billion fund
to co-finance international investment in Russian companies.  “It’s a nice piece of Soviet propaganda,” said Alexander Branis, chief investment officer at Stockholm-based Prosperity,
which manages about $5.6 billion of assets. “But its charter
says the company’s main aim is to make money for its
shareholders, not raise money for worthy causes.”  Cutting Dividends  Transneft cut dividends to private shareholders by 75
percent from 2003 to 2009 at a time when net income increased
fourfold to 121.8 billion rubles, according to the company’s
financial statements.  “I understand the desire of all shareholders to get more
dividends,” Igor Dyomin, a Transneft spokesman, said in an
April 15 phone interview. “I don’t know if holders of preferred
stock will get major dividends if we stop helping orphaned or
sick children.”  Transneft’s preferred shares trade at 2.01 times last
year’s earnings per share, according to Bloomberg data. The
shares trade on the ruble-denominated Micex Index, where the
average is 9.2 times earnings. The shares gained 24 percent in
the past 12 months compared with 30 percent for the index.  “One of the flagship Russian state companies says in all
seriousness, ‘Why should it pay foreigners dividends?” Navalny
said in an interview. “How can they talk about improving the
investment climate and creating an international financial
center in Moscow after that?”  16 Orphanages  Moscow’s Ninth Arbitration Appeal Court is scheduled to
hear Transneft’s appeal tomorrow. The court’s press service said
the filing will be made public during the hearing. Dyomin said
he couldn’t confirm the authenticity of the document released by
Navalny because he isn’t involved in the lawsuit. He didn’t
respond to a request to release the company’s court filing.  Transneft finances 16 orphanages in Moscow alone, Dyomin
said. The court filing didn’t provide further details of the
charitable work, and Dyomin didn’t respond to a request for more
information on these activities.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  called on Dec. 29 for an
investigation into allegations of a $4 billion fraud during
construction of an oil pipeline across eastern Siberia involving
Transneft. The claims were published by Navalny, a Moscow-based
lawyer who owns stock in the monopoly and about 20 other blue-
chip stocks to give him standing to campaign for improved
corporate governance. Transneft denied any wrongdoing.  German Gref , chief executive officer of state-controlled
OAO Sberbank, is seeking to double the proportion of profit paid
to shareholders in Russia’s largest lender to as much as 25
percent over the next several years, the Wall Street Journal
reported April 15, citing an interview.  Sberbank, VTB  State-controlled VTB Group paid dividends of 6.07 billion
rubles on 2009 earnings, or 25 percent of profit. The
supervisory board of Russia’s second-largest bank may recommend
more than 6 billion rubles in 2010 dividends, Interfax reported
April 18, citing an unidentified person close to the board.  “The trend at state-controlled companies, as evidenced by
Sberbank and VTB, is for higher dividends because all
shareholders, including the government, want to get returns in
the form of dividends,” Branis said.  Pipeline operators typically pay small dividends, Dyomin
said. “We pay regular dividends, but they aren’t very high,”
he said. “Look at other companies.”  Transneft has a 12-month dividend yield of 0.62 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Calgary-based Pembina
Pipeline Corp., which operates oil and gas pipelines in western
 Canada , pays 6.81 percent, and San Antonio-based NuStar Energy
LP, with 8,417 miles of pipelines, pays 6.49 percent.  ‘Proper Company’  Jacob Grapengiesser, a  fund manager  at Stockholm-based East
Capital, and Per Brilioth, a managing director at Vostok Nafta,
also based in the Swedish capital, didn’t return calls and e-
mails seeking comment.  Prosperity and East Capital, the two largest Russia mutual
fund managers, and commodity investment manager Vostok Nafta
wrote to Putin in August asking him to sell 25 percent of
Transneft’s common stock, all of which is held by the state. The
preferred shares carry no  voting rights .  Giving investors a say would make Transneft a “proper
company” with shareholder meetings and analyst calls, and
improve its price-earnings ratio, according to Prosperity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net  