-- 
RBA to ‘Look Through’ Higher Inflation Rate, Slower Growth, Minutes Show

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-19T03:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/rba-to-look-through-higher-inflation-rate-slower-growth-minutes-show.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
viewed its policy setting as appropriate, saying it will “look
through” higher inflation and slower growth stemming from
natural disasters, minutes of its April 5 meeting showed.  “Headline inflation was likely to be quite high in the
March quarter, while GDP would be held down, to a greater extent
than earlier assumed,” the bank said in the minutes released in
Sydney today. In setting  interest rates , “the board would look
through these fluctuations,” it said.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens has held the benchmark
borrowing cost for four meetings at 4.75 percent after raising
the overnight cash rate target seven times from October 2009 to
November last year. Tropical Cyclone Yasi tore through sugar-and
banana-producing areas in February, following two months of
floods in Queensland state that shut mines and wiped out crops.  “The warning on CPI suggests the RBA will want to see more
data that’s not so distorted by weather, which may take some
time to come through, before moving on rates,” said Su-Lin Ong,
senior economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “They seem
fairly comfortable with rates in mildly restrictive territory at
the moment.”  The  Australian Bureau of Statistics  will release its first-
quarter inflation report in Sydney on April 27.  Difficult to Interpret  “The extreme weather events across Queensland and
elsewhere were complicating the interpretation of the economic
data for the March quarter,” policy makers said in the minutes.
Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent in the three months
through December from the third quarter, when it rose a revised
0.1 percent.  Australia’s trade balance unexpectedly swung to a deficit
in February for the first time in almost a year as the natural
disasters cut mining shipments and higher fuel prices boosted
imports, a government report showed this month.  The Australian dollar extended declines, trading at $1.0469
as of 12:30 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0493 before the minutes were
released and $1.0509 yesterday in  New York .  The nation is undergoing a boom in resource investment as
mining and energy companies boost output to meet demand from
China and  India . That has spurred hiring and helped bolster
demand for Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, which touched a record $1.0584 on April 8.  Resource-Rich States  Australian employers added more workers than economists
forecast in March, led by hiring in the mineral- and energy-rich
states of  Western Australia  and Queensland.  The number of people employed rose by 37,800, rebounding
from a decline of 8,600 in February, a government report showed
April 7. The jobless rate fell to 4.9 percent, matching a two-
year low set in December.  “Forward-looking indicators pointed to a continuation of
employment growth over the months ahead,” policy makers said.
“Liaison with firms suggested that wage growth was increasing
in mining-related industries and some skilled occupations,
though pressures in the labor market had not become
widespread.”  The central bank in February raised its forecast for 2011
economic growth to 4.25 percent, from a November prediction of
3.75 percent, saying flood rebuilding will accelerate in the
second half.  Policy makers expect annual growth will be boosted by
projects such as BG Group Plc’s $15 billion liquefied natural
gas venture in Queensland, which is expected to generate 5,000
construction jobs.  Energy Investment  BG,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips
are among energy companies investing about A$200 billion ($209
billion) in proposed LNG projects in Australia.  The outlook for global growth has been clouded by unrest in
 Libya  that spurred oil prices and the radiation crisis in  Japan ,
Australia’s second-largest trading partner.  “In the very short term, it was likely there would be some
disruption to exports of goods and services to Japan, though,
beyond this, the rebuilding effort and a possible increase in
use of non-nuclear forms of energy could provide a boost to
Australian exports,” policy makers said.  Interest rates on “housing and business loans were a
little above average levels,” policy makers said. “Given the
outlook for the economy, and in particular the high level of the
terms of trade and the prospective further large increase in
investment, members considered that this stance remained
appropriate so as to ensure that the medium-term inflation
outlook remained consistent with the target.”  The bank aims to keep inflation between 2 percent and 3
percent and the Australian currency’s strength has helped slow
parts of the economy. Traders see a less than 50 percent chance
Stevens will increase the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage
point this year, bank bill futures show.  “Outside the resources sector, growth in investment was
expected to be relatively modest,” policy makers said. “In
contrast, with office vacancy rates in the two largest cities
projected to fall to quite low levels, a pick-up in commercial
property construction was expected over the next couple of years
from the current low levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  