-- 
RBA to Look Through Higher Inflation, Slower Economic Growth, Minutes Show

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-19T01:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/rba-to-look-through-inflation-slower-growth-minutes-show-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
viewed its policy setting as “appropriate,” saying it will
look through higher inflation and slower growth stemming from
natural disasters, minutes of its April 5 meeting showed.  “Headline inflation was likely to be quite high in the
March quarter, while GDP would be held down, to a greater
extent than earlier assumed,” the bank said in the minutes
released in Sydney today. In setting  interest rates , “the
board would look through these fluctuations,” it said.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens has held rates for
four meetings at 4.75 percent after seven increases in the
overnight cash rate target from October 2009 to November last
year. Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar-
and banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding
in Queensland state that shut mines and wiped out crops.  “The extreme weather events across Queensland and
elsewhere were complicating the interpretation of the
economic data for the March quarter,” policy makers said in
the minutes. Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent in
the three months through December from the third quarter,
when it rose a revised 0.1 percent.  The  trade balance  unexpectedly swung to a deficit in
February for the first time in almost a year as the natural
disasters cut mining shipments and higher fuel prices boosted
imports, a government report showed this month.  Australian Dollar  The Australian dollar was little changed, trading at
$1.0486 at 11:31 a.m. in Sydney from $1.0493 before the
minutes were released.  Australia is undergoing a boom in resource investment as
mining and energy companies boost output to meet demand from
China and  India . That has spurred hiring and helped bolster
demand for Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, which touched a record $1.0584 on April 8.  Australian employers added more workers than economists
forecast in March, led by hiring in the mineral- and energy-
rich states of  Western Australia  and Queensland.  The number of people employed rose by 37,800, rebounding
from a revised decline of 8,600 in February, a government
report showed April 7. The jobless rate fell to 4.9 percent,
matching a two-year low set in December.  Jobs Market  “Forward-looking indicators pointed to a continuation
of employment growth over the months ahead,” policy makers
said. “Liaison with firms suggested that wage growth was
increasing in mining-related industries and some skilled
occupations, though pressures in the labor market had not
become widespread.”  The central bank in February raised its forecast for
2011 economic growth to 4.25 percent, from a November
prediction of 3.75 percent, saying flood rebuilding will
accelerate in the second half.  Policy makers expect annual growth will be boosted by
projects such as BG Group Plc’s $15 billion liquefied natural
gas venture in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  BG,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
ConocoPhillips are among energy companies investing about
A$200 billion in proposed LNG projects in Australia.  The outlook for global growth has been clouded by unrest
in  Libya  that spurred oil prices and the radiation crisis in
 Japan , Australia’s second-largest trading partner.  Japan Disruption  “In the very short term, it was likely there would be
some disruption to exports of goods and services to Japan,
though, beyond this, the rebuilding effort and a possible
increase in use of non-nuclear forms of energy could provide
a boost to Australian exports,” policy makers said.  Interest rates on “housing and business loans were a
little above average levels,” policy makers said. “Given
the outlook for the economy, and in particular the high level
of the terms of trade and the prospective further large
increase in investment, members considered that this stance
remained appropriate so as to ensure that the medium-term
inflation outlook remained consistent with the target.”  The bank aims to keep inflation between 2 percent and 3
percent and the Australian currency’s strength has helped
slow parts of the economy. Traders see a less than 50 percent
chance Stevens will increase the benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point this year, bank bill futures showed before
the minutes were released.  “Outside the resources sector, growth in investment was
expected to be relatively modest,” policy makers said. “In
contrast, with office vacancy rates in the two largest cities
projected to fall to quite low levels, a pick-up in
commercial property construction was expected over the next
couple of years from the current low levels.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  