-- 
RBS CEO Hester Says U.K. Commission’s Proposals Won’t Make Banks Any Safer

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/rbs-says-commission-report-will-increase-costs-for-shareholders.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, said the
Independent Commission on Banking’s plan to create fire breaks
around lenders’ retail units won’t make them safer.  The proposal, known as subsidiarization, “doesn’t make
banks safer,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in a
brief interview at the lender’s annual shareholder meeting in
Edinburgh today. “It’s not obvious to us that subsidiarization
is the right answer.”  The government-sponsored commission last week recommended
the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost capital, implement plans
for an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around their
consumer units to boost the stability of the financial system.  “The best way to make sure the banks are safe for the
future is the global Basel III reforms,” said Hester. It is
“not clear to me that the U.K. on its own needs a special extra
something.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last year
that all banks had to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of at least 7 percent. The
largest U.K. consumer banks would need to hold at least 10
percent under the commission’s proposals.  “We will have to work hard to mitigate the impact of
additional costs arising from the ICB changes,” RBS Chairman
Philip Hampton said in a statement. “It seems inevitable that
customers and shareholders will be impacted by additional
costs.”  Recovery ‘Under Way’  RBS, 83 percent government-owned, will return to profit
this year after three years of losses, Hester said in February.
The government may plan to start selling its stake next year,
people with knowledge of the situation said last month.  The bank’s recovery is “clearly under way,” Hampton said
today. Separately, RBS will subsume “a substantial part” of
its RBS NV unit, which includes parts of the former  ABN Amro  of
the Netherlands. The transfer will “reduce risk, cost and
complexity,” the bank said.  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., which manages the
government’s stakes in banks, said it voted in favor of all
resolutions at the meeting, including those on executive pay.  The bank last month awarded Hester and eight top executives
about 28 million pounds ($46 million) in shares. Hester will get
about 6.5 million pounds in stock vesting from 2012 to 2014. He
receives 1.2 million pounds in salary.  Banker compensation is “hard to justify objectively,”
Hampton told shareholders today. Levels of pay at RBS are
“relatively low” compared with other banks, though must be
competitive to retain employees, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 