-- 
Treasury Yields Fall on Austerity View, Pimco's El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-19T16:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/treasury-yields-fall-on-austerity-view-pimco-s-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Treasury yields are at the lowest
level in almost a month on speculation government budget cuts
will slow the economy and encourage the  Federal Reserve  to avoid
raising borrowing costs, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Fiscal austerity in the short term damps growth,”
El-Erian said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene. “The market is pricing in what policy makers
are going to do. The more fiscal austerity you get, the more
likely the Fed will stay on hold.”  Standard & Poor’s  has put the U.S. government on notice
that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless politicians
agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. S&P said yesterday there’s a one-in-three chance
the rating  may be cut within two years and that its “baseline
assumption” is that Congress and President  Barack Obama  will
agree on a plan to contain deficits.  “It’s unthinkable that the U.S. triple-A rating could be
put on negative outlook,” said El-Erian, 52, whose company in
 Newport Beach , California, manages the world’s largest bond
fund. “It’s putting a lot of focus on the need to start moving
on a medium-term fiscal package.”  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered on April 11 its
forecast for U.S. growth this year to 2.8 percent from the 3
percent expansion projected in January, reflecting a gain in  oil
prices  and the pace of job gains.  Treasury Yields       Yields on two- and 10-year U.S. Treasuries fell today to
the lowest levels since March 24 on speculation the European
sovereign-debt crisis will get worse.  Pimco isn’t interested in buying two-year Greek debt even
at a record yield of more than 20 percent because it does not
offer value, El-Erian said.  “This is not yet the time to buy  Greece ,” El-Erian said.
“You don’t solve a solvency problem with liquidity. That’s what
 Europe  has been doing. That just piles new debt on top of old,
and it doesn’t address the issue.”  Pimco prefers debt from Brazil and Norway because it
continues to have value, El-Erian said. The company eliminated
U.S. government-related debt including Treasuries from its Total
Return Fund in February. The fund is still not buying
Treasuries, El-Erian said today.  The $236 billion Total Return Fund has handed investors a
gain of about 7.2 percent in the past year, beating more than 80
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Treasuries have returned 4.8 percent during that period,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  