-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yield Near Three-Week Low as Noda Counters S&P

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-19T07:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/treasuries-hold-advance-as-japan-s-yosano-sees-quality-after-s-p-warning.html
Treasury 10-year yields stayed
within three basis points of the lowest in three weeks as
bondholders said  U.S. debt  will still draw investors even after
its rating outlook was cut by  Standard & Poor’s .  Two-year yields reached the lowest since March 24. U.S.
debt is “attractive,” Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at
a press conference in Tokyo today, a comment that was later
reiterated by Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano .
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said the Treasury market will still be a
place for other nations to invest.  “Where will they put their reserve assets?” Tony Crescenzi, a market strategist and portfolio manager for Pimco
in Newport Beach, California, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li. “The Treasury market
remains the deepest, most liquid market in the world.”  Ten-year yields were one basis point higher at 3.39 percent
as of 8:24 a.m. in  London , after dropping by three basis points
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625
percent note due in February 2021 traded at 101 30/32. The yield
fell yesterday to 3.36 percent, the least since March 24.  Yields are down from 3.80 percent a year ago and below the
average of 5.21 percent over the last two decades even with the
U.S. projected to post a deficit in excess of $1 trillion for a
third consecutive year. Yields will remain less than 4 percent
through year-end, according to the median forecast of 73
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Negative Outlook  S&P yesterday put the U.S. government on notice that it
risks losing its AAA ranking unless officials agree on a plan by
2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  China , Russia,  Brazil ,  South Korea  and other nations will
still have demand for Treasuries, Crescenzi said, even as Pimco
joins the criticism of U.S. spending. Bill Gross, who runs the
record-size $236 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, set a bet
against U.S. government and related debt in March. U.S. spending
may result in inflation and currency devaluation, he said in his
April outlook posted on Pimco’s  website .  Worldwide reserve assets climbed to a record $9.65 trillion
this month, according to Bloomberg data. China is America’s
largest creditor, holding $1.15 trillion of the $9.13 trillion
in publicly traded debt.  Japan  is second with $890.3 billion.  “We continue to see U.S. debt as an attractive
investment,” Japan’s Noda said.  Yields to Rise  Treasuries would be “extremely good-quality securities”
even if the grade is cut, Yosano said in a separate press
conference in the Japanese capital.  Yields will still climb in 2011, said Tomohisa Fujiki, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in
 Tokyo . BNP’s U.S. unit is one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .  “Into the end of this year, we think yields are going to
rise,” Fujiki said. “The  U.S. economy  is on track for a
recovery, even if the pace is slow,” he said.  Ten-year rates will increase to 4.25 percent by Dec. 31,
Fujiki said.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
yesterday he is optimistic about the U.S. economy this year. Fed
Dallas President Richard Fisher said in separate comments the
recovery appears to be “self-sustaining.”  Housing Starts  A government report today will show housing starts
increased 8.6 percent in March from the month before, after a 23
percent decline in February, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before the Commerce Department report.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.62 percentage points from 2.08 percentage points six months
ago. The 10-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Treasuries rose yesterday as speculation that  Greece  will
be unable to avoid a default and declines in stocks boosted
demand for refuge assets.  “Geopolitical concerns haven’t gone away, and we are
seeing safety flows into Treasuries,” said Russ Certo, a
managing director and co-head of rates trading at Gleacher & Co.
in  New York .  Credit-default swaps covering Treasuries climbed to an 11-
week high of 49.5 basis points yesterday, according to data
provider CMA. Out of 56 markets tracked by Bloomberg, only
Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden
and Norway have lower swap costs.  Traders use credit-default swaps to speculate on credit
quality. A drop in price signals improved perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  