-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bond Yields Approach Four-Week Low as Stocks Pare Advance

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-19T17:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/treasuries-advance-as-stocks-erase-gain-10-year-yield-reaches-3-week-low.html
Treasuries rose, pushing the 30-
year bond yield to the lowest level in almost four weeks, as
stocks pared an advance, burnishing the appeal of fixed-
income securities.  Ten-year notes gained for a third day as  Europe ’s debt
crisis overshadowed a cut in the U.S. credit-rating outlook
yesterday by Standard & Poor’s. Greek bond yields reached euro-
era records amid concern the country will need to restructure
debt. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s confident
U.S. political leaders will bridge differences on spending.  “Peripheral concerns in Europe are still underpinning the
market, providing a flight-to-quality bid,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  Ten-year yields decreased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.36 percent at 12:57 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 3.34
percent, the lowest level since March 24, after earlier rising
to 3.41. The price of the 3.625 percent security due in February
2021 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 7/32.  Yields on 30-year bonds fell two basis points to 4.44
percent. They touched 4.43 percent, the lowest since March 23,
after earlier increasing three basis points to 4.49 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index was 0.2 percent after
earlier gaining 0.4 percent and falling 0.1 percent.  Fed Purchase  The  Federal Reserve  bought $6.68 billion of Treasuries
maturing from January 2014 to February 2015 as part of its
program to acquire $600 billion of  U.S. debt  through June to
spur economic growth.  U.S. two-year notes rose earlier as Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press conference in  Tokyo  that
U.S. debt remains “attractive” even after the S&P lowered the
country’s rating outlook.  S&P, citing rising U.S. budget deficits and debt, said
yesterday there’s “a material risk that U.S. policy makers
might not reach an agreement on how to address medium- and long-
term budgetary challenges by 2013.” It affirmed the U.S. AAA
long-term rating.  “Equities aren’t doing well today, and people don’t want
to make big moves given the shortened week, so Treasuries have
remained bid,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in  New York  at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.  “The
market is more worried about equities than Treasuries after the
S&P announcement.”  Holiday Schedule  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
 recommends  that trading in U.S., U.K. and Japanese financial
markets cease at 2 p.m. New York time on April 21 and remain
closed the following day for the Easter holiday weekend.  Geithner said he “absolutely” didn’t have to reassure
overseas buyers of U.S. debt after S&P’s statement yesterday.  “We have an opportunity now over the next two months to
make some real progress,” Geithner said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “What we agree on is putting in
place strong targets for savings, deficit reduction over a
specific time frame with enforceable limits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  