-- 
Record Streak for S&P 500 Earnings May Rest With Momentum Kings Apple, GE

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-19T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/record-streak-for-s-p-500-earnings-may-rest-with-momentum-kings-apple-ge.html
Investors counting on a record
streak of higher-than-forecast profits to keep driving share
prices may get clues from 79 companies reporting this week with
the best history of earnings surprises.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone, and  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
the world’s biggest builder of  jet engines , are among companies
that have topped analysts’ projections in the last four quarters
and had estimates boosted since February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index companies
will probably report average net income growth of 10 percent in
the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You can call it momentum, progress or improvement, but
there’s always interest in companies that can do better and
better each quarter, come up with something new, pull a rabbit
out of the hat,” said  John Carey , a Boston-based  money manager 
at Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $250 billion. “At
the same time, there were some unusual, striking events in the
first quarter that upset and distracted investors.”  Companies in the  S&P 500  have beaten analyst earnings
estimates for eight straight quarters, the most since at least
2006, helping propel the index as much as 99 percent from the
market bottom on March 9, 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks has risen 3.8 percent since
it fell to its low this year of 1,256.88 on March 16, following
 Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record and higher  oil prices 
spurred by unrest in Middle East and northern  Africa .  ‘Challenging’ Earnings Season  The 20 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported since
April 11 have seen earnings-per-share growth of 11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They have beaten
analyst predictions by 0.7 percent, with 75 percent of the
companies announcing positive surprises.  Seventy-nine U.S. companies have exceeded estimates for
four quarters and had forecasts revised upward, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They all have a market value of
greater than $100 million, including restaurant chain  Chipotle
Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , chemical maker DuPont Co. and private-equity
firm  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   A basket of stocks in the S&P 500 that have met the
criteria gained almost twice as much as the benchmark equity
measure in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Denver-based Chipotle, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont and
Blackstone, which is based in New York, have all outperformed
the S&P 500 by at least 12 percentage points in the past year.  Apple Profits  Apple’s profit in the quarter ended Dec. 25 jumped 78
percent, as sales increased 71 percent to a record $26.7
billion. Analysts estimate Cupertino, California-based Apple
will have adjusted second-quarter profit of $5.39 a share on
sales of $23.4 billion when it reports tomorrow, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit at GE in Fairfield,  Connecticut , rose 5.6 percent to
$11.64 billion from $11.03 billion last year. Eleven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast earnings for the first quarter,
which ended March 11, will be 28 cents a share on average,
compared with a 21-cent profit in the year-ago period. GE
reports earnings on April 21.  First-quarter earnings may be “challenging” because of
rising commodity prices and slowing economic growth, said
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman
of Holland & Co. in New York.  Crude oil settled at $112.79 a barrel, a 30-month high, on
April 8. Gold rose to a record $1,498.60 an ounce after Standard
& Poor’s revised its U.S. credit outlook to negative yesterday.
The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its U.S. growth forecast
for 2011 last week to 2.8 percent from 3 percent, citing higher
commodity prices and sluggish jobs growth, and downgraded its
outlook for Japan.  Signals From Alcoa  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s April 11 quarterly report signaled gains would
be harder to come by this year, according to Bespoke Investment
Group LLC. Alcoa tumbled 6 percent and the benchmark measure of
U.S. shares lost 0.8 percent the day after the biggest U.S.
aluminum producer estimated sales that trailed estimates.  The S&P 500 has lost an average of 5.1 percent since 2001
over the remainder of earnings seasons when Alcoa slumped 5
percent or more, and the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks dropped
at least 0.5 percent on the same day, according to Harrison, New
York-based research firm Bespoke in a report last week.  Alcoa, the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to publish quarterly results, beat earnings projections
for four quarters and had estimates revised higher by analysts
before it announced results last week. While the Pittsburgh-
based company reported adjusted per-share profit that exceeded
predictions for the fifth straight quarter, the stock slumped
after sales missed estimates.  Metrics  “People had their metrics lined up and the company
underperformed,” Holland said. “It isn’t simply the earnings-
per-share numbers. It’s revenue and guidance too. To a nervous
market, if a company underperforms in any of these categories,
you see what happens with Alcoa.”  The S&P 500 rallied 5.8 percent in the six weeks after
Alcoa’s fourth-quarter profit report topped projections, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. More than 67 percent of companies in
the gauge exceeded estimates in the period, the eighth straight
quarter of positive surprises.  “There’s no question that in the short-term, current
expectations are instrumental in pushing a stock up or down,”
said Holland, who oversees more than $4 billion in  New York .
“If a company exceeds expectations, near-term traders trade off
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang at   ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 