-- 
Reliance’s Two Gas Finds Said to Be Rejected by India Regulator

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-19T10:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/reliance-s-two-gas-finds-said-to-be-rejected-by-india-regulator.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  had two
natural gas discoveries in India rejected because tests to
establish reserves differed from methods recommended by the
regulator, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The two wells are located in the NEC-25 block off the coast
of the eastern state of Orissa, the person said, asking not to
be identified because he isn’t allowed to speak to the press.
The regulator may reject four more gas wells in the KG-D6 block,
the nation’s biggest deposit of the fuel, the person said.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , is
seeking new reserves to help offset a decline in gas production
from the D6 area. Reliance’s net income missed analysts’
estimates in the three months ended Dec. 31 after gas output
fell.  S.K. Srivastava, director general of  India ’s oil regulator,
didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.
Reliance spokesman  Manoj Warrier  declined to comment.  Reliance gained 0.3 percent to 1,011.65 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The stock has declined 4.7 percent in the past year
compared with a 9.9 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive
Index.  The  Directorate General of Hydrocarbons  wants Reliance to
drill 11 wells in the KG-D6 block in the year that started April
1, including two wells that were to be drilled last year, the
person said. The drilling may mean spending more than $1
billion, the person said.  The additional wells may not result in gas production
increasing from the KG-D6 block, the person said.  The regulator’s rejection of the gas discoveries was
reported by CNBC-TV18 today, citing people it didn’t identify.  Reliance is producing 50 million cubic meters of gas a day
from the D1, D3 and MA areas in the KG-D6 block, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said April 11.  Reliance sold stakes in 23 Indian oil and gas blocks,
including KG-D6, to BP Plc for $7.2 billion in February as it
seeks technology to raise output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  