-- 
Reliance Fuel Exports Rise 6% on Singapore Gasoline Cargoes

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/reliance-fuel-exports-rise-6-on-gasoline-shipments-to-singapore.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
largest listed company, raised fuel exports from the world’s
biggest refining complex by 6 percent in the first half of April
as demand from  Southeast Asia  boosted shipments to Singapore.  The Mumbai-based company, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , increased shipments of fuel products from its Jamnagar
facility to at least 800,000 metric tons from 755,000 tons in
the first 15 days of March, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg and vessel fixtures from  Clarkson Research 
Services Ltd.  Reliance is exporting more as state-owned rivals such as
Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp. sell more fuel
domestically at government-capped prices while refinery outages
in Asia boost demand. Exxon Mobil Corp., the biggest U.S. oil
company, shut parts of its  Singapore  refining complex for nine
weeks starting March 9 for maintenance and upgrades, while PT
Pertamina stopped fuel production at its Cilacap, Central Java
refinery from April 2 to April 8 after a fire broke out at a
storage tank.  “We are currently in the refinery maintenance season in
this region,” said  Praveen Kumar , Singapore-based head of South
Asia oil and gas at FACTS Global Energy, an industry consultant.
“Reliance can bring its products to Singapore, store them and
then reship cargoes to other places.”  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Gasoline Shipments  Reliance exported at least 540,000 tons of gasoline from
Jamnagar in western  India  during the first 15 days this month,
compared with 195,000 tons in the first half of March, according
to transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and data from
Clarkson Research, a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  At least 42 percent of this month’s gasoline shipments went
to Singapore, while at least two cargoes went to the U.S.
Gasoline demand in the world’s biggest economy typically peaks
in the so-called summer driving season, which lasts from the
Memorial Day weekend in late May to the Labor Day holiday in
early September.  The Stena Paris was hired by Mercuria to transport 35,000
tons of gasoline to Singapore from the port of Sikka near
Jamnagar, the Clarkson data show. The vessel sailed from near
Sikka in early April and was last tracked off the coast of
Singapore, according to ship transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Benchmark 92-RON gasoline declined 2.3 percent to $124.95 a
barrel on yesterday, Bloomberg data showed.  Nord Observer  Gasoil, or diesel, shipments dropped 66 percent to at least
168,060 tons. Reliance doubled fuel exports in the first half of
March as the European winter boosted demand for diesel.
Destinations for diesel cargoes in April included the Middle
East and  Africa , the data show. The company also shipped 35,000
tons of naphtha to  Japan  and 57,000 tons of jet fuel to  Europe .  The Nord Observer sailed from Sikka to the Saudi Arabian
port of Jizan earlier this month, according to ship
transmissions. The vessel was hired by Cargill Inc. to transport
40,000 tons of gasoil to the Middle East, the Clarkson data show.
The tanker was last tracked heading back to Sikka from Jizan.  Gasoil with 0.5 percent sulfur fell 1.5 percent to $135.75
a barrel yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  All figures from Clarkson are for single-voyage bookings
and exclude long-term charters. Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to
report charters so the scope of data capture can vary from month
to month.  Reliance runs two refineries in the western Indian state of
Gujarat, which are capable of processing heavier grades of crude.
They have a processing capacity of 1.24 million barrels a day,
and account for about 1.6 percent of global refining capacity,
according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  