-- 
Rupiah Drops to Two-Week Low on U.S., European Debt Concern

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-19T10:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/rupiah-drops-to-two-week-low-on-u-s-european-debt-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell to a two-
week low after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. long-term credit
outlook, sapping demand for emerging-market assets. Benchmark
bonds declined.  The currency weakened for a second day as the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index of regional stocks dropped 1.4 percent. New York-
based S&P said there’s a one-in-three chance the AAA credit
rating of the U.S. government might be cut within two years
unless policy makers agree on a plan to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt. The yield on  Greece ’s two-year bonds rose
to more than 20 percent.  “Overnight we had a couple of pieces of bad news; the U.S
rating outlook downgrade and ongoing concern about the Greek
debt crisis,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based economist at
Forecast Singapore Pte. “That led to overall  risk aversion  in
Asia, including Indonesia. Asia is still very much looking
toward the major economies for cues.”  The rupiah declined 0.2 percent to 8,688 per dollar as of
4:16 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It fell to 8,693 earlier, the weakest level since April 1. The
currency has advanced 3.3 percent this year.  The U.S. was the second largest buyer of Indonesia’s non-
oil exports in February, after  Japan , according to data from the
statistics department.  Indonesia’s 10-year government bonds declined for a fourth
day. The yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 climbed
one basis point to 7.86 percent, according to closing prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  The government sold 6.6 trillion rupiah of bonds and bills
in an auction today, less than the target of 7 trillion rupiah,
the Ministry of Finance’s debt management office said in an e-
mailed statement. The sale drew bids of 14.841 trillion rupiah,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 