-- 
Ryanair to Test Reserved Seating, Ending 25-Year Free-For-All

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-19T15:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ryanair-to-test-reserved-seating-ending-25-year-free-for-all.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
largest discount carrier, will introduce reserved seating next
month for the first time since adopting its low-cost model 25
years ago, encouraging passengers to pay extra for more legroom.  The front two rows of planes flying from Dublin to  London
Gatwick  and Malaga airports from May 16 can be booked for 10
euros ($14) extra each way, Ryanair said in a  statement . Roomier
seats can also be reserved in emergency-exit rows over the wing.  Discount airlines such as Ryanair and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  have
typically eschewed reserved seating as adding to back-office
costs and slowing the rapid turnaround of jets that’s crucial to
the low-cost model. Both are now seeking to lure more business
travelers and boost average fares after exhausting most avenues
for raising revenue through paid-for perks such as checked bags.  “Reserving seats is a reasonably low-cost way of squeezing
a bit more cash out,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London who recommends buying Ryanair stock. “There
will be demand for this and people who will take it up.”  Passengers will still be able to separately buy priority
passes that allow them to board ahead of other customers for 4
euros each way, Ryanair said.  “If this new service proves popular with passengers then we
will roll it out selectively on other Ryanair routes in coming
months,” spokesman Stephen McNamara said in the statement.  Ryanair rose as much as 1.5 percent to 3.39 euros and was
trading at 3.37 euros as of 3:56 p.m. in Dublin, where the
company is based. The stock has declined 11 percent this year,
valuing the carrier at 5.02 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  