-- 
S&P Tells Biggest Debtor Don’t Blow Final Act: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/s-p-tells-biggest-debtor-don-t-blow-final-act-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Rarely has a credit rating company
made such an astute observation of the human condition.  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-
and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,”  Standard & Poor’s 
said on assigning a negative outlook to the U.S. AAA-credit
rating Monday.  Any observer of the budget debate in Washington would have
to believe there’s a material risk, too.  The  U.S. Treasury , aware that any rise in  interest rates 
from increased credit risk would further damage its fiscal
position, was quick to counter S&P’s shot across the bow. The
negative outlook “underestimates the ability of America’s
leaders to come together” to solve the debt problem, Assistant
Secretary for Financial Markets  Mary Miller  said.  Come together? Miller must be watching a different
theatrical production than I am. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner 
was shuttled off to TV business channels yesterday to tell us
that, unlike S&P, his outlook on the U.S. fiscal situation isn’t
negative.  Take a look at the first four acts of this drama, and you
decide who’s right.  Act I: Dec. 1, 2010. Moment of Truth.  President  Barack Obama ’s National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform releases its  report . The commission’s
plan relies on tax simplification and spending cuts to increase
revenue. It aims to save $4 trillion over 10 years, reducing
projected budget deficits to 2.3 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015 from an estimated 10.9 percent this year. It
includes a rise in the Social Security retirement age, lower
federal entitlement benefits, a three-year freeze on federal
workers’ pay and the elimination of “tax expenditures,” or the
estimated $1.1 trillion of revenue lost each year to tax
exemptions and loopholes. Small-government conservatives are
unhappy that outlays as a share of GDP would increase to 21
percent, above the long-term average. Most everyone else sees
the commission’s report as a fine start.  Act II: Feb. 14, 2011. La-La Land.  Obama ignores the recommendations of the commission and
submits his $3.7 trillion budget request for fiscal 2012 to
Congress. The blueprint is long on generalities and short on
specifics. It purports to return annual deficits to a
“sustainable” level by mid-decade but fails to address
entitlement spending on programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security. Obama’s budget looks a lot like the
 Congressional Budget Office ’s baseline, or auto-pilot
projection, over the next 10 years and is sustainable only to
the extent that the current trajectory of spending and revenue
is sustainable.  Act III: April 5, 2011. “Path to Prosperity.”  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , Republican of
 Wisconsin , offers his  plan  to cut spending and simplify the  tax
code , lowering the rates and broadening the base. Ryan is
applauded for his bold vision and reviled (by Democrats) for his
bold vision. Ryan’s plan slashes government spending to below 20
percent of GDP and lowers the top  tax rate  for households and
business to 25 percent from its current 35 percent. He claims to
find cost savings by harnessing competition, allowing future
retirees to choose a Medicare plan from private insurers while
providing assistance for lower-income beneficiaries with greater
health risks.  Act IV: April 13, 2011. Get Serious.  Obama tells an audience at George  Washington  University the
U.S. has to live within its means and pay down its debt. Any
serious plan to tackle the deficit has to address entitlements,
he says. (See Act II for his unserious plan.) The president
spends more time explaining how we got here (Bush’s fault) and
trashing the Ryan budget than advocating for his own. His role
in the debt binge is limited to emergency spending in response
to the financial crisis he inherited. Obama proposes to reduce
the deficit by $4 trillion in 12 years by cutting discretionary
spending, finding savings in the  defense budget , reducing the
cost of health care via Obamacare and eliminating tax breaks.
The president will protect seniors, the middle class and
investments in education, medical research and clean energy by
taxing the rich.  Act V: Sometime in the future. “Pray for the Gang of
Six.”  In the final act of a Shakespearean tragedy, the conflict
is resolved. In real life, the two political parties are on
opposite sides of the stage separated by what President  George H.W. Bush  called the “vision thing.”  Former Senator  Alan Simpson , co-chair of the president’s
deficit commission, summed up the impasse after listening to
Obama’s partisan speech last week, telling reporters to “Pray
for the Gang of Six.”  The Senate’s bipartisan “Gang of Six” has yet to complete
or release its deficit-reduction proposal. The fact that the
three Democrats and three Republicans can be in the same room
together offers the best hope for some kind of compromise. Obama
has yet to invite Ryan to the White House even though the
congressman has been teeing up budget ideas for a couple of
years.  Some analysts viewed S&P’s surprise shift to a negative
outlook for the U.S.’s long-term credit rating as a timely kick
in the pants. If the warning of higher borrowing costs --
Treasuries rallied Monday -- creates some urgency to address
these problems now, then it was a good thing.  Of course, there’s bad news too. As with earlier downgrades
to companies about to go under, S&P may already be late.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  