-- 
SABMiller Fourth-Quarter ‘Organic’ Lager Volume Rises 3%, Beats Estimates

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-19T09:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sabmiller-fourth-quarter-organic-lager-volume-rises-3-beats-estimates.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, reported fourth-quarter beer sales
that beat analysts’ estimates, led by growth in  Africa  and  Peru .  So-called organic beer volume, which excludes acquisitions
and disposals, rose 3 percent, compared with the 1.5 percent
median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Full-year growth on the same basis was 2 percent, the maker of
Grolsch and Peroni said today in a statement.  “The main area of outperformance is Africa,” Jason Derise, an analyst at UBS AG in London, said today. “They
didn’t give the fourth-quarter figure, but it’s pretty big.”  SABMiller, which got its start selling beer to gold
prospectors in 1895, is among brewers looking to emerging
economies to drive growth as sales stagnate in  Europe  and the
U.S. The London-based company reported full-year volume growth
of 13 percent in Africa, helped by a “strong final quarter” as
sales were boosted by new breweries in Tanzania and  Mozambique .  Lager volumes in Latin America, where the company gets the
largest share of revenue, increased 1 percent even after a
Colombian tax increase in February 2010 continued to restrict
sales and wet weather stymied growth. Analysts had estimated a
1.5 percent decline. Peru had 10 percent growth for the year.  Shares Climb  The shares gained as much as 38.5 pence, or 1.8 percent, to
2,229 pence, and traded up 1.4 percent at 2,221.5 pence as of
9:47 a.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of about
35.3 billion pounds ($57 billion).  Revenue for the year through March 31 rose 5 percent, at
constant exchange rates and excluding acquisitions, the company
said. Raw-material costs were “marginally lower,” although
they increased “moderately” in the second half.  Brewers are facing increasing prices for the ingredients to
make their beer, including malting barley. SABMiller had said in
November that it would benefit from lower raw-material costs
this year, albeit at a “more moderate” rate in the second half
compared with the first half of the year.  Sales in Europe, SABMiller’s second-largest region, rose 2
percent in the fourth quarter, beating estimates for a 1 percent
increase. Volume benefited from a “weak comparative period due
to prior-year excise increases in  Russia  and the  Czech
Republic ,” the company said. Sales jumped 17 percent in Russia
in the quarter after a 200 percent tax increase in January 2010
hurt beer sales during the same period a year earlier.  South Africa  The amount of beer sold in South Africa, including the
Castle Lite and Hansa Pilsener brands, was “level” with the
year earlier, the company said. SABMiller competes with
Brandhouse Ltd., a joint venture between Heineken NV and Diageo
Plc, which “continues to make life difficult for SAB in its
home market,” analysts including Andy Smith at MF Global wrote
in a note yesterday. Brandhouse said yesterday it controls about
14 percent of the beer market in  South Africa .  SABMiller has apportioned a larger share of its marketing
budget to the country, where it has held an average market share
of more than 88 percent over the last year, according to company
spokesman  Nigel Fairbrass , who cited internal estimates
including sales in bars, taverns and pubs.  The brewer’s sales in South Africa during the same period
last year rose 8 percent as consumers bought more beer due to
the earlier timing of Easter compared with this year.  Sales in  Asia  rose 8 percent in the fourth quarter, aided
by share gains in  China , the company said. China represents 20
percent of volume and 2 percent of profit, according to UBS AG.  Sales to U.S. retailers by MillerCoors LLC, the company’s
joint venture with Molson Coors Brewing Co., slid 1.4 percent
“in a market which remains challenging,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  