-- 
Seagate to Buy Samsung’s Hard-Disk Unit for $1.38 Billion, Build Alliance

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-19T13:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/samsung-electronics-seagate-to-combine-computer-hard-disk-drive-business.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  agreed to
buy Samsung Electronics Co.’s computer hard-disk drive business
for $1.38 billion in cash and stock as shrinking sales
accelerates consolidation in the industry.  Seagate offered 45.2 million shares valued at $687.5
million and the remainder in cash, the companies said today in a
joint statement. They also agreed to supply each other with
electronic- storage devices  as part of a strategic partnership.  The deal will help the industry’s second-largest producer
narrow the lead  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  took last month when it
agreed to buy  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s storage business, while giving
Samsung funds to invest in new businesses such as health care.
Mechanical drive makers have slashed prices to compete against
faster and smaller  flash-memory  chips used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad
and some  laptop computers .  “This can’t be bad for Samsung,” Han Seung Hoon, an
analyst at Korea Investment & Securities in  Seoul . “Samsung’s
hard-disk business hasn’t really been making money, so with this
deal, they can be more competitive.”  After the transaction, Samsung will become the second-
largest shareholder of Seagate with a 9.6 percent stake and will
be entitled to nominate a director, the companies said. They
said they expect to complete the deal by the end of the year.  Biggest Deal  Samsung rose 0.9 percent to close at 875,000 won in Seoul
trading before the announcement. Dublin-based Seagate fell 13
cents to $17.71 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 9:41 a.m. New York
time. It had added 19 percent this year before today.  The deal is subject to a review by the U.S. and
international regulators, Samsung said in a separate statement.
The sale is the biggest ever by the Suwon, South Korea-based
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung also agreed to supply Seagate with NAND flash
memory to be used in storage devices made by Seagate, according
to the statement. Seagate will supply disk drives to Samsung for
personal computers and notebooks.  Samsung began making hard-disk drives in 1989 and the
business is part of the company’s semiconductor unit. After
selling the division, Samsung will focus on its chip operations,
while Seagate will be able to secure “a strategic status” in
the global market, Samsung said.  Tablet Computers  Hard-disk drive shipments  will probably drop  about 4
percent this quarter from the fourth quarter amid competition
from smaller and faster storage products, according to IHS
ISuppli. Samsung and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  are the biggest makers of so-
called flash memory used to store data in some laptops and
tablets such as the iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab.  Western Digital accounted for 31 percent of global hard
drive shipments in the fourth quarter, followed by Seagate’s 30
percent, Hitachi’s 18 percent, Toshiba’s 11 percent and
Samsung’s 10 percent, according to IHS ISuppli estimates last
month. Since then, Western Digital agreed to buy Hitachi’s
storage business for $4.3 billion.  Apple and other electronics makers will generate $49
billion in sales of tablet computers by 2015, a sign of booming
demand for devices that bridge the gap between smartphones and
laptops, according to research firm  Strategy Analytics .  Last year, Western Digital tried to buy Seagate, two people
familiar with the matter said in December. The offer was refused
on concern the deal would have faced antitrust obstacles, the
people said. Seagate also spurned an offer from TPG Capital.  Morgan Stanley served as financial adviser to Seagate while
Allen & Co. advised Samsung, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 