-- 
Sarkozy Calls For Special Workers’ Bonus as Economy Recovers

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-04-19T12:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sarkozy-calls-for-special-workers-bonus-as-economy-recovers.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said companies that have profited in the recovery from recession
should give employees a special bonus, as he seeks to recoup
support before he runs for re-election in a year’s time.  “In all French companies, workers must feel that their
efforts during the crisis are being rewarded,” Sarkozy told
toolmakers today at  La Fonte Ardennaise  iron foundry in Vrigne-
aux-Bois, northeast France. “If a company gives more to the
shareholder, it must give more to the worker.”  The president said  parliament  will examine a bill “in the
coming weeks” that would force companies to “share profits.”
Listed companies that increase their dividends would have to
negotiate a bonus with workers, while unlisted small and medium-
sized companies would have to provide a tax-free bonus. Sarkozy
did not give full details of his plan.  Sarkozy’s factory visit took him to the same region where
in 2006 he announced the slogan of his first presidential
campaign, “Work more to earn more.”  Sarkozy  is seeking to
reconnect with those who supported him then, having become the
least popular French president since World War II and facing
possible elimination in the first round of next year’s vote.  “I visit two to three factories every month, it’s not a
caprice,” Sarkozy said. “It’s because I love factories.” His
plans are “not promises, they are facts,” he told local mayors
at a roundtable in the town of Renwez after the factory visit.  The French leader, who has not formally declared his
intentions for the 2012 race, travels around France once or
twice a week, visiting workplaces and schools and meeting with
voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Renwez,  France , at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  