-- 
Saudis to Pump Almost 9 Million Barrels, Sfakianakis Says

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-04-19T16:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/saudis-to-pump-almost-9-million-barrels-sfakianakis-says-1-.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
crude exporter, is expected to boost output to almost 9 million
barrels a day in May from 8.3 million to 8.5 million this month
as it expects demand to rise, a local economist said.  The country cut production in March and early April because
of reduced demand from  Japan  and refineries abroad halted for
maintenance, John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-based
Banque Saudi Fransi, said today by telephone.  Saudi Arabia pumped 9.02 million barrels of crude a day in
February, up 5.9 percent from the previous month, according to
official data posted April 17 on the Joint Organization Data
Initiative  website . Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said earlier this
week the kingdom produced 8,292,100 barrels a day in March and
it will probably go a “little higher in April.”  “Demand will pick up again in May and output will go back
close to February’s levels as refineries consume more crude and
the new blends Saudi made to make up for Libyan sweet crude
receive more attention from the market,” Sfakianakis said.  Saudi Arabia  has said it will make up for any crude
production lost as a result of the Libyan conflict, which
erupted in mid-February. The Kingdom sold 2 million barrels of a
new blend of crude it developed to help replace Libyan supplies
withheld from the market, “and there is plenty left,” al-Naimi
said this week.  Time to Adjust  “Indeed there have been some takers of the new Saudi
blends but it wasn’t enough,” Sfakianakis said. “It’s clear
that an appropriate replacement for Libyan sweet crude has not
yet been created. It will take time for refiners in  Europe  to
adjust to the new blends offered by Saudi Arabia.”  OPEC Secretary General Abdalla el-Badri told reporters
yesterday in Kuwait that he is surprised that nobody is buying
the new Saudi special blend. “The market doesn’t want to
exchange the Libyan crude,” el-Badri said.  Libyan crude production slumped this year, pushing up
prices for comparable low-density grades that are sweet, or low
in sulfur, including  Nigeria ’s Qua Iboe. Saudi Arabia developed
two blends to offset the shortfall. European refiners including
Petroplus Holdings AG prefer to process light, sweet crude as it
yields more premium products such as gasoline and jet fuel that
meet European Union environmental regulations.  Libya ’s benchmark grade, Es Sider, has a sulfur content of
0.44 percent compared with 1.8 percent for Arab Light, according
to data from Energy Intelligence Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  