-- 
Scangroup of Kenya Climbs Most in 6 Months as Profit Surges

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-19T13:38:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/scangroup-of-kenya-full-year-profit-surges-as-advertising-spending-jumps.html
Scangroup Ltd., East Africa’s
biggest marketing company by sales, climbed the most in six
months after saying full-year profit rose 60 percent as revenue
surged on “significant growth” in advertising spending.  Net income advanced to 640.6 million shillings ($7.64
million) in the 12 months through December from 401.2 million
shillings a year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in a
statement distributed by the city’s stock exchange today.
Billings more than doubled to 11.4 billion shillings, it said.  The “increase in advertising spend benefited the company
and its Ogilvy subsidiary,” Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., a
Nairobi-based brokerage, said in an e-mailed note to clients.
Scangroup acquired 50 percent of Ogilvy East Africa and 51
percent of Ogilvy Africa in October in a cash and stock
transaction worth 418 million shillings.  Advertising spending is accelerating in  Kenya  amid
expectations that growth in East Africa’s largest economy may
accelerate to 5.7 percent this year from 5.2 percent last year.
Scangroup’s clients include  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL) , the national
airline,  Kenya Commercial Bank , the nation’s biggest lender by
outlets, and Serena Hotels.  Scangroup shares jumped 7.7 percent to 56 shillings by the
3 p.m. close in Nairobi, the biggest increase since Oct. 7. The
stock has declined 8.9 percent this year, compared with a 9.4
percent drop in the benchmark NSE 20 index over the same period.  The company’s directors proposed a bonus share for every
five held and a dividend of 70 cents each, according to the
company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 