-- 
Scottish Soccer Champion Rangers Consider Rival Plan to Whyte Takeover

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-19T17:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/scottish-soccer-champion-rangers-consider-rival-plan-to-whyte-takeover.html
Rangers Football Club Plc (RFC)  will
review a rival approach for the record 53-time Scottish soccer
champion after directors said businessman Craig Whyte’s takeover
proposal doesn’t include enough funding to rebuild the team.  The alternative plan would include the raising of 25
million pounds ($41 million) in new capital, the Glasgow club
said in a statement.  Whyte, 39, has been in talks to buy the Scottish Premier
League champion for several months. He agreed to clear a 20
million-pound debt with  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and was close
to an agreement to buy majority owner David Murray’s stake of
about 85 percent.  Rangers, once one of the biggest-spending teams in the
U.K., have been forced to sell players in an effort to cut
losses after Lloyds refused to continue extending credit to the
club and Murray said he wanted to sell.  “The board has had an approach from one of its directors
who wishes the board to consider an alternative funding
option,” Rangers Chairman Alastair Johnston said in the
statement.  “This would involve a fresh issue of new capital to
raise 25 million pounds to be invested directly into the club.”  Though Whyte has been in talks with the club’s bankers and
Murray since November, he’s only recently met with its board to
outline his proposals, Rangers said.  “It is only in the last few days that we have started to
receive the draft agreements outlining the transaction, although
we are still awaiting a detailed working capital statement
demonstrating that there is sufficient funding in place to meet
the pressing needs of the club,” Johnston said.  ‘Disappointed’  The Rangers chairman said the board was “disappointed”
the documents didn’t reflect the level of investment they had
been told Whyte would be committed to.  After repaying Lloyds there would only be a “relatively
modest” amount of money available meet “an urgent requirement
to replenish and upgrade the playing squad.”  “The board believes that it has a responsibility to
examine this proposal whilst continuing its review of the Craig
Whyte transaction,” Johnston said.  Rangers and cross-town rival Celtic dominate Scottish
soccer. No other team has won the league since Aberdeen in 1985.
Rangers leads Celtic by a point but has played a game more. It
has six matches remaining.  Murray acquired Rangers for 6 million pounds in 1988 and it
was under his ownership that the team won nine titles in a row
between 1989 and 1997 to match a record set by Celtic in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 Tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  