-- 
Singapore's Lee Calls General Elections as Economic Growth Provides Edge

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-20T04:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/singapore-dissolves-parliament-paving-way-for-elections.html
Singapore  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called for elections next month, taking advantage of
record economic growth to keep his party’s grip on the city-
state it has ruled since before independence in 1965.  Elections will be held on May 7 after President S.R. Nathan
dissolved parliament on the advice of the prime minister,
according to e-mailed statements from the government yesterday.  The economy grew at an unprecedented pace last year,
spurring inflation and boosting property prices, leaving some
Singaporeans behind as the wealth gap widens. The island’s
growth has been partly fueled by an influx of foreign workers,
sparking calls for limiting immigration. The government said in
February it will give cash to all adult citizens as a
“dividend” from the record expansion.  “The incumbents may get fewer votes as it gets more
expensive for Singaporeans to put food on the table or maintain
a roof over their heads,” said Song Seng-Wun, an economist at
CIMB Research Pte. in Singapore.  The island of 5.1 million people, of which more than a
third are foreigners, has been run by Lee’s People’s Action
Party, known as PAP, since 1959 when the island was still part
of the British empire. Singapore joined the Federation of
 Malaysia  in September 1963 before it was expelled and became
independent in August 1965.  New Candidates  The last polls, held on May 6, 2006, returned the PAP to
power with about 67 percent of the votes cast, down from 75
percent in the 2001 elections. The party has named 24 new
candidates who will compete in the coming elections to replace
parliamentarians who retired or stepped down.  “Singapore’s economic performance has been pretty strong
in the past year and against that backdrop, I think the
government should be confident of being re-elected,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics LLC.  Singapore’s  parliament  is currently made up of 82 PAP
lawmakers, two elected opposition politicians, one non-elected
opposition member and nine non-elected independents. A law
passed last year allowed as many as nine opposition politicians
to sit in the legislative body even if the candidates lose.
There will be 87 seats contested in these elections.  In these elections, a new law designated the eve of voting
as a cooling-off day, when campaigning is prohibited.  “This 24-hour campaign silence period is to give voters
some time to reflect rationally on issues raised during the
election before going to the polls,” the  Elections Department 
said on its website.  Casinos, Taxes  Since he took office in August 2004, Lee has lifted a ban
on casinos, cut corporate taxes and boosted the financial and
legal services industries to reduce the nation’s reliance on
exports. Lee is the son of Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, who was
prime minister from 1959 to 1990.  Gross domestic product increased at an annual rate of 23.5
percent last quarter from the previous three months and the
government predicts an expansion of as much as 6 percent this
year. The economy added about 116,000 jobs last year when the
economy grew a record 14.5 percent, while wages increased an
average 5.6 percent in that period.  Singapore’s consumer prices are forecast by the central
bank to be at the upper end of the 3 percent to 4 percent range
in 2011, prompting the central bank to tighten monetary policy
for the third time in a year this month. Policy makers in
January introduced more measures to curb property speculation
after private home prices and transactions reached records.
Attempts to rein in prices had started in 2009.  Growing Wealth Gap  The gap between Singapore’s most affluent and poorest
people widened last year as higher wage earners received bigger
increases in income.  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , a measure of  income
inequality , climbed to 0.48 last year from 0.478 in 2009,
according to the statistics department. A reading of zero means
income equality, while a reading of one means complete income
inequality.  Immigration had been a key component of Singapore’s
population and economic strategy, given the failure of other
incentives offered since 1987 to arrest a birth-rate decline --
such as tax breaks, subsidies and cash bonuses.  In August, Lee said the influx of foreign workers is a
“trade-off” that Singapore cannot avoid.  “Higher growth that will benefit our workers also means
accepting more foreign workers to come and work in Singapore,”
he said. “If you choke off the foreign workers, the economy is
stifled, growth is not there, our workers will suffer.”  Swelling Population  Hundreds of thousands of people were granted citizenship
and permanent residence in the past five years, while companies
brought in thousands more to work at hotels, shipyards and
restaurants. The population has increased by about 810,000
people since the end of 2005, government figures show.  Disgruntled Singaporeans say the immigration policy means
crowded public transportation, more competition with newcomers
for jobs, public housing and places in choice schools for their
children.  Lee has said the government will slow the pace of
immigration because the country can’t increase its population by
more than 100,000 a year indefinitely.  “It’s more challenging for incumbents against the backdrop
of strong economic growth compared to putting the fear into
voters during a recession, but they will still have a tight grip
on power,” CIMB’s Song said. “Singaporeans know the government
has delivered and they will be voted into power again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  