-- 
Sinopec Halts Fuel Exports to Ensure Domestic Supply Amid Refining Losses

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T08:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sinopec-halts-fuel-exports-on-shortage-as-refiners-make-loss-1-.html
China  Petrochemical Corp.,  Asia ’s
biggest oil refiner, halted fuel exports to ensure domestic
supply as high crude costs and retail price caps cause private
refiners to cut back on production.  Sinopec Group, as the company is known, “stopped exporting
to other regions apart from sustaining the basic resource needs
of  Hong Kong  and Macau,” it  said  in its online newsletter
today. The Beijing-based company will run its refineries at full
capacity and cut petrochemical production to boost output of
gasoline and diesel for domestic use, it said.  China’s fuel inventories fell last month as consumption
rose to a record on demand for travel, manufacturing and spring
planting. Retail fuel prices increased an average 10 percent
this year, according to Bloomberg calculations, while global
 crude oil  climbed 17 percent.  “The private refineries aren’t making money because of
controlled fuel prices and high crude costs, so they have to
reduce production,”  Qiu Xiaofeng , an analyst at Beijing-based
Galaxy Securities Co., said by telephone. “The state refiners
have to step in to fill the output loss.” Private refineries
produce more than 10 percent of China’s fuel, he said.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, exported
403,442 metric tons of gasoline and 163,380 tons of diesel in
February, according to customs data.  Naphtha for Gasoline  Sinopec Group plans to increase fuel production by 4
percent in April to 10.54 million metric tons, according to the
newsletter. Output rose 6.2 percent to 31.55 million tons in the
first quarter, it said. Crude processing volume climbed 7.4
percent to 54.72 million tons during the period.  The parent of Hong Kong-listed  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  said it will reduce petrochemical output and use
alternative raw materials including liquefied petroleum gas to
divert more naphtha to the production of gasoline.  “The wholesale market actually isn’t that tight now,
suggesting that they could be doing this as advance preparation
for peak demand during summer,” Jay Chi, chief analyst at
Guangzhou Twinace Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s
largest private fuel-oil importer, said by telephone from
Guangzhou.  “Growing Pressure”  China has “a shortage of resources and growing pressure on
fuel supply,” Sinopec Group said, without elaborating. The
nation has had shortages in the past year, including a diesel
shortfall in the fourth quarter when electricity constraints
caused factories to use the fuel to generate their own power.  China controls retail fuel tariffs to curb consumer price
inflation, which was 5.4 percent last month, the highest since
2008. Refineries still make a loss of $2 a barrel after fuel-
price increases on April 7 and Feb. 20, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Based on a mechanism introduced in December 2008,
the government can adjust retail fuel prices when crude costs
change more than 4 percent over 22 working days.  “Shortages were worse when the government didn’t adjust
fuel prices based on the new mechanism,” Deng Yusong, a
director at the market economy research department of the State
Council Research Center, said at a conference in  Shanghai  today.
“If the fuel pricing mechanism isn’t strictly implemented, then
we can’t exclude the possibility of shortages again.”  Crude rose above $111 in  New York  for the first time in 30
months on April 8 as fighting in  Libya  and unrest in the Middle
East spurred supply concerns. Crude was at $106.32 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:08 p.m. Singapore time.  China Petroleum, or Sinopec, fell 0.6 percent to HK$7.88 at
the 4:00 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong while the benchmark
 Hang Seng  index slid 1.3 percent. Rival PetroChina Co., the unit
of China’s second-biggest refiner, fell 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  