-- 
SKF Posts Record Profit as Industries Recover Globally

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-19T07:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/skf-posts-record-profit-as-industries-recover-globally-1-.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker
of ball bearings, reported record quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as sales to industries in all regions grew.  SKF rose as much as 6.1 percent, the biggest jump in six
months. First-quarter net income rose to 1.57 billion kronor
($249 million), or 3.44 kronor per share, from 1.03 billion
kronor, or 2.27 kronor a year ago, Gothenburg, Sweden-based SKF
said in a statement today. Profit beat the 1.43 billion-krona
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts.  “It’s a good set of numbers,” said Michael Hagmann, an
analyst at Nomura International in  London .  “Volume was much
better than expected, compensating for slightly worse currency
impact.” Hagmann has a “reduce” rating on the stock.  SKF is considered an industry bellwether because its
bearings are used in products such as construction cranes and
cars. The company has rebounded from a slump that started in
2008 and forced it to cut 6,500 jobs. SKF is the first major
Nordic manufacturer to report earnings, and today’s report
lifted shares of companies from  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  to  Sandvik AB. (SAND)   SKF rose as much as 10.7 kronor to 186.3 kronor, and traded
at 185.1 kronor as of 9:47 a.m. in Stockholm. Atlas Copco, the
world’s largest maker air compressors, rose as much as 4.1
percent, while Sandvik, the biggest maker of metal-cutting
tools, gained as much as 4 percent.  Sales climbed 16 percent to 16.7 billion kronor in the
quarter. The ball-bearing maker said demand and supply weren’t
affected by last month’s earthquake and tsunami in  Japan . Sales
to the car industry may decline in the second quarter due to the
quake, the company said today.  SKF “had a strong start to the year with records in sales,
operating profit and operating margin and a good  cash flow ,”
Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said in the release. “We
saw a very positive sales development in all regions and
divisions with a similar demand pattern as at the end of last
year.”  In November, the company said it planned to hire about
1,000 additional employees a year in  Asia , boosting its ranks of
engineers and sales people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  