-- 
SNC Lavalin Eyes Energoprojekt, Serbia to Divest Stake, CEO Says

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-19T14:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/snc-lavalin-eyes-energoprojekt-serbia-to-divest-stake-ceo-says.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , a Canadian
engineering, construction and manufacturing company, is among
three companies interested in Energoprojekt Holding AD, the
Serbian company’s chief executive officer said.  Serbia ’s government, which currently controls 33.6 percent
of the Belgrade-based Energoprojekt, “does not intend to keep
the stake long-term, maybe not even mid-term” and contacts with
potential buyers are underway, Vladimir Milovanovic said, naming
only SNC-Lavalin as “the biggest and most serious” of
potential buyers.  “There are many aspects to consider, primarily
compatibility of operations and synergy” as SNC-Lavalin and
Energoprojekt overlap on some foreign markets, Milovanovic said
today at a meeting with investors in Belgrade. Energoprojekt’s
core businesses are construction and energy and it runs
operations in 22 countries in  Europe , the Middle East,  Africa 
and  South America .  The Serbian company has opened a data room on its
performance and activities for potential investors “but we
don’t expect that a sale would be completed this year”
Milovanovic said.  The Energoprojekt Holding comprises seven core and two non-
core companies with 2,650 employees in Serbia and in its units
abroad. Its other activities include urban planning, industrial
development, information technologies, trade, real estate and
insurance.  The company’s current contracts total 350 million euros
($500 million) and it expects to close new ones this year worth
275 million euros, the CEO said.  Energoprojekt’s consolidated sales rose 10.42 percent last
year to 228 million euros with pre-tax profit falling nearly 30
percent to 8.74 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  