-- 
Sony Ericsson Posts Profit on Higher-Priced Handsets, Beating Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-19T16:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sony-ericsson-first-quarter-profit-falls-to-11-million-euros-margin-rises.html
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications
AB, the mobile-phone venture of  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Ericsson AB,
posted a first-quarter profit as it shipped more high-priced
models, beating analyst estimates of a loss.  Net income was 11 million euros ($15.7 million), the
London-based company said in a  statement  today. Profit declined
from 21 million euros a year earlier when the company had a tax
benefit. Analysts had estimated a net loss of 27.1 million
euros, according to the average of 10 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg is working to
accelerate product rollouts after slow updates of its smartphone
models running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software hurt sales last
quarter. His job is made tougher by the March 11 Japanese
earthquake, which disrupted component supplies for new Android
models. Its unit share of the global Android market is currently
11 percent, Nordberg said in an interview, adding that he isn’t
happy with it.  “We haven’t seen a clear sign from  Sony Ericsson  that
makes us believe it will remain a top player,” Francisco Jeronimo, an analyst at IDC, said in an e-mailed report. “The
risk of being a niche player and a second-tier supplier means
its devices need to deliver better experience, better hardware
and better services for a lower price, otherwise operators will
prefer a first-tier supplier.”  Gross Margin  Average selling prices gained to 141 euros in the first
quarter from 134 euros a year earlier as Sony Ericsson’s product
mix tilted toward higher-priced smartphones and away from
midrange feature phones. Sales slipped 19 percent to 1.15
billion euros, compared with the 1.26 billion euro average
estimate of 16 analysts.  “We managed to get out quite a few units of our new
portfolio that made a jump in the gross margin and then we could
report a profit,” Nordberg said.  The earthquake has affected supplies of batteries,
displays, printed circuit boards and connectors and the
situation is stabilizing as alternative sources are found, he
said.  “We might not reach what we would like to have in the
second quarter but at least the trend from the suppliers is in
the right direction,” Nordberg said. “A lot of raw material is
also coming from  Japan  into displays and other things, so even
if you buy components outside Japan it doesn’t mean you aren’t
hurt by this situation.”  Changing Product Mix  Sony Ericsson, the sixth-largest handset maker last year,
shipped 8.1 million handsets in the first quarter, compared with
10.5 million a year earlier. Analysts had estimated 9.6 million
units. The company estimated its market share at 5 percent in
units and 3 percent in value for the quarter.  The company announced its first high-end model in almost a
year in January: the Xperia Arc, a slim touchscreen model with
an 8-megapixel camera. It followed up with the Xperia Play,
which has a slideout Sony PlayStation keyboard, and the Xperia
Neo and keyboard-equipped Xperia Pro.  Volumes of these models have been affected by the
earthquake, and the broad rollout of the Neo has been pushed
back to early in the third quarter, the company said April 8.
Shipments of the Play to Verizon haven’t been affected by the
earthquake, Nordberg said on a teleconference. The company has a
second U.S. carrier lined up for the gaming handset, he said in
the interview.  Sony Ericsson aims to expand its global share of Android
handsets to at least 25 percent from 14 percent at the beginning
of this year, Nordberg said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  