-- 
South Africa Reduces Corn Surplus After Attracting Indian, Chinese Buyers

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-04-19T14:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/south-africa-no-longer-has-a-corn-surplus-problem-farming-minister-says.html
South Africa , the continent’s
largest corn grower, has reduced its largest-ever corn surplus
after attracting buyers from  China ,  India  and other developing
countries, Agriculture Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said.  “We have turned the crisis into a gain” for South Africa,
she told reporters in Cape Town today. “The interest for our
grain and the maize surplus has become absolutely phenomenal. We
have traders from the East, the Middle East, the Far East.”  South Africa’s accession to the BRIC group of nations,
comprising of  Brazil , Russia, India and China, had opened a huge
new marketplace for its agricultural produce, helping to run
down corn stocks, she said, without giving details.  South Africa last year reaped its biggest corn crop since
1982, the result of favorable weather conditions and increased
use of genetically modified seeds. Farmers say they’ve struggled 
to export the surplus because of dilapidated rail lines and a
surging rand, which made local produce uncompetitive.  South Africa currently has corn stocks of about 4.3 million
metric tons, down from 6.1 million tons at the start of the year
and more than 9.5 million tons at the end of August, according
to data from the  South African Grain Information Service , which
monitors trade in the industry.  Since the marketing season started on May 1, South Africa
has sought new markets beyond its traditional African customers.
For the first time in many years, the nation has shipped corn to
 Italy ,  South Korea , Kuwait,  Japan , Taiwan and  Spain , while last
week it started exporting grain to  Portugal .  ‘Surplus With Traders’  South Africa hasn’t yet shipped corn to any of the BRIC
nations, according to the Sagis data. This year, 34 percent of
South Africa’s white corn has been shipped outside of mainland
Africa, up from less than 1 percent last year, while exports of
yellow corn beyond the region have jumped to 88 percent from 37
percent, the data shows.  “There were importers from India who wanted to buy” corn
from South Africa, said Langa Zita, director-general of the
Department of Agriculture, in an interview in Cape Town today.
“Our engagement with the industry indicates that the issue of
the surplus now is with the traders.”  Exports of white corn by South  Africa  this season to nearby
countries has been limited by bumper harvests regionally. In
much of Africa, white corn is used to make corn meal, while
yellow corn is fed to animals.  Grain SA , South Africa’s largest grain farmers group, said
corn stocks are likely to remain at “healthy” levels.  ‘Higher Tempo’  “We have healthy reserves, and with 10 million tons out
there (in the ground), that’s going to continue,” said Chief
Executive Officer Jannie de Villiers by phone today from
Bothaville, in the Free State province.  “We’ve been exporting at a higher tempo” recently, said
Francois Strydom, managing director of Senwes Ltd., which
controls more than a quarter of South Africa’s grain storage
facilities.  “We certainly haven’t drained our surplus, especially with
the new harvest coming in,” he said by phone from Klerksdorp,
in the country’s North West province.  White corn for July delivery, the most-active contract on
the South African Futures Exchange, gained 3 percent to close at
1,711 rand per ton, while yellow corn for delivery the same
month also rose 3 percent to 1,748 rand per ton at the midday
close of trading in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  