-- 
South African Central Bank Watching for Second-Round Inflationary Effects

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-04-19T07:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/south-african-central-bank-watching-for-second-round-inflationary-effects.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
watch for second-round inflationary pressures with food and
administered prices remaining “significant upside risks” to
the outlook, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said.  While food prices are relatively low due to good corn
harvests and exchange rate developments, recent data show an
“accelerating trend” at both producer and consumer levels,
Mminele said in a speech in  Washington  on April 16 and published
on the Pretoria-based South African Reserve Bank’s website.  “While the risks to the inflation outlook are tilted to
the upside, they are predominantly of a cost-push nature, but
need to be monitored very closely for any second-round
effects,” he said.  The central bank kept its benchmark rate at 5.5 percent for
a second consecutive meeting in March as rising food and oil
prices led to an increase in estimated inflation for the next
two years. The consumer rate is expected to stay within the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target for the bank’s forecast
period. Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February.  The economic recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy is
progressing and indicators show output is expected to rise,
Mminele said. Growth is still insufficient to “meaningfully
address unemployment” and consumption spending is unlikely to
accelerate to “excessive levels.”  The economy is expected to expand 3.7 percent this year and
3.9 percent in 2012, he said.  Capital Inflows  South Africa studied measures imposed by other emerging-
market economies to limit capital inflows that boosted their
currencies, and it is doubtful that they would be appropriate
for South Africa, given a low savings level and dependence on
inflows to finance the current account, Mminele said.  The rand’s 37 percent gain against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, the third-biggest advance among 16 major
currencies, helped contain imported price increases. The
currency has lost 3.2 percent against the U.S. currency this
year, trading at 6.8505 by 8:51 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordon Bell in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  