-- 
Sprint Agrees to Pay Clearwire $1 Billion for Use of Network

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T20:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sprint-clearwire-report-amendments-to-long-term-agreement.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless provider, agreed to pay  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  at
least $1 billion for the use of its so-called fourth-generation
network over the next two years.  Clearwire will get $300 million this year, $550 million in
2012, as well as pre-payments of $175 million over at least the
next two years, according to a statement from the companies
today. The agreement, which amends an existing deal, is good
through November 2013.  Sprint, which is based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , can keep
offering wireless service that allows speedier Web browsing and
video streaming than its own network, according to the
agreement. For unprofitable Clearwire, the accord may provide
less funding than some investors had expected, said  Michael Nelson , a Mizuho Securities analyst in  New York .  “Clearwire investors would like to see Clearwire receive
enough capital to resume full expansion of its network, and to
do that, they need roughly $2 billion,” Nelson, who rates both
Sprint and Clearwire shares “buy,” said in an interview.
“Clearwire investors were hoping for a discrete equity
investment from Sprint into Clearwire.”  Clearwire, based in Kirkland,  Washington , fell 25 cents, or
4.3 percent, to $5.53 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. Sprint added 4 cents to $4.74 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  ‘Positive Step’  Sprint also agreed to new terms for prices based on usage
of handsets, such as the Evo 4G. The carrier will be allowed to
resell the 4G service, operating on a technology known as WiMax,
to other carriers, the companies said.  The deal resolves a disagreement over how much Clearwire
could charge Sprint for use of its service, a dispute that
emerged after Sprint began selling smartphones for the fourth-
generation network in 2010. That disagreement may have
discouraged some potential investors in Clearwire, Chief
Financial Officer Erik Prusch said in March.  “This is an enormous positive step towards achieving
positive  cash flow ” during 2012, said Clearwire interim Chief
Executive Officer John Stanton in an interview. “Anything that
would bring us closer to Sprint is a good thing.”  Stanton said Sprint’s agreement to use Clearwire’s WiMax
service is set to be automatically extended for another five
year period after November 2013, though the terms may change
through further negotiation.  Financing Needs  Clearwire is conducting a search for a new CEO after Bill Morrow stepped down from the post last month. Stanton said he
had no interest in remaining as full-time CEO and would like to
continue as non-executive chairman.  In February, Clearwire predicted improving earnings that
could eliminate the need for additional financing. The company
had struggled to meet its funding needs, telling investors in
November it could run out of cash by midyear before raising $1.3
billion in bonds in December.   The company, which reported a $487.4 million net loss last
year, has also slowed down its network expansion, cut sales and
marketing spending and fired employees to save money.  Sprint trails  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. wireless
provider, and  AT&T Inc. (T) , the No. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  