-- 
Spurlock Shills for Pomegranate Juice, Shoes in New Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/spurlock-shills-for-pomegranate-juice-shoes-in-greatest-movie-ever-sold-.html
Filmmaker Morgan Spurlock walked
into the interview room wearing a navy sports jacket plastered
with 21 corporate logos.  “This is my Nascar prom jacket,” he joked, referring to
stock-car racers whose uniforms are covered with sponsor names.  Spurlock was promoting his new film, “ POM Wonderful
Presents: The Greatest Movie Ever Sold ,” whose $1.5 million
budget was funded entirely by companies whose products are
prominently displayed in the documentary. POM Wonderful, which
makes pomegranate juice packaged in distinctive bulb-shaped
bottles, is paying $1 million to be the title sponsor.  Another sponsor, the Sheetz convenience-store chain, is
based in Altoona,  Pennsylvania , which is changing its name to
the movie’s title for 60 days in exchange for a $25,000 donation
from Spurlock’s production company.  The documentary explores the burgeoning world of product
placements, whereby companies pay to have their brands used in
movies and TV shows. With more and more viewers fast-forwarding
past commercials on TV and ignoring them when they’re squeezed
between trailers at the movie theater, companies are resorting
to more direct advertising.  “I didn’t sell out, I bought in,” Spurlock explained.
“I wanted to look at the way Hollywood makes movies these days.
If you really wanted to reach a wide audience, you need that
cross-promotion. You need the hat. You need the T-shirt. You
need the collector cup.”  Horse Shampoo  Like Spurlock’s other films, including “Super Size Me”
and “Where in the World Is Osama  Bin Laden ?,” “The Greatest
Movie” examines a serious subject with liberal doses of humor.
I spoke to the 40-year-old director in a conference room at a
 New York  publicity firm.  Warner: So what do your sponsors think of the film?  Spurlock: They all love it. They realize it’s a great way
to promote their products. Mane ‘n Tail (which makes a shampoo
that works on horses and humans) even invited me to the  Kentucky
Derby  next month.  Warner: Why did you make this film?  Spurlock: I wanted to pull back the curtain and show how
the process works. I take you inside these pitch meetings and
negotiations, which most people have never seen.  Warner: Product placements have been around for a long
time, but they’re more noticeable these days. How come?  Spurlock: It’s expensive to make movies and TV shows, so
producers are looking for new sources of money. Also, no place
is really safe from commercials anymore. They’re even talking
about selling advertising space in the Grand Canyon.  No Guns, Cigarettes  Warner: Did any of your sponsors try to influence the
content of your movie?  Spurlock: They had creative input on how we promoted their
products, but they didn’t have any say over the final cut.  Warner: Did you turn down any companies that wanted to be
in the film?  Spurlock: No. In fact, we tried to get some offensive
sponsors like cigarette companies and gun manufacturers but they
said no. We even asked BP if they were interested. Who needs
good publicity more than BP right now?  Warner: You visited  Sao Paulo ,  Brazil , which has banned all
outdoor advertising. That must have been a strange sight.  Spurlock: It was weird. As you’re driving into town, you
see all these billboards. Then suddenly, as you hit the city
limits, there’s nothing -- no advertising at all. It’s like
you’ve landed on another planet.  Nader’s Shoes  Warner: You interviewed Ralph Nader, who’s a harsh critic
of commercialization. As a gag, you then gave him a pair of
Merrell shoes, which is one of your sponsors. Do you know if
he’s wearing them?  Spurlock: We gave him a pair of slip-ons, but he wanted one
with laces. So we sent him another pair.  “The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,” from  Sony Pictures
Classics , opens April 22 in New York, Philadelphia,  Boston ,
 Washington ,  Chicago , Phoenix,  San Diego ,  San Francisco ,  Los
Angeles  and Austin,  Texas .  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 