-- 
MSRB Adviser Rule, N&P Fined, ICICI Credit Curb: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-19T11:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/msrb-advisor-rule-n-p-fined-icici-credit-curb-compliance.html
Financial advisers to municipal
governments will be limited in their ability to make campaign
contributions under a new rule adopted by the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board.  The limits, adopted at the agency’s two-day meeting in
Nashville last week, need approval by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said Michael Bartolotta, chairman of the
Washington-based board, which oversees the $2.9 trillion market
for state and local government debt.  The restrictions would make advisers subject to board
regulation for the first time, Bartolotta said in a conference
call with reporters yesterday. By limiting use of campaign
contributions to win advisory work, the MSRB wants those firms
to be chosen based on “skill and merit,” he said.  Under  the rule , advisers would be banned from working for
governments to which they made campaign contributions to elected
officials.  Advisers will face the same limits as underwriters. The
MSRB now bans contributions to issuer officials who influence
hiring underwriters and advisers, with limited exceptions.  The MSRB, with new authority over municipal advisers under
the Dodd-Frank legislation overhauling financial market
regulation, took other steps to oversee advisers that help state
and local governments plan bond sales, enter derivative
contracts and run pension plans. The board is seeking comment on
a draft rule on the supervision of municipal advisers.  Compliance Action  Norwich and Peterborough to Pay $84 Million Over Keydata Sales  Norwich and Peterborough Building Society was fined 1.4
million pounds ($2.3 million) for failing to advise customers
about the risks of investing in Keydata Investment Services Ltd.
structured products.  Norwich and Peterborough, a British customer-owned lender,
also agreed to pay 50 million pounds to compensate customers for
losses, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in  a
statement  yesterday. The lender didn’t give 3,200 customers
suitable advice over a three-year period about the structured
investment products issued by Keydata, which was forced into
insolvency in 2009. The FSA and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office,
the agency that prosecutes complex crime and corruption, have
been investigating the firm’s collapse.  The building society “has been deeply concerned for those
customers who bought these products and who lost out following
Keydata’s administration in 2009,” Norwich and Peterborough
Chairman Gordon Horsfield said in a statement. “We are very
sorry for the hardship and anxiety that they have suffered.”  Norwich and Peterborough cooperated with the FSA and
settled early, the regulator said.  ICICI May Curtail Loans to Indian Clients From U.K., Canada  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest lender, said it may
curb credit to Indian companies from its U.K. and Canadian units
as regulators seek to curtail risks tied to funds it collected
in those nations.  A tightening of the rules may make it tougher for ICICI
Bank to tap demand from Indian clients for overseas loans as
domestic borrowing rates climb. Regulators globally are
increasing oversight after European governments spent $5.3
trillion bailing out banks amid the worst financial crisis in 70
years and the U.S. set up a $700 billion fund to buy troubled
assets from lenders.  The Mumbai-based lender began discussions with regulators
in Canada and the U.K. last year after it was told about the
proposed restrictions, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said. ICICI Bank aims to take a decision about its
international operations in three to six months, the person
said, declining to be identified before a public announcement.  For more, click here.  Egypt Central Bank Says Lenders Should Carry Out Stress Tests  The Egyptian Central Bank urged all lenders to carry out
stress tests to assess the impact of the country’s worst
political crisis in three decades on their credit portfolios.  Banks can design “several assumptions and scenarios to
measure the impact of variables and adverse events,” the
regulator said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Banks should also “urgently” review loan portfolios “and
study the situation of each client separately, taking into
consideration the impact of the crisis on them,” the central
bank said.  Foreclosure Talks Said to Yield Some Agreements With Banks  Attorneys general negotiating a settlement of a 50-state
investigation of foreclosure practices have reached agreements
with lenders on some terms while failing so far to reach an
accord on potential monetary payments by the banks, said a
person familiar with the talks.  The probe was triggered by claims of faulty foreclosure
practices following the housing collapse which law enforcement
officials said may violate state law. Significant progress has
been made on a deal with lenders, which include  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., with agreements in principle
reached on several issues, said the person, who didn’t specify
the areas of accord as they may change as talks proceed.  It may take at least two months to reach a final agreement,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. An accord remains out of reach because states want
principal reductions for borrowers, which is more than banks
agreed to in deals reached with U.S. regulators last week, said
Allison Schoenthal, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells in  New York .  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller, who leads the negotiations for the states, declined to
comment.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment. Thomas Kelly, a
spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  The 50 states, along with federal agencies including the
Justice Department, seek to set requirements for how banks
service loans and conduct home foreclosures.  For more, click here.  Courts  Investment Funds Allege Banks Conspired to Manipulate Libor  Three investment funds accused banks including Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays
Bank Plc and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of conspiring to manipulate
the  London  interbank offered rate. The lawsuit was filed April
15 in New York federal court.  The banks allegedly sold Libor-based futures, options,
swaps and derivative instruments “at artificial prices that
defendants caused,” thereby harming investors, FTC Capital GmbH
of Vienna, FTC Futures Fund SICAV of Luxembourg and FTC Futures
Fund PCC Ltd. of Gibraltar contend in the complaint.  Last month a person close to an investigation on possible
Libor manipulation said regulators in the U.S. and U.K. were
cooperating in the probe. The U.S. Justice Department,
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are working together with the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority on the probe, according to two people
familiar with developments.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” said Danielle
Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup. Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for Bank of America and  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, each declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  said he couldn’t
immediately comment. Eberhard Roll and Walter Hillebrand-Droste,
spokesmen for defendant WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, weren’t
immediately reachable for a comment.  Officials at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
weren’t immediately available to comment. A spokeswoman at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, both in
London, each declined to comment.  The case is FTC Capital v. Credit Suisse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Citigroup,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cleared in Parmalat Market-Abuse Case  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America Corp. and bankers at the firms were acquitted by a Milan
court in a market-abuse case relating to the 2003 collapse of
Parmalat Finanziaria SpA, Italy’s biggest dairy company.  Milan prosecutors claimed the banks knew Parmalat’s true
financial situation when they sold bonds and carried out
transactions on behalf of the food maker. The company, now
called  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , collapsed in Italy’s biggest bankruptcy and
its founder Calisto Tanzi has been convicted for misleading
investors.  Parmalat’s failure left the maker of juices and long-life
milk with 14 billion euros ($20 billion) in debt, about eight
times the amount reported to investors.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, said in a statement
handed out to reporters in Milan that the ruling confirms the
bank and its employees had no involvement.  Warsaw Court Overturns 338 Million-Zloty Regulatory Fine on TPSA  A Warsaw court overturned a 338 million-zloty ($120.45
million) fine on  Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , the largest Polish
phone company, for failing to get approval from regulators for
rates for broadband services, the unit of  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
known as TPSA said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Piotr Dziubak, a spokesman for the regulator, didn’t answer
a phone call seeking comment.  Taylor Bean  Jury Weighs Ex-Chairman’s Role in Fraud Case  The case against  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. and accused mastermind in a
“stunning” mortgage fraud, ended with prosecutors saying he
stole millions of dollars out of greed and his lawyer saying
Farkas is innocent while others made mistakes.  Farkas and the government, which for the first time used
the figure of $3 billion to describe the size of the fraud, made
final arguments to the jury yesterday in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia. Later, jurors began weighing whether
Farkas is guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
securities fraud.  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank.  If convicted of the single conspiracy charge, Farkas faces
as long as 30 years in prison.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala, Florida, was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Interviews/Speeches  Czech Banker Says Preventing Crises by Regulation Is ‘Nonsense’  Attempts to prevent economic crises through regulatory and
supervisory measures are bound to fail as market economies are
“generating crises by definition,” Czech central bank Governor
Miroslav Singer said.  Czech policy makers have been critical of initiatives that
may weaken national supervisory powers. The country hasn’t had
to bail out any of its banks in the global financial crisis and
the Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka has “considerable
worries” about proposed changes in banking supervision, Singer
said in an interview in  Washington  on April 16.  Czech banks weathered the financial crisis as their
exposure to toxic assets accounted for less than 1 percent of
all assets, banks had a liquidity surplus and deposits exceeded
loans, according to central bank data. The largest Czech banks
are owned by foreign institutions, including  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Erste Group Bank AG. (EBS)   Global regulators are overhauling bank capital and
liquidity requirements because existing rules, known as Basel
II, failed to protect lenders from insolvency during the
financial crisis. The new requirements, known as Basel III, are
scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  For more, click here and click here.  Noyer Says French Lenders Could Withstand Euro-Area Default  Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said French banks
could withstand a default by a euro-area nation, as Greek bond
yields surged to a record amid concern the country will renege
on its debt.  French banks’ holdings of southern European sovereign debt
represent 38 percent of their total tier-1 assets, and it’s 13
percent excluding Italian  government bonds , Noyer said in a
speech in New York yesterday.  The remarks represent an effort to reassure investors that
banks in  Europe ’s main economies can cope with the debt crisis
amid speculation Greece may restructure its debt after it was
forced to take a 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout last
year. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
fell for a third session yesterday after two German officials
last week spoke of a possible Greek restructuring.  For more, click here.  Pappas Says Online Poker Probe Hurts Players, Keeps Money Frozen  John Pappas, executive director for the  Poker Players
Alliance , talked about the fraud charges brought by the U.S.
Justice Department against Internet gambling companies
Pokerstars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  Pappas spoke with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness.”  For the video, click here.  Warren Says Consumer Bureau to Release Model Mortgage Forms  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser charged
with setting up the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
said the agency will soon release model mortgage forms that may
become the basis of new regulations on home finance.  “We’ve come up with a couple of prototypes,” Warren said
yesterday during a meeting with community bankers in Louisville,
Kentucky. “In a few weeks, we’ll be ready to share those
prototypes.”  Warren, 61, has made simplification of mortgage disclosure
forms a centerpiece of her work at the new agency, which is
scheduled to officially begin work in July. Warren has said that
many of the forms now in use are duplicative.  Warren has touted mortgage disclosure as a way community
banks can make inroads against larger rivals like  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp. If disclosure is simpler and
less costly, community banks can compete based on their close
ties to customers, she said.  “A community banking model works for American families,”
Warren said during the session.  Warren highlighted how the new agency has built outreach to
community banks into its initial structure, with a “box” on
its organizational chart for a liaison to community banks and
other small firms.  In an interview, Warren said that public release of the
prototypes would come before advance notice of proposed
rulemaking. After the release, she said in her remarks, the
bureau will seek public comment, and has budgeted for five
phases of testing of the forms with consumers.  The inspector general of the Treasury Department, which
currently houses the bureau, has said these notices, an early
phase of creating new regulations, could come before the agency
is scheduled to assume its full powers on July 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net 
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 