-- 
State Street Leads Custody Banks on Fee Income as BNY Mellon Profit Misses

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-04-19T20:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/state-street-leads-custody-banks-on-fee-income-as-bny-mellon-profit-misses.html
State Street Corp. (STT)  led custody
banks reporting higher fee income in the first quarter as
acquisitions and the stock market rally boosted assets.  Fee revenue at the third-largest custody bank rose 16
percent from a year earlier to $1.79 billion, State Street said
today in a statement from Boston.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
the largest custody bank, said fee income increased 12 percent
to $2.83 billion.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the fourth-largest of
the banks, said non-interest income, a figure consisting mainly
of fee revenue, declined 0.6 percent to $663.5 million.  “Both State Street and Bank of New York were adversely
affected by low interest rates, but State Street seems to have
had the better quarter,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine . State Street benefited
from strength in its asset-management business while BNY Mellon
was hurt by foreign exchange and  securities lending , he said.  BNY Mellon and State Street together spent at least $4.4
billion on acquisitions over the past year to add assets and
expand abroad as interest rates near zero erode income from
money funds, securities lending and fixed-income investments.
Joseph Hooley, 54, who took over as State Street’s chief
executive officer a year ago, said acquisitions in  Italy  and the
U.K. last year have exceeded targets.  State Street rose $1.02, or 2.3 percent, to $45.69 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. BNY Mellon
declined 85 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $28.35. Northern Trust
dropped $2.73, or 5.3 percent, to $48.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  Beating Estimates  Net income at State Street fell to $466 million, or 93
cents a share, from $492 million, or 99 cents, a year earlier,
when earnings were boosted by the sale of securities the bank
had previously written down. On an operating basis, profit rose
19 percent to $439 million, or 88 cents a share, beating the 86-
cent average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BNY Mellon reported a 12 percent increase in first-quarter
net income to $625 million, or 50 cents a share, from $559
million, or 46 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had expected the
New York-based company to earn 56 cents a share, according to
the average of 13 estimates.  Northern Trust said profit in the three months through
March fell 3.9 percent as low  interest rates  reduced lending and
money-market revenue. The Chicago-based firm is the third-
largest independent custody bank. JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York has a custody business that’s the world’s second-largest.  ‘Exceeding the Goals’  Custody banks earn fees for keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
such as mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds . U.S. firms have
expanded in  Europe , where the market is more fragmented and
banks have been selling custody units to strengthen their
balance sheets.  State Street added the securities-servicing unit of Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA for 1.28 billion euros ($1.82 billion) in
May, Mourant International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s
Channel Islands in April of last year, and Bank of Ireland’s
investment-management business in January of this year.  “The performances of our securities servicing business
that we acquired from Intesa Sanpaolo and the acquired Mourant
business are exceeding the goals we set,” Hooley said in the
statement. “We have added new clients in both of these
businesses.”  Assets Rise  BNY Mellon bought  Germany ’s BHF Asset Servicing GmbH for
253 million euros in August, and acquired Pittsburgh-based PNC
Financial Service Group Inc.’s investment-servicing business for
$2.31 billion in July.  Assets under custody and administration at BNY Mellon rose
14 percent to a record $25.5 trillion, helping offset earnings
from money funds and fixed-income investments that have been
hurt by interest rates near zero. Assets under management rose
11 percent to $1.23 trillion. State Street had $22.6 trillion
under custody at the end of the quarter, an increase of 19
percent. Money the firm invests for clients rose 7.7 percent to
$2.12 trillion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark for U.S.
stocks, has gained 9.6 percent in the past year, helping lift
assets and fees.  BNY Mellon in March hired Jack Malvey, a former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. analyst, as chief global markets
strategist. It named BlackRock Inc.’s Curtis Arledge as chief
executive officer of its asset-management unit in August,
filling a role left vacant when Ronald O’Hanley departed to
become president of asset management at Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments .  Litigation ‘Risk’  State Street’s Hooley and BNY Mellon Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Robert P. Kelly said the firms’ foreign
exchange revenue hadn’t been negatively affected by lawsuits on
behalf of some public pension funds.  “We’ve seen stability in the revenue and, in the pricing,
stability has been there as well,” Hooley said today in an
interview.  Officials from states including California and  Arkansas 
have sued the banks claiming they defrauded pension funds by
overcharging for some foreign-exchange transactions. California
is suing State Street for more than $200 million in alleged
overcharges and penalties.  Glenn Schorr , a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, said in March
the scrutiny stemming from the lawsuits could force custody
banks to lower their charges regardless of the legal outcomes.  Dividends Raised  “We have seen very little impact from the recent
scrutiny,” Kelly said today during a conference call with
analysts. He added that litigation “is going to continue to be
a risk.”  BNY Mellon has denied the allegations and said it will
defend against the suits. State Street settled one suit from the
state of  Washington  for $11.7 million in October. The company
said contracts with the remaining plaintiffs were
“significantly different” and that it will defend against
those suits.  Foreign exchange revenue at BNY Mellon was $173 million,
down 1 percent from the same quarter a year ago. Kelly blamed
the decline on diminished volatility in currencies.  State Street’s foreign exchange revenue increased 19
percent from a year earlier “primarily due to changes in
product mix,” the bank said in its earnings announcement
without giving a dollar figure.  BNY Mellon and State Street raised their dividends last
month and announced share buybacks after the  Federal Reserve 
approved the measures following a review of banks’ financial
strength. Both cut their payouts to investors in 2009 after
plunging financial markets hurt earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in  Boston  at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  