-- 
Sudan Town Burned in Oil-Producing State, Clooney’s Satellite Project Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-04-19T15:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/sudan-town-burned-in-oil-producing-state-clooney-s-satellite-project-says.html
A Sudanese town was deliberately
burned in the oil-producing state of Southern Kordofan, where
elections will be held next month, the  Google Inc (GOOG) .-backed
 Satellite Sentinel Project  said in a  statement  today.  The project, which  George Clooney  set up using Google’s
Map.Maker technology, said on its website that it “has
confirmed that at least 356 structures in the town of el-Feid”
were burned in northern Sudan’s only oil-producing state.  The state’s gubernatorial and state legislative elections,
now scheduled for May 2, were postponed from last year’s
nationwide vote. Ahmed Haroun, who’s wanted by the  International
Criminal Court  in The Hague over allegations he was responsible
for  war crimes  in the western region of Darfur, is the candidate
of President Umar al-Bashir’s ruling National Congress Party.  “This is fabricated news,” Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior NCP
member and adviser to the information minister, said by phone
today from Khartoum, the Sudanese capital. “This is all
political propaganda to be used in the election campaign.”  While  Southern Sudan , which accounts for 75 percent of
 Sudan ’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels, is scheduled to
become independent on July 9, Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states remained part of the north and were promised a “popular
consultation” exercise in a 2005  peace agreement  that ended a
two-decade civil war between the north and south. Details of the
process weren’t explained in the accord.  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by  China National Petroleum Corp.  Other stakes are
held by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas,  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Ltd. and Sudan’s state-owned oil
company,  Sudapet .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 