-- 
Swaps Regulator Watchdog Failed U.S. Government Standards Audit

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-19T22:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/swaps-regulator-watchdog-failed-u-s-government-standards-audit.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ’s internal watchdog has “significant deficiencies”
in its auditing systems and received a failing grade in a
government-required review completed in March.  From October 2006 through March 2010, the agency’s Office
of the Inspector General failed to meet government standards for
quality control procedures, overseeing independent accountants,
documenting budget requests, and auditing contractors, according
to the 37-page review. The IG’s office also failed to regularly
make its reports available on the Internet, the review said.  The office’s auditing system was “not suitably designed
and complied with to provide CFTC OIG with reasonable assurance
of performing and/or reporting in conformity with applicable
professional standards in all material respects,” according to
the review, conducted by  Lynne A. McFarland , inspector general
of the  Federal Election Commission .  The report was compiled to comply with federal guidelines
requiring inspectors general to undergo a peer review every
three years. The review, which is a public document, was sent as
three letters, dated March 31, to  CFTC Inspector General A. Roy
Lavik .  Three of four deficiencies identified in a 2007 peer-review
audit of the watchdog office were left uncorrected, according to
the review, which has not been posted on the Internet.  Lavik’s office responded as part of the report, repeatedly
pledging to “implement the recommendation” and “amend our
policies and procedures as necessary to assure compliance with
the recommendation within six months.”  Lavik and his office didn’t immediately respond to phone
calls or emails requesting comment.  New Authority  The CFTC was granted broad new authority under the Dodd-
Frank Act to write and enforce new regulations for the $583
trillion international swaps market. Enacted last year, the law
requires the regulations to be finalized by mid-July.  The watchdog office questioned the agency’s cost estimates
for swap rules in a report dated April 15. The CFTC has relied
mainly on lawyers instead of agency economists to produce “one-
size-fits-all” cost estimates of new derivatives regulations,
according to the investigation requested by Representative Frank D. Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, and Representative K. Michael Conaway, a Texas Republican.  The agency has faced criticism from Republicans, CME Group
Inc., the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
and other parts of the financial industry for not adequately
estimating the costs of new derivatives regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  