-- 
Swiss Stocks Increase; Novartis, Richemont, Swatch, Synthes Shares Advance

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-19T15:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/swiss-stocks-increase-novartis-richemont-swatch-synthes-shares-advance.html
Swiss stocks advanced, rebounding
from the biggest drop in more than a month, as drugmaker
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  climbed on better-than-estimated earnings.  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , the biggest maker of devices to treat bone
fractures and trauma, rose for a tenth day amid speculation that
Johnson & Johnson will buy the company. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry maker, gained after
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s sales beat estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies increased 1.3 percent to 6,326.65 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich after sliding 2.4 percent yesterday. The
broader Swiss Performance Index added 1.2 percent.  “So far the first-quarter earnings have been fine,” said
Marco Bider, a  fund manager  at Banque CIC in Basel,  Switzerland .
“Two of the three big companies in Switzerland have published
positive figures. Earnings will be less of a surprise if you
compare with the last quarter of 2010.”  Novartis jumped 3.5 percent to 50.30 Swiss francs. The
Basel, Switzerland-based company said first-quarter profit fell
6 percent as sales of its influenza vaccine slumped following
the end of the flu pandemic last year. Novartis’s $2.77 billion
net income and $14 billion sales still beat the average estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Synthes gained 0.6 percent to 147.40 francs. The shares
reached their highest price in more than two years yesterday
after the company confirmed it has held talks with J&J about a
takeover. Synthes has also talked to at least one other company,
 Tages-Anzeiger  reported today.  Richemont, Swatch Rise  Richemont, the maker of Cartier watches, rallied 3.7
percent to 52.25 francs as LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-
goods company, said first-quarter sales rose 17 percent to 5.25
billion euros ($7.5 billion), beating analysts’ estimates. Watch
and jewelry sales at Paris-based LVMH climbed 28 percent.  Biel, Switzerland-based  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s
largest maker of timepieces, added 3 percent to 404.60 francs.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. slid 4 percent to 49.65 francs as
shareholders lost the right to the latest dividend. Accounting
for the lost payment, the shares gained 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 