-- 
Syria's Cabinet Endorses Draft Decree to Lift 48-Year-Old Emergency Law

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y ,   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-04-19T16:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/syria-s-cabinet-approves-draft-decree-to-lift-48-year-old-emergency-law.html
Syria ’s Cabinet endorsed a draft
decree to lift a 48-year-old emergency law, the main demand of
protesters challenging President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  The  Council of Ministers  also approved draft bills to
dissolve the Supreme State Security Court and regulate the right
to protest, Information Minister Adnan Mahmoud said today in a
televised speech after the Cabinet session. The measures need
the approval of the president or parliament to become law,
former lawmaker George Jabbour said in a telephone interview.  “This will reinforce security and will protect the dignity
of the citizens,” Mahmoud said. The draft on the right to
protest “is similar to those in place in most countries of the
world, particularly in European countries and the  United
States ,” he said.  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by the
wave of uprisings that ousted long-time rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia , and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime
is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon,
where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim group.  “The number of deaths and injuries suffered by protesters
at the hands of the security forces in the past month has
angered and galvanized the opposition to demand much more than
the modest reforms they initially wanted, some even calling for
regime change,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , said today by e-mail. “Now, the
formal ending of emergency law is unlikely to satisfy protesters
unless it is accompanied by a marked change in the behavior of
the security services.”  Protesters Killed  Activists said at least 18 protesters have died in clashes
in the three days since Assad instructed the Cabinet to make
changes aimed at calming dissent. The protests broke out in mid-
March, prompting a government crackdown and scores of deaths
across the country. Assad ordered his ministers to prepare the
legal framework for lifting the state of emergency in a speech
on April 16, without referring to other protester demands,
including the release of political prisoners.  At least 17 protesters died two days ago during anti-
government demonstrations in the central city of Homs, home to
one of the country’s two oil refineries, and Latakia, Ammar
Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for Human Rights ,
said by phone from Cairo. He said security forces broke up an
overnight sit-in Homs early today, causing at least one death.
 Agence France-Presse  put the death toll today in Homs at four.  Officers Die  The Interior Ministry accused “criminal gangs” of killing
a general, his three relatives, as well as a colonel and a
soldier in two separate attacks in Homs, according to SANA.  Assad must do more to meet the demands of the Syrian people
for greater freedom and democracy, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said after the Cabinet approved the draft decree
on lifting the emergency law.  The move “is a step forward, there’s no doubt about
that,” Hague said in an interview with Sky News television
today. “He still has much more to do to meet the legitimate
aspirations of the people of his country.”  Assad’s Baath party regime, which has been in power since
1963, has blamed the violence on terrorists. The Interior
Ministry announced today a ban on street protests.  “The ministry said it will not be lenient with such
terrorist acts and it will work strictly to enhance security and
stability all over Syria and pursue terrorists everywhere to
bring them to justice,” according to the state-run  Syrian Arab
News Agency .  Nothing Enacted  “Banning protests is unconstitutional,” former Judge
Haitham al-Maleh, 80, a human-rights activist who was recently
released from prison as part of an amnesty, told Al Arabiya
television. “No decrees or laws have so far been enacted, so
this is all talk for now.”  The Cabinet today also studied a series of draft decrees to
introduce further reforms, including a new media law to enforce
freedoms, Mahmoud said. The Cabinet also looked into draft laws
for political parties and local administrations, SANA said.  “These strategic draft decrees come within the framework
of political reform that will help build democracy and increase
the participation of citizens,” SANA said. The government
studied a draft law that would employ 10,000 degree-holders in
public institutions every year, it said.  Government concessions don’t seem to satisfy protesters who
always “want a bit more,”  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis, said today in a phone interview.  Allegations of Torture  At least 130 people have been killed in the unrest that
started in mid-March, according to  Human Rights Watch . The New
York-based organization has said Syrian forces have tortured
protesters and that it is impossible to verify how many remain
in detention. Activists say the number killed exceeds 200.  The turmoil has posed the most serious challenge to Assad,
who inherited power from his father 11 years ago. He has accused
foreign-led conspirators of taking advantage of the unrest to
undermine Syria, mostly due to its support for anti-Israel
groups.  Assad issued a decree on April 14 approving a new
government under former Agriculture Minister Adel Safar, after
the protests intensified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 