-- 
Syria's Cabinet Endorses Draft Decree to Lift 48-Year-Old Emergency Law

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y ,   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-20T11:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/syria-s-cabinet-endorses-draft-decree-to-lift-48-year-old-emergency-law.html
Syria ’s Cabinet endorsed a draft
decree to lift a 48-year-old emergency law, the main demand of
protesters challenging President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  Assad will issue the decree ending emergency rule today,  Al
Watan newspaper  reported. The  Council of Ministers  also approved
draft bills to dissolve the Supreme State Security Court and
regulate the right to protest, Information Minister Adnan
Mahmoud said yesterday in a televised speech. The measures need
the approval of the president or parliament to become law,
former lawmaker George Jabbour said in a telephone interview.  “This will reinforce security and will protect the dignity
of the citizens,” Mahmoud said. The draft law on the right to
protest “is similar to those in place in most countries of the
world, particularly in European countries and the  United
States .”  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by the
wave of uprisings that ousted long-time rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia , and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime
is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon,
where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim group.  Assad will issue a decree today approving the lifting of
the emergency law,  Al Watan , which is close to the regime,
reported, citing an unidentified senior official. The law won’t
be replaced by a special anti-terrorism law and the existing
general punishment law will apply to terrorism crimes, the
privately run newspaper said. Assad will also issue a decree
dissolving the Supreme State Security Court and another on the
organization of peaceful rallies,  Al Watan  said.  Not Enough  “The number of deaths and injuries suffered by protesters
at the hands of the security forces in the past month has
angered and galvanized the opposition to demand much more than
the modest reforms they initially wanted, some even calling for
regime change,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , said yesterday. “Now, the formal
ending of emergency law is unlikely to satisfy protesters unless
it is accompanied by a marked change in the behavior of the
security services.”  Demonstrations broke out in mid-March, prompting a
government crackdown that led to scores of deaths across the
country. Assad ordered his ministers to prepare the legal
framework for scrapping the state of emergency in a speech on
April 16, without referring to the protesters’ other demands,
including the release of political prisoners.  Protesters Killed  At least 17 protesters died on April 17 during anti-
government rallies in the central city of Homs, home to one of
the country’s two oil refineries, and Latakia, Ammar Qurabi,
head of Syria’s  National Organization for Human Rights , said by
phone from Cairo. He said security forces broke up a sit-in Homs
yesterday, causing at least one death.  Agence France-Presse  put
the death toll yesterday in Homs at four.  Syrian authorities yesterday arrested Mahmoud Issa, a
prominent opposition figure and former prisoner, after he gave
an interview to  Al Jazeera , activist Mazen Darwish said in a
phone interview today.  The Interior Ministry accused “criminal gangs” of killing
a general and three of his relatives, as well as a colonel and a
soldier, in two separate attacks in Homs, according to the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency .  At least 130 people have been killed in the unrest,
according to  Human Rights Watch . The New York-based organization
says Syrian forces have tortured protesters and that it is
impossible to verify how many remain in detention. Activists say
the number killed exceeds 200.  ‘More to Do’  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told Sky News
television yesterday that while the Syrian Cabinet’s approval of
the draft decree on lifting the emergency law “is a step
forward,” Assad “still has much more to do to meet the
legitimate aspirations of the people of his country.”  Assad’s Baath party regime, which has been in power since
1963, has blamed the violence on terrorists. The Interior
Ministry yesterday announced a ban on street protests.  The ministry “said it will not be lenient with such
terrorist acts and it will work strictly to enhance security and
stability all over Syria and pursue terrorists everywhere to
bring them to justice,” according to SANA.  The ruling Baath party’s assistant secretary-general,
Mohammad Saeed Bkhaitan, told officials from the organization
there will be no tolerance for “terrorists” and that “events
have proved that tolerance and forgiveness don’t pay off with
the enemies of the nation and those lurking against the security
and stability Syria enjoys,”  SANA  reported.  ‘All Talk’  Banning protests is unconstitutional, former Judge Haitham
al-Maleh, 80, a human-rights activist who was recently released
from prison as part of an amnesty, told Al Arabiya television.
“No decrees or laws have so far been enacted, so this is all
talk for now,” he said.  The Cabinet yesterday studied a series of draft decrees to
introduce further changes, including a new media law to enforce
freedoms, Mahmoud said. The Cabinet also looked into draft laws
for political parties and local administrations, SANA said.  “These strategic draft decrees come within the framework
of political reform that will help build democracy and increase
the participation of citizens,” SANA said. The government
examined a draft law that would employ 10,000 degree-holders in
public institutions every year, it said.  Government concessions don’t seem to satisfy protesters,
who always “want a bit more,”  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis, said yesterday by telephone.  The turmoil has posed the most serious challenge to Assad,
who inherited power from his father 11 years ago. He has accused
foreign-led conspirators of taking advantage of the unrest to
undermine Syria, mostly due to its support for anti-Israel
groups.  Assad issued a decree on April 14 approving a new
government under former Agriculture Minister Adel Safar, after
the protests intensified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  