-- 
U.A.E. Arrests Pro-Democracy Activist Al-Shehhi, Lawyer Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-19T11:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-a-e-arrests-pro-democracy-activist-al-shehhi-lawyer-says.html
United Arab Emirates police
arrested a fourth pro-democracy activist who called for
constitutional changes, a lawyer and fellow campaigner said.  Abdullah bin Qious Al-Shehhi, 55, was detained in the
northern emirate of Ras Al Khaimah on April 15 after police
raided his home and confiscated documents and  laptop computers ,
Mohammed al-Mansouri said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Al-Shehhi is a former army officer and head of the media section
at the Emirates Heritage Club.  Al-Shehhi signed an online petition that calls for
elections for members of the Federal National Council, which
advises the government, and for an expansion of the body’s
legislative and regulatory powers. A government committee now
picks half the council’s members and the rulers of the U.A.E.
seven emirates choose the rest.  The spokesman for the U.A.E federal government declined to
comment. Khater Massaad, an adviser to the ruler of Ras Al
Khaimah, said he had no knowledge of the case. Bloomberg News
was unable to reach Sheikh Talib bin Saqr Al Qassimi, chief of
the Ras Al Khaimah police, for comment.  While the U.A.E. has been spared in the wave of protests
taking place across the Arab world this year, the government has
taken measures to appease its citizens. It said March 2 that it
would allocate 5.7 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) to fund water
and infrastructure projects in the country’s northern emirates,
which have traditionally lagged behind the rapid development of
others such as Dubai and  Abu Dhabi .  Three other activists, including Nasser bin Ghaith, an
economics professor at the Abu Dhabi branch of  France ’s Sorbonne
University, have been arrested since April 8, according al-
Mansouri and fellow lawyer and activist Abdulhamid al-Kumaity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 