-- 
U.K. Bank Bonuses ‘Inappropriate’ Amid Taxpayers’ Support, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-k-bank-bonuses-inappropriate-amid-public-aid-lawmakers-say.html
A cross-party panel of British
lawmakers said it is “inappropriate” for banks to award staff
large bonuses and reap excessive profits while they rely on
support from taxpayers.  British banks, which have received more than 1 trillion
pounds ($1.6 trillion) of government bailouts guarantees since
2008, benefit from an “implicit expectation” that taxpayers
will rescue them, the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee
said in a report published in  London  today. No new mechanism has
been developed that would transfer that risk to shareholders and
bondholders, the committee said.  “It is inappropriate for banks dependent on taxpayer
support to be generating excessive incomes, unnecessary bonuses
or dividends at the expense of exiting public support,”
Margaret Hodge, a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party  who
chairs the panel, said in a statement.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government is urging banks
to show restraint as it pushes through the deepest cuts in
public spending since World War II. Public backing for banks was
reduced to 512 billion pounds as of December, Hodge said.  “There must be an end to the dependence of the banks on
taxpayer support,” she said.  Barclays Plc gave its chief executive  Robert Diamond  as
much as 10.1 million pounds in salary, bonuses and stock, while
HSBC Holdings Plc planned to pay Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  as much as 13.3 million pounds this year.  In a separate report, the same parliamentary committee
called for the Treasury to take steps to safeguard taxpayers’
interests in one of the support programs known as the Asset
Protection Scheme, which insured potentially toxic bank loans.  Hodge criticized  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  for failing to give a clear picture of
the assets that were insured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  