-- 
U.K. Solar Companies Ask Court to Study Huhne Subsidy Review

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-19T14:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-k-solar-companies-ask-court-to-study-government-s-review-of-subsidy.html
Low Carbon Solar U.K. Ltd., Element
Power Ltd. and eight others asked a British court to
review U.K. Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne ’s
decision to reexamine solar subsidies.  The government in March said it may cut subsidies for
bigger solar projects by as much as 72 percent after announcing
a comprehensive review in February of feed-in tariffs, or
guaranteed prices paid for electricity from renewable sources.
The ministry Huhne leads wants to prevent large solar farms from
taking money earmarked for rooftop installations.  The companies said today in an e-mailed statement that the
government had set “clear expectations” that a review wouldn’t
take place until 2012, with subsidies changing in 2013. They
also said the Department of Energy and Climate Change never
disclosed what the trigger would be for an early review.  “In pulling back on a commitment to support solar energy,
the government will cause the abandonment of hundreds of
community-scale schemes,” said Mark Shorrock, chief executive
officer of Cirencester, England-based Low Carbon Solar. “The
cost of not getting this right now, aside from the government
meeting its  climate change  targets, include the creation of new
jobs, a diversified income for farmers and landowners, reduced
energy costs for businesses and the provision of more secure and
reliable energy.”  The energy department said in an e-mailed statement that it
will “consider” the judicial review.  ‘Sustained Growth’  “We support sustained growth in the solar industry and
have proposed measures for consultation that will protect the
feed-in tariffs scheme for homes, small businesses and
communities,” the department said.  After the introduction of the tariffs in April 2010, solar
developers including Low Carbon Solar planned to build farms of
ground-mounted photovoltaic panels to benefit from the
subsidies, sparking  England ’s southernmost county, Cornwall, to
predict a “gold rush.” While none had been built by February,
the government said it feared developers would earn money
intended for smaller projects and announced a review of plans
for facilities bigger than 50 kilowatts.  Judicial reviews in the U.K. examine the decisions of
public agencies. While an authority may be ordered to reconsider
an action, it may later be allowed to draw the same conclusion
provided all procedures are correctly followed.  The other companies and individuals making the legal
challenge are Alectron Investments Ltd., Juwi Renewable Energies
Ltd., Lark Energy Ltd., MO3 Power Ltd, Donald Anderson, Guy
Anderson, Kate Kenyon and The Green Company ( Europe ) Ltd.,
according to today’s statement. The group filed the action in
the  High Court  in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  