-- 
U.K. Gas Rises as North Sea Field Shuts, Dutch Pipe Flows Drop

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-04-19T15:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-k-gas-rises-as-north-sea-field-shuts-dutch-pipe-flows-drop.html
U.K. natural gas for May rose as
Royal Dutch Shell Plc shut a North Sea field and flows from a
liquefied gas terminal and a pipeline from the Netherlands fell.  “There is planned maintenance at Shearwater,” Kirsten Smart, a Shell spokeswoman in London, said today by e-mail. She
didn’t give any details on the duration of the work.  Deliveries to the Bacton Seal terminal in eastern  England ,
where gas from the Shearwater field arrives, began falling at
about 6 p.m. yesterday, National Grid Plc data show. They
dropped about 7 million cubic meters, or 37 percent, to a rate
of 12 million cubic meters today.  Gas for May rose as much as 1.3 percent to 58.45 pence a
therm. It was at 58.15 pence as of 4:15 p.m. in London,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equal to
$9.48 a million British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btu.  Deliveries into Britain through the BBL pipeline from the
Netherlands dropped by almost 90 percent to a rate of about 2
million cubic meters a day, the National Grid data show. Flows
from the Isle of Grain terminal fell as much as 50 percent.  Baseload power for next month rose 25 pence to 51.25 pounds
a megawatt-hour. Baseload is delivered around the clock.  National Grid, the network manager, forecast gas demand at
270 million cubic meters in the day through 6 a.m.  London  time
tomorrow, 33 million less than normal for the time of year.  Prices at the National Balancing Point, Britain’s gas hub,
for delivery this summer may drop because of lower demand, a
surplus of Russian supplies and no need to divert LNG to  Japan 
after the March 11 earthquake,  Societe Generale  SA said in a
report today. Delivery of the summer gas contract began April 1.  ‘Cartel-Like Way’  “Current NBP gas prices are much too high,” Thierry Bros,
a Paris-based analyst at the bank, said in the report. “We see
a decline in gas demand in 2011.”  Russia, Norway and Qatar, countries with “a major
influence” on U.K. gas prices, shouldn’t collude to keep gas
out of the European market as they risk damaging their long-term
positions, Bros said. Falling prices are in the interest of
producers and consumers, he said.  “The mitigation of  climate change  and improved  energy
security  could lead European governments that are phasing out
nuclear to revisit their options if gas producers behave in a
cartel-like way this summer,” Societe Generale said.  Maximum London temperatures may rise to 24 degrees Celsius
(75 Fahrenheit) on April 23. That’s 7 degrees more than the
five-year average, according to CustomWeather Inc. data. Milder
weather cuts heating demand.  Winter gas, to be delivered in the six months from October,
declined 0.4 percent to 71.25 pence a therm. Power for winter
fell 30 pence, or 0.5 percent, to 58.95 pounds a megawatt-hour.  The pipeline between Britain and  Belgium  was exporting gas
to the continent at a rate of about 51 million cubic meters a
day, according to a website run by  Interconnector  (U.K.) Ltd.,
owner of the link. The link exported a record volume of about 60
million on April 8.  Same-day gas rose 1.55 pence to 56.8 pence a therm. That’s
the first gain in four days. Power for tomorrow fell 2.2 percent
to 49.80 pounds a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  