-- 
U.S. Treasury Said to Wait for GM Results Before Decision on Selling Stake

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-19T20:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-treasury-said-to-wait-for-gm-results-before-decision-on-selling-stake.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department will
wait for  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s first-quarter earnings before
deciding whether to sell more of its investment in the nation’s
largest automaker, a person familiar with the matter said.  The Treasury can sell some of its remaining 500 million GM
shares, which equals 33 percent ownership, starting May 22.
Officials are waiting for GM’s earnings and to see what happens
to the stock when bondholders in GM’s bankrupt predecessor
company receive shares as partial compensation for their losses,
said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the
plans aren’t public.  GM has dropped 20 percent this year in New York trading and
10 percent from its initial public offering price. While the
Treasury may be willing to take a loss on the shares, which
closed today at $29.59, the Obama administration is looking to
sell at least in the range of the $33 IPO price, the person
said. The government would need to sell the shares at about $53
apiece to break even on the investment.  “They will tell us when they’re getting out; I will not
tell them when they’re getting out,” Dan Akerson, GM’s chief
executive officer, told reporters today at an  industry forum  in
 New York . “There are many variables in their consideration and
they don’t share that with us. They’ll notify us when they want
to position for the sale.”  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to
comment. GM hasn’t said when it will report first-quarter
earnings.  GM fell 38 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $29.59 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares slid as
much as 2.7 percent earlier to the lowest price since the IPO in
November.  S-1 Filing  The Treasury may file to sell shares with a traditional S-1
filing after a lockup period expires on May 22. The Securities
and Exchange Commission would then review the offering like an
IPO, which would delay the actual sale until June, the person
said.  If the department waits until July 1, the government would
be able to sell the shares with a less-thorough review and could
get the offering started more quickly. In that case, the
Treasury likely would wait until Detroit-based GM reports
second-quarter earnings before selling more stock, delaying the
sale until August, the person said.  The Treasury may make a third offering of shares in
November or December and doesn’t need to sell all of the shares
this year, the person said.  Geithner’s Decision  The department’s auto task-force members haven’t met with
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who would decide on any
GM share sale, to discuss the timing of a possible secondary
offering, the person said.  The Treasury, which owned 61 percent of GM after its 2009
bailout of the automaker, sold shares equal to a 28 percent
stake during the IPO. In a January interview,  Ron Bloom , who was
head of the Obama administration’s auto-industry task force at
the time of the IPO, said the government wanted to sell its GM
shares “as soon as practical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  