-- 
U.S. Natural Gas Stockpiles Probably Rose 3.2% on Warmer Weather

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-04-19T20:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-natural-gas-stockpiles-probably-rose-3-2-on-warmer-weather.html
U.S. natural-gas supplies probably
rose 3.2 percent last week as heater use in the North and air
conditioning in the South spurred demand, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg before a government report on
April 21.  Inventories rose 52 billion cubic feet to 1.659 trillion in
the week ended April 15, according to the median of seven
estimates. The five-year average stockpile change for the week
is an increase of 34 billion. Supplies jumped 75 billion cubic
feet a year earlier.  A storm system that swept across the U.S. North last week
brought snow to the Great Plains while temperatures rose in
Southern states. The range of temperatures was enough to support
prices, said  Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF Advisors
in Houston who expects an increase of 52 billion cubic feet.  “The overall temperature profile has been relatively
bullish,” Cooper said. “From that perspective, I think the
prices would have been quite a bit lower if it weren’t for
Mother Nature. As long as Mother Nature stays bullish we’ll
probably find some support.”  The stockpile estimates ranged from increases of 47 billion
to 65 billion cubic feet. The Energy Department is scheduled to
release its weekly report on gas in storage April 21 at 10:30
a.m. in  Washington .  Cooling degree days in South Atlantic states in the week
ended April 14 were more than double normal levels, according to
the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Degree days
are used as a measure of demand for power. Temperatures in
Houston reached 88 degrees Fahrenheit (31 Celsius) on April 11,
10 degrees higher than normal, according to  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather Inc.  Supplies Last Week  Stockpiles rose 28 billion cubic feet to 1.607 trillion in
the week ended April 8, last week’s report showed. Analysts
expected an increase of 35 billion.  Gas on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rose 1.7 percent to
$4.212 per million British thermal units on April 14, after last
week’s report was released. Prices have risen 1.7 percent since
then, gaining 12.4 cents, or 3 percent, to $4.262 today.  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas in the U.S.
slipped four to 885 last week, according to Houston-based Baker
Hughes Inc. The gas rig count has slipped 11 percent since
touching 992 in the week ended Aug. 13.  A decrease in imports of liquefied natural gas and higher
exports to  Mexico  may pare additions to inventories, said
 Stephen Smith , an energy analyst and president of Stephen Smith
Energy Associates in Natchez,  Mississippi , who estimates that
stockpiles grew by 47 billion cubic feet last week.  “ Japan  is sucking up any spare LNG that’s sitting
around,” Smith said. “Mexico is also reducing LNG imports
while increasing imports of cheaper U.S. pipeline gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 