-- 
U.S. Crude Oil Supplies Rose a Seventh Week, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-19T17:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-crude-oil-supplies-rose-a-seventh-week-survey-shows-1-.html
U.S. crude-oil inventories probably
increased for a seventh week as imports rebounded from a one-
month low, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Supplies climbed 1.3 million barrels in the seven days
ended April 15 from 359.3 million a week earlier, according to
the median of 13 analyst estimates before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Eleven respondents forecast a gain, one
projected a decline and one said there was no change.  Crude-oil imports slipped 4.2 percent to 8.57 million
barrels a day in the week ended April 8, the lowest level since
the seven days ended March 4, according to the department.
Imports arrived at an average rate of 9.1 million barrels a day
over the past year.  “It looks like imports should increase,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy-advisory
company in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “Imports have been very low
and we’ve still seen inventories increase. If imports climb, we
could get a surprisingly big gain.”  Refineries probably operated at 82.3 percent of capacity,
up 0.9 percentage point from the prior week, according to the
Bloomberg News survey. Units are often idled in February and
March as their owners prepare for the switch from the peak-
demand period for heating oil to the summer months when gasoline
consumption surges.  Gasoline inventories declined 1.5 million barrels from
209.7 million last week, the survey showed. Nine of the
respondents projected a drop and four anticipated a gain.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably rose 300,000 barrels from 150.8
million. Seven of the analysts anticipated an increase, five
said there was a decline and one projected no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  