-- 
U.S. Bancorp Profit Rises 56% on Lower Credit-Loss Provision

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-04-19T20:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-bancorp-profit-rises-56-to-1-05-billion-on-lower-credit-provisions.html
U.S. Bancorp,  Minnesota ’s largest
bank, reported first-quarter profit rose 56 percent to the
highest in three years on lower credit costs.  Net income increased to $1.05 billion, or 52 cents a share,
from $669 million, or 34 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, the Minneapolis-based bank said in a statement today.
The average estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for 49 cents. Credit-loss provisions declined 42 percent to $755
million from $1.31 billion.  U.S. Bancorp, run by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis, last month boosted its quarterly dividend 150
percent to 12.5 cents a share after the  Federal Reserve  didn’t
object to its proposed capital plan. The company also approved
an authorization to repurchase as many as 50 million common
shares.  “The economy is slowly recovering,” Davis said in the
statement. “We can see it in our customers’ actions -- from
growth in small business lending to higher payment processing
transaction volumes to improving credit metrics -- and,
importantly, in our customers’ outlook.”  U.S. Bancorp fell 31 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $25.25 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 6.4 percent this year.  The bank’s average total loan growth of 0.7 percent in the
first quarter from the fourth quarter was “wholly
insufficient” and fell short of his expectation of 1.5 percent
to 2 percent, Davis said in a conference call after earnings
were announced.  Credit Not Used  “We have people we continue to bank that are ready to use
the line but demonstrating when they have the availability of
credit they are not using it,” he said.  The results included a $46 million gain related to the
January acquisition of First Community Bank of  New Mexico , a
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-assisted transaction, U.S.
Bancorp said in the statement.  “We will certainly look at opportunities that are
presented to us, but right now nothing is being presented, so
there aren’t a lot of opportunities in the market place,” Chief
Financial Officer Andrew Cecere said in an interview today.  Net charge-offs fell 29 percent to $805 million in the
first quarter from $1.14 billion a year earlier. The decrease
was attributable to improvement in U.S. Bancorp’s commercial
real estate, credit-card and other retail portfolios, according
to the statement.  Net interest income increased 4.3 percent to $2.51 billion
from $2.4 billion in the first quarter last year, the bank said.
Net interest margin, the difference between what a bank pays on
deposits and charges for loans, narrowed to 3.7 percent from 3.9
percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 