-- 
U.S. Supreme Court Signals Rejection of State Climate-Emissions Lawsuits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-04-19T19:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-supreme-court-signals-rejection-of-state-climate-emissions-lawsuits.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  signaled
skepticism about a lawsuit by six states seeking to force five
companies including American Electric Power Co. to cut their
emissions of the gases that contribute to climate change.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, justices across the
ideological spectrum said the Environmental Protection Agency
was better equipped than a federal court to sort through the
costs and benefits of reducing carbon emissions.  “Congress set up the EPA to promulgate standards for
emissions,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  told the lawyer
representing the six suing states. “The relief you’re seeking
seems to me to set up a district judge, who does not have the
resources, the expertise, as a kind of super EPA.”  The Obama administration joined the power industry in
urging rejection of the suit, along with a related one being
pressed by three land trusts. The other defendants include  Xcel
Energy Inc. (XEL) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Southern Co. (SO) , and the
government-owned Tennessee Valley Authority.  A ruling against the states would be a boost to companies
beyond the power industry. Trade groups representing automakers,
 oil companies , farmers, mining companies, chemical companies and
manufacturers all are urging the court to dismiss the suits, in
some cases saying their members might face similar claims.  EPA Rules  The states, whose ranks include  New York  and  California ,
sued in 2004, invoking both state and federal law. The Supreme
Court case focuses on the federal law claim.  The states say the EPA still hasn’t taken action to reduce
carbon emissions from the plants that are the subject of the
suit. The EPA began regulating  greenhouse gases  from vehicles
and industrial polluters in January. So far its rules affect
only new and modified plants, not the existing ones targeted by
the states.  “There is no federal statute or regulation that currently
regulates the emission of greenhouse gases by existing
unmodified power plants,” said Barbara Underwood, New York’s
solicitor general.  She said the suit “rests on the longstanding, fundamental
authority of the states to protect their land, their natural
resources and their citizens from air pollution emitted in other
states.”  Without Sotomayor  None of the eight justices hearing the case -- Justice
 Sonia Sotomayor  isn’t taking part -- today gave any indication
they agreed with her.  Ginsburg said the EPA could reasonably address  climate
change  “incrementally.” Justice  Elena Kagan  said regulating
emissions “sounds like the paradigmatic thing that
administrative agencies do rather than courts.”  Several justices joined Ginsburg in questioning whether a
trial judge would have the expertise to fashion an order
addressing climate change.  “You have to determine how much you want to readjust the
world economy to address global warming, and I think that’s a
pretty big burden to impose on a district judge,” Chief Justice
John Roberts said.  The Obama administration and the companies urged the court
to reject the suit on a potentially broader ground that the
states and land trusts lack the legal right, or standing, to
sue. Acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal said the states
can’t show enough of a connection between their interests and
the actions of the five defendants.  Potential Victims  “There are billions of emitters of greenhouse gases on the
planet and billions of potential victims as well,” Katyal said.  The companies’ lawyer, Peter Keisler, said the courts “are
being asked to perform a legislative and regulatory function.”  Justice Antonin Scalia pointed to other possible
contributors to global warming -- including cows, mobile
telephones and people -- and asked Underwood whether they too
would be subject to climate-change suits.  “Suppose you lump together all the cows in the country,”
he said. “Would that allow you to sue all those farmers?”  When Underwood responded that courts often consider claims
involving multiple polluters, Scalia then asked whether people
could be sued for emitting carbon dioxide when they breathe.  The case marks the Supreme Court’s second foray into the
debate over climate change. In a 2007 case decided 5-4, the
court ordered the EPA to consider regulating greenhouse-gas
emissions.  Public Nuisance  The states and land trusts contend that  carbon emissions 
are a “public nuisance,” a legal theory more typically used in
cases of localized pollution. In letting the suits proceed, a
federal appeals court in New York overturned a judge who
concluded the dispute belonged in the political arena, not the
courts.  Should the Supreme Court side with the power companies,
states and environmental advocates will press ahead with claims
under state law, said David Doniger, a lawyer at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , which is representing the three land
trusts. He said global warming is “eating away at the coastal
property” and “destroying our snow packs.”  The suits are part of a multifaceted battle over climate
change. Opponents -- including businesses, Republicans and some
Democrats -- say the EPA’s new carbon emission limits will
destroy jobs and increase electricity bills without any
environmental benefit.  The case is American Electric Power v.  Connecticut , 10-174.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 