-- 
U.S. 30-Year Yields Decrease to Almost 4-Week Low on Austerity Prospects

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-19T21:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/u-s-30-year-yields-decline-to-almost-4-week-low-on-slow-growth-prospects.html
Treasuries rose, pushing the 30-
year bond yield to the lowest level in almost four weeks, on
speculation any agreement in Congress to curb the nation’s
budget deficit may impede economic growth.  Ten-year yields reached a three-week low as Greek bond
yields reached euro-era records amid growing speculation the
country will need to restructure its debt. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s confident U.S. political leaders
will bridge differences on spending. Standard & Poor’s yesterday
lowered the U.S. credit-rating outlook, citing fiscal pressures.  “People are thinking about the potential for austerity,
the impact on growth and the possibility of weaker-than-
previously-expected growth numbers in the second half of the
year,” said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at
Royal Bank of Canada, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the  Federal Reserve .  Thirty-year bond yields decreased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.43 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 4.42
percent, the lowest level since March 23, after rising to as
high as 4.49 percent. The price of the 4.75 percent security
maturing in February 2041 gained 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face
amount, to 105 1/4.  Ten-year yields fell one basis point to 3.36 percent. They
touched 3.34 percent, the lowest since March 24, after earlier
rising to 3.41 percent.  Treasuries fell earlier as stocks gained after U.S. housing
starts increased 7.2 percent in March, Commerce Department data
showed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day up 0.6
percent after declining 0.1 percent earlier.  Fed Purchase  U.S. debt  has returned 0.65 percent this month, after
losing 0.14 percent in the first quarter, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. They gained 5.9 percent in 2010.  Treasury yields have fallen on speculation government
budget cuts will slow the economy and encourage the central bank
to avoid raising borrowing costs, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Fiscal austerity in the short term damps growth,” El-
Erian said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “The market is pricing in what policy makers
are going to do. The more fiscal austerity you get, the more
likely the Fed will stay on hold.”  The central bank has kept the benchmark interest rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to support the economy.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  “People are viewing the outlook change by S&P as a wake-up
call,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “You can’t play political games when
it comes to the strength of the economy. It’s too fragile.”  Treasuries also rose as  Greece ’s fiscal crisis pushed
yields on its two-year notes up to a record 20.7 percent today.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s comments on April
14 that Greece may need to restructure its debt sent bonds
tumbling in  Europe ’s debt-strapped nations.  “The market is benefiting more from a safety bid because
of what’s going on in Europe,” said  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader at the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. “It’s the European
peripherals.”  The Fed bought $6.68 billion of Treasuries maturing from
January 2014 to February 2015 as part of its program to acquire
$600 billion of U.S. debt through June to spur economic growth.
It will purchase $1 billion to $2 billion of Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities tomorrow maturing from April 2013 to
February 2041.  Still Attractive  U.S. two-year notes rose earlier as Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in Tokyo U.S. debt remains
“attractive” even after S&P lowered the country’s credit
outlook. The rating company, citing rising U.S. budget deficits
and debt, said yesterday there’s “a material risk that U.S.
policy makers might not reach an agreement on how to address
medium-and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013.”  “Equities aren’t doing well today, and people don’t want
to make big moves given the shortened week, so Treasuries have
remained bid,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.  “The
market is more worried about equities than Treasuries after the
S&P announcement.”  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
 recommends  that trading in U.S., U.K. and Japanese financial
markets cease at 2 p.m.  New York  time on April 21 and remain
closed the following day for the Easter holiday weekend.  Volume Slides  About $241 billion of Treasuries were traded today as of
5:01 p.m., the least since April 11, according to Icap Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker. About $347 billion changed
hands yesterday. The full-day average this year is $330 billion.  Geithner said he “absolutely” didn’t have to reassure
overseas buyers of U.S. debt after S&P’s statement yesterday.
President  Barack Obama  began a tour promoting his proposal to
cut long-term budget deficits.  “We have an opportunity now over the next two months to
make some real progress,” Geithner said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “What we agree on is putting in
place strong targets for savings,  deficit reduction  over a
specific time frame with enforceable limits,” he said.  A gauge of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
determine monetary policy, the five-year, five-year forward
break-even rate, was at 3.13 percentage points, compared with
3.28 percentage points on Dec. 15, a 10-month high. The average
for the past five years is 2.78 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  