-- 
UAW Said to Seek Early Labor Agreements With GM, Ford, Chrysler

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J o h n   L i p p e r t
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/uaw-said-to-seek-early-labor-agreements-with-gm-ford-chrysler.html
The  United Auto Workers  will seek
early contract settlements in talks with the U.S. automakers
this year, breaking a pattern of brinksmanship that stretches at
least four decades, two people familiar with the plan said.  UAW Vice President Joe Ashton, who leads bargaining with
 General Motors Co. (GM) , has said the union wants a deal before the
current four-year agreements with GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC expire on Sept. 14, said the people, who
asked not to be identified revealing internal discussions. The
union may seek a deal with GM first, one of the people said.  UAW President  Bob King  favors an early agreement at GM to
avoid an attempt by Ford to gain concessions that workers at GM
and Chrysler granted before the companies went bankrupt in 2009,
the person said. Ford, which avoided bankruptcy and earned $6.56
billion last year, is the only U.S. automaker whose workers
refused to accept limits on strikes over wages and benefits.  “Bob will go to GM first because he couldn’t take a rich
Ford agreement to GM and Chrysler,”  Sean McAlinden , chief
economist with the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan, said in an interview yesterday. “It would be almost
impossible to sell a Ford agreement to GM and Chrysler.”  Michele Martin, a UAW spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  The UAW traditionally targets a lead automaker to set a
pattern for wages and benefits that the union then seeks to
impose on the other two companies, McAlinden said. Typically,
bargaining goes up to or beyond the contract deadline before a
deal is reached, he said. In 2007, GM and Chrysler had short
strikes before an agreement was reached. Ford hasn’t had a
national strike since 1977.  Bargaining History  A review of UAW settlements with the U.S. automakers back
to the early 1970s showed the union hasn’t reached an agreement
early in that time frame, said William LeFevre, an archivist on
labor history at the Walter P. Reuther Library at  Wayne State
University  in Detroit.  “If Chrysler or GM were the target, then the pattern
agreement would be cheaper for Ford,” said McAlinden, a former
autoworker. “GM wants to do it and they are claiming they are
the middle-of-the-road company.”  Jodi Tinson, a Chrysler spokeswoman, and  Kim Carpenter , a
spokeswoman for Detroit-based GM, declined to comment yesterday.  “The decision about which company will lead the
negotiations with the UAW is up to the UAW leadership,”  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, said in an interview. “We look
forward to our discussions later this year to ensure Ford
becomes competitive with the best in the world.”  Surrendering Raises  King, 64, elected president of the union in June, has said
workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in
concessions they each gave since 2005 to help the automakers
survive. The workers surrendered raises, bonuses and cost-of-
living adjustments and agreed to a two-tier wage system, in
which new hires earn about $14 an hour, half of the amount paid
to senior production workers.  The concessions helped the U.S. automakers lower labor
costs to about $58 an hour for wages and benefits from about $75
an hour and get close to the $52 an hour  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
gives its U.S. workers, McAlinden said. Labor rates at U.S.
automakers remain above the $44 to $48 hourly rate  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)  pays its U.S. workers in wages and benefits, McAlinden said.  “We did what we had to do to save the companies,” King
told delegates to the union’s bargaining convention in Detroit
last month. “It will take time to win back what we’ve given
up.”  Ford’s 40,600 hourly workers in November 2009 rejected
additional concessions, including a six-year ban on some strikes
and a wage freeze for new hires until 2015. Unionized workers at
GM and Chrysler accepted those terms before the automakers filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009.  No-Strike Clause  “Ford wants parity on the no-strike clause and on freezing
wages for entry-level workers,” McAlinden said. “But by going
to GM first, the UAW could say, ‘Ford, just take this pattern,
and we don’t want to discuss those other details.’”  All three companies are trying to avoid an expensive
contract that would boost labor costs, McAlinden said.  The union will seek new work and jobs at factories in
Tennessee, Louisiana and  Wisconsin , the person said. The UAW is
willing to expand the use of the $14 hourly wage if the
automakers commit to more jobs in the U.S., Ashton has said.  “We will look at anything that will retain jobs,” Ashton
said March 29 at a GM factory in Orion Township,  Michigan , in
response to a question about whether the union would consider
additional use of the two-tier wage system. “The most important
thing going into this set of negotiations is jobs.”  Automakers’ Earnings  GM, which sold stock to the public in November, earned
$6.17 billion last year.  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler
posted a net loss of $652 million last year and forecast net
income of as much as $500 million this year.  Ford last month rewarded Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  with $56.6 million in stock for leading the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker’s turnaround. In addition, Mulally’s
2010 compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5 million. King has
called Mulally’s stock award “morally wrong” and
“outrageous.”  Mulally’s pay may be an issue at the bargaining table,
McAlinden said.  “Everybody in every Ford plant that I know, knows every
last dime he got,” McAlinden said. “It didn’t help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
John Lippert in  Chicago  at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 