-- 
UBS AG Asia-Pacific Prime Services Head David Gray Leaves

-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-19T09:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ubs-ag-asia-pacific-prime-services-head-david-gray-leaves.html
David Gray ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Asia-Pacific
head of prime services for hedge funds, has left the largest
Swiss bank by market value after 17 years.  Chris Cockerill , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for UBS,
confirmed Gray’s departure via e-mail. His replacement will be
announced “in due course,” he added, declining to give further
details.  Gray is leaving the bank at a time when Asian hedge fund
assets are recovering from the trough in the global financial
crisis and competition for business among prime brokers has
intensified.  Asia-focused hedge funds drew more than $500 million of new
capital in the fourth quarter, narrowing the gap with industry
assets of $111.38 billion at the end of 2007 to 25 percent,
according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research
Inc.  Banks including Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. have been
expanding their prime services teams in the region. Prime
brokerage provides services such as trade settlements, stock
lending, consulting to  hedge funds  and introduce them to
potential investors.  UBS was ranked by trade journal AsiaHedge in May last year
as the third-largest prime broker in Asia-Pacific behind Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley in terms of the 189 number
of mandates it received.  It was in fifth place by the estimated $14.8 billion of
hedge funds it controlled, lower than Deutsche Bank AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG in addition to the U.S. banks.  UBS promoted Gray as Asia-Pacific head of prime brokerage
in March 2007, according to a  statement  posted on the bank’s
website. He joined UBS in 1994, and took responsibility for
building up the bank’s Australia prime brokerage business in
2001, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net 
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  