-- 
Lufthansa to Start Trading EU Emission Permits on European Energy Exchange

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-19T11:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lufthansa-to-start-trading-eu-emission-permits-on-european-energy-exchange.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, will begin trading emission rights on
the European Energy Exchange AG as it prepares to join the
world’s largest greenhouse gases cap-and-trade program.  EEX, continental Europe’s biggest energy trading platform,
said in a statement today that it admitted Lufthansa as the
first airline to trade European Union carbon-dioxide permits
directly on the spot and derivatives market on the exchange.  “Lufthansa’s admission to exchange trading on EEX shows
that the company is well prepared for this,” Oliver Maibaum,
managing director of the Leipzig, Germany-based exchange, said
in the statement.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the EU
emissions-trading system, after power generators. Aviation joins
next year with a carbon-dioxide limit of 213 million metric
tons, falling to 208.5 million tons in 2013. The EU emissions
program, including more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers,
requires companies that exceed their CO2 quotas to buy spare
permits from businesses that emit less or pay a fine.  EU permits for delivery in December dropped 0.5 percent to
16.58 euros as of 12:01 p.m. in  London  and were 16 percent up
this year. The EU emissions trading system is known as the ETS.  Discharges Doubled  The EU decided in 2008 that flights to and from the bloc’s
airports should be added to the ETS after airline discharges in
Europe doubled over two decades. Under the legislation, 82
percent of the emission allowances making up the airline-
industry cap will be allocated for free, and 15 percent will be
auctioned. The remaining 3 percent will be put into a special
reserve for later distribution to fast-growing airlines and new
entrants to the system.  Permits for this decade will be handed out based on the
efficiency of carriers in 2010, a year when fuel prices surged
and Icelandic volcano ash, freezing weather and labor strikes
disrupted travel. The EU said it has no plans to change the
benchmarking year, a step that would require amending the law.  The EU will decide by Sept. 30 on the number of allowances
to be auctioned, to be distributed for free and to be allocated
to the special reserve. Member states should use the revenues
from the auctions of permits to tackle  climate change .  Roundtrip air fares within Europe may rise from 1.80 euros
to 9 euros as a result of the new restrictions, the EU said last
month. A roundtrip flight from Brussels to  New York  at current
carbon prices of around 15 euros could cost an additional 12
euros, it estimated.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  