-- 
Mugabe to ‘Plunder’ Zimbabwe Economy With Ownership Law, Tsvangirai Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-04-19T09:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/mugabe-to-plunder-zimbabwe-economy-with-ownership-law-tsvangirai-says.html
President  Robert Mugabe ’s party
will “plunder” Zimbabwe’s economy through a law requiring
foreign businesses to cede control to black Zimbabweans, Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  said.  “Now, 30 years after independence, we are being told by
multimillionaires and multiple-farm owners that indigenization
will set us free,” Tsvangirai, who leads the  Movement for
Democratic Change , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“They are not referring to the broad-based empowerment of the
ordinary man and woman, but the looting and plunder of national
resources by a small, parasitic elite.”  Between 2000 and 2008, loyalists from Mugabe’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front seized almost all of the
country’s white-owned commercial farms in an often violent
campaign that displaced about 300,000 farm workers and as many
as 2 million of their dependents, according to groups that
campaign for farmers’ rights, such as the Harare-based
Commercial Farmers’ Union and Justice for Agriculture.  Rugare Gumbo,  ZANU-PF  spokesman, denied Tsvangirai’s
allegation today in a telephone interview from Harare, saying,
“There is nothing like that. Farms in  Zimbabwe  have been
allocated lawfully and the empowerment process will continue
lawfully.”  Under the Indigenization and Empowerment Act, which became
law on March 1, 2010, foreign-owned businesses have five years
to sell 51 percent of their shares to black Zimbabweans. The
measure has yet to be enforced.  The legality of the law is disputed by the MDC, which
shares power with ZANU-PF, the party that drafted the law. The
measure was pushed through parliament before elections in March
2008 in which the MDC won a majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 