-- 
Ugandan Authorities Plan Continued Arrests to Block Opposition Protests

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-04-19T15:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ugandan-authorities-plan-continued-arrests-to-block-opposition-protests.html
Uganda  vowed further arrests of
opposition leaders protesting against the rising cost of living
as opponents of President Yoweri Museveni’s government pledged
to continue their demonstrations.  Protesters will be detained because they are acting
“outside the law and accepted norms of society,” Internal
Affairs Minister Kirunda Kivejinja told reporters today in the
capital, Kampala. “We shall not be ashamed in the execution of
our duties.”  Demonstrations have been organized in Uganda to denounce
surging prices for staple foods and gasoline, after inflation in
the East African nation accelerated to 11.1 percent in March,
from 6.4 percent a month earlier. Yesterday, the authorities
arrested the country’s main opposition leader,  Kizza Besigye ,
for the second time in a week as he took part in a so-called
walk-to-work demonstration.  On April 11, Besigye was arrested for blocking traffic.
Three days later, at a similar demonstration, Besigye’s hand was
injured after police sprayed teargas and fired rubber bullets to
disperse protesters.  The opposition will continue with their twice-weekly
protests until the government halts the rise in food and fuel
prices, said John Ken Lukyamuzi, the chairman of a coalition of
four opposition parties.  ‘Harassment’  “We shall continue with the demonstrations in spite of the
harassment,” he said in a phone interview today. “We want
government to address the issues which are hurting the people.”  Norbert Mao, the leader of the  Democratic Party , and six of
his party activists were remanded at the country’s biggest
prison yesterday after they declined to apply for bail,
according to the  New Vision , a Kampala-based newspaper. At least
20 opposition leaders were charged for “inciting violence,” it
said.  Besigye, who was the flag bearer for the coalition in a
Feb. 18 presidential election, rejected the outcome of the vote,
claiming Museveni was fraudulently reelected. Uganda, with a
population of more than 30 million, is  Africa ’s largest producer
of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 