-- 
Ukraine Raises $790 Million to Seal Chernobyl, Below Its $1 Billion Target

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-04-19T12:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/ukraine-raises-820-million-to-seal-chernobyl-below-its-1-billion-target.html
Ukraine failed to raise the $1
billion to seal  Chernobyl , the site of the world’s worst nuclear
disaster, as budget concerns and the accident at Fukushima in
 Japan  caused some governments to balk at further spending.  The former Soviet republic, which hosted a donor conference
in Kiev today, raised about 550 million euros ($790 million)
from countries including the U.S., the U.K., France,  Russia  and
 Germany , the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
said today in Kiev. Japan declined to offer a donation, as did
Spain, Italy and Saudi Arabia.  Japan’s battle to contain leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant reignited the debate about nuclear safety 25 years after
Chernobyl’s No. 4 reactor exploded and spewed radiation across
 Europe . Even so, cash-strapped governments, still recovering
from the global crisis, were wary of new expenditures to make
Chernobyl safe, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said.  “We all realize the resources are far beyond the limits
that any individual country can potentially provide,”
Yanukovych told reporters today. The conference was held as part
of commemorations for the accident on April 26, 1986. “Without
overstating, the successful solution to Chernobyl’s problems has
a global dimension,” he said.  EBRD, EU Pledges  Of the sum pledged today, the European Commission promised
110 million euros and the EBRD pledged at least 120 million
euros. The EBRD and the commission will work to get more
funding, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “Chernobyl is a stark reminder that nuclear risks do not
stop at our borders,” Barroso said. “Our responsibility and
solidarity should not stop at our borders either.”  Barroso said he hopes to other countries will donate later
on.  Italy ,  Brazil , Bulgaria,  Canada  and  Mexico  may announce
donations at another time, Yanukovych said.  The U.S. delegation, led by Zbigniew Brzezinski, the former
national security adviser to President  Jimmy Carter , donated
$123 million, the most by any one country. Brzezinski said
nations need to work together to help improve nuclear safety in
Ukraine and “stands shoulder to shoulder” with Japan.  “Twenty-five years after that terrible day, the U.S., in
concert with our G-8 partners and the international community,
remains committed to helping the Ukrainian people clean up
Chernobyl,” Brzezinski said.  Measure of Cooperation  The outcome of the conference will be a measure of
willingness to improve safety and keep the accidents in Ukraine
and Japan under control, Vince Novak, the EBRD’s director of
nuclear safety, said in an interview before the event. The
London-based EBRD is the broker for the fundraising effort.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is the operator of the Fukushima
plant, which was damaged by the March earthquake and tsunami.
Workers are still struggling to contain radiation at Fukushima
and prevent further damage to the plant’s four reactors.  The 1986 meltdown killed at least 31 plant workers and
firefighters in three months and forced the evacuation of a
quarter of a million people.  The Chernobyl project involves a 105-meter high arched roof
that, once assembled on a field next to the damaged reactor,
will be rolled into place and sealed for 100 years. After that,
workers will be able to dismantle the old structure from inside
the protective cowl. Novarka, a joint venture of units of French
engineering companies  Vinci SA (DG)  and  Bouygues SA (EN) , has already
begun work on pouring the concrete base.  Makeshift Sarcophagus  The new shelter can proceed because it won’t be completed
until 2015 and the Ukrainian government has three years to find
the remainder of the financing, Novak said.  The current concrete-and-steel cover was built in a rush as
emergency personnel scrambled to clean up deadly radioactive
debris that killed the adjacent forest and forced dozens of
villages in the area to be abandoned forever. The western wall
started collapsing, requiring Chernobyl workers to erect two
scaffolding towers in 2008 to prop the unstable structure.  To contact the reporters on this story
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net  