-- 
United Business Media Says It May Relocate Tax Base to U.K.

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-04-19T16:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/united-business-media-says-it-will-meet-full-year-forecasts.html
United Business Media Ltd. (UBM) , the
publisher of InformationWeek, said it may relocate back to the
U.K. later this year following government proposals to cut
Britain’s corporate  tax rate .  “We are considering later in the year moving back to the
U.K.,” Chief Financial Officer Robert Gray said in a conference
call today.  U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  last month indicated in the
2011 budget that he would speed up a cut in the corporate tax
rate and plans to amend the tax on the overseas profit of U.K.
companies. WPP Plc, the world’s largest advertising company,
said last month it was also considering a move back to Britain
from Ireland. Both WPP and UBM moved their tax base from Britain
in 2008.  UBM, the owner of PR Newswire, said it will meet its full-
year forecasts because of strong growth from its acquisitions
and events business.  Revenue for the three months ended March 31 rose 14 percent
to 237.7 million pounds ($385.9 million) from 209.1 million
pounds a year earlier, the Dublin-based company said in a
statement. Adjusted operating profit grew 18.8 percent to 44.6
million pounds.  UBM said it acquired two Indian events businesses and sold
print titles in  France , the U.K. and the U.S. in the first
quarter.  ‘Continued Momentum’  “Overall, we anticipate continued growth in profit largely
driven by a full year of contribution from our acquisitions and
continued momentum in our Events business,” David Levin, chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Revenue in the events business rose 34 percent to 84.1
million pounds. Net debt was 459 million pounds as at March 31.  “Events business goes from strength to strength,
offsetting investment and disposals across other areas of the
business,” Patrick Yau, an analyst with Peel Hunt LLP said in a
note to investors today. Yau recommends buying the stock.  UBM shares added 3.1 percent to 590.5 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , giving the company a market value of 1.44
billion pounds. The stock lost 14 percent in value so far this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  