-- 
Vedanta May Use $1.5 Billion Cairn India Stake as Offer Hedge

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-20T16:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/vedanta-may-use-1-5-billion-cairn-india-deal-as-hedge-for-offer.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s $1.5
billion purchase of a stake in  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  from Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. may provide a hedge against any shortfall in take-
up for a broader offer for the oil explorer, investors said.  Vedanta’s  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  unit bought 10.4 percent of  Cairn
India  for 331 rupees a share, the London-based parent said in a
statement yesterday. That’s 6.8 percent lower than the price
proposed by Sesa Goa in an open offer for as much as 20 percent
of Cairn India, and 3.8 percent below yesterday’s closing price.  Vedanta’s purchase from the Malaysian company known as
Petronas, on top of the open offer, may result in it holding 51
percent to 70.4 percent of Cairn  India , according to the
statement. Sesa Goa’s offer is part of Vedanta’s $9.6 billion
bid announced in August for the operator of India’s largest
onshore oilfield. The government is yet to approve the takeover.  “With this 10.4 percent stake now secured below the offer
price, Vedanta could acquire a 51 percent stake for up to $318
million less, marking a 4 percent discount,” Liberum Capital
Ltd. wrote in a note to investors today. The transaction may
encourage other minority shareholders, who were previously
undecided, to sell their stakes, Liberum said.  Cairn India rose 1.4 percent to 348.85 rupees at the close
of trade in Mumbai, while Sesa Goa gained 0.4 percent to 308.45
rupees. Vedanta advanced 3.1 percent to 2,338 pence at the close
in  London .  Shareholder Uncertainty  “Probably the reason for the Petronas deal is to make up
for the shortfall from the open offer,” D.K. Aggarwal, chairman
of SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd., said by phone from New
Delhi. “There’s a lot of uncertainty about the deal still, and
shareholders may not be willing to tender their shares. If the
deal fails, the value of the shares will fall significantly.”  The Petronas deal increases the minimum acceptance ratio in
the open offer to 75 percent from 53 percent, Harshad Katkar and
Amit Murarka, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a report.
“This underscores Vedanta’s seriousness in acquiring a majority
shareholding in Cairn India,” they said. Sesa Goa hasn’t
disclosed how many shares have been tendered so far.  Sesa Goa was forced to delay its offer to Cairn India’s
minority investors this month and extend a deadline to complete
the transaction to May 20 from April 15 after India’s cabinet
asked ministers to study the proposal.  Oil Minister Jaipal Reddy said yesterday the panel of
ministers hasn’t fixed a date to meet. “I am not in a position
to give a timeframe for a decision,” Reddy told reporters in
 New Delhi .  Win Control  “Petronas’s exit is probably part of the overall strategy
for Vedanta to get control of Cairn India,” said Walter Rossini, who manages a 250 million-euro ($358 million) equity
fund at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan and doesn’t plan to
sell Cairn India shares in the open offer. “The open offer
price is okay at $90 crude. At above $100, it is not so
interesting.”  Crude oil has gained more than 45 percent since Vedanta’s
Aug. 16 announcement to buy a majority stake in Cairn India. Oil
futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  traded at an average
$94.60 a barrel last quarter, and touched $113.46 on April 11.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Anil Agarwal ,
is offering Cairn India’s majority shareholder  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) 
405 rupees a share, including a non-compete fee of 50 rupees.
Cairn Energy will sell 40 percent to 51 percent of its holding
to Vedanta, depending on the result of Sesa Goa’s open offer.  ‘Upbeat’ Oil  “As the hangover of the open offer goes off we expect
Cairn India stock to normalize and move beyond the 370-rupee
levels if crude prices continue to remain upbeat,” said Yogesh Radke, head of quantitative research at Edelweiss Securities.  Cairn India produces about 125,000 barrels a day from the
Mangala field in the Rajasthan block, the nation’s biggest oil
deposit on land. The company may start Rajasthan’s Bhagyam field
in the second half and reach peak output of 40,000 barrels a day
by the end of the year, according to a Feb. 10 statement.  Petronas sold its entire 14.9 percent holding in Cairn
India for $2.1 billion,  Malaysia ’s state oil and gas producer
said in a statement yesterday, without identifying the buyers.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  helped sell the shares, said two
people with knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Mona Kwatra, a
spokeswoman for Bank of America, and Manu Kapoor, a spokesman
for Cairn India, declined to comment.  Pavan Kaushik, a spokesman for Vedanta in India, didn’t
answer six calls to his mobile phone. Emily Dimmock, a
spokeswoman for the company in London, declined to comment.  Bank Rankings  Bank of America is ranked sixth in managing domestic share
sales by Indian companies this year, with SBI Capital Markets
Ltd. ranked first, followed by HSBC Bank Plc, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Indian companies have raised 83 billion
rupees ($1.87 billion) in local share sales in 2011, a fifth of
the amount in the same period last year, the data show.  Petronas acquired 10 percent of Cairn India at 176.48
rupees a share before the explorer’s December 2006 initial
public offering. The Kuala Lumpur-based company bought more
shares at 224.30 rupees each in a preferential allotment in
March 2008 and paid about $240 million for a further 2.3 percent
stake in October 2009, taking its total holding to 14.9 percent.  Shamsul Azhar Abbas ordered a review of Petronas’s global
investment portfolio after taking over as chief executive
officer in February 2010 as he sought to invest more at home to
boost the country’s oil and gas reserves, he said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai Serviced at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 