-- 
Vedanta Buys 10.4% Stake in Cairn India From Petronas as It Seeks Majority

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-19T13:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/vedanta-s-unit-said-to-buy-11-of-cairn-india-from-petronas.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , struggling
to take over  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  because of approval delays, bought
10.4 percent in the explorer from Petroliam Nasional Bhd. while
offering to buy stake from minority investors at a higher price.  Unit  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  bought 200 million Cairn India shares,
amounting to a 10.4 percent stake, from Petronas International
Corp Ltd. at 331 rupees ($7.44) apiece, Vedanta said in a
release today. Petroliam Nasional,  Malaysia ’s state oil and gas
producer also known as Petronas, said it sold its entire 14.9
percent holding in Cairn India for $2.1 billion, without
identifying the buyers.  Vedanta’s purchase advances its $9.6 billion bid for the
operator of India’s largest onshore oil field, first announced
in August. The company was forced to delay its open offer to
minority  Cairn India  investors and had to extend its deadline to
complete the transaction to May 20 from April 15 after India’s
cabinet asked a panel of ministers to study the proposal.  “Today’s deal done through the stock exchange means
Petronas will probably not have to pay any taxes on the sale as
it has held Cairn India shares for more than a year,” said
Jagdish Meghnani, an analyst at Mumbai-based Alchemy Share &
Stock Brokers. “It makes more sense to sell outside the open
offer, even at a lower price.”  Sesa Goa started its open offer on April 11, at 355 rupees
apiece, as part of the plan by its London-listed parent mining
company to take over Cairn India. The offer ends on April 30.  Vedanta’s acquisition of shares from Petronas is in
addition to the open offer and may result in the miner holding
51 percent to 70.4 percent in Cairn India, according to the
release. Vedanta said Aug. 16 it is seeking to buy 51 percent to
60 percent of Cairn India for as much as $9.6 billion.  Block Deals  Vedanta climbed as much as 2.3 percent to 2,285 pence in
 London  and traded at 2,278 pence at 1:55 p.m. local time. Cairn
India gained 2.4 percent to 344.10 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, the most since April 4. The stock has climbed 3.4
percent this year compared with a 6.8 percent decline in the
benchmark Sensitive Index. Sesa Goa rose 0.7 percent.  Cairn India had 283.4 million shares change hands in bulk
deals today, according to the website of the Bombay Stock
Exchange. Apart from Sesa Goa’s acquisition of 200 million
shares, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana SA bought 39.5
million shares at 331.47 rupees each and Broad Peak Mauritius
Pvt. purchased 12 million shares at 331 rupees apiece.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Anil Agarwal ,
has no previous experience in producing oil and gas and has
proposed a two-part deal involving the open offer for as much as
a 20 percent stake in Cairn India and the purchase of shares
from parent  Cairn Energy Plc. (CNE)   Assured Stake  Cairn Energy will sell 40 percent to 51 percent of its
holding to Vedanta, depending on the result of the open offer by
Sesa Goa.  While Sesa Goa’s offer to buy Cairn India shares is at 355
rupees apiece, Vedanta proposes to pay Cairn Energy 405 rupees a
share, including a non-compete fee of 50 rupees.  “Besides the tax, a market transaction between Vedanta and
Petronas also makes sense because Vedanta is now assured of an
11 percent stake in Cairn India,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla ,
the New Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities
Ltd. “If done through an open offer, they may have to return
the shares if the government doesn’t approve the bigger deal.
The open offer was happening because of that deal.”  Crude’s 41 percent gain since August has made Cairn India
more attractive for Vedanta. Cairn India produces about 125,000
barrels a day of oil from the Mangala field in the Rajasthan
block, the nation’s biggest deposit on land.  Royalty Dispute  State-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp., Cairn India’s 30
percent partner in Rajasthan, wants to reduce its liability to
pay royalties on all of the block’s output. The ministerial
panel will study the transaction and the dispute over royalty
payments, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said April 7.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  helped sell the shares held by
Petronas, according to two people familiar with the transaction,
declining to be identified before an official announcement. Bank
of America spokeswoman Mona Kwatra declined to comment. Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas, said he wasn’t immediately
able to comment.  Bank of America is ranked sixth in managing domestic share
sales by Indian companies this year, with SBI Capital Markets
Ltd. ranked first, followed by HSBC Bank Plc, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Indian companies have raised 83 billion
rupees in local share sales in 2011, a fifth of the amount in
the same period last year, according to the data.  Portfolio Review  Petronas acquired 10 percent in Cairn  India  at 176.48
rupees a share before the explorer’s December 2006 initial
public offering. The Malaysian company bought an additional
stake at 224.30 rupees each in a preferential allotment in March
2008 and paid about $240 million for a further 2.3 percent stake
in October 2009, taking its total to 14.9 percent.  Shamsul Azhar Abbas ordered a review of Petronas’ global
investment portfolio after taking over as chief executive
officer in February 2010. This is so the group can invest more
funds to replenish the country’s oil and gas reserves, Shamsul
said in an e-mailed interview on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  