-- 
LVMH, Burberry Lead Luxury Stocks Gain as Sales Beat Estimates

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-19T13:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/lvmh-burberry-lead-luxury-stocks-gain-as-sales-beat-estimates.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  led European  luxury-goods  stocks higher
as both companies reported quarterly revenue gains that beat
analysts’ estimates and eased concern over growth this year
after last month’s earthquake in  Japan .  LVMH, the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, climbed as
much as 6.3 euros, or 5.7 percent, in Paris trading, the biggest
gain in almost a year. Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury
retailer, rose as much as 8.6 percent to 1,245 pence in  London ,
the highest since its July 2002 initial public offering.  The sales reports point to continued appetite for leather
handbags, champagne and trench coats and suggest Japan’s crisis
won’t stall the industry’s global rebound. Burberry raised its
earnings guidance and Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts
said she was “confident” the company would outperform peers.
LVMH cited an “excellent start to the year.”  “There ought to be some initial fears allayed over
Japan,” said  John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group in London.  Demand for luxury goods has revived since the global
recession of 2009 as wealthy consumers regained confidence and
retailers replenished inventories. Analysts cut estimates for
some companies last month after a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami in Japan left almost 28,000 people dead or missing and
triggered the world’s worst nuclear crisis in a quarter century.  Japan is the world’s second-largest market for luxury goods
after the U.S., accounting for 11 percent of the total,
according to consulting firm Bain & Co.  ‘Setting the Tone’  Revenue rose 17 percent to 5.25 billion euros ($7.5
billion) last quarter, Paris-based LVMH said in a statement
yesterday. That compared with the 4.98 billion-euro average
estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding
acquisitions and currency shifts, sales climbed 14 percent.
Japan accounts for about 8 percent of the luxury goods maker’s
total sales and sales there fell 9 percent in the quarter.  LVMH, which announced in March plans to acquire  Bulgari
SpA (BUL) , the world’s third-largest jeweler, aims “to increase once
again in 2011, its leadership of the global high-quality
products market,” the maker of Krug champagne said in the
statement. Sales in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  showed “strong
momentum,” the company said.  LVMH traded 5.7 percent higher at 115.95 euros as of 3:37
p.m. in Paris. The Bloomberg index that tracks the performance
of 12 European fashion retailers increased 4.7 percent.  “LVMH numbers should set the tone and the bar for other
luxury names reporting in coming weeks,” Rogerio Fujimori, an
analyst at Credit Suisse in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Global Challenge  Burberry today said revenue in the quarter ended March 31
rose 32 percent to 390 million pounds ($635 million). The
average estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for
sales of 351.3 million pounds. The quarterly revenue growth was
driven by retail sales in  China  and the reported numbers exclude
 Spain , where London-based Burberry closed a warehouse and
stopped making a local collection last year.  The retailer, which gets less than two percent of sales in
Japan, raised its annual earnings guidance. Chief Financial
Officer Stacey Cartwright said adjusted pretax profit this year
would be at the top end of estimates, between 279 million pounds
and 300 million pounds. In January, she said the range was 250
million pounds to 290 million pounds.  Burberry traded 7.2 percent higher at 1,228 pence as of
2:37 p.m. in London.  “While the luxury industry faces global challenges in the
year ahead, we remain confident in our team’s ability to
outperform,” Burberry’sAhrendts said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  