-- 
Vodafone May Consider IPO of Indian Joint Venture After 2011, Colao Says

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-19T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/vodafone-may-consider-india-share-sale-similar-to-south-africa.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao said the world’s biggest mobile-phone
operator may consider an initial public offering of its Indian
venture, similar to that of the South African unit.  The listing would only be considered after 2011 and after
disputes with partner Essar Group and the Indian tax authorities
are resolved, Colao said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV in
Mumbai yesterday. The listing also depends on local demand for
data offerings, he said.  After these matters are settled, “we should consider at
some point whether a listing of the company is an option,” he
said. “If there’s a good story from a data perspective, and
from a regulatory perspective, I’d be likely to look at it.”  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , last month said it
will buy an additional 33 percent stake in Vodafone Essar Ltd.
for $5 billion from Essar, raising its stake in India’s third-
largest mobile-phone operator to 75 percent.  “I would think markets would take a listing positively,
Vodafone is a very respected player,” said Apurva Shah, head of
research at  Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  in Mumbai. “In India, the
outlook on the mobile companies is turning somewhat positive,”
he said. “Institutional interest is certainly there for mobile
companies at this point.”  Local Rules  Listing shares may help Vodafone to comply with local
rules. The deal with Essar will increase Vodafone’s direct
equity stake in the venture to 75 percent, while  India  doesn’t
allow foreign companies to own more than 74 percent in a local
mobile-phone operator.  “One of the possibilities for us is to do what we have
done in  South Africa ,” Colao said.  Vodafone listed its South African unit in 2009. The
business, called Vodacom Group Ltd., is the largest provider of
wireless services in South Africa.  Vodacom “maintains its independence, but we have local
individual shareholders, and all the benefits of belonging to
the  Vodafone Group ,” the CEO said. “South Africa is one of the
countries where data is growing the most. So, there are some
similarities here.”  Another option in India is to turn to smaller local
partners, Colao said. “The short-term option is to use more our
Indian partners that we have here, or to find other Indian
partners that want to be part of the adventure.”  Indian ‘Jewel’  The Indian wireless market is forecast by  Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by
the end of 2014. India was one of the “jewels” in the three
months through December, Colao said in February.  Vodafone bought a 67 percent stake in Hutchison Essar for
$10.7 billion in 2007. Vodafone’s outlook for India soured a
year after its entry, when six new national licenses were
awarded.  Vodafone is challenging a tax bill for the acquisition of
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s local unit, the country’s largest
cross-border deal. India is seeking 112 billion rupees ($2.5
billion) on Vodafone’s purchase and the company was ordered to
set aside 25 billion rupees as a deposit.  “We trust the objectivity and the fairness of the supreme
court,” Colao said. “We are buyers, not sellers of an
asset, and no buyer in the world can make a capital gain for an
asset that is bought,” he said.  “If the Indian tax authorities want to go after a certain
transaction, please at least go get the guys who made the money,
not the guys who are investing in the country,” Colao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  