-- 
Wealthy Parents Keep Silent on Riches for Kids' Own Good, BofA Survey Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-04-19T15:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/wealthy-parents-keep-mum-on-money-for-kids-own-good-bofa-says.html
Fewer than half of wealthy Americans
say that leaving an inheritance is important, according to a
survey by U.S. Trust.  “I think it’s reflective of the mindset of a lot of the
baby-boomer generation,” said Keith Banks, president of U.S.
Trust, the New York-based private wealth management unit of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender by assets. “I think
they expect to live a lot longer and I think their first concern
is, ‘Am I enjoying the hard-earned wealth I created?’”  Of the 457 individuals surveyed, each of whom said they had
$3 million or more in investable assets, about 49 percent said
that passing assets on to heirs is very important to them. That
may help explain why about half of respondents said they’ve
never spelled out how they’d like their estates to be divided
among heirs, said spokeswoman Lauren Sambrotto for  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America. U.S. Trust clients
generally have at least $3 million in investable assets.  About 67 percent of those surveyed haven’t told their
children the full extent of their net worth, and 15 percent told
their children nothing about their family’s wealth. The average
age of those surveyed was 61.  “There’s a concern that if the kids are fully cognizant it
may start to influence how hard they work at their own
careers,” said Banks.  About 78 percent of those surveyed said their children
won’t be mature enough to handle their inheritances until they
are at least 30 years old, and 45 percent said their children
won’t be mature enough until they are 35 or older.  Estate Taxes  Estates of individuals with $5 million or less and couples
with $10 million or less are exempt from federal estate taxes,
which have a top rate of 35 percent. That amount will fall to $1
million for individuals in 2013 and the top rate will rise to 55
percent, unless Congress acts.  Warren Buffett , chairman and chief executive officer of
Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and the third
richest person in the world according to Forbes magazine, has
said he supports a meaningful estate tax. Buffett has pledged to
give away more than 99 percent of his wealth, estimated at $50
billion by Forbes in March in its annual ranking of world
billionaires, to charity.  U.S. Trust hired Rhinebeck, New York-based Phoenix
Marketing International to survey the individuals online in
January and February.  Protecting Children  The last time U.S. Trust conducted a survey on attitudes
about personal wealth and estate planning was in 2007, almost a
year before the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. About 43 percent
of respondents then said they owed it to their children to leave
a significant inheritance, and the average age at which
participants said their children assumed responsibility for
their own money was 27.  “If you knew you had a tremendous amount of wealth behind
you, would you be as ambitious, would you be as self-reliant,
knowing that?” said Doug Ketterer, head of New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s U.S. private wealth management unit, where
clients have $20 million or more in assets. “In their own way
they’re protecting their children to make sure they can live the
life they hope they would live.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 