-- 
Obama Joins Energy Industry to Fight Climate Change Suits Challenging EPA

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/white-house-joins-aep-to-fight-climate-lawsuits-with-epa-off-its-duff-.html
In 2004, eight states decided they
wouldn’t wait for President George W. Bush to take steps against
climate change. They sued to force five power companies to cut
plant emissions.  The Obama administration today will urge the U.S. Supreme
Court to throw out the suit, arguing alongside American Electric
Power Co.,  Xcel Energy Inc. (XEL) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Southern Co. (SO) 
The administration contends the Environmental Protection Agency
is already taking steps against climate change.  “In some respects, the case has already achieved its
objective,” said  Patrick Parenteau , a professor who specializes
in climate-change law at  Vermont  Law School. “The whole point
of filing this case back in the Bush administration was to get
EPA off its duff to regulate greenhouse gases from coal-fired
 power plants , and they are.”  The states, now numbering six including  New York  and
 California , aim to keep the suit alive. They say the EPA still
hasn’t taken action to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from the
plants that are the subject of the suit.  “This case is all about the contribution of these five
companies to the problem of global warming, and EPA is not
addressing that contribution at all,” said Matthew Pawa, a
lawyer representing three land trusts that also sued the power
companies.  The suits also name the  Tennessee Valley Authority , the
government-owned corporation that has 59 coal-burning units.  Companies Involved  Trade groups representing automakers,  oil companies ,
farmers, mining companies, chemical companies and manufacturers
all urge rejection of the suits, in some cases saying their
members might face similar claims. DuPont Co. and oil companies
led by Chevron USA Inc. also filed a brief backing the power
companies.  “The case will determine whether American energy policy,
and to a great extent economic policy, is determined by juries
in the context of the climate-change tort lawsuits, as opposed
to the people’s elected representatives,” said Peter Glaser, a
Washington lawyer who filed a brief on behalf of the American
Farm Bureau Federation and the National Mining Association.  The case marks the  Supreme Court ’s second foray into the
debate over climate change. In a 2007 case decided 5-4, the
court ordered the EPA to consider regulating greenhouse-gas
emissions.  Nuisance Alleged  The states and land trusts contend that carbon emissions
are a “public nuisance,” a legal theory more typically used in
cases of localized pollution. In letting the suits proceed, the
New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a
judge who concluded the dispute belonged in the political arena,
not the courts.  The suits are part of a multifaceted battle over climate
change. Opponents -- including businesses, Republicans and some
Democrats -- say the EPA’s new carbon emission limits will
destroy jobs and increase electricity bills without any
environmental benefit.  The EPA began regulating  greenhouse gases  from vehicles and
industrial polluters in January. The rules became President
Barack Obama’s lever to limit carbon emissions after Congress
failed to pass climate-change legislation last year.  Earlier this month, the  House of Representatives  -- facing
a threatened Obama veto -- voted to repeal the agency’s
authority, while the Senate rejected an identical measure.  Right to Sue  The states said in their 2004 lawsuit that carbon dioxide
from the utilities involved in the case represents about 25
percent of emissions from U.S. power plants and 10 percent from
all domestic sources. Vermont, Rhode Island, Iowa,  Connecticut 
and New York City are also plaintiffs.  The companies say the states lacked the legal right, or
standing, to sue because they can’t show that they were harmed
by anything the utilities did or that they would benefit from a
ruling against the power companies.  State officials say they have standing because a reduction
in carbon dioxide emissions from the plants would ease  climate
change . They point to the 2007 Supreme Court decision, which
allowed a state suit that sought to make the EPA regulate auto
emissions.  In arguing for dismissal, the Obama administration is
pointing to the EPA’s actions against climate change under the
Clean Air Act. The government says those steps override the
right of the states and land trusts to press a nuisance suit
under federal law.  Speaking Directly  “EPA’s regulatory activities speak directly to the issue
of greenhouse-gas emissions,” acting U.S. Solicitor General
Neal Katyal argued.  The states and land trusts counter that the agency has
begun imposing limits only on new and modified plants, not on
the existing ones at issue in the lawsuits. Although the EPA is
working on rules to govern existing plants, the administration
said in  court papers  that the agency won’t necessarily limit
emissions from those plants.  “They’ve promised to engage in a process that may come to
something and may come to nothing,” Pawa said. “You can’t just
assume that something is going to happen when this is an area
that’s clearly in flux.”  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who heard arguments in the case as
a judge on the 2nd Circuit, isn’t taking part in deciding it
now. The court probably will rule by the end of June.  The case is American Electric Power v. Connecticut, 10-174.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 