-- 
Wimbledon Tennis Chief Wants U.K. to Relax Tax on Player Sponsorships

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-19T16:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/wimbledon-tennis-chief-wants-u-k-to-relax-tax-on-player-sponsorships.html
The  ATP World Tour Finals  and other
British tennis tournaments may lose access to players unless the
U.K. stops taxing foreign athletes’ endorsement income,
Wimbledon officials said today.  Athletes are taxed on a per diem rate by the U.K. on such
income, even if the sponsor is located outside the country.  The taxation “will inevitably concern players,” Ian Ritchie, chief executive officer of Wimbledon, said in a press
conference at the All England Club in southwest London. “We
don’t believe it is a problem for Wimbledon in terms of people
coming here. We want to encourage people to come for other
events and in the discussions we’ve had with players and agents,
it is on their radar.”  Former Wimbledon champion  Andre Agassi  in 2006 lost a
27,500-pound ($44,860) tax dispute at Britain’s highest court,
which blocked other sports and entertainment figures from
claiming millions from British tax authorities.  Agassi, an eight-time grand slam winner who earned more
than $31 million in career prize money, had challenged the U.K.
taxation of sponsorship payments made by some of his endorsers
including  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and other non-British companies to his own
company, Agassi Enterprises Inc., while he played at U.K.
tournaments such as Wimbledon.  Ritchie added it seems unfair individual athletes such as
professional golfers, tennis players and athletics stars are
subject to the taxation, while stars in team sports such as
soccer are not.  “If  Lionel Messi  comes here for a Champions League final,
he does not get taxed, but  Roger Federer  does,” Ritchie said.  Wimbledon has spoken to Bernie Ecclestone, Formula One
Management Ltd. CEO, about the issue, Ritchie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the All England Club through the
London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 