-- 
Wolin Says Treasury Will Resist Efforts to Slow Dodd-Frank

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-19T19:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/wolin-says-treasury-will-resist-efforts-to-slow-dodd-frank-rules.html
Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said the Obama administration will resist efforts by
lobbyists and Republican lawmakers to slow the changes required
by the Dodd-Frank overhaul of U.S. financial regulations.  “We must move forward with implementing this law,” Wolin
said today in a speech at the  Pew Charitable Trusts  in
 Washington . “We are doing so quickly, carefully and
responsibly. We will continue to do so in the face of these
criticisms. And we will continue to oppose efforts to slow down,
weaken, or repeal these  essential reforms .”  Dodd-Frank, the sweeping rules overhaul enacted last year,
created a council of regulators to expand oversight of the
country’s biggest financial firms in response to the 2008 credit
crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
The law also bolsters supervision of derivatives trading as well
as  consumer lending  and proprietary trading by banks.  Republican lawmakers, including House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , wrote to regulators in March,
urging them to slow implementation to ensure there is sufficient
time to gather public comment and to ensure the new rules don’t
inhibit economic growth.  ‘Speed Kills’  “All of us know that on the highway ‘speed kills,’”
Bachus of  Alabama  said today in a statement responding to
Wolin’s remarks. “Speed can also kill jobs when Washington
rushes sweeping regulations into place without giving the public
adequate time to comment.”  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group, said Dodd-Frank shouldn’t
be rushed “for the sake of meeting arbitrary deadlines,”
according to a statement released after Wolin’s speech.  “Rushing to meet deadlines without proper thought,
analysis and coordination amongst regulators will only result in
a fragmented regulatory structure, regulatory arbitrage, and
uncertainty in the market place,” Tim Ryan, Sifma’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement. Moving too
hastily “would lead investors to withhold capital desperately
needed to fuel economic growth,” he said.  Regulators are taking steps to make derivatives markets
more resilient and transparent to reduce the risk and costs of a
potential crisis, Wolin said. Proposed rules take into account
the lower risk posed by commercial end-users who use derivatives
contracts to hedge operations rather than to speculate, he said.  ‘Further Clarified’  “The statute does not allow  capital requirements  to be
imposed on commercial end-users of derivatives,” Wolin said.
“Recently, the regulators have further clarified in the
proposed rules that when these end-users operate within
established risk limits, they will not have to post margin on
their contracts -- leaving that capital free for  job creation 
and investment.”  Regulators have proposed two sets of rules for margin
requirements in swap transactions that may force commercial end-
users such as airlines and large manufacturers to set aside
money to reduce risk in certain trades.  End-users would escape margin requirements in swaps with
non-bank dealers or major swap participants under a proposal by
the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission . A joint proposal
released by the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. , the  Federal
Reserve  and three other regulators could force end-users to post
margin in swaps with banks.  Wolin also said the Office of Financial Research, created
by the law to help agencies collect and coordinate information,
is “hard at work” even though it doesn’t have a director. He
said he expects a voting member who specializes in insurance
oversight to be named “quite soon” to the Financial Stability
Oversight Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  