-- 
Synthes Takeover by J&J Would Make Chairman Wyss Switzerland’s Richest Man

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-04-20T10:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/wyss-may-replace-bertarelli-as-richest-swiss-man-in-synthes-sale.html
Synthes Inc. (SYST)  Chairman Hansjoerg Wyss, a Bern-born billionaire who lives in the U.S., stands to
become Switzerland’s wealthiest man if the medical device-maker
is sold.  Wyss, 75, ranked the world’s 154th-richest man by  Forbes 
with $6.4 billion, owns about 40 percent of  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania-based Synthes and has led the company for 30 years.
Synthes, the biggest maker of devices to treat  bone fractures 
and traumatic injuries, said this week that it’s in talks with
Johnson & Johnson over a possible takeover.  The chairman’s stake, plus a share controlled by his family
foundation, are valued at 8.36 billion Swiss francs ($9.36
billion) based on yesterday’s closing price. Selling at that
level may make Wyss  Switzerland ’s top billionaire, surpassing
Ernesto Bertarelli, who sold his family’s share of biotechnology
company Serono SA to Merck KGaA in 2006 for 10.7 billion francs.
It may also allow Wyss to fund more education, art and
environmental projects.  “He’s got a lot of money and it’s important to him to use
it for concrete cultural enterprises,” said Peter Schwaller,
the former president of the Furka foundation who is working with
Wyss to save a historic chairlift about 50 kilometers (30 miles)
north of Bern, the Swiss capital and Wyss’s hometown.  Harvard Graduate  Wyss graduated from the  Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology  in 1959 with a degree in civil and structural
engineering. He worked for U.S. automaker Chrysler Corp. in
 Pakistan ,  Turkey  and the  Philippines , before going to  Harvard
Business School , where he earned his MBA in 1965, according to
the school’s website.  “I didn’t speak in class for the first five weeks,” Wyss
said in an  interview  posted on Harvard’s website after he won an
alumni achievement award in 2007. “My classmates were all the
creme de la creme, with button-down shirts I had never seen
before.”  Wyss declined an interview request from Bloomberg News
through Gilgian Eisner, Synthes’s spokesman.  “Nobody knows me, and I hope that it stays like this,”
Wyss told Swiss newspaper  Berner Zeitung  in a May interview.  The publicity-shy billionaire donated $125 million to
 Harvard University  in 2009, the biggest philanthropic gift in
the school’s history, allowing for the creation of the Boston-
based  Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering . The
institute aims to discover the engineering principles that
nature uses to build living things, and using those discoveries
to create materials and devices that will improve health care,
according to its website.  ‘Many Rich People’  “We have so many rich people in Switzerland,” Wyss told
Swiss magazine Bilanz in a 2003 interview. “They should take
more responsibility for the general public. There is almost no
tradition of philanthropy here anymore, unlike in the U.S.”  Synthes’s statement this week was the first time Wyss has
said publicly that he would consider selling the company, Eisner
said. Synthes said on April 18 that “no assurance can be given
as to whether, when or on what terms any possible transaction
might occur.” Synthes and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  have declined to
comment further on the talks.  Synthes, whose shares trade in Zurich, also won’t comment
on whether it is in talks with other potential suitors, as
reported by Zurich-based newspaper Tages-Anzeiger, Eisner said.  Selling Airplanes  Wyss was working for a steel company in Brussels when he
met the Swiss surgeon who would change his life.  Wyss, a pilot, had a side business selling airplanes,
Eisner said in an interview. He sold one to Martin Allgoewer,
who helped to start the Davos, Switzerland-based AO Foundation.
The foundation developed plates and screws to mend broken bones
and trained surgeons to use them. The group had licensed
products to two other Swiss companies, Straumann Holding AG and
Mathys Medizinaltechnik AG, to be sold in  Europe , Latin America
and  Asia .  After Allgoewer’s introduction, the group agreed to let
Wyss sell AO’s products in  North America  under the name Synthes,
which comes from the group’s German name, Arbeitsgemeinschaft
fuer Osteosynthese.  Synthes acquired Stratec, a Straumann spinoff, in 1999 and
Mathys in 2003. Synthes now has more than 11,000 employees and
sales last year of $3.69 billion, compared with $2.4 billion in
2006.  CEO Post  Wyss gave up the post of chief executive officer in 2007
after 30 years. The company promoted Michel Orsinger, then the
chief operating officer, to the CEO post. Wyss remains chairman.  “One-third of every board meeting is devoted to new
products,” Wyss told Harvard. “It continues to fascinate me,
because it represents the future.”  While Wyss has several U.S. homes, according to Eisner,
he’s maintained his Swiss roots.  He is president of  Fondation Beyeler , a foundation in Basel
that aims to make 250 art works collected by Hildy and Ernst
Beyeler accessible to the general public through the operation
of a museum. Wyss also founded  Stiftung GegenwART , which funds
art programs and is affiliated with a Bern museum.  In addition to saving the chairlift, Wyss worked with the
Furka foundation to restore historic train tracks between
Gletsch and Oberwald in central Switzerland, close to the
Gotthard pass. Wyss donated about 3.7 million Swiss francs to
the project and visited Oberwald to see how the work was going,
Schwaller, the foundation’s former president, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  “He didn’t want to be recognized by anyone,” Schwaller
said. “He can’t be compared to anyone else with such a fortune.
Others always want something in exchange.”  Wyss Foundation  He established the  Wyss Foundation , based in  Washington ,
D.C., to focus on land conservation in the mountainous western
part of the U.S., according to its  website . It also sponsors
graduate-level education in conservation science and policy.  The private foundation controlled 8 percent of Synthes at
the end of 2010, according to the company’s  annual report .  Bertarelli, 45, and his family are ranked by  Forbes  as the
world’s 81st-richest with $10 billion. He won the America’s Cup
sailing competition for landlocked Switzerland in 2003, becoming
the first European to capture sailing’s most prestigious
championship.  To catch Bertarelli, Wyss would have to agree to sell the
company he built up over three decades. When making big
decisions, Wyss usually confides in “long-term friends,”
Eisner said.  “Two things are vital for me,” Wyss told Berner Zeitung.
“I’ve always had people who protected me, and I’ve always had
people who helped me. Before I decide, I consult with three,
four people who I trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Berlin at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  