-- 
TMX Group Should Get More Board Seats in LSE Deal, Ontario Committee Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-19T21:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/tmx-group-should-get-more-board-seats-in-lse-deal-ontario-committee-says.html
An Ontario government committee
reviewing  TMX Group Inc. (X) ’s sale to the  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  recommended the Toronto bourse appoint more directors
at the combined company.  The committee report, submitted today in Ontario’s
legislature, said the TMX Group and LSE should appoint an equal
number of directors. Under the merger proposal, TMX would name
only seven of 15 board members.  The legislative group made nine recommendations on the
C$3.2 billion ($3.4 billion) takeover. The committee said it has
no power to impose its view on the sale, which requires approval
from the federal government and the Ontario Securities
Commission.  The report “essentially says that if in fact the
conditions that we’ve set out can be met, then we would support
the proposed merger, but with very strong conditions,” Frank Klees, vice chairman of the committee, said in an interview in
Toronto today.  The recommendations include a commitment that jobs remain
in  Canada  after the sale and that the OSC’s role not be
diminished. The committee also recommended that the TMX, owner
of the Toronto Stock Exchange, should have the right to control
the LSE.  “We now have a report that sends a strong signal that we
will not and should not be compromising our regulatory
sovereignty,” said Klees, a member of the opposition
Progressive Conservative Party.  Committee Hearings  The nine-member committee held four days of hearings last
month on the proposed sale of TMX to LSE Group, which included
presentations by the chief executive officers of both companies,
as well as industry groups, executives and Ontario regulators.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan has called the
Toronto exchange a “strategic asset” and questioned the impact
of the deal on the province and country. Duncan said today he’ll
pass the committee’s recommendations on to the federal
government for its review of the sale.  “The committee takes no position on the transaction --
whether a transaction should be approved or not -- but focuses
on some of the key concerns,” said Chairman Gerry Phillips.  The LSE announced its offer Feb. 9. The London Stock
Exchange owner agreed to buy TMX in an all-stock transaction
that would give LSE shareholders 55 percent of the combined
company.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  