-- 
Yahoo's First-Quarter Sales Beats Estimates as Online-Ad Demand Increases

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-20T00:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-19/yahoo-s-first-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-as-advertising-demand-increases.html
Yahoo! Inc., the most-visited U.S.
Web portal, reported first-quarter sales that topped estimates
as companies stepped up their use of  Internet advertising . The
shares rose as much as 5.5 percent in late trading.  Excluding sales passed on to partner sites, revenue was
$1.06 billion, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said today in a
statement. Analysts had estimated $1.05 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  is benefiting from
buoyant demand for display advertising, such as banners and
videos, as Yahoo sites attract more visitors. U.S. users grew 15
percent to 179.5 million in March from the year-earlier period,
putting Yahoo ahead of No. 2  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s 176.8 million,
according to ComScore Inc. Yahoo’s results eased concern that
arose in January after its forecast disappointed investors.  “This certainly gives her some breathing room,” said
Kerry Rice, an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los
Angeles . He rates the stock “underperform” and doesn’t own it.
“This keeps investors on the line.”  Yahoo rose as much as 88 cents to $17 in extended trading.
The shares, down 3.1 percent this year, had closed at $16.12
earlier on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Quarter Forecast  Sales will be $1.08 billion to $1.13 billion in the second
quarter, the company said. The midpoint of that range matched
the $1.1 billion projected by analysts.  First-quarter net income attributable to the company fell
to $223 million, or 17 cents a share, from $310.2 million, or 22
cents, Yahoo said. One-time benefits a year earlier accounted
for some of the decrease. Excluding some items, Yahoo had
earnings of 19 cents a share, topping the average estimate of 16
cents.  Yahoo’s sales have been shrinking as the company offloads
businesses, farms out much of its search operations and
refocuses on its best-performing websites. At the same time,
it’s selling more display ads. Excluding revenue shared with
partner sites, display-advertising sales climbed 10 percent last
quarter to $471 million.  “Our turnaround is proceeding right on schedule,” Tim Morse, chief financial officer, said in an interview. “We’re
confident that we’re heading in the right direction.”  Improvements Seen  During the quarter, Web visitors’ engagement on the site
showed some improvements. Page views on Yahoo’s media
properties, including the home page, were up 8 percent during
the quarter after declining in previous months, the company
said. Time spent on those properties rose 17 percent. Still,
page views on communications and communities, including Yahoo e-
mail and its “Groups” messaging service, fell 6 percent and time
spent fell 10 percent.  Yahoo is trying to maintain its role as a top Internet
portal at a time when more users are heading to social-
networking sites, such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. Under
Bartz, who became CEO in January 2009, the company has pared
down its workforce in a bid to make Yahoo more efficient.
Earlier this year it announced plans to cut about 1 percent of
its staff, following a decision to eliminate about 4 percent, or
about 600 jobs, in December.  Bartz also struck a deal with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to use its
search technology on Yahoo’s sites. As part of the agreement,
Yahoo shifted its search-marketing platform for advertisers to
Microsoft’s system, called AdCenter. The companies began the
shift in October with Canada and the U.S.  AdCenter Pause  The company will hold off on further implementation of the
search-advertising part of the agreement until Microsoft
improves the performance of its AdCenter platform, which has
been a disappointment thus far, said Bartz, who met personally
with Microsoft officials.  Bartz said she is confident Microsoft, which is
guaranteeing revenue for Yahoo during the transition, will
address “issues” with the platform. Overall, she said the
quarter’s results show her efforts to turnaround the company.  “We continue to make headway on our plan to increase
profitability and grow revenue,” Bartz said. “We are growing
engagement and monetizing it.”  Microsoft has expanded its share of the U.S. search market
for eight straight months, reaching 13.9 percent in March, while
Yahoo’s declined last month to 15.7 percent from 16.1 percent
the previous month, according to Reston, Virginia-based
ComScore. Still, Google holds more than twice the market share
of both companies combined, with 65.7 percent.  Yahoo also has held talks to dispose of its stake in Yahoo
 Japan , an Internet portal company, two people familiar with the
matter said last month. Yahoo co-owns the Tokyo-based joint
venture with Softbank Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  