-- Lions Gate ‘Hunger Games’ Sequel Collects $158.1 Million
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-11-25T23:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/-hunger-games-sequel-has-161-million-in-sales-for-lions-gate.html
“The Hunger Games: Catching Fire,”
the sequel to the film about teens fighting to the death in a
totalitarian world, opened with $158.1 million in weekend sales
for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , short of some estimates. The
shares fell.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Delivery Man,” a comedy starring Vince Vaughn, was the only other new film in wide release, collecting
$7.94 million to place fourth,  Rentrak Corp. (RENT)  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “Catching Fire” was “a bit light,” said Jordon Laycob,
manager of the Marsico Flexible Capital Fund in Denver, in a
telephone interview. “The real test will be how it holds up
into next weekend.” The film’s gross was about $13 million
short of the firm’s estimate, he said.  The movie, with  Jennifer Lawrence  returning as heroine
Katniss Everdeen and  Josh Hutcherson  as her co-combatant Peeta
Mellark, is poised to dominate the box office for three weeks
and may earn Lions Gate $400 million or more through its share
of ticket sales, DVDs,  pay television  and free TV, the estimate
of Benjamin Mogil, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Lions Gate fell 10 percent to $30.23 at the close in New
York, paring its advance this year to 84 percent. The total
reported by Lions Gate included $25.3 million in sales from
Thursday night showings that began at 8 p.m., the company said.
That means it’s not directly comparable to the original “Hunger
Games,” which had $152.5 million in opening receipts.  Wide Swath  Rentrak said “Catching Fire” ranks as the sixth-largest
weekend opening, behind “The  Dark Knight ,” which collected
$158.4 million in July 2008 and now ranks fifth. The No. 1
opener is “Marvel’s The Avengers,” which took in $207.4
million in May 2012.  The new film’s futuristic setting, the appeal of the young
characters, including Oscar winner Lawrence, and a story about
rebellion against an oppressive government are attracting a wide
swath of movie fans. Sales also benefitted from screenings in
Imax theaters, where prices are higher, and a lack of
competition from new releases.  International sales totaled $146.6 million.  The 146-minute movie is showing in all of  Imax Corp. (IMAX) ’s 650-plus screens for three weeks, including almost 350 in the U.S.
and  Canada . BoxOffice.com projected $166 million in domestic
weekend sales.  Lions Gate  faces little competition until “The
Hobbit” sequel opens on Dec. 13, according to Phil Contrino,
its chief analyst.  Deadly Foes  “Catching Fire” picks up where “The Hunger Games” left
off, with Everdeen and Mellark touring the fictional nation of
Panem after winning the 74th Hunger Games. They inadvertently
become symbols of rebellion and are forced to compete again,
this time against more deadly foes -- former winners like
themselves. Donald Sutherland again stars as President Snow, and
Woody Harrelson and Stanley Tucci return in supporting roles.
Lawrence, 23, won the best-actress Oscar this year for “Silver
Linings Playbook.”  “Catching Fire” garnered an 89 percent favorable rating
on RottenTomatoes.com, which aggregates critics’ reviews.  “The studio squeezes the franchise for all it’s worth,”
Manohla Dargis  wrote  in the  New York  Times. “‘Catching Fire’
isn’t a great work of art but it’s a competent, at times
exciting movie.”  The best prospects for growth over the original film are
outside the U.S., where sequels tend to do better, according to
Mogil. Foreign sales may be as much as $450 million, he said.
The first picture generated $283.2 million internationally.  ‘Delivery Man’  The studio has scheduled a third movie from “The Hunger
Games” for release next November and the fourth a year later,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “Delivery Man,” the other new wide release, was projected
by BoxOffice.com to take in $9 million. Vaughn stars as an
underachiever who learns he fathered hundreds of children
through anonymous donations to a fertility clinic years earlier.
He has to decide whether to come forward when some of them sue
to find out his identity. It got a 37 percent favorable rating
by RottenTomatoes.  Vaughn “shuffles through this brazenly manipulative ode to
fatherhood with doughy passivity,” Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in
the New York Times.  “Frozen,” the new animated feature from Disney, opened in
one theater before going into wide release next week. The movie,
about a princess who sets off on an epic journey to find her
sister, the Snow Queen, features the voices of Kristen Bell,
Idina Menzel and Jonathan Groff.  ‘Free Birds’  Among returning films, “Thor: The Dark World,” the
superhero sequel from Disney’s Marvel studios, took in $14.2
million to place second. “The Best Man Holiday,” about college
friends reuniting after 15 years, placed third, with $12.5
million for  Universal Pictures , after its debut last weekend.  “Free Birds,” the Thanksgiving-themed animated movie from
Relativity Media featuring the voices of  Owen Wilson  and Woody
Harrelson, placed fifth, taking in $5.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  