-- Abbott’s Coalition Trails Labor Amid Indonesia Spat, Poll Shows
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-24T23:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/abbott-s-coalition-trails-labor-amid-indonesia-spat-poll-shows.html
Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
government’s poll ratings slipped behind the opposition as a
diplomatic row with Indonesia threatens efforts to curb the
number of asylum seekers arriving in  Australia  by boat.  The coalition trails Labor 52 percent to 48 percent on a
two-party preferred measure, according to the first Fairfax
Nielsen poll since the Sept. 7 election. It’s the quickest lead
achieved by any opposition after losing an election, according
to the Sydney Morning Herald, which published the poll.  Abbott may struggle to meet an election pledge to stem the
flow of asylum seekers into his nation after claims Australia
spied on Indonesia prompted the government there to halt
cooperation on tackling people smugglers. The poll showed 50
percent of respondents disapprove of the coalition’s handling of
asylum seeker policy, with 42 percent approving.  Voters “don’t like seeing signs of a deteriorating
relationship with  Indonesia ,” said Haydon Manning, a politics
professor at Flinders University in Adelaide. “They want to see
a marked improvement in the performance of their government and
Abbott’s team may have been a little slow in doing that.”  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s mobile
phone activity was tracked for 15 days in August 2009, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. said on its website Nov. 18,
citing documents leaked by Edward Snowden, a former U.S.
intelligence contractor who is wanted in the U.S. for releasing
secret information. Abbott has written to Yudhoyono in a bid to
repair relations, while his Agriculture Minister  Barnaby Joyce 
has delayed a scheduled visit to the country.  Carbon Tax  Abbott, 56, leads Labor leader  Bill Shorten , 46, as
preferred prime minister, 49 percent to 41 percent, according to
the poll of 1,400 voters, conducted Nov. 21-23 and with a margin
of error of 2.6 percentage points.  While the coalition is seeking to repeal Labor’s carbon-pricing mechanism and mining tax this year, it may have to wait
until the new Senate sits from July 1, with Labor and the Greens
having the numbers in the upper house to block the changes until
then.  The poll showed 57 percent of voters agreed that Labor
should vote to abolish the carbon tax, with 38 percent against.
A breakdown of their preferred climate change policy showed 24
percent wanted an emissions trading program, 16 percent a carbon
tax, 12 percent the government’s so-called direct action plan
and 29 percent some other policy.  The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge which
party is likely to form a government at the next election, due
in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  