-- Agarwal Said to Plan $1 Billion Oil-Stake Boost: Corporate India
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-11-25T10:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/agarwal-said-to-plan-1-billion-oil-stake-boost-corporate-india.html
Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s  Cairn
India Ltd. (CAIR)  will spend about $1 billion to buy back shares giving
him greater control over the company as environment rules derail
his mining business, two people familiar with the plan said.  The oil producer will offer to buy back shares, including
 Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) ’s 10.3 percent stake, and extinguish them, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified before an
announcement. The proposal may help  Sesa Sterlite Ltd. (SSLT)  and
Agarwal’s other companies’ boost their ownership in Cairn  India 
to more than 65 percent from about 59 percent, the person said.  “Certainly Cairn Energy’s 10 percent stake in the company
will be a natural source of shares,”  Alan Greene , a Singapore-based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a telephone
interview. “Cairn Energy’s decision to sell will depend on what
the offer price is and its own needs.”  Cairn India, which runs the nation’s biggest onshore oil
and gas field and has about  $3 billion of cash , is critical to
Agarwal at a time when his metals earnings at Sesa Sterlite are
 languishing  due to restrictions on iron ore and bauxite mining
and a ban on exports of the steelmaking ingredient from the
western state of Goa. Faced with the setbacks, Agarwal is
banking on India’s energy demand, forecast to increase 14
percent in the five years to 2015.  Decision Tomorrow  The board of Cairn India, based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi ,
will decide on the repurchase tomorrow, according to an exchange
filing.  Cairn India, which has 1.9 billion shares outstanding,
 gained  1.2 percent to 331.10 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The
stock has risen 3.8 percent this year, lagging behind the 6.1
percent increase in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex. Sesa Sterlite
rose 0.1 percent to 174.55 rupees  “We expect to be able to share the details of the proposal
post the board meeting,” Cairn India said in an e-mailed
statement. Cairn Energy spokeswoman Linda Bain wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Agarwal bought into Cairn India two years ago. In August,
he  combined  India’s biggest copper producer Sterlite Industries
(India) Ltd. with  iron-ore  miner Sesa Goa Ltd. in August and
transferred ownership of Cairn India to the merged entity.  ‘Bigger Dividend’  “Cairn India by buying the shares is reinforcing Sesa
Sterlite’s position in the company,” Greene said. “Buyback is
quite an effective way to utilize cash and this way they are
also utilizing idle cash. Sesa Sterlite would have a bigger
proportion of the company and therefore a bigger proportion of
the dividend.”  Cairn India plans to spend $3 billion in three years to
raise output, according to an Oct. 22 statement. The company,
whose output from its biggest field remained at 175,000 barrels
a day for at least five quarters, plans to increase production
to 300,000 barrels day.  The buyback won’t dent the capital expenditure plan as the
company will generate about 90 billion rupees of free  cash flow 
in the year ending March 31 and 75 billion rupees the following
fiscal year, Joshi said. Cairn India’s profit rose 46 percent to
33.9 billion rupees in the three months ended Sept. 30, the
fastest pace in three quarters.  Lower Revenue  Revenue from erstwhile Sesa Goa fell after shipments
plunged to 3.1 million metric tons in the year ended March 31,
the least since Agarwal bought the company in 2007. In six
months ended Sept. 30, Sesa Sterlite earned 10.8 billion rupees
in dividend, mainly from Cairn India, helping the company report
a net income of 28.2 billion rupees.  India’s top court banned ore mining in the states of
Karnataka and Goa in August 2011 and October 2012 respectively
as it probed violations of environmental norms. The court
allowed mining to restart in Karnataka in September last year.  Agarwal’s group, which is aiming to emerge as the nation’s
biggest producer of aluminum used in beverage cans and aircraft
parts, spent $7.8 billion to build a smelter and a refinery in
the eastern state of Odisha. The company is still waiting to
light its 1.25 million ton smelter for want of bauxite, which it
is unable to secure due to local opposition.  Inhabitants of the remote Niyamgiri hills, the site of the
mine, opposed the expansion plan because they believed their god
lived in the hills, prompting the government to reject Agarwal’s
request for a bauxite mining permit.  “Standalone Sesa is quite weak given its iron ore
operations are yet not up and running and its new aluminum
smelter is still waiting for secured raw material supplies,”
Greene said.  Agarwal had also been trying to buy the government’s stake
in  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ) , in which Sesa owns 65 percent. This has
been delayed because of legal hurdles, limiting his access to
the company’s $3.8 billion of cash.  “Cairn India is a cash cow and means a lot for Vedanta at
this juncture,” said Dhaval Joshi, a Mumbai-based analyst at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. “It’s imperative for
Agarwal to take full control of Cairn India.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in New Delhi at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  