-- Harvard University Students Win the Most Rhodes Scholarships
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-11-24T11:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/harvard-university-students-win-the-most-rhodes-scholarships.html
Students at  Harvard University  won
six Rhodes Scholarships, the most of any school this year, as
the 32 U.S. recipients of one of the world’s most prestigious
academic awards were named today.  Yale University and Stanford University students won three
Rhodes Scholarships each, while Princeton University, the
University of Virginia and the United States Military Academy at
West Point, New York, had two scholars apiece, according to a
statement from the Office of the American Secretary of the
 Rhodes Trust .  The Rhodes Scholarships were established in 1902 in the
will of  Cecil Rhodes , a British mine operator and explorer who
founded what is now the Johannesburg-based De Beers Group.
Rhodes Scholarships fund two or three years of study at the
University of Oxford in the U.K. The scholars were chosen from
about 1,750 applicants.  Schools with their first winners this year were  Smith
College  in Northampton, Massachusetts, and New York University
Abu Dhabi, a branch campus that opened in 2010.  Past winners include former U.S. President  Bill Clinton ,
 Bobby Jindal , governor of Louisiana, and  Rachel Maddow , host of
an MSNBC news show.  Scholars are nominated by their universities and finalists
are interviewed in 16 regions. Two scholarships are awarded in
each region.  With this year’s awards, 347 students from Harvard
University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, have been named Rhodes
Scholars, the most from any U.S. university. Students from Yale
University in New Haven, Connecticut, have received 233
scholarships, followed by Princeton University in  New Jersey ,
with 201.  List of Winners  The other schools with winners this year are Villanova
University in Villanova, Pennsylvania; Williams College in
Williamstown, Massachusetts; Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina; University of Tennessee in Knoxville;
Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta; Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge; University of Wisconsin in
Madison; The University of Chicago; Mississippi State University
in Starkville; Washington University in St. Louis; Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh and the University of
California, Berkeley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  