-- Latvia to Scour Collapsed Supermarket for Victims and Evidence
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-11-24T13:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/latvia-to-scour-collapsed-supermarket-for-victims-and-evidence.html
Latvian rescue workers began to tear
down unsafe parts of a supermarket roof, the collapse of which
three days ago killed 54 people, so the search for victims and
for clues about the disaster’s cause can continue.  Sections of the  Maxima XX  grocery store’s roof are being
dismantled after another part of it caved in yesterday, Daiga
Holma, a spokeswoman for the  Interior Ministry , said by
telephone. Three rescuers died when another section fell on Nov.
21, the day of the calamity in Riga’s Zolitude district.  Police today published the names of the 54 victims at the
store. It’s the biggest loss of life from a single event since
the nation regained independence in 1991. Police have begun a
criminal investigation into the incident and said that about
seven people remain unaccounted for, though they may not be in
the debris.  The building collapse is equivalent to “the murder of a
huge number of unprotected people,” President Andris Berzins
said on Latvian Television yesterday.  A criminal investigation has been opened and police are
questioning witnesses and consulting with experts, Interior
Minister  Rihards Kozlovskis  said yesterday.  Two Russian citizens and one Armenian citizen were among
the dead, Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said on his  twitter 
account. Sixteen children lost at least one parent in the
collapse, and three children lost both, Laila Rieksta Riekstina,
director of the state inspectorate of children’s rights, said on
Latvijas Radio yesterday.  Maxima will pay the average wage each month to children
that lost a parent in the accident until the age of 18, the
company said in a statement last night. Average pay is 500 lati
($965), Maxima said.  The roof collapsed after an alarm designed to detect fire,
smoke and dust rang repeatedly in the basement where a parking
area was under construction, Maxima said in an e-mailed
statement two days ago. The company operates about 500
supermarkets in  Lithuania ,  Latvia ,  Estonia , Bulgaria and  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  