-- Brent Slide Leads Energy Prices Lower After Iran Accord
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-25T13:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/brent-crude-slumps-from-six-week-high-after-iran-nuclear-accord.html
Brent crude led energy prices from
gasoline to heating oil lower after  Iran  and world powers
reached an interim accord on the country’s nuclear program that
will ease economic sanctions while keeping a cap on oil sales.  Futures slid as much as 2.7 percent in  London , declining
for the first time in four days, while West Texas Intermediate
fell 1.7 percent. Iran’s crude exports will be held to about 1
million barrels a day under sanctions that remain in force after
the deal announced yesterday in Geneva, according to the White
House. Gasoline and heating oil futures each slid at least 2.3
percent on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  “We’re seeing both sides come one step closer to each
other,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at Axpo Trading
AG in Dietikon, Switzerland. “The deal doesn’t have a direct
impact on oil exports, but there’s still good reason to think a
solution is on the horizon in terms of oil. The risk premium has
declined.”  Brent for January settlement decreased as much as $3 to
$108.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the biggest intraday loss since Nov. 1. It was at
$109.34 as of 1:31 p.m. London time. The contract advanced 97
cents to $111.05 on Nov. 22, the highest close since Oct. 11.  WTI for January delivery fell as much as $1.59 to $93.25 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract was at a discount of $15.68 to Brent. It
closed at $16.21 on Nov. 22, the widest gap based on settlement
prices since March 14.  Iran Accord  The six-month agreement, which offers Iran about $7 billion
in relief from sanctions in exchange for curbs on its nuclear
program, leaves in place banking and financial measures that
have hampered its crude exports.  Brent, the benchmark for half the world’s crude, rose the
most in almost two weeks on Nov. 8 after U.S. Secretary of State
John Kerry downplayed the chances of a nuclear accord. The deal
was reached yesterday after foreign ministers from the U.S.,
Europe,  China  and  Russia  made unscheduled trips to Geneva to
push the third round of talks in six weeks to a conclusion.  Gasoline futures fell to as low as $2.6598 a gallon on the
Nymex, while heating oil contracts dropped to $2.9701. Gasoil in
London slid 2.1 percent to $918.50 a metric ton. Natural gas
futures were the only major energy contract to rise today,
advancing as much as 2.2 percent to $3.849 per million British
thermal units in New York amid forecasts for below-normal
temperatures in the U.S.  Risk Premium  “There’s still a long way to go, but with each of these
steps we should see some sort of response to the risk premium,”
said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The bigger thing for the oil market in terms of the
impact on prices is the longer view that this represents a
tangible step toward a more final solution that might ultimately
see the sanctions lifted altogether.”  Thomas Cook Group Plc and Air France-KLM Group led a gauge
of travel stocks higher as oil prices fell after the accord with
Iran. Shares of major oil-producing companies were the only
component of Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 600 to decline, with BG
Group Plc and BP Plc driving the segment lower.  The economic constraints have cut Iranian oil sales by 60
percent since the start of 2012, depriving the country of more
than $80 billion in revenue, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said in a statement.  Goldman Forecast  “The volume of Iranian crude oil available to the
international market will remain largely unchanged over at least
the next six months,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  predicted in a
report published today. Morgan Stanley said in a note that any
“substantial weakness” in prices following yesterday’s
announcement of a deal would be an “over-reaction.”  Sanctions remain on sales of Iranian refined products,
while Iran gains access to $4.2 billion in oil revenue frozen in
foreign banks, the White House said. As part of the accord, the
European Union will lift a ban on insurance for tankers
transporting Iranian oil, making it easier for the Persian Gulf
nation’s six remaining customers to take delivery. The EU will
continue to prohibit crude imports from Iran.  Officials from Indian Oil Corp., Hindustan Petroleum Corp.
and Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. said the removal of
restrictions on shipping cover will enable them to purchase
contracted volumes more easily. Still, they said they don’t
intend to buy more than previously planned.  ‘Downward Pressure’  Loosened sanctions on insurance will let Iran raise exports
by nearly 300,000 barrels a day from last month’s level and may
put “downward pressure” on Brent,  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of consultant Petromatrix GmbH, said yesterday.  Imports from Iran fell to 715,000 barrels a day in October,
compared with 1.26 million in the previous month, the
International Energy Agency said in a Nov. 14 market report.
Shipments from the country still averaged 1.1 million barrels a
day in the first nine months of this year, according to the IEA.  “Oil prices will remain under pressure for the foreseeable
future,”  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg television
interview. “First of all, I think there will be a little bit of
a knee-jerk reaction.”  The accord with Iran is a “historic mistake,” Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday. Obama called
Netanyahu before departing to the U.S. West Coast in an effort
to prevent the agreement from opening a rift between the two
nations.  “While  Israel  and the Saudis won’t be happy, the oil bears
will,” Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago , said by e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  