-- China Pushing Child Safety Seats to Reduce Accident Toll: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-25T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/china-pushing-child-safety-seats-to-reduce-accident-toll-cars.html
 China lost almost three times as
many children in car accidents as the U.S. last year, even
though it has fewer than half the number of vehicles.  The government increased penalties this year for failing to
fasten seat belts or using a mobile phone while driving. The
next step: getting parents to install child-safety seats in a
country where only about one in 100 cars have them. The  World
Health Organization  says the seats, which reduce stress to the
neck and spinal cord in a crash, can cut deaths by 70 percent.  “It’s completely crazy to put babies in cars without using
child seats,” Frederic Banzet, chief executive officer of
Paris-based PSA Peugeot Citroen’s Citroen brand, said in an
interview in Beijing.  China’s health ministry agrees. The Center for Disease
Control and Prevention, an agency under the ministry overseeing
public health awareness, will start the country’s first national
campaign to encourage the use of child seats at the end of this
year, starting in Beijing,  Shanghai  and Shenzhen.  The center plans to hold talks at kindergartens and primary
schools, conduct prenatal workshops at hospitals and work with
doctors doing home visits to educate new parents on the benefits
and correct use of the seats.  Little Emperors  The campaign will run until 2015 and the agency is counting
on the protective instincts toward  China ’s “little emperors” -
- the pampered only offspring under the country’s one-child
policy -- to spur a change in behavior.  “It is time for us to do something,” said Duan Leilei, a
trained doctor who specializes in researching injury prevention
at the CDC. “Chinese parents literally will do anything they
can for their only child. It should be much easier to get them
to use booster seats once they know how important it is, than to
say belt up or don’t use mobile phones while driving.”  With the number of vehicles estimated to surge almost
threefold to 240 million by 2020, promoting child seats is a
“low-hanging fruit” that could reap significant reductions in
deaths and serious injuries, said Wu Yiqun, vice head of
ThinkTank Research Center for Health Development, a non-governmental body that has been advocating their use.  China is taking the first steps toward making the use of
booster seats mandatory, which would bring it in line with the
more than 50 jurisdictions in the world that enforce their use.  The China Automotive Technology and Research Center, a
government-affiliated body in charge of drafting policy for the
 auto industry , released a report in June concluding that
conditions are ripe for enforcing the use of safety seats.  Low Awareness  Last year, 18,500 children under the age of 14 died in
traffic accidents in China, making it the leading cause of death
for the age group, according to the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , a research body under the country’s State Council, or
cabinet.  WHO  estimated global road deaths at more than 1.2
million a year, with more than 90 percent in developing
economies, according to a 2009 report. As many as 50 million
people are injured, it said.  Public awareness in China of child-safety seats is low.  About 40 percent of parents put their children in the front
without a safety seat, while 43 percent said they held on to
their kids while in the car, according to a survey conducted by
the academy.  Automakers such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are also helping promote
the adoption of the seats in China.  The German automaker has said it will donate 5,000 safety
seats in China as the first step of a campaign on boosters. The
company will also start manufacturing the seats in the country,
according to Weiming Soh, VW’s sales head for China.  Close Call  Eugene Meng, 36, isn’t waiting for a law to be passed to
use a child seat.  The marketing executive in Beijing ordered one from  Germany 
costing 2,800  yuan  ($460) after his 10-month-old daughter hurt
herself when she was thrown against the back of the driver’s
seat. The toddler had been sitting in the back on her mother’s
lap when Meng braked to avoid a collision.  “She cried so hard that I didn’t dare to take her out for
any more rides until we got a safety seat,” he said. “Now when
I see parents putting babies in the car without using safety
seats, I wish I had the ability to stop them.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  