-- Downer Backs Australian Spy Skills as Joyce Halts Indonesia Trip
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-24T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/downer-backs-australian-spy-skills-as-joyce-halts-indonesia-trip.html
Former Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Australia needs to maintain its intelligence-gathering abilities as Agriculture Minister  Barnaby Joyce 
delayed a visit to  Indonesia  amid claims of spying.  Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  has written to
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to repair relations after the
Southeast Asian nation halted co-operation on asylum seekers and
withdrew its ambassador from Canberra following a report that
leaders’ phones were tapped. Joyce postponed a visit scheduled
for this week, the Age newspaper reported yesterday, as tension
with Indonesia reaches the highest level in 14 years.  “We need to preserve the integrity of our intelligence
capabilities but we need to try to work on fixing up the
relationship with Indonesia as best we can,” Downer, who was
Australia’s longest-serving foreign minister, said on Sky News
television yesterday.  Yudhoyono received Abbott’s letter and is studying it,
Teuku Faizasyah, a spokesman for the president, said Nov. 23.  Several hundred people gathered outside the Australian
Embassy in Jakarta on Nov. 21, burning that country’s flag,
police said. Indonesia has also called a halt to military co-operation and is reviewing cattle exports from Australia.  Joyce agreed to postpone the visit after discussions with
Indonesian colleagues, the Age reported, citing a spokeswoman
for the minister. A call to Joyce’s media relations office
yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  Cattle Exports  Two-way trade between the countries, which includes wheat,
oil and dairy products, reached A$14.6 billion ($13.4 billion)
last year. Indonesia, which takes more than 60 percent of
Australia’s live cattle exports, may revise rules to let it
import from other nations, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in
Jakarta on Nov. 23.  Yudhoyono’s mobile phone activity was tracked for 15 days
in August 2009, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said on its
 website  Nov. 18, citing documents leaked by Edward Snowden, a
former U.S. intelligence contractor who is wanted in the U.S.
for releasing secret information. At least once, agencies tried
to listen to a conversation although the call lasted less than a
minute and couldn’t be tapped, according to the report.  “One of the fundamental tasks of my government is to
ensure that our relationship with Indonesia goes from strength
to strength,” Abbott said in Sydney on Nov. 23, according to an
e-mailed transcript. Yudhoyono “has been a very good friend to
 Australia , one of the best friends we’ve ever had,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  