-- Guinea Says Vale Stake Protected Regardless of Review
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-11-25T14:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/guinea-says-vale-stake-protected-regardless-of-case.html
Guinea will seek to preserve  Vale
SA’s (VALE3)  interests in Simandou, one of the world’s largest untapped
iron-ore deposits, even though its partner is being investigated
on corruption allegations, President Alpha Conde said.  “In the case of Simandou 1 and 2, Vale already made an
investment,” Conde, 75, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi.
“It’s out of the question to hurt Vale; at the same time, the
law should be obeyed, so we’ll have to find a solution.”  Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz’s BSG Resources Ltd.
sold 51 percent of its stake in part of the Simandou area to Rio
de Janeiro-based Vale in 2010, in a deal valued at as much as
$2.5 billion. BSGR gained the mining rights after  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company, was stripped
of two of the four blocks of land in Simandou in 2008. Rio said
in August it would be interested in regaining control of the
disputed concession.  Steinmetz is  Israel ’s wealthiest person, with an estimated
net worth of about $7.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. Steinmetz was interviewed by Geneva’s public
prosecutor last month as part of a widening investigation
involving at least four nations into how BSGR came to control
half of one of the world’s richest iron ore deposits. BSGR and
Steinmetz have denied any wrongdoing.  Conde declined to say in yesterday’s interview whether the
concession would be offered to bidders again or given back to
Rio Tinto should BSGR’s contract be canceled. “It’s in the
hands of the justice, I cannot speak about it,” he said.  Final Hearing  The final hearing of a government committee probing how
BSGR acquired the ground will be held Dec. 10 in the capital
Conakry, according to a letter sent to BSGR’s venture in Guinea
two weeks ago and seen by Bloomberg News. It asks BSGR to
clarify responses to allegations made last year that payments
and gifts were given to government and military officials from
2005 to help it obtain the site. BSGR has denied these claims.  BSGR said the review is an attempt to “expropriate
illegally” its mining rights, including the Simandou deposit.
Vale lost 0.5 percent to 32.51 reais at 11:49 a.m. in Sao Paulo
trading today.  Conde said he met yesterday with Rio and its Chinese
partner in the Simandou concession, Aluminum Corp. of  China , or
Chinalco.  “We all expressed our will to go very fast, as iron prices
are going up with China and  Japan  starting steel projects,” he
said, without giving a date for the start of mining.  Bauxite Plans  Guinea in March announced plans to more than triple bauxite
production capacity by 2020 as Chinese demand for the metal is
forecast to rise.  The West African nation, the largest exporter of the
mineral that makes aluminum, has eight projects under
development including a deal with Mubadala of Abu Dhabi to boost
production capacity of the Cie des Bauxites de Guinee and one
with United Co. Rusal to build an alumina refinery.  Conde said another agreement will be signed today with
Mubadala.  “What we want is to have long-term strategic ties with
mining companies, similar to what Botswana has with diamond
producer De Beers, so that market fluctuations don’t have an
impact on our relations,” Conde said. “Our aim is to have
total transparency.”  The southern African nation of Botswana is the largest
producer of the gem. Anglo American Plc bought a 40 percent
stake in De Beers last year, increasing its holding to 85
percent, and moved its gem-sorting and trading operations to the
Botswanan capital of Gaborone from  London . The government owns
the remaining 15 percent stake in De Beers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  