-- ICC Arrests Four Aides to Congolese Presidential Candidate Bemba
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-11-24T17:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/icc-arrests-four-aides-to-congolese-presidential-candidate-bemba.html
The  International Criminal Court 
said it arrested four associates of former  Democratic Republic 
of Congo presidential candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba for tampering
with witnesses involved in his trial.  Two members of Bemba’s defense team, Aime Kilolo Musamba
and Jean-Jacques Mangenda Kabongo, were arrested along with a
defense witness, Narcisse Arido, and a member of Congo’s
parliament, Fidele Babala Wandu, according to a statement
published on The Hague-based court’s website yesterday. Bemba is
also accused of the same crime, which carries a maximum five-year prison sentence and a possible fine, it said.  “It is particularly disturbing that a member of the legal
profession is alleged to have intentionally and systematically
participated in criminal activities aimed at undermining the
administration of justice,” the office of ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in an e-mailed statement.  Bemba, a former rebel leader, is facing charges of crimes
against humanity and  war crimes  for rapes, murders and pillaging
committed by his troops in the Central African Republic in 2002
and 2003. In 2006, he finished second to President  Joseph Kabila 
in Congo’s first free elections in four decades.  The arrests took place yesterday and today in four
countries, according to the ICC. Kilolo Musamba was arrested by
Belgian authorities, while Mangenda Kabongo’s arrest took place
in the Netherlands and French authorities detained Arido. Babala
was arrested in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital, at about 1:30 a.m.,
Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  