-- Indian Refiners Say Iran Nuclear Deal Eases Crude Import Process
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-11-24T10:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/indian-refiners-say-iran-nuclear-deal-eases-crude-import-process.html
The lifting of a European Union ban
on insuring tankers carrying Iranian crude as part of a nuclear
deal reached in Geneva today will ease the process of importing
the Persian Gulf state’s oil, according to Indian refiners.  While officials from  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. and  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  said the
removal of restrictions on shipping cover will enable them to
purchase contracted volumes more easily, they said they don’t
intend to buy more than previously planned.  “We can go ahead and import the contracted volume for this
year,” said Rajkumar Ghosh, the director of refineries at
Indian Oil, the country’s largest processor. The company has a
deal to buy 1.2 million metric tons of Iranian oil in the year
ending March 31, of which 0.5 to 0.6 million tons have been
imported since April, he said. Middle East suppliers sell the
bulk of their crude in long-term contracts.  The end of the EU ban is part of a first-step agreement
that will give  Iran  as much as $7 billion in relief from
economic sanctions over six months. In return for limiting its
nuclear program, the interim deal provides for the release of
$4.2 billion in frozen oil assets and will let Iranian oil
exports continue at current levels, rather than requiring
continued reductions by buyers, according to a White House
statement. It won’t mean an increase in shipments after they
were cut by 60 percent since 2012, the U.S. administration said.  Invalidated Insurance  The insurance restrictions affected about 95 percent
of the global tanker fleet because the ships are covered under
rules governed by European law. Carrying Iranian oil would
invalidate ships’ insurance against risks including spills and
collisions, according to the  International Group  of P&I Clubs.
The Japanese government started providing sovereign cover for
its tanker operators while  India  was due to consider a 20
billion rupee ($320 million) fund to help cover imports.  “This is a precursor to overall easing of Iran
sanctions,” P.P. Upadhya, the managing director of Mangalore
Refinery & Petrochemicals, said by phone. “We are importing
about 500,000 tons every month since August, so we should reach
our 4 million-ton plan by March.”  India’s crude imports from Iran are expected to total 11
million tons in the twelve months ending March 31, a drop of
about 15 percent from the previous year, Petroleum Secretary
Vivek Rae said Nov. 8.  Insurance Pool  Hindustan Petroleum plans to import 0.8 million tons of
Iranian crude by March if it can begin shipments next month,
B.K. Namdeo, director of refineries at India’s third-largest
state-run refiner, said today. The country’s processors are
unlikely to exceed their targets in the current financial year,
he said.  “We will be able to start importing Iran crude even
without the government’s insurance pool,” Namdeo said.  In June 2012, there were 23 importers of Iranian crude;
today, only six remain - China, India,  South Korea ,  Japan ,
 Turkey  and  Taiwan , according to U.S. officials. Since July 2012,
the EU has also banned oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in  New Delhi  at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  