-- Iran’s Rial Strengthens More Than 2% After Nuclear Agreement
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-24T15:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/iran-s-rial-strengthens-more-than-2-after-nuclear-agreement.html
Iran ’s currency strengthened more
than 2 percent as the Islamic republic won access about $7
billion in relief from sanctions after agreeing to limit its
nuclear program, ending a decade-long diplomatic stalemate.  The rial appreciated 2.3 percent since yesterday to 29,300
a dollar this afternoon in Tehran compared with about 30,000
yesterday, according to prices provided by five street traders
in the Iranian currency black market.  The currency lost more than half its value in the year
before President Hassan Rouhani’s election in June, due in part
to sanctions denying Iran access to the world financial system.
Iran’s gross domestic product declined 5.4 percent in the fiscal
year ending in March, Rouhani has said. Sanctions have pushed
the country’s oil output to the lowest since 1990.  Iran agreed to curtail its nuclear activities and in return
won an easing of “certain sanctions” on oil, auto parts, gold
and precious metals. The deal, announced early today after five
days of talks in Geneva, releases some of Iran’s oil assets and
allows it to keep exporting crude at current levels.  The accord is the first since Iran’s program came under
global scrutiny in 2003 and marks a breakthrough in relations
between the U.S. and Iran 34 years after the Islamic revolution.
Backed by President  Barack Obama  and Rouhani, the pact faces
opposition from  Israel , with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
calling it a “historic mistake.” Critics in the U.S. and Iran
may also hamper efforts for further detente.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  