-- Islamists Settle on Turkey-Syria Border as War Blurs Lines
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-11-25T16:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/islamists-take-root-on-turkey-syria-border-as-battle-blurs-lines.html
The Syrian rebel groups that  Turkey 
has allowed to proliferate near its border include many who say
they have no problem fighting alongside al-Qaeda against Bashar
al-Assad.  “Al-Qaeda is helping us, while foreign countries aren’t,”
said Besil Abu Arab, a 20-year-old member of the Ahrar al-Sham
militia, as he received treatment in a makeshift hospital in the
Turkish border town of Reyhanli. Abu Arab hasn’t been able to
move his left arm since he was shot near Aleppo a month ago.  Abu Imar Halebi, a fighter with the Aleppo-based movement
Abu Amara, agrees that al-Qaeda fighters are an asset in the
battle against Assad. He says he doesn’t oppose their goal of
establishing Islamic law in  Syria , though his own group prefers
to explain its benefits and win popular assent rather than
impose it by force.  The spread of such groups in NATO-member Turkey, as well as
recent signals of impatience from Saudi Arabia, highlight
differing priorities between the U.S. and its Muslim allies over
Syria. Concerns that Islamist militants may benefit played a
part in the Obama administration’s decision to step back from
using force against Assad’s government in September. For its
allies, the calculation may be different.  “Turkey should try to reduce the influence of the al-Qaeda-affiliated groups,” said Stephen Larrabee of Rand Corp.,
a policy institute in Santa Monica,  California . “The longer
this goes on, the more they’re likely to be strengthened.”  Downplayed Risk  He said Turkey initially downplayed the risk from Islamist
radicals because it was more concerned about Kurdish separatists
in north Syria, who have fought against the jihadist groups.
“But after a while, they began to see the danger.”  Turkey is a sponsor of the Free Syrian Army, the West’s
preferred opposition group in Syria, and denies it has ever
permitted the more extreme groups fighting in Syria to operate
from Turkish territory.  “Organizations like Nusra or al-Qaeda can’t find shelter
in our country,” Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
whose government has Islamist roots, said on Nov. 7. He was
referring to the al-Nusra Front, one of the biggest Islamist
groups in Syria and classified by the U.S. as terrorists linked
to al-Qaeda in  Iraq . Al-Nusra fighters seized the al-Omar oil
field in eastern Syria last week, according to activists.  In mid-October, Turkey’s army said it fired at fighters
from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL, across
the border after a mortar round landed near a Turkish frontier
post. ISIL is an al-Qaeda-linked force that’s emerged as one of
the fiercest of the rebel groups.  Not Effective  Salih Muslim, leader of the main Kurdish party in Syria,
told Istanbul-based Taraf newspaper in an interview published
Nov. 8 that Turkey had been supporting al-Nusra and ISIL, and
has now stopped, “or at least that’s how it looks.” Assad’s
government also charges Turkey and Saudi Arabia with supporting
Islamic extremists fighting against him.  Saudi Arabia indicated last month that it doesn’t consider
the U.S.-backed rebels effective, and that confining assistance
to them would handicap the fight against Assad. Saudi Arabia’s
main regional rival, Shiite-ruled  Iran , is Assad’s closest ally.  Among the refugees in Turkey, many are uncomfortable with
the gains that jihadists have made.  Nasir Hackasim, who runs a restaurant near a refugee camp
at the Turkish border post of Oncupinar, said he had a glimpse
of what Islamist rule in Syria would look like.  Beating Smokers  Hackasim escaped from his hometown, Azaz in northern Syria,
last year with his wife and nine sons when Assad’s forces
stormed the area and came looking for him as a rebel
collaborator. He went back a month ago after ISIL drove Assad’s
forces out, and found the town under the control of militants
who order women to cover up and stay indoors, force men to
attend mosques, and have set up Sharia courts.  “They’re even beating smokers with sticks,” the kebab-chef said, puffing on his cigarette. “It’s my hometown, I’ll
eventually go back, but I can’t live under such radicals.”  Hackasim said he realized during his trip home that groups
like ISIL are supported by many Syrians, not just for religious
reasons. He said the Islamists won over many poor people by
distributing aid equally and punishing looters with death.  Turkey and Saudi Arabia have been targeted by militant
Islamist groups, and both consider al-Qaeda a threat. They’re
also more directly affected by the war in Syria than their ally
the U.S. Turkey says it has spent at least $2 billion caring for
Syrian refugees.  ‘If Not Worse’  Rand ’s Larrabee said gains by Islamists has raised the
prospect of a Syria that “would be as bad as if not worse than
one dominated by Assad.”  Nearer the front-line, the priorities often look different.  Salahaddin Marasli is a 56-year-old refugee in Reyhanli who
supports the Western-backed rebels and wants the militants
reined in. Yet he understands why that’s unlikely to happen
while they’re both fighting Assad, and maybe afterwards too.  “The Free Syrian Army can’t afford to fight on two
fronts,” Marasli said at his fruit-juice shop. “It’s a big
problem. When the war is over, it will be very difficult to
force al-Qaeda out of Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  