-- Oil Declines With Energy Shares While Yen Weakens on Iran
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-25T21:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/israel-stocks-rise-on-iran-deal-as-asian-futures-advance.html
Oil fell and the yen weakened
against the dollar while energy-company shares led the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index lower after  Iran  and world powers reached an
initial deal on limits to the nation’s nuclear program.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell 0.8 percent to $94.09 a
barrel, trimming steeper losses from earlier in the day. The S&P
500, which capped a seventh weekly gain Nov. 22, dropped 0.1
percent by 4:40 p.m. in  New York  as  sub-indexes  of oil and gas
stocks slumped more than 2.5 percent. The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) 
closed 0.1 percent higher after topping 4,000 for the first time
since 2000. Gold pared declines after touching a four-month low.
 Japan ’s currency slid 0.4 percent to 101.65 per dollar.  Iran agreed yesterday to curtail nuclear activities in
return for the easing of some sanctions on oil, auto parts, gold
and precious metals, an accord that broke a decade-long
diplomatic deadlock. The number of contracts Americans signed to
buy previously owned homes unexpectedly fell in October for a
fifth consecutive month amid higher borrowing costs that are
denting the real-estate recovery.  “One of the rogue nations of the world seems to want to
participation in a rational dialogue about the nuclear
situation,” Warren Koontz, co-manager of Loomis Sayles Value
Fund based in  Boston , said in a phone interview. Loomis Sayles &
Co. manages about $191 billion. “Do I think that’s going to
have an overall, long-term impact on the economy? Probably not,
but at least it alleviates the fear if that, in effect, can
occur.”  WTI crude futures dropped as much as 1.9 percent before
paring losses.  Brent crude  for January settlement slid 5 cents
to $111 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  Exchange
after tumbling as much as 2.7 percent.  Iran Accord  In return for Iran limiting its nuclear program, the
interim agreement provides for the release of $4.2 billion in
frozen oil assets and will let Iran continue exporting oil at
current levels, rather than forcing continued reductions by
buyers, as would be required under current law, according to a
White House statement.  “Sanctions have been hitting Iran oil dramatically,”  Henk Potts , who helps oversee about $310 billion as a strategist at
Barclays Wealth & Investment Management in  London , said by phone
today. “There is hope that in the long term the supply dynamics
will improve. High commodity prices are one of the key costs to
businesses and consumers so a decline in oil equates to
lightening up the tax burden.”  Energy Stocks  Energy shares had the largest decline among  10 broader
groups  in the S&P 500, losing 0.8 percent. Schlumberger Ltd. and
Noble Corp. declined more than 3 percent, pacing losses. Delta
Air Lines Inc. jumped 2 percent, leading a rally in airlines
amid the decline in crude. Alcoa Inc. climbed 3.8 percent and
Caterpillar Inc. rose 1.8 percent after analysts recommended
buying the shares.  The  S&P 500  has  rallied  26 percent this year as the Fed
continued its stimulus program of $85 billion a month in bond
buying to stimulate economic growth. The gauge is challenging
2003 for the best annual performance for equities since 1998.  The index is trading for about 17 times member companies’
reported earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
While the valuation reached the highest level since May 2010,
it’s still below multiples reached at the market’s two previous
peaks, when the ratio reached 17.5 in October 2007 and 31 in
March 2000, the data show.  “The market is not necessarily over-extended, but probably
moderately rich,” Cam Albright, director of  asset allocation  at
the investment advisory unit of Wilmington Trust, said in a
phone interview from Wilmington. The firm oversees about $79
billion. “It’s probably difficult to envision this market
getting a lot more upside unless it has this continued success
on earnings and economic growth.”  U.S. Rally  The S&P 500 rose for a seventh straight week last week, its
longest stretch of gains since February, as reports showed
retail sales exceeded economists’ estimates and fewer Americans
than expected filed for jobless benefits.  Four out of five investors expect the Fed to put off a
decision to begin reducing monetary stimulus until March 2014 or
later, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors,
traders and analysts who are subscribers. Just 5 percent are
looking for a move at the central bank’s Dec. 17-18 meeting, the
Nov. 19 poll showed.  A gauge of pending home sales decreased 0.6 percent after a
4.6 percent drop in September, the National Association of
Realtors said today in  Washington . The median projection in a
Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 1 percent gain in
the index from the month before.  ‘Tapered Off’  “The real strong rebound in housing that we saw between
2011 and the first quarter of this year has tapered off now,”
Charlie Smith, chief investment officer of Pittsburgh-based Fort
Pitt Capital Group Inc., said in a phone interview. His firm
oversees $1.5 billion. “The question people have is - can the
uptrend in housing be sustained by what classically has been
growth in income and therefore the ability to get loans?”  Gold futures trimmed losses after declining as much as 1.5
percent to $1,226.40 an ounce, the lowest level since July 8.
Trading was 52 percent above the average for the past 100 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Gold has tumbled 26 percent
in 2013 after a 12-year rally.  The yen slid as much as 0.7 percent to 101.92 per dollar
and reached a four-year low of 137.99 per euro as demand for the
safety of Japan’s currency waned.  Euro, Krone  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3514, extending
declines after European Central Bank Governing Council member
Ardo Hansson said the bank stands ready to cut borrowing costs
further and is technically prepared to make its deposit rate
negative.  The Norwegian krone slid 0.6 percent to 6.1008 per dollar
and the Canadian dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0547 per
 U.S. dollar  as currencies of oil-producing nations declined. The
ruble lost 0.5 percent versus the greenback in Moscow.  German  government bonds  rose, pushing 10-year yields down
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.72 percent.
Spain’s 10-year yield climbed five basis points to 4.15 percent.  Rates on U.S. 10-year notes fell one basis point to 2.74
percent. The Treasury’s sale of $32 billion of two-year notes
drew above-average demand on speculation that the Fed’s efforts
to hold down short-term yields will support the debt.  “The market is increasingly trusting the Fed,” said
Michael Lorizio, senior trader at Manulife Asset Management in
Boston. “They want to see significant sustainable improvement
before they even think of moving from the zero interest-rate
policy.”  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
fell, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies decreasing 1.5 basis
point to 78 basis points, the lowest since April 2010. The
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on 50 high-yield
companies declined to 322, the lowest since October 2007.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.4 percent.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest airline,  advanced  1.9 percent.
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the second-largest in the region,
increased 1.8 percent. Thomas Cook Group Plc rose 2.2 percent.
Continental AG, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, gained
2.2 percent. Valeo SA,  France ’s second-biggest maker of car
parts, added 2.2 percent.  Emerging Markets  PSA Peugeot Citroen gained 5.1 percent after people
familiar with the matter said its chief executive officer plans
to step down next year. Europe’s second-largest carmaker said
after the market closed that it hired former Renault SA
executive  Carlos Tavares  to lead the French manufacturer out of
a six-year slump in European demand. He will replace Philippe
Varin, the current CEO, in 2014.  Peugeot may also benefit from the Iran accord as the
country was its  biggest market  after France prior to the trade
sanctions.  Fresenius Medical Care AG climbed 7 percent after U.S.
regulators scrapped a plan to cut Medicare payments next year.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose a second day, adding
0.1 percent. Benchmark gauges in India and Turkey climbed more
than 1.1 percent while Brazil’s Ibovespa slid 1 percent. The
Indian rupee strengthened 0.6 percent against the dollar.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index slipped 0.5 percent, led by
energy producers, after an explosion at a China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. pipeline and the drop in crude. China Petroleum,
also known as Sinopec, slumped 4 percent in Shanghai, the most
in five months.  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 0.5 percent and the baht slid 0.7
percent to a 10-week low. Anti-government protests spread to
military bases, government offices and television stations today
after more than 100,000 people joined rallies yesterday against
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  