-- Israel’s Netanyahu Says Iran Nuclear Deal a ‘Historic Mistake’
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-11-24T10:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/israel-s-netanyahu-says-iran-nuclear-deal-a-historic-mistake-.html
 Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  condemned the agreement between world powers and  Iran 
as a ‘historic mistake’ that doesn’t bind his country.  Israel  has “the right and obligation” to defend itself
and won’t allow Iran to develop the capability to build atomic
weapons, Netanyahu said today at a cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem .  “What was achieved last night in Geneva is not historic;
it is a historic mistake. Today, the world has become a much
more dangerous place,” he said in comments broadcast on Israel
Radio. “Israel is not bound by this agreement.”  Diplomats said they had a deal early today, the fifth day
of meetings in Geneva. The first accord since the Iranian
nuclear program came under international scrutiny in 2003 eases
sanctions on Iran in exchange for concessions on its atomic
work.  Israel’s rejection of the agreement puts it at odds with
its closest ally, the U.S., which led the efforts to reach a
deal with Iran. An administration official said President  Barack Obama  would call Netanyahu today to discuss the accord.  The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  had priced in a deal with
Iran, and was following advances in global markets, traders
said. At 11:06 a.m. in  Tel Aviv , it was up 0.6 percent at
1,353.46 points.  Sought More  Israel wanted world powers to oblige Iran to stop enriching
uranium and dismantle an unfinished heavy water reactor at Arak
that could eventually produce plutonium, materials that could be
used to produce weapons. The Geneva agreement limits  uranium
enrichment  under close monitoring and halts any further
development of the Arak reactor.  “This deal will create a new arms race that includes the
 Middle East ,” Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said. Finance
Minister Yair Lapid said he was concerned that the accord means
“the world is no longer listening to Israel.”  Israeli officials have described  Iran’s nuclear program  as
an existential threat, saying all options are on the table to
stop it, including a military strike.  “The Iranian regime is committed to Israel’s destruction,
and Israel has the right to defend itself, by itself,”
Netanyahu said to his cabinet. “Israel won’t let Iran develop
military nuclear capability.”  Iran says its program is intended for peaceful purposes.  ‘Need for Action’  Israeli Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said yesterday
that any deal Israel perceived as bad would increase the chances
it would consider military force against Iran.  “A bad deal definitely increases the need for action,”
Bennett said on Channel Two television. “If the deal gives Iran
the ability to achieve a bomb within six weeks, we won’t be able
to sit idly by.”  Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based Meitav
DS Investment House Ltd., said the agreement reduced risks.  “The deal reduces the risk of military action on Iran by
the West or Israel,” he said by phone. “As a result, we are
likely to see Israel’s country risk decline.”  Eldad Pardo, a lecturer on Iranian affairs at The  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem , said Israel opposes the agreement
because its interim nature recalls the 1993 Oslo Accords with
the Palestinians, which never ripened into a final peace deal.  “If you reach very quick agreements on what is easy and
leave the difficult issues to some future, it may take years,”
he said.  Now with Iran, “there is a kind of temporary agreement
that will lead to another temporary agreement,” he said. “This
isn’t a first step within an agreed-upon structure of where we
are heading.” 