-- Israel Stocks Extend Rally as Traders Weigh Iran; Saudi Gains
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-24T15:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/israel-stocks-extend-rally-as-traders-weigh-iran-accord-rates.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index
advanced for a seventh day, tracking gains in U.S. shares last
week, as investors weighed lower borrowing costs and  Iran ’s
nuclear accord with world powers. Saudi shares rose.  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  increased as much as 0.7 percent to
1,354.53, the highest intraday level on record. The index, which
closed at a record on Nov. 21, closed up 0.5 percent at 1,352.96
in  Tel Aviv .  Bank Leumi  Le-Israel Ltd. climbed to the highest in
more than two years while  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  advanced 2.2
percent.   Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index advanced 0.6
percent.  U.S. stocks rose for a seventh week, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to the longest stretch of gains in almost
three years, as improved data on employment and retail sales
offset concern that economic stimulus will be cut. The Bank of
Israel, which will decide monetary policy, has reduced the key
interest rate to 1 percent from 3.25 percent since 2011 to spur
the export-driven economy.  “The market is rising on momentum fueled by what’s
happening in the world and low local  interest rates ,” Idan Azoulay, managing director at Tel Aviv-based Epsilon
Investments, which manages the equivalent of about $2 billion,
said by phone. “Iran is not a factor in trading today.”  ‘Historic Mistake’  Iran and world powers struck an accord today that broke a
decade-long diplomatic stalemate, setting limits on the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program in exchange for relief from
sanctions. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told the
cabinet that the deal is a “historic mistake.”  “Everyone was expecting an agreement with Iran,” Steven Shein, a trader at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
said today by phone. “Further impact over the Iran deal will
play out over coming weeks.”  Israel’s benchmark stock index has risen 14 percent this
year  compared  with a 21 percent gain in the MSCI World Index and
a 27 percent advance in the  S&P 500 Index . Bank Leumi, the
country’s second-largest lender by assets, increased 2.2 percent
to 14.24 shekels, the highest level since August 2011. Cellcom
is the best performing stock on the gauge this year.  Twenty of 23 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg  expect the  Bank
of Israel  to hold the rate at 1 percent. The yield on the
government’s 4.25 percent benchmark bond due 2023 fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.56 percent.  Saudi Gains  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark climbed the most since Nov. 17 to
8,388.17 as Saudi Basic Industries Corp., the world’s second-biggest chemicals maker, rose 1.2 percent. The Bloomberg GCC 200
Index of Gulf shares, Kuwait’s gauge and Qatar’s advanced 0.4
percent.  “The Iran deal is very good as it will benefit the GCC
economies in the long term,” Tariq Qaqish, who oversees about
500 million dirhams ($136 million) as head of asset management
at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC, said by phone today. “It
will enhance the trade between the Gulf and Iran.”  The  Strait of Hormuz , the waterway through which about 20
percent of the world’s oil is shipped, separates Iran from six-member Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including Saudi
Arabia. The agreement is the first to be reached since Iran’s
atomic energy work came under international scrutiny in 2003.
The country’s automotive and petrochemical industries will
benefit from the eased sanctions.  Iran Rial  The accord comes less than six months after Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani won a surprise first-round election,
campaigning on pledges to resolve the nuclear dispute. He
inherited an economy in recession and an inflation rate that was
40 percent last month.  The rial appreciated 2.3 percent since yesterday to 29,300
a dollar this afternoon in Tehran compared with about 30,000
yesterday, according to prices provided by five street traders
in the Iranian currency black market.  The currency lost more than half its value in the year
before Rouhani’s election in June, due in part to sanctions
denying Iran access to the world financial system.  The two sides now aim to conclude a comprehensive accord
within six months. Western nations have accused Iran of
harboring nuclear-weapons ambitions, a charge it denies. The
U.S. and Israel have said they are willing to use force if
needed to prevent that from happening.  Dubai’s benchmark index, up 77 percent this year, lost 0.5
percent, while  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index declined 0.3
percent. Bahrain’s measure dropped 0.3 percent and Oman’s MSM30
fell 0.1 percent.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 Index slipped 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  