-- Israel Says Iran Deal Falls Short
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-11-24T08:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/israel-says-iran-deal-falls-short-of-removing-weapons-potential.html
The “bad deal” reached between
world powers and  Iran  falls short of removing the Islamic
Republic’s potential for producing nuclear weapons, an official
in Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office said by
text message today.  “The agreement makes it possible for Iran to continue
enriching uranium, permits Iran to keep centrifuges that would
allow it to create fissile material for nuclear weapons,” the
official said, declining to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record. Economic pressure from
sanctions could have led to a “better deal,” he said.  An administration official said President  Barack Obama 
would call Netanyahu today to discuss the accord. In discussing
the agreement earlier, Obama had said he could understand why
Israel would be skeptical of Iran’s intentions, according to
comments broadcast on  Army Radio .  The agreement was announced by diplomats early today, the
fifth day of meetings in Geneva. It’s the first accord reached
since  Iran’s nuclear program  came under international scrutiny
in 2003.  The deal failed to call for the full dismantling of the
heavy water reactor at Arak, the Israeli government official
said in the text message. Iran agreed to not commission the Arak
reactor, which could produce plutonium if it becomes
operational.  Arms Race  “This deal will create a new arms race that includes the
 Middle East ,” Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said. Finance
Minister Yair Lapid said he was concerned that the deal means
that “the world is no longer listening to Israel.”  Israeli officials have described Iran’s nuclear program as
an existential threat, saying “all options are on the table”
to stop it, including a military strike. Iran says its program
is intended for peaceful purposes.  “If five years from now a nuclear suitcase explodes in
 Madrid  and  New York , it will be because of the agreement signed
this morning,” Israeli Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said in
an e-mail today. “It is important that the world know Israel is
not committed to this agreement that threatens its existence.”  Bennett said yesterday that any deal Israel perceived as
bad would increase the chances the government would consider a
military strike to prevent Iran from achieving nuclear weapons.  ‘Need for Action’  “A bad deal definitely increases the need for action,”
Bennett said on Channel Two television. “If the deal gives Iran
the ability to achieve a bomb within six weeks, we won’t be able
to sit idly by.”  Eldad Pardo, an Iran expert at The  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem , said Israel so adamantly opposes the deal because its
interim nature reminds it of the 1993 Oslo Accords with the
Palestinians, which never ripened into a final peace deal.  “If you reach very quick agreements on what is easy and
leave the difficult issues to some future, it may take years,”
he said.  Now with Iran, “there is a kind of temporary agreement
that will lead to another temporary agreement,” he said. “This
isn’t a first step within an agreed-upon structure of where we
are heading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  