-- Norway Poised to Relax Rules to Fight House Price Deflation
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-25T16:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/norway-poised-to-relax-bank-rules-to-fight-house-price-deflation.html
Norway  is moving closer to easing
mortgage lending standards as the nation’s deflating property
market prompts concern among lawmakers that existing regulations
are too tight.  Real estate prices, which have doubled over the past decade
and touched a record high this year, are now  dropping  faster
than the central bank had predicted. The Conservative-led
government, which won power in September, says it’s now looking
into raising the amount  banks  can lend to borrowers to 90
percent of a property’s value, from 85 percent previously, in an
effort to support first-time buyers.  “Norwegian banks are already in a good position,” Hans
Olav Syversen, the head of the parliamentary finance committee
in Oslo and a member of the Christian Democrat party that the
government relies on to rule, said in a Nov. 21 interview.
“We’re asking for a more flexible rule. A 10 percent down-payment should be enough if banks take into account individuals
and their own ability to pay their debts.”  Norway’s housing market, which Nobel laureate  Robert Shiller  already in 2012 said was in a bubble, has been inflated
by a period of record-low  interest rates  that fueled a borrowing
spree in Scandinavia’s richest nation and left Norwegians more
indebted than ever before. Households now owe about twice their
disposable incomes to their creditors, a level the central bank
and the financial regulator have warned is unsustainable.  The krone slid 0.7 percent to 8.2748 per euro as of 5:13
p.m. in Oslo. The two-year yield fell two basis points to 1.50
percent.  Hard Landing  Yet recent real estate data show that house price gains
have reached a tipping point.  House prices  slid a seasonally
adjusted 1.5 percent in October from a month earlier, dropping
for a second month, according to data from the Norwegian Real
Estate Agents Association.   Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic Lender, forecast
earlier this month that house prices will fall as much as 20
percent over the next two years, forcing the central bank to cut
its main rate twice next year, from the current 1.5 percent.  “It’s a rather  hard landing ,” said  Erik Bruce , senior
economist at Nordea.  Yet economists are unsure what effect easing mortgage
lending standards will have at this point in the cycle.  It “could damp the downward correction,” Bruce said.
“But I’m not sure this is a wise thing to do, although the
market can handle an easing of lending standards.”  Seeking Flexibility  Norway, like  Sweden , has imposed core  capital requirements 
on its banks that exceed those set by European and international
regulators. Lenders in Scandinavia’s richest economy need to
hold 10 percent capital of their risk-weighted assets by July
next year, compared with 9 percent. The  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  sets a 7 percent minimum, due to be enforced
from 2019.  Finance Minister Siv Jensen has asked the Financial
Supervisory Authority to evaluate the effects on banks and
homeowners of guidelines in place since 2011 that limit mortgage
lending to 85 percent of a home’s value.  “There’s an overall agreement that we need to have good
regulations to take care of the housing market,” Jensen said in
a Nov. 22 interview. “What I have done is sent a letter to the
FSA to make this a little bit more flexible.”  Before the September election, the Conservative-led
coalition had promised to ease mortgage standards. The new
government, led by Prime Minister Erna Solberg, will also give
households tax breaks to encourage them to save more and reduce
indebtedness.  Cutting Forecast  Nordea isn’t the only bank predicting a steep house price
decline in Norway. SEB AB forecasts a drop of as much as a 15
percent in  home prices  by 2015 from their peak. Analysts at  DNB
ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, are revising down their forecast for
the housing market. The bank has so far estimated prices will
decline 2.5 percent in each of the next two years.  While DNB still sees a “relatively soft landing,” easing
lending requirements “would in isolation mean a stronger
housing market,” said Kjersti Haugland, an analyst at the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  