-- London Luxury Homebuilding Accelerates Even as Price Gains Slow
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/london-luxury-homebuilding-accelerates-even-as-price-gains-slow.html
Luxury-home  developers  plan to build
more than 20,000 properties in  London  over the next decade,
ramping up the pace of construction even as price gains slow,
consulting firm EC Harris LLP said.  The 10-year development pipeline stood at 15,000 a year
earlier, EC Harris said today in a statement. There’s been a 55
percent increase in the number of homes planned for the lower
end of the luxury market, mainly on the edges of neighborhoods
like Mayfair and Knightsbridge.  South Asian buyers account for two-thirds of new London
homes sold before completion, according to  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND) , the largest U.K. real estate investment trust. There is a
risk that those investors will grow weary of repeated sales
exhibitions promoting London property, Mark Farmer, head of
residential at EC Harris, said in the report.  “Pre-sales are happening in a much more crowded market and
there are increasing challenges for developers and investors
which are resulting from this,” Farmer said. “We are seeing a
critical juncture in the market, especially at the lower end of
the prime range where it can no longer be a given that you
should spend more to make more,” he added.  Luxury-home values in central London rose 6.8 percent in
October from a year earlier, the slowest in about four years,
according to London-based broker Knight Frank LLP.  Luxury Oversupply  Developers now expect to construct London homes worth more
than 50 billion pounds ($81 billion) over the decade, EC Harris
said. Oversupply is unlikely in the luxury market because
construction rarely happens if companies don’t achieve their
pre-sales targets. However, profit margins may be squeezed by
rising building costs, the firm said.  EC Harris, based in London, defines luxury homes as those
that will sell for 1,250 pounds a square foot or more. That’s up
from 1,100 pounds last year.  Wealthy prospective buyers may be deterred by talk of
higher taxes, Farmer wrote in the report. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering a capital-gains tax on
the second homes of foreign owners of U.K. property,  Sky News 
reported Oct. 31.  “This issue is fast becoming the biggest cloud gathering
on the horizon of London prime residential,” Farmer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  