-- Hernandez Has Early Lead Over Castro in Honduran Vote
-- B y   I s a b e l l a   C o t a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-11-25T06:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/honduras-voters-choose-president-as-drug-violence-crimps-growth.html
Juan Orlando Hernandez, a lawyer and
former head of Congress, is leading the presidential election in
Honduras over the wife of ousted former President  Manuel Zelaya ,
with both candidates claiming victory.  With 54 percent of precincts reporting, the ruling  National
Party ’s Hernandez had about 34 percent of the votes cast in
yesterday’s election, compared with 29 percent for Xiomara
Castro, the country’s  electoral tribunal  said last night in its
final update of the evening. There is no second round vote in
Honduras, so whoever gets the most votes wins. The head of the
European Union’s observer mission said voting was “peaceful and
transparent” amid record turnout.  During the campaign, Hernandez and Castro vowed to address
crime fueled by drug gangs that have made Honduras the most
violent nation in the world, according to the  United Nations .
Castro, whose husband was forced out of the country at gunpoint
in 2009, was also seeking to break a century-long hold on the
presidential palace by the country’s two traditional parties.
Hernandez, 45, said people wanted to move on from the coup.  “The Honduran people voted to leave the 2009 crisis, the
worst Honduras has ever had, behind,” Hernandez told supporters
in the capital, Tegucigalpa, yesterday. He vowed to use the
military to “regain peace and calm” in the country.  More results will be available today, the electoral
tribunal said, without giving further details.  Investor Bets  Investors wary of Zelaya’s former alliance with late
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  have fueled a rally in Honduran
bonds since September, when polls started showing Hernandez
gaining on Castro, who led earlier this year.  Honduras’s dollar bonds have returned 2.5 percent this
month, compared with a 2.9 percent decline in Latin American
debt over the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBIG index.  Before the partial official results were announced, Castro
claimed a “decisive and irreversible” victory at a rally with
supporters, saying she had 29 percent of the vote. During the
campaign, she criticized President Porfirio Lobo’s efforts to
deploy more military police to the streets to curtail violence,
saying escalating crime in the country of 8.3 million people
showed that the government’s policies were ineffective.  Bordered by  Nicaragua , El Salvador and  Guatemala , Honduras
has a murder rate of more than 80 per 100,000 inhabitants, the
highest in the world, according to the UN. The U.S. State
Department estimated that last year about  90 percent  of all
cocaine smuggling flights departing  South America  for the U.S.
first land in Honduras, where illegal airstrips abound in poorly
patrolled parts of the country.  Report of Violence  Five people were killed near a polling site in the eastern
La Mosquitia region yesterday before voting began, according to
newspaper El Heraldo.  The government said it would deploy 14,000 soldiers and
police to safeguard the election, while about 800 international
observers were monitoring the vote. Lobo was barred from seeking
re-election.  Economic growth in the $19 billion economy has slowed to an
average 3.2 percent per year since the 2009 coup, compared with
a 5.7 percent average in the four years before, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The polarization in the country since the coup means “it’s
going to be difficult for whoever wins to govern,” said Geoff Thale, director of the Washington Office on  Latin America .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabella Cota in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 icota@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  