-- Orange Said to Sell Dominican Republic Unit to Altice
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-25T08:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/orange-said-to-sell-dominican-republic-unit-to-altice.html
Orange SA (ORA) ,  France ’s biggest phone
company, is nearing an agreement to sell its Dominican Republic
unit to Altice, a cable and telecommunications investor,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  An accord could be announced as soon as this week, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Orange Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said on
Nov. 22 it’s near selling the unit for “a price well above 1
billion euros” ($1.35 billion), without disclosing the buyer.  Orange put its Dominican Republic business up for sale this
year and has said it attracted multiple bids. Altice, which was
founded by telecommunications entrepreneur Patrick Drahi and is
based in  Luxembourg ,  last month  agreed to purchase Tricom SA and
Global Interlink Ltd. to expand its television, Internet and
telephone packages -- known as triple play -- and wireless
business in the Caribbean.  European telecommunications companies are disposing of
peripheral assets as they increase investments in high-speed
mobile networks in their largest markets and cut debt. Last
week, Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to sell a 70 percent stake in
its Scout24 Holding digital-classifieds business.  A deal has not been finalized and details are still being
negotiated, the people said.  A press official at Paris-based Orange declined to comment.
An Altice representative didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  Altice Investments  Orange  advanced  0.8 percent to 9.60 euros at 9:30 a.m. in
Paris. The former French phone monopoly’s stock has rebounded
since reaching a decade low in early July, partly reflecting
Richard’s efforts to reduce expenses.  Sales and earnings at Orange are falling as competition
with rivals including discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  weighs on prices. The
company, which has diversified into countries from  Poland  to
 Egypt , is also trying to keep a lid on debt.  The Dominican unit’s sales gained 6.1 percent in the first
nine months of this year to 329 million euros. The division had
3.3 million mobile customers at the end of September.  Altice owns and operates cable, mobile, Internet and data-center companies in places including  Israel ,  Belgium , the
Indian Ocean region, Portugal and Switzerland, according to its
 website . It’s the biggest shareholder in France’s largest cable
operator Numericable SAS, which held an initial public offering
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  