-- Most Read on Bloomberg: McKinsey, Currency Dealers, Fed Minutes
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-24T05:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/most-read-on-bloomberg-mckinsey-currency-dealers-fed-minutes.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. McKinsey Says Investment Banks Can Merge Stock, Bond Trading  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- The world’s largest investment banks
should enact changes including “ruthless prioritization” of
clients and combining fixed-income and equity trading to avoid a
sharp decline in profitability, according to McKinsey & Co.  2. Currency Dealers Said to Enlist Day Traders for Private Bets  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Currency dealers in London gave
information about client orders to  day traders  who then made
bets on their behalf, sidestepping restrictions on personal
trading, three people with knowledge of the practice said.  3. Fed Taper Likely in Coming Months on Data, Minutes Show  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve officials said they
might reduce their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases “in
coming months” as the economy improves, minutes of their last
meeting show.  4. Paris Gunman Sought as Officials Appeal to Public for
Assistance  Nov. 19 (Bloomberg) -- French authorities appealed to the
public for help in their manhunt for the suspected perpetrator
of three shootings and a carjacking in Paris.  5. Day JFK Died We Traded Through Tears as NYSE Shut After
Selloff  Nov. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Fifty years ago today, on the floor
of the  New York  Stock Exchange, Michael Robbins heard a murmur.
It started at the booth of a Texas firm, Eppler, Guerin & Turner
Inc., and got louder, until the 30-year-old trader realized what
it was: the sound of a selloff.  6. Fed Ponders How to Temper Tapering Avoiding Sudden Rate
Increase  Nov. 19 (Bloomberg) -- One of  Janet Yellen ’s first
challenges as Federal Reserve chairman will be figuring out how
to cushion against a lurch in  interest rates  when she pares the
pace of the central bank’s bond buying.  7. Freshman Force-Fed Cat Food Shows Frats Thwart Hazing
Warnings  Nov. 18 (Bloomberg) -- In 2011, a fraternity-sponsored team
of experts alerted  Arizona  State University to “widespread”
hazing and “high-risk” drinking at its Greek houses. The
warning didn’t save Jack Culolias.  8. Gold Drops With Silver, Oil as Dow Average Fails to Hold
16,000  Nov. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Gold and silver sank with oil, while
the dollar weakened against most peers and Treasuries rose as
investors dissected speeches from Federal Reserve officials to
gauge the outlook for stimulus. Most U.S. stocks fell after the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  exceeded 16,000 for the first time.  9. ECB Said to Consider Mini Deposit-Rate Cut If Easing Needed  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- The  European Central Bank  is
considering a smaller-than-normal cut in the deposit rate if
officials decide to take it negative for the first time,
according to two people with knowledge of the debate.  10. Even Billionaires Recoiling at Asking Price for London
Mansions  Nov. 18 (Bloomberg) -- “We’ve had offers of around 25
million pounds, but they aren’t quite high enough,” says Noel
de Keyzer, a veteran broker for Savills Plc, a London-based real
estate agency. We are standing in a surprisingly sunlit
subterranean family room beneath the garden of 29 Brompton
Square in Knightsbridge, on the market for 27.5 million pounds
($44.3 million). Damien Hirst butterfly prints hang on the
earth-tone walls of the recently renovated, fully furnished
1820s house.  COLUMNS  1. Castro Says Oswald Couldn’t Have Shot Kennedy:  Jeffrey
Goldberg   Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Fidel Castro shares at least one
belief with the majority of Americans: He is convinced that the
assassination of President  John F. Kennedy  was not the work of a
lone gunman, but rather the culmination of a broad conspiracy.
According to a recent Gallup poll, 61 percent of Americans
believe Lee Harvey Oswald did not act alone in  Dallas  50 years
ago.  2. ‘Elite Overproduction’ Brings New Era of Disorder: Peter
Turchin  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Complex human societies, including
our own, are fragile. They are held together by an invisible web
of mutual trust and social cooperation. This web can fray
easily, resulting in a wave of political instability, internal
conflict and, sometimes, outright social collapse.  3.  Harry Potter  Takes on ‘Goldman Sachs With Guns’: William
Pesek  Nov. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Hollywood has long fetishized
Japanese gangsters, with their full-body tattoos, missing
pinkies and harems of buxom groupies. Ever since Sydney
Pollack’s “The Yakuza” in 1974, the colorful mafiosi have
provided regular fodder for directors including  Ridley Scott  and
 Quentin Tarantino .  4. Who Pays When India’s Billionaires Don’t Go Bust?:  Pankaj
Mishra   Nov. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Last month, the business empire of
 Eike Batista , once the world’s seventh-richest man and a mascot
of economically resurgent  Brazil , collapsed. The disaster ought
to focus our minds on the perils of credit-fueled economic
growth and highly leveraged corporations not just in Brazil but
also in other BRICS countries.  5. Why Believe What Government Says About JPMorgan?: Jonathan
Weil  Nov. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Leave it to a bunch of politicians
to misrepresent what JPMorgan Chase & Co. admitted as part of a
settlement over the bank’s supposed misrepresentations.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Porsche Macan to Chase Land Rover for Luxury SUV Sales  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- The brand-new Porsche Macan 
sport-utility vehicle is seen undergoing pre-production testing
at the Porsche Research and Development Center in Weissach, 
Germany, in a promotional video from Porsche AG.  2. Freshman’s Death Shows Frats Stymied Hazing Warning  Nov. 18 (Bloomberg) -- A group of college presidents in 
2005 sought to curb binge drinking and hazing at university 
fraternities. The death of a 19-year-old Arizona State 
University freshman illustrates the failure of the initiative.   3. Porsche Macan: The Affordable Family Luxury SUV  Nov. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Pietro Boggia, principal at  Frost &
Sullivan , talks with  Guy Johnson  about Porsche unveiling its new
Macan model.  4. Draghi Says ECB to Reveal Stress-Test Plan by Jan. End  Nov. 22 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President 
 Mario Draghi  speaks at the European Banking Congress in 
Frankfurt about monetary policy, concerns over low interest 
rates and the Single Supervisory Mechanism.  5. Ex-Trader Remembers Tears on the Floor the Day JFK Died
(Video)  Nov. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg News contributor Michael
Robbins talks about the atmosphere on the floor of the New York
Stock exchange on the day President Kennedy was killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  