-- Peugeot Hires Ex-Renault COO Tavares to Lead Automaker
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-25T16:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/peugeot-said-to-seek-senior-manager-for-ceo-succession.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  hired former
 Renault SA (RNO)  executive Carlos Tavares to lead the French
manufacturer out of a six-year slump in European demand that has
sapped the finances of the region’s second-biggest carmaker.  Tavares, 55, will replace Philippe Varin, the 61-year-old
current chief executive officer, in 2014, the Paris-based
manufacturer said in a statement today. Tavares will join the
management board on Jan. 1 and take over as CEO later in the
year, Peugeot said, without specifying the date.  Tavares, who left his position as Renault’s chief operating
officer three months ago, will need to return Peugeot to profit,
stop cash consumption and expand outside Europe. As the third
CEO to lead the automaker in the seven years, he will also be
charged with bringing stability to Peugeot in an industry
where strategic plans take years to unfold.  “He is a highly regarded manager,” said Jose Asumendi, a
London-based automotive analyst at JPMorgan. “After working for
some time with Varin to understand the dynamics of the group, he
would be an excellent candidate to lead the transformation.”  Peugeot  gained  52 cents, or 5.1 percent, to 10.75 euros at
the close of trading today in Paris. The stock has advanced 96
percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at 3.81 billion
euros ($5.14 billion).  Tavares left Renault at the end of August, two weeks after
Bloomberg published an interview with him saying he’d like
to run another automaker because CEO Carlos Ghosn, 59, planned
to stay for the foreseeable future.  Renault Experience  Tavares spent more than three decades at Renault and
affiliate  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , rising through the ranks to
eventually take over as Ghosn’s second-in-command at the French
automaker. Tavares, who races cars himself, was working to add a
sports-car brand and luxury marque at the Renault group.  Before departing, Varin plans to focus on strategic
discussions with potential partners, Peugeot said today.  The automaker is holding talks to expand an existing
collaboration with  Dongfeng Motor (489)  Corp. to lower Peugeot’s
reliance on Europe, where it sells more than 50 percent of its
vehicles. Peugeot has proposed a capital increase of at least 3
billion euros, in which Dongfeng and the French state would take
equal holdings of about 20 percent, people familiar said last
month.  Smaller Stake  That plan has hit a snag as Dongfeng seeks a smaller stake
than first discussed, people familiar with the matter said last
week. Dongfeng is weighing buying about 10 percent, half the
size of the original proposal, said the people, who asked not to
be identified discussing private talks. The Chinese company is
more interested in expanding an existing industrial venture than
purchasing a stake, they said.  “To get Tavares would be attractive,” Erich Hauser, a
London-based automotive analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group, said in an e-mail. “Firstly, Tavares is a
real ‘car guy.’ Secondly, he spent his career at Renault-Nissan
and perhaps this is being seen as a potential role model for a
Dongfeng-PSA alliance.”  A key challenge for the new chief will be returning the
French manufacturer, which reported a first-half  operating loss 
of 510 million euros in its automotive unit, to profit. The
carmaker is also working to reduce cash consumption by 50
percent this year to 1.5 billion euros.  Under Tavares, Renault reported unexpected growth in  first-half profit  as labor-cost reductions and higher vehicle prices
more than offset an industrywide slump in European deliveries.
When Tavares oversaw North America for Nissan, 43 percent owned
by Renault, he helped the company earn 209 billion yen ($2.05
billion) in the region in the year ended March 2010, versus a
46.7 billion-yen loss in 2009.  Factory Closing  Peugeot first hired Varin as CEO in 2009, following the
departure of Christian Streiff, and his contract was renewed by
the supervisory board on March 12 for another four years.  Varin has reduced investments, closed a factory on the
outskirts of Paris and moved to eliminate 11,200  French jobs .
The CEO, who had not worked in the auto industry before
joining Peugeot, also cut the management board to four
executives from six to streamline operations.  More recently, he signed a three-year labor agreement with
the company’s unions to reduce overtime pay and freeze salaries
in exchange for investment guarantees and a pledge not to close
any French factories before 2016.  “This regular changing of CEOs and the overall instability
of the management board over the last few years is more proof of
the lack of clarity,” Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities who recommends selling the shares, said today.
“Peugeot is a enormous mammoth that will require time to
evolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  