-- Progressive’s Lewis, Who Championed Cannabis Rights, Dies
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-11-25T14:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/progressive-s-lewis-who-championed-cannabis-rights-dies.html
Progressive Corp. Chairman Peter B. Lewis, the billionaire who turned a company founded by his
father into one of the biggest U.S. auto insurers and later
pushed to legalize marijuana, has died. He was 80.  Lewis died Nov. 23 at his home in Coconut Grove,  Florida ,
after suffering a heart attack, said his philanthropic adviser,
Jennifer Frutchy. Lewis, Progressive’s chief executive officer
for 35 years, built the firm on transparency, reporting results
monthly instead of quarterly. He also made it the first insurer
to publicly compare its rates to those of competitors and ask
for consumer input on pricing, said CEO Glenn Renwick, who was
named today to replace Lewis as chairman.  “Transparency was always something that Peter was very
forthright on,” Renwick, 58, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Even in his own philanthropy, he was never shy to
say what his thinking was.”  Lewis was non-executive chairman of Mayfield Village, Ohio-based Progressive, co-founded by his father  Joe Lewis  in 1937,
and was succeeded by Renwick as CEO in 2000, according to the
firm’s  website . The billionaire was among philanthropists who
joined  Warren Buffett  and Bill and  Melinda Gates ’s initiative to
pledge at least half of their wealth to charity.  Lewis  supported  efforts to give patients in the U.S. access
to marijuana, and used cannabis to relieve pain after the
amputation of his lower leg. He donated more than $2 million to
help pass Initiative 502 last year in Washington state, which
legalized possession and consumption of the weed for recreation
use, said  Alison Holcomb , the campaign director for the  group 
that supported the ballot measure.  ‘Incredibly Grateful’  “We were, of course, incredibly grateful for Mr. Lewis’s
significant contributions that made Initiative 502 possible,”
Holcomb said in a phone interview. “We’re very hopeful that
others will follow in the example that he set.”  Lewis was Progressive’s biggest shareholder, with a stake
valued at about $1.2 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The  Princeton University graduate , who was among the school’s
biggest benefactors, began his career at Progressive in 1955 and
transformed the company into what is now the fourth-biggest U.S.
auto insurer.  The insurer surged more than 90-fold since the end of 1983
in  New York  trading. Progressive gained market share partly by
selling policies online and by phone, and is benefiting as
drivers rely less on insurance agents.  Lewis’s company sought an edge through data, using metrics
such as credit scores to help determine rates. More recently,
the insurer began evaluating motorists’ habits through devices
in their vehicles and said it will profit by licensing the
technology to other companies.  Hardis’s Role  Renwick will remain CEO and president while leading the
board, Progressive said in a statement today. Stephen Hardis,
who has been on the insurer’s board since 1988, was named lead
independent director. Hardis, 78, is the former chairman of
insurance broker Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Buffett, 83, the chairman and CEO of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ,  created  the Giving Pledge with the Gateses in 2010 to
boost philanthropy among the world’s richest people. The effort
has drawn 92 commitments, including from Facebook Inc. founder
 Mark Zuckerberg , former Citigroup Inc. CEO Sanford “Sandy” Weill and Oracle Corp. CEO  Larry Ellison .  Lewis hired Frutchy to keep her husband, Ed Ford, then the
chief actuary, at the company, she said. Frutchy worked for
Lewis for 27 years, sticking with him even after her husband
left the company 20 years ago.  “He was larger than life in personality and demeanor in
every way,” she said. “He was a great person to work with and
learn from.”  Frutchy said Lewis is survived by a brother, Daniel, three
children and five grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  