-- Putin Paves Way for Gazprom Purge as Economy Weakens
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a
-- 2013-11-24T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/putin-bets-on-gazprom-purge-as-slowdown-threatens-legacy.html
Vladimir Putin  wasn’t having a great
day. The Russian president had spent the August morning in a
helicopter over Khabarovsk, near the Chinese border, surveying
flood damage that had left tens of thousands of people homeless.  Then he met with senior advisers who were on the trip, for
a briefing on economic issues. They drew parallels to another
brewing storm: The energy-export model Putin had relied on to
restore  Russia ’s economic strength had run its course, he was
told, said two officials on the trip. The state-dominated
economy needed a shock, and, to prevent stagnation as growth
slowed, a reset. Something had to be done.  The solution Putin chose will ripple through the entire
Russian economy starting next year: He elected to freeze prices
at such state companies as  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and OAO Russian 
Railways. The plan is to set off a  chain reaction  that will 
lead to increased efficiency, more stable costs for companies and
tamer inflation.  It came with a hitch. That option, one adviser briefing him
said, also would trigger lots of yelling from some of his
closest allies. After a moment of reflection, Putin shrugged off
the concern. If anyone yelled, so be it, he told the officials.
They asked not to be identified as the Aug. 29 talks were
private.  Today, with the freezes set for next year, Putin, 61, is
signaling he no longer will tolerate surging costs and bloated
investment programs at Russia’s largest monopolies. The annual
price jumps those companies were allowed to charge for more
than a decade will be suspended. Forced to act like businesses,
the state-run monopolies probably will lay off workers, cut 
costs and shrink to become a smaller share of the economy, said
the senior official who briefed Putin.  ‘Tough Decision’  They also will lose money. With no increases for 2014 and
future raises capped by inflation, the three largest monopolies,
which employ 1.85 million people, or 2.6 percent of the
workforce, stand to  lose  878 billion rubles ($27 billion) in
anticipated revenue over the next three years, according to
Economy Ministry projections.  “It was a tough decision for all,”  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s
spokesman, said by phone Nov. 15. “Executives always make
convincing arguments, but once a decision is made, Putin can’t
be pressured.”  The pressure he does face comes from a weakening economy.
Third-quarter  growth  of 1.2 percent was the same as in the
second quarter, which in turn was the sixth straight quarter of
decline. Those two quarters marked the worst performance of
Putin’s nine years in the Kremlin. Putin can’t depend on  oil
prices , which rose more than fourfold through his first two
terms, to drive growth any more, Deputy Finance Minister Alexey Moiseev said in an Oct. 1 interview in Moscow.  Crude Prices  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half the world’s
oil, has fallen 3 percent this year after gaining 43 percent in
the previous three years. That also compares with an 87 percent
increase in the commodity during Putin’s first stint as
president, from 2000 to 2008.  The Economy Ministry expects the freeze, announced on Sept.
19, to boost profit at the biggest industrial enterprises by 2.5
percent to 3 percent next year alone as budgeted cost increases
disappear. Oil producers should benefit the most, led by state-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , as well as miners and steelmakers, which should
spend 47 billion rubles less in total than planned in 2014 on
power and cargo bills, the ministry said.  Other predicted consequences: a hold on  inflation , which is
running ahead of the central bank’s target and ranks among the
biggest concerns for Russians, according to a poll published
Sept. 18 by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of
 Public Opinion . And productivity should rise as the monopolies
are forced to get rid of unnecessary workers, said one of the
senior officials.  Hard Fact  “That’s a hard fact that’s been recognized and the
government is pushing reforms on a broad front,” Moiseev said.
“It’s called the middle-income trap, when you’re not  China 
anymore but you’re still not  Germany . You either let the
imbalances keep growing, devalue the ruble and fall lower, or
you pull yourself together and jump higher.”  Sergei Kupriyanov , Gazprom’s spokesman, said the price cap
on industrial users will affect the gas company’s investment
program “one way or another,” declining to elaborate.  Squeezing monopolies isn’t a new idea. Then-President  Boris Yeltsin  resorted to freezing their prices after the sovereign
debt default in 1998 to support cash-strapped companies. The
hold-down worked then, adding about 1.5 percent to gross
domestic product in 1999 as companies put their cash to more
productive use, said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of macroeconomic
research at  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s largest lender.  Rising Prices  Consumer price growth unexpectedly increased to 6.3 percent
in October, exceeding the central bank’s target of 5 percent to
6 percent for a 14th month. The rate reached 127 percent in July
1999, half a year before Putin became acting president. It was
3.6 percent in April and May 2012.  “The government didn’t worry about monopolies’ exorbitant
expenses and accelerating inflation as long as the economy was
booming,” Tsepliaeva said. “Things have changed. Now high
price increases act as a deterrent to competition and limit
authorities’ ability to diversify the economy.”  Alexey Kudrin, who ran the  Finance Ministry  for 11 years
under Putin, says now what’s he’s been saying since he first
became a minister in 2000: the government’s role in business is
just too big.  “The state-controlled sector of the economy needs to be
drastically reduced and fair competition bolstered,” Kudrin,
who was named chairman of state-run Sberbank’s strategy
committee in September, said in an interview. “State-run
corporations are ineffective.”  More Joblessness?  Putin’s pressing on the monopolies will probably lead to a
short-term jump in  unemployment  as companies cull their least
efficient workers -- a necessary shock therapy needed to
stimulate the economy by improving productivity, said one of the
senior officials on the Khabarovsk trip. Putin, whose current
term ends in 2018, is at the beginning of a fresh political
cycle that affords him the chance to gamble on new measures, the
official said.  “It’s clear to everyone that Putin had to make a political
choice amid a difficult economic situation: either continue
feeding companies close to him with high prices or face the
threat of popular discontent over inflation,” said Boris Makarenko of the Center of Political Technologies in Moscow.  Putin, who returned to the presidency last year after four
years as premier, has identified increasing productivity as a
key growth driver in his third term. His protege, Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev , expanded upon that in an article he published
in Vedomosti on Sept. 27.  Nothing Simple  In “The Time of Simple Solutions Is Gone,” Medvedev, who
began his four-year presidency just months before the financial
crisis erupted in 2008, said the former communist country must
abandon its policy of preserving jobs at any cost. Russia needs
to take advantage of its relatively low jobless rate, which has
held below 6 percent for 1 1/2 years, to improve worker mobility
and efficiency, Medvedev said.  The time of more complicated solutions may be gone, too,
said Yaroslav Kuzminov, rector of the  Higher School of Economics 
in Moscow. He also was head of a group that crafted a strategy
plan for Putin’s 2012 election campaign. While Russia needs an
injection of unemployment to improve productivity, a bigger
problem isn’t being addressed: the management of the monopolies
themselves.  “The economy is managed by a bunch of tightly knit elites:
politicians, lawmakers, law-enforcement agencies and
corporations,” Kuzminov said in an interview in Moscow.
“Managers of different ranks treat state companies as their own
feudal estates rather than as assets they should run in the
interests of the country.”  Back in Khabarovsk, at a televised meeting with local
officials on how to respond to the worst flooding in more than a
century, Putin recommended a course that could have applied to
the officials and heads of state companies back in Moscow.  “I don’t expect any heroic deeds,” Putin said. “You just
need to do your duty professionally, work hard and be honest.
And then we will achieve the desired result. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  