-- Rouhani Says Nuclear Accord Marks Start of New Iran
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-11-24T12:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/rouhani-says-nuclear-accord-marks-start-of-new-iran.html
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani
praised an agreement with world powers to ease sanctions over
his country’s nuclear program, saying the accord vindicates his
government’s policy of engagement.  Rouhani won election in June with a tone of moderation and
a pledge to seek an easing of the sanctions that have crippled
the economy. A 15-minute phone call between Rouhani and
President  Barack Obama  on Sept. 27 was the first sign of the new
detente and the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter since
before Iran’s Islamic revolution of 1979.  The accord marks “a starting point for a new chapter for
the Iranian nation,” Rouhani said. If the world powers
“fulfill their commitments, Iran will also fulfill its
commitment and act on the basis of the agreement.”  After his televised address, Rouhani turned to embrace a
little girl who was brought up on stage with other relatives of
the nuclear scientists Iran says were killed as part of a
campaign against it.  “We won a deal,” said Davoud, 60, a retired office clerk,
who like many Iranians asked not to be identified by his full
name because of security concerns. “I was awake the whole
night, watching the progress. I’m sure Zarif did the best he
could,” Davoud said, referring to Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif.  ‘Constructive Interaction’  Under the initial deal,  Iran  must improve cooperation with
United Nations monitors, commit to eliminate its stockpile of
uranium enriched to 20 percent levels and halt advanced
centrifuge installation, the White House said in a statement.
Iran also won’t commission its Arak heavy water reactor, which,
if it became operational, could produce plutonium and give the
country a second path to nuclear weapons.  In return, Iran will be able to repatriate $4.2 billion in
frozen assets, the Obama administration said. The accord will
suspend some sanctions on gold, Iran’s automotive industry and
petrochemical exports, potentially worth about $1.5 billion, the
administration said.  “Constructive interaction is the motto of this government
and it can be achieved through trust, the initial steps of which
have been taken,” Rouhani said.  The accord comes less than six months after Rouhani won a
surprise first-round election, campaigning on pledges to resolve
Iran’s nuclear dispute. He inherited an economy in recession and
an inflation rate that was 40 percent last month.  Domestic Resistance  Previous failures to reach an accord had given hardliners
in Iran an opportunity to urge the country’s supreme leader,
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , to prevent negotiators from conceding
too much. Earlier this month, Khamenei posted a message of
support on Twitter for Zarif and his negotiating team, calling
them “sons of the revolution.”  From the outset, Rouhani’s challenge has been to strike a
balance between delivering on his pledges and avoiding the
appearance of a weak leader compromising on Iran’s rights, a
position that would offer ammunition for politicians who oppose
any rapprochement with the U.S.  Earlier this year, Republican Guards chief Major General
Mohammad Ali Jafari criticized Rouhani after his phone call with
Obama. Still, throughout the talks, Rouhani has had the backing
of Khamenei, and devoted part of his speech today to praising
him.  ‘Powerful Country’  Sanctions have pushed oil output to the lowest since 1990
and squeezed the economy, which contracted more than 5 percent
in the fiscal year that ended in March. Iran’s currency, the
rial, lost more than half its value in the year before Rouhani’s
election, due in part to sanctions denying Iran access to the
world financial system. Iran’s economy declined 5.4 percent in
the year ending in March, Rouhani has said.  “If sanctions are removed, our economic situation will be
good again,” said Alireza, 28, who studies architecture in
Tehran.  “If Iran is able to use all its resources again, it
will become an important, powerful country.”  The two sides now aim to conclude a comprehensive accord
within six months. Western nations have accused Iran of
harboring nuclear-weapons ambitions, a charge it denies. The
U.S. and  Israel  have said they are willing to use force if
needed to prevent that from happening.  The rial strengthened to 29,400 per  U.S. dollar  in
unregulated trading at 11:36 a.m. in Tehran today, from 29,980
on Nov. 19, a day before the latest round of nuclear talks
resumed, according to figures compiled by Daily Rates for Gold
Coins & Foreign Currencies, a Facebook page used by traders and
companies in Iran and abroad. The rial has strengthened 23
percent since June 13, the day before Rouhani won the
presidential election.  “The world came to realize that respecting the Iranian
nation will bring about positive results and that threats won’t
bear fruit,” Rouhani said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  