-- Sinopec’s Pipeline Blast May Hurt Reform, Safety Efforts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-24T12:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/sinopec-s-pipeline-blast-may-hurt-reform-safety-efforts.html
An explosion at a  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  oil pipeline and the nation’s deadliest spillage
since at least 2005 may threaten the government’s efforts to
lure investment to state-controlled industries as President Xi
Jinping called for improved industrial safety.  The Nov. 22 accident at the Huangdao district in the
eastern city of Qingdao killed at least 52 people, Xinhua News
Agency reported. Sinopec, as  China  Petroleum is known, said
yesterday it was still investigating the cause of the blast,
which happened after crude oil leaked from a 27-year-old
pipeline into Qingdao’s municipal rainwater pipe network.  Xi, who visited relatives of the dead and injured today,
vowed to boost work safety and increase inspections, China
Central Television reported. China’s drive to build
infrastructure serving its growing cities has often come at the
cost of safety. More than 27,700 people were killed or went
missing at workplaces in the first half of this year, according
to the State Administration of Work Safety.  “The Sinopec pipeline explosion will surely see a
prolonged investigation and a safety review with the short-term
impact for the firm also dependent on how quickly the oil giant
cleans up the leak,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London. “The ever-growing refining capacity and oil
infrastructure in China had certainly seen a rising number of
incidents, and safety standards will be reviewed.”  Reform Efforts  China this month pledged to allow more private investment
in state-controlled industries as part of the biggest package of
reforms since the 1990s. Oil and energy companies will benefit
from the changes as a Communist Party document made clear
statements about moving back to market-driven policies,  Erwin Sanft , the head of China and Hong Kong equity research at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in a Nov. 18 interview.  China uses its big three oil companies, of which  PetroChina (857) 
Co. is the largest, to control domestic fuel prices and secure
energy supplies from overseas to meet the burgeoning needs of an
economy that expanded 7.7 percent last year.  Sinopec has a “super-large” refining and petrochemical
 complex  at Qingdao in Shandong province, according to the
company’s  website . It has a crude distillation capacity of 10
million metric tons a year and produces more than 7 million tons
of gasoline, kerosene and diesel a year. The oil pipeline is 249
kilometers (155 miles) in length.  “Given current information, the result will probably be
reduced refinery runs, impacted imports and continued de-stocking of inventories,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market
strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London . “Qingdao is a
hugely important Chinese oil port.”  Environmental Issue  At least 32 cleaning and fishing vessels and about 10 tons
of dispersant were being used to clean up the leak, which spread
across 3,000 square meters in Jiaozhou Bay and the Yellow Sea,
the Qingdao Municipal People’s Government Information Office
said on its microblog. Most of the crude oil around Jiaozhou Bay
has been cleared, Sinopec said.  All efforts should be directed at searching for survivors,
treating the injured, controlling any combustible source and
closely supervising the surroundings, Premier Li Keqiang said in
a statement on the central government website. State Councilor
Wang Yong was sent by President Xi Jinping to the accident site
to supervise disaster relief efforts, the State Council, or
cabinet, said in a separate statement.  A  photo  on the Sinopec group’s website showed people
clustered together staring at thick, grey plumes of smoke
filling the sky behind tall white buildings. The incident led to
stoppages in electricity and water in nearby areas, with about
18,000 people being evacuated, the Qingdao government said.  Rescue Operation  Sinopec President Li Chunguang and Chairman Fu Chengyuwere
at the location and coordinating rescue efforts, the company
said in its official microblog.  “We are deeply sorry for what has happened in Qingdao and
express our sincere condolences to the victims and their
families,” Sinopec chairman Fu said on the microblog. “We will
do our very best to assist in rescue and post-disaster efforts
and work with government investigators to find out the cause.”  Lv Dapeng, a spokesman for Beijing-based Sinopec, said
today that operations at the Qingdao refinery will have “some
disruption,” with imports being affected. The company was still
investigating the cause of the accident and overall operations
won’t be impacted significantly because there are still stocks
of crude and fuel at the refinery.  Some port operations may also have been affected, Shanghai-based energy consultancy ICIS C1 reported, citing an
unidentified Qingdao port official. All the oil tankers at
Huangdao port had departed from their berths, with port
operations expected to resume within one day at the earliest,
according to C1.  Profit Increase  Shares (600028)  of Sinopec rose 0.6 percent to 5.05  yuan  at the Nov.
22 close in Shanghai, paring this year’s loss to 5.1 percent.
The company reported a profit increase in the third quarter as a
new policy helped it and PetroChina to raise fuel prices,
foreshadowing Premier Li’s plan to reduce state intervention in
the economy.  The pipeline began leaking oil at about 3 a.m. and
emergency crews were dispatched to conduct repairs when the fire
started in Qingdao’s development zone, according to a report
from Xinhua on Nov. 22. Qingdao is home to China’s fourth-largest port and Tsingtao Brewery Co. The city is popular with
travelers seeking a beach vacation and seafood.  Sinopec’s complex in Qingdao also produces liquefied
petroleum gas, polypropylene and styrene with a total output of
more than 2 million tons a year. Refined products are sold in
the north, northeast and southeastern coastal regions of China,
according to the website.  Similar Incidents  The blaze is one of a string of similar accidents as China
struggles to improve workplace safety. In June, a fire at a
poultry plant in the northeastern Chinese province of Jilin
killed 120 people in the nation’s deadliest blaze in 13 years.  A fire at PetroChina’s Dalian oil complex also killed two
people in June, Xinhua reported at the time. The blaze was a
“serious accident” and had a “severely negative impact” on
the group, according to a statement on the website of parent
China National Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  