-- Slovak Who Praised WWII Fascist Leader Wins Election
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-11-24T15:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/slovak-who-praised-wwii-fascist-leader-wins-election.html
A Slovak politician, known for
wearing a Nazi-style uniform and calling Roma “parasites,” was
elected to head one of eight regional governments in the eastern
European country.  Marian Kotleba won 56 percent of the vote in the Banska
Bytrica region, beating incumbent Vladimir Manka, a member of
Prime Minister Robert Fico’s Smer party, according to  results 
posted on the website of the Slovak Statistical Office. Smer
party candidates won in six districts, while the opposition SDKU
retained the post in Bratislava.  Kotleba, 36, has praised Jozef Tiso, president of the
Slovak fascist satellite state during World War II, a regime
that sent tens of thousands of Jews to Nazi concentration camps.
Originally a high school computer-science teacher, Kotleba has
been repeatedly detained by police for supporting fascism and
stirring racial hatred. Charges were later dropped.  The economic  slowdown  in the second-poorest member of the
euro area has helped fuel sentiment against its Roma population,
which comprises about 7 percent of the country. Growth is
projected to be 0.8 percent this year, rising to 2.2 percent in
2014, and the government may need to adopt further austerity
measures to meet European Union deficit targets, the country’s
Fiscal Responsibility Council said this month.  Kotleba, who founded and chairs the Slovakia’s People’s
Party, has called for greater independence from the EU and a
return to a national currency. The People’s Party hasn’t
attracted the 5 percent support necessary needed to get into
parliament, opinion polls show. Kotleba had headed the Slovak
Congregation-National Party, which was dissolved by the Supreme
Court in 2006 for activities violating the constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava, Slovakia at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  