-- Somaliland to Sign Accord With Fourth Company on Oil Exploration
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-11-24T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/somaliland-to-sign-accord-with-fourth-company-on-oil-exploration.html
Somaliland  expects to sign an
agreement with a fourth international energy company this week
to begin exploring for oil in the semi-autonomous region, Energy
Minister Hussein Abdi Dualeh said.  An accord with the Middle East-based company, which Dualeh
declined to identify, has been completed, he said in a phone
interview on Nov. 21 from Somaliland. The other three companies
already operating in the country are London-based  Genel Energy
Plc (GENL) , RAK Gas LLC, owned by the government of Ras al-Khaimah in
the United Arab Emirates, and Oslo-based  DNO International ASA. (DNO)   “All talks are concluded” with the fourth company, Dualeh
said. “It’s just a matter of inking the deal, which hopefully
is going to be this month.”  Somaliland, situated on the tip of the Horn of  Africa ,
declared independence from  Somalia  in 1991, though no country
has officially recognized it as a sovereign state. Somaliland
and the neighboring region of Puntland are part of a southward
extension of the “lucrative geologic framework of the Arabian
Gulf” that includes Saudi Arabia, according to Osman Salad
Hersi, an associate geology professor at the University of
Regina in  Canada . Saudi Arabia is the world’s biggest oil
producer.  Previous attempts to encourage exploration in the region
foundered because of perceptions among investors that Somaliland
has the same security concerns as neighboring Somalia, where
Islamist militants have been seeking to establish an Islamic
state since at least 2006.  ‘Deteriorating Security’  Last week, Genel Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, the
former CEO of BP Plc, announced the company was resuming
operations two months after suspending exploration work in
September because of a “deteriorating security situation.”
Somaliland’s government has done a “full-blown security
assessment” to assess the threat, Dualeh said.  The U.K. Foreign Office  advises  against all travel in
Somaliland because of the “high threat” that westerners face
from terrorism and kidnapping, according to its website. The
U.S. State Department warns its citizens to obtain kidnap and
recovery insurance when traveling in the region.  “There are no real threats, but nevertheless we decided to
make sure that we apply any security level that international
companies need to operate in Somaliland,” Dualeh said. “We
provide full protection for the operation, not only for Genel
but for other operating companies here.”  Genel, the biggest oil producer in the Kurdistan region of
northern  Iraq , is expected to need at least two months to put
its logistics back in place before resuming exploration work
next year, Dualeh said.  Seismic work by the four companies is expected to be
completed by the end of 2014, before drilling commences in 2015,
Dualeh said.  Genel is “very bullish” about finding oil in Somaliland,
he said. “There’s a parallel between their successes in
Kurdistan and successes we hope to have here in Somaliland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  