-- SPD Expands Labor Demands as Talks on German Coalition Near End
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/spd-expands-labor-demands-as-talks-on-german-coalition-near-end.html
Germany ’s  Social Democrats  widened
demands on workers’ pay in the last 72 hours of coalition talks
with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bloc, prompting industry fears
that the country’s labor-market rules are being unraveled.  Speaking at an IG Metall union conference in  Frankfurt 
yesterday, SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel said he wants Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats  to agree to broader regulation of workers’
pay after securing support for a national minimum wage. Groups
including the CDU’s industry wing and the BDA employers warned
that the labor market may return to a sclerotic past.  “Naturally there won’t be a coalition contract without a
legal national minimum wage of 8.50 euros, but in honesty,
that’s too little for me,” Gabriel told union delegates. Three
days before a self-imposed talks deadline, reforming the
temporary work sector and closing union pay deal exemptions
“must be central aspects” of bartering with Merkel, Gabriel
said.  He and other SDP leaders are scrambling to leverage labor
market policy concessions from Merkel’s bloc that exceed a “red
line”  minimum wage  accord. The SPD will ballot its 470,000
members in December asking them to approve a coalition with the
CDU and its Christian Social Union Bavarian affiliate, which
Gabriel concedes is “unloved.”  A minimum hourly wage of 8.50 euros ($11.52) would bump up
the pay of 17 percent of Germany’s 42 million employed people,
the German parliament’s scientific panel said in a paper
published Nov. 18 that cites a forecast of the DIW economic
institute. Germany’s low-pay sector is “one of the largest in
 Europe ,” the study said.  Time Available  The three-party courtship has dragged on for almost two
months, leaving policy decisions such as one on Europe’s banking
union and on youth unemployment in the euro area on the back
burner. The CDU-CSU has defended its own red lines in talks that
started shortly after the Sept. 22 national election by blocking
moves to increase tax and federal debt.  The SPD must use time available to the Nov. 27 deadline to
win approval of its election campaign vows, Gabriel said. About
30 percent of eastern German companies are exempt from pay
accords brokered by unions and employers, he said. Companies are
exploiting workers with temporary contracts, Gabriel added.  CSU Chairman and Bavaria Prime Minister  Horst Seehofer  said
in Munich on the weekend that negotiations had shifted from
whether the SPD wins its demand for a minimum wage to who would
be exempted and when the minimum would be implemented.  “There will be a minimum wage with a grand coalition,”
Seehofer said. “But we have to ensure that the minimum wage is
introduced in such a way that as few jobs as possible are
endangered. That is our task.”  ‘Alarm Footing’  In a letter sent to Merkel last week, the CDU’s Economic
Council, or industrial wing, said it was “on an alarm footing”
as the coalition talks threatened to roll back labor-market
reforms,  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  said today in an
advance-release report.  Germany posted record unemployment of more than 5 million
in 2005 before the tally dropped after an easing of rules on
firing and cuts in  unemployment benefits  helped price workers
back into jobs.  Leaders from Merkel’s bloc and the SPD are set for
“difficult days” before the coalition talks close, Seehofer
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  