-- Swiss Voters Reject Strict CEO Pay Limits in Referendum
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-25T09:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/swiss-voters-reject-strictest-executive-pay-limits.html
Swiss voters rejected a proposal to
limit executives’ pay to 12 times that of junior employees
yesterday, a measure that would have gone further than any other
developed nation.  The measure was opposed by 65 percent of voters, the
government in Bern said yesterday. Polls, including one by
consulting firm gfs.bern, had signaled that outcome as probable.
Voter turnout was 53 percent, the highest in three years.  “It’s a big relief,” Valentin Vogt, president of the
Swiss Employers’ Association, said in an interview on Swiss
national television SRF. “It’s a signal that it’s not up to the
state to have a say in pay.”  Switzerland is the home to at least five of  Europe ’s 20
best-paid chief executive officers. Opposition to excessive pay
has stiffened among the traditionally pro-business Swiss
following the government bailout of  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s
biggest bank, in 2008 and a plan -- later scrapped -- by
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  to pay outgoing Chairman  Daniel Vasella  as much as
$78 million.  In March, Swiss voters approved the so-called fat-cat
initiative that gave company shareholders a binding vote on
managers’ pay and blocked golden handshakes and severance
packages.  ‘Absurd’ Proposal  While polls after that vote suggested the 1:12 initiative
could pass, support waned, in part because of opposition by
company executives, such as  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  CEO Severin Schwan
and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  chief Ulrich Spiesshofer, who said it would crimp
competitiveness and damage the economy.  Speaking at a  news conference  in Bern yesterday, Economy
Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said the intended pay curbs
were “absurd” and welcomed the voters decision. “We know
there would have been lots of ways to circumvent the
restrictions,” he said. “ Switzerland  stays attractive as a
business location.”  The vote highlights discontent with managers in Europe,
where unemployment soared to a record and banks have received
taxpayer-funded bailouts.  “We’ve lost” for now, Young Socialist party leader David
Roth, one of the initiators of the proposal, told SRF. “But
we’ll continue to fight long term.”  Among the group’s initiatives is one for a national  minimum
wage . A date for the vote hasn’t been set.  Highest Wage  Supporters of the 1:12 initiative said it only would have
affected 0.3 percent of all Swiss companies and 3,400 managers.
Switzerland is home to Europe’s largest drugmakers as well as
the headquarters of the world’s largest oil traders  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol SA.  Switzerland is the world’s second-most competitive country
behind the U.S., according to an annual ranking published by
IMD’s World Competitiveness Center. The Swiss also have the
highest gross average monthly wage in Europe at about $7,766,
the most recent UN data shows.  The measure would have been “a much stricter rule than in
other countries,” said Robert Pozen, a senior lecturer on
business administration at  Harvard Business School . Pozen
commented before the results were announced.  Reining in huge executive payouts has found appeal outside
Switzerland. In  Spain , the country’s Socialist party is
proposing measures similar to the 1:12 imitative.  Income Equality  In  Germany  nearly three quarters would support such pay
curbs, according to a poll by GfK commissioned by the newspaper
Welt am Sonntag. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party bloc
agreed to tighter limits on executive pay, according to the
coalition draft accord.  Switzerland ranks higher in income equality than the
average of 34 countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, according to OECD. The gap between
the wealthiest 10 percent and the poorest is smaller than in
Japan, the U.K., the U.S. and Canada, the OECD data showed.  Ballot initiatives are common in Swiss politics, on issues
ranging from healthcare to European Union membership. At least
100,000 signatures are needed for an initiative to come up for a
national vote. Most voters cast their ballots by mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  