-- U.K. Regulator’s Wheatley Says More Co-Op Bank Probes Possible
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/u-k-regulator-s-wheatley-says-more-co-op-bank-probes-possible.html
The Financial Conduct Authority may
expand the investigation of Co-Operative Bank Plc after the
lender’s parent surrendered control of the unit and former
Chairman Paul Flowers was arrested, the regulator’s chief
executive officer said.  Two days after U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  ordered an independent probe into the company, Wheatley
told  BBC Television ’s “Sunday Politics” program that a “very
broad inquiry” could lead to more regulatory reviews.  Co-Operative Group Ltd., the bank’s parent, relinquished
control of the lender to bondholders last month to help plug a
1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall. The
company’s chairman, Len Wardle, resigned last week after leading
the board that appointed Flowers.  The investigation ordered by Osborne, using powers under
last year’s Financial Services Act, won’t start until it’s clear
it won’t prejudice any actions the relevant authorities may
take, the Treasury said last week. That would include inquiries
by the police as well as potential probes by the FCA and the
Prudential Regulation Authority.  Flowers, 63, was arrested as part of a drug probe after he
was filmed buying  crack cocaine  by a U.K. newspaper, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the investigation was confidential. West
Yorkshire Police said in a statement that a 63-year-old man had
been detained in a “drugs-supply investigation.”  Methodist Minister  The Mail on Sunday reported Nov. 17 that Flowers bought
crystal methamphetamine and crack cocaine in Leeds, northern
 England . Flowers, who is a Methodist minister, was Co-Op Bank’s
chairman from March 2010 until June of this year.  The bank, based in Manchester, northwest England, said in a
statement Nov. 19 it’s facing “difficult times,” though it
will emerge “stronger than ever.”  In testimony to Parliament’s Treasury Committee this month,
Flowers said he didn’t have the skills of a banker, when asked
about his financial experience. He’d worked for four years at
Westminster Bank, a forerunner to Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group
Plc’s NatWest bank, before becoming a Methodist minister, and
his expertise was probably “out of date,” he said.  “This year has been incredibly difficult, with a death in
the family and the pressures of my role with the Co-Operative
Bank,” Flowers said in a Nov. 17 statement. “At the lowest
point in this terrible period, I did things that were stupid and
wrong. I am sorry for this, and I am seeking professional help,
and apologize to all I have hurt or failed by my actions.”  Financial Experience  At the time of Flowers’s elevation to chairman there wasn’t
a requirement that the appointment had to be signed off by
regulators, Wheatley said. Officials had urged the Co-Op to
appoint others to its board who had greater financial
experience, he added.  “Today it would be different,” he said. “It wouldn’t
happen in the same way.”  Regulators pressed Co-Operative Group, which has businesses
ranging from supermarkets to funeral parlors, to close the
capital shortfall at the bank following the failure of its bid
for more than 600 branches owned by Lloyds Banking Group Plc, a
deal that would have more than doubled its number of outlets.  Wheatley said regulators had raised issues with the bid.  “We were constantly pushing back,” he said. “They
withdrew ultimately when the questions we were asking they
couldn’t answer.”  Separately, a spokesman for Business Secretary Vince Cable
said he had sent a report to the FCA on small and medium-sized
business lending. That report criticizes state-owned Royal Bank
of Scotland for hurting small businesses, the Sunday Times
reported, citing a copy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  