-- Oil Slump Seen as ‘Knee-Jerk’ Reaction to Iran Deal
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i ,   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-11-25T20:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/u-s-says-iran-oil-exports-can-t-increase-under-nuclear-accord.html
Iran ’s pledge to restrict nuclear
work in return for loosened economic sanctions may have a
limited effect on crude prices, said analysts who called today’s
2.7 percent slump in Brent a “knee-jerk” reaction.  Oil exports from the Islamic republic will be held to about
1 million barrels a day under sanctions that remain in force
after Iran and six world powers reached an agreement yesterday
in Geneva, according to the White House. Brent crude prices
slumped today in the first day of trading since the deal while
West Texas Intermediate also fell in New York.  “The move lower in prices is an expected reaction,
especially considering the recent strength in prices,” said
Mark Keenan, head of commodities research for Asia at Societe
Generale SA in  Singapore . “But to see a more significant move
lower in prices, the market will likely require a little more
evidence that this initial resolution goes through.”  The six-month agreement, which offers Iran about $7 billion
in relief from sanctions in exchange for curbs on its nuclear
program, leaves in place banking and financial measures that
have hampered the OPEC member’s crude exports. Sanctions on
sales of refined products also remain, while Iran gains access
to $4.2 billion in oil revenue frozen in foreign banks, the
White House said.  The sanctions have cut Iranian crude sales by 60 percent
since the start of 2012, depriving the country of more than $80
billion in revenue, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration
said in a statement announcing the deal yesterday.  EU Embargo  Buyers of Iranian crude that have reduced purchases won’t
be required to make further cuts over the next six months under
yesterday’s accord. As part of the deal, the European Union will
lift a ban on insurance for tankers transporting Iranian oil,
making it easier for the Persian Gulf nation’s six remaining
international customers to take delivery. The EU will continue
to prohibit crude imports from Iran.  “There will be a little bit of a knee-jerk reaction,”
 Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg television interview.
“The deal being put through is on a trial basis.”  Brent crude, a benchmark for more than half the world’s
oil, lost as much as $3 a barrel to $108.05. Prices ended down 5
cents at $111. WTI fell 75 cents to close at $94.09 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Temporary Drift  “The downward drift in prices in reaction to the
announcement of the interim deal could be short lived,”
Barclays Plc analysts Helima Croft, Miswin Mahesh and Michael
Cohen said in a note on the Iran agreement today. “Iran will be
challenged to drastically increase its oil exports because of
the remaining sanctions and technical challenges restarting
shut-in production,” Barclays said in the e-mailed report.  Futures in New York have slumped 13 percent since Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani took office Aug. 1, pledging to end the
sanctions crippling his country’s economy. Losses in Brent crude
were limited to 0.4 percent over the same period as exports from
Libya slumped amid unrest in the North African country.  The accord may put “downward pressure” on Brent prices
because it will let Iran raise exports by nearly 300,000 barrels
a day from last month’s level, said  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of consultant Petromatrix GmbH.  Iranian Sales  Imports from Iran fell to 715,000 barrels a day in October,
compared with 1.26 million in the previous month, the
International Energy Agency said in a Nov. 14 market report.
Shipments from the country still averaged 1.1 million barrels a
day in the first nine months of this year, according to the
agency.  The combined effects of oil, shipping and financial
restrictions caused buyers of Iranian crude to take less than
sanctions allowed, Jakob said by phone from Zug, Switzerland,
yesterday. By loosening sanctions on insurance, the agreement
will enable importers to buy their full allotments, he said.  “For the next six months, we know we will have the maximum
exports from Iran that are allowed by sanctions,” Jakob said.
“Now the big supply uncertainty is Libya.”  Goldman, Barclays  Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note
published today that Iranian crude exports would remain largely
unchanged over the next six months, compared with the nine-month
average so far this year. Barclays said any incremental Iranian
exports were unlikely to exceed 400,000 barrels a day over the
span of the agreement. Reaching a final deal leading to removal
of the most significant sanctions “remains challenging,”
Barclays said.  Yesterday’s agreement offers what Obama called targeted
relief from sanctions, all of which can be imposed again if Iran
doesn’t stick with its end of the bargain. It is intended as a
first step to a comprehensive accord to be reached in six months
to constrain Iran’s nuclear activities so that it can’t be used
to make an atomic weapon, in exchange for a planned lifting of
nuclear-related sanctions. “Iran’s crude oil sales cannot
increase” over that period, the White House said.  “It’s a step, but it’s not like the end of a sanctions
regime, not like it’s going to have a significant impact on the
real balances of supply and demand for oil,”  Ed Morse , the New
York-based head of commodities research at Citigroup Inc., said
in a phone interview. “On the other hand, it should take off
whatever risk there might be in the market for the moment in
terms of additional sanctions.”  $1.5 Billion  The accord allows Iran limited petrochemical exports and
removes some curbs on gold trading. Those measures, together
with an easing of sanctions on the automotive industry, will
potentially provide Iran with $1.5 billion in revenue, the U.S.
administration said. The accord also eases constraints on
safety-related repairs for some Iranian airlines.  The EU’s removal of a ban on insuring tankers transporting
Iran’s crude will ease exports to  India , refinery officials in
that country said yesterday.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. and  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) 
will be able to purchase contracted volumes more easily,
officials from the companies said, adding that they don’t intend
to buy more oil than previously planned.  In June 2012, there were 23 importers of Iranian crude;
today, only six remain -  China , India, South Korea,  Japan ,
 Turkey  and  Taiwan , according to U.S. officials. Iran is the
sixth-biggest  producer  in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, down from the second-place rank it held
until last year.  Brent Forecast  The nation’s crude exports fell to a 21-month low in
October while the volume of Iran’s unsold oil stored in tankers
rose to about 37 million barrels, the IEA estimated. The
country’s crude production averaged 2.6 million barrels a day
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The European grade may slip below $100 a barrel for the
first time since June should talks lead to the easing of
sanctions, according to a Bloomberg News survey of traders and
analysts on Oct. 14. Brent may drop by $12 a barrel, according
to the mean estimate of 19 traders and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices rose to as high as $128.40 in March 2012 as
the U.S. and EU tightened sanctions.  “There’s still a long way to go but with each of these
steps we should see some sort of response to the risk premium,”
said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The bigger thing for the oil market in terms of the
impact on prices is the longer view that this represents a
tangible step toward a more final solution that might ultimately
see the sanctions lifted altogether.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  