-- Muddy Waters NQ Short Call Fails to Freeze Chinese IPOs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-25T02:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/muddy-waters-nq-call-fails-to-halt-ipos-china-overnight.html
Chinese companies are selling shares
in New York at the fastest pace in two years less than a month
after short seller  Carson Block ’s call spurred a 62 percent
plunge in Beijing-based  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)   Three Chinese companies have debuted on U.S. bourses this
month, raising $345.4 million, the most since May 2011, when six
companies listed $1.3 billion of shares. 500.com Ltd., an online
sports lottery service, raised $75.2 million in an initial
public offering. Sungy Mobile Ltd., which makes applications for
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, sold 7 million shares at $11.22.
 58.Com Inc. (WUBA) , an online marketplace similar to Craigslist, and
travel agency  Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd. (QUNR)  have sold shares above
their price targets since Oct. 30.  Chinese companies refrained from tapping the U.S. markets
in the second half of 2011 after short sellers such as Block’s
Muddy Waters Research LLC accused companies including Sino-Forest Corp. of misstating assets. While  Muddy Waters ’s Oct. 24
sell call on NQ Mobile sank the stock, it didn’t slow IPOs
backed by venture-capital firms from  Menlo Park , California-based  Sequoia Capital  to Tokyo-based Jafco Co.  “The average IPO out of China is definitely much more
scrutinized than it used to be and that’s helping to improve
investor confidence in those deals,” Josef Schuster, the
founder of IPOX Schuster LLC in Chicago, an IPO research firm,
said by phone Nov. 21. “Some of the deals, they are backed by
U.S. venture capital and are brought out by high-profile U.S.
underwriters which cannot afford to bring a bad company to the
market.”  Sina, Baidu  Since the dot-com bubble in 2000, 32 Chinese Internet
companies have debuted in the U.S., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , the owner of China’s Twitter-like
Weibo service, has more than quadrupled since it went public in
April 2000.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most-popular Internet
search engine, has rallied 5,767 percent since its debut in
2005.  “We wanted to be together with the other Internet plays
from China,” Zhengming Pan, the chief financial officer of
500.com, said in a phone interview from the New York Stock
Exchange on Nov. 22. “We will get better research coverage and
we will have a better investor base.”  Sungy Mobile  In the face of pressure from short sellers like Muddy
Waters, Pan said that demand was strong for the company’s IPO.
The deal was priced at $13, the top end of a range.  NQ Mobile, a Chinese mobile-services provider, was accused
of inflating revenue by Muddy Waters Research last month. The
company has denied the allegations and transferred $103 million
in cash to an account at Standard Chartered Bank to demonstrate
its reserves.  Sungy Mobile saw an opportunity to grow its brand in its
largest market overseas with a New York share sale, Chief
Financial Officer Jin Li said in a phone interview from the
Nasdaq Stock Exchange. The Guangzhou, China-based company sold
shares at $11.22, near the top of its expected price range.  “In the last few days, after we got the feedback from the
investors, the results have been very positive, and we got very
good orders from big-name investors,” Li said. “If you look at
the downloads of our apps, the majority of that happens on
Google Play. We happened to be ranked No. 3 in terms of total
downloads as a publisher right after  Facebook (FB)  and Google.”  500.com surged 54 percent on its first day of trading to
$20.01. Sungy Mobile climbed to $13.35, 19 percent above its
issue price.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in New York rose 1.3 percent to 107.32 last week.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.3 percent to 2,190.48
at 10:14 a.m. local time after gaining 2.8 percent last week.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  