-- Ukrainians March After Cabinet Snubs EU in Turn to Russia
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-24T16:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/ukrainians-prepare-to-protest-as-cabinet-snubs-eu-in-russia-turn.html
More than 100,000 Ukrainians marched
against a decision by President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s government
to cut off preparations for a free-trade pact with the European
Union and seek closer ties with Russia.  In the biggest protests since the 2004 Orange Revolution,
throngs of demonstrators, many of them families with children,
flowed through downtown  Kiev , the capital. Opposition leaders,
including Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the head of jailed ex-Prime
Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s party, led the march after the
former prime minister urged people to take to the streets.  Tensions have been rising since the government halted
preparations for the EU deal on Nov. 21, saying it wanted to
focus on reviving trade with Russia and other ex-Soviet states.
Protesters have since poured into Kiev’s Independence Square,
the focal point of Orange Revolution protests nine years ago
that overturned a Yanukovych presidential election victory
opposition parties said was marred by corruption and fraud.  “Our task is to sign the agreement with the EU,”
Yatsenyuk told a rally in European Square today, near
Independence Square. “We want to go to  Europe . This is our
future.”  The protests underscore a long-standing dispute over where
 Ukraine  belongs in Europe between its more pro-EU west and the
Russian-speaking east and south. The EU and Russia each buy
about a quarter of Ukrainian exports and have been jostling over
relations with the country of 45 million -- the second-most
populous former Soviet state -- which is a crucial transit route
for energy shipments.  The two sides accused each other of blackmail, and Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  said the EU is encouraging protests.  Vilnius Summit  “We are together. We are united. We are Europe,”
protesters chanted, waving banners as a  rock band  played. Police
on the scene estimated the crowd at 110,000 at noon.  One policeman was taken to hospital after about 100 pro-EU
demonstrators threw rocks and fireworks at officers at the
event, police spokeswoman Olga Bilyk said by phone. About 24,000
government supporters held a parallel rally about a mile away,
she said. Pro-EU Rallies also took place in other cities across
Ukraine, including Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, and Lviv,
where at least 10,000 people gathered, Interfax reported.  European governments have urged Ukraine to sign association
and free-trade agreements at a Nov. 28-29 summit in the
Lithuanian capital of Vilnius. Russia, which supplies 60 percent
of Ukraine’s natural gas, threatened trade measures if the deal
went forward, offering membership in its customs union as an
alternative.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that Russia
too often views European overtures toward its eastern neighbors
for tighter political and economic ties as “directed against
Russia.” She will address the issue with Putin “at the next
opportunity,” she said in her weekly podcast.  “We’re going to have to speak with Russia so that there
isn’t always this situation where it’s either/or,” she said.  While Yanukovych reiterated on Nov. 21 that his country’s
goal is European integration, lawmakers repeatedly failed to
pass a bill to allow Tymoshenko to travel abroad for medical
treatment, a key EU condition for the trade accord to proceed.  ‘Purely Economic’  “It is our chance to complete what we didn’t do in 2004,”
Tymoshenko wrote in a letter read by her daughter Yevgenia to
protesters in Kiev today.“Our future is in a united Europe.”  Yanukovych has accused Tymoshenko of involvement in crimes
including a murder, claims she denies. He defeated Tymoshenko to
become president in 2010 after serving two stints as premier and
now trails world heavyweight boxing champion Vitaly Klitschko in
polls for the presidency.  Ukraine’s motivation for suspending preparations for the EU
treaty was “purely economic,” with the government making the
“only possible” choice in the situation, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told lawmakers in Kiev on Nov. 22.  Backing for membership of the 28-nation bloc is at 58
percent, according to a poll of 1,000 people this month by
researcher IFAK Institut GmbH & Co. It gave no margin of error.  “I want my grandchildren to live in Europe,” Nadiya
Shunko, a 64-year-old pensioner said in Kiev today. “When
Yanukovych promised he would sign the pact, I had hope. I hope
these protests press the authorities.”  ‘Unprecedented Pressure’  Speaking over chants of “Shame!” by opposition lawmakers,
who attempted to keep him from speaking, Azarov said a Nov. 20
letter from the IMF tipped the balance for Ukraine.  The reasons may have been more complex, according to former
Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski, one of the EU’s main
negotiators with Ukraine. While economic difficulties
contributed to the Nov. 21 decision, “unprecedented pressure”
from  Russia  also played a part, he said.  Opposition parties submitted a request for an extraordinary
meeting in parliament next week to adopt laws necessary to sign
the EU pact and will push for the assembly’s dissolution if they
fail to pass, Tymoshenko ally Oleksandr Turchynov said, reading
a resolution to protesters. Opposition parties lack a majority
in the chamber. He said protests would carry on for as long as
needed, as demonstrators erected several dozen tents as part of
the protests.  The EU is “pressuring and blackmailing” Ukraine to
reverse the Nov. 21 decision, Putin said Nov. 22 in  St.
Petersburg . The Black Sea state is crucial to Putin’s ambition
to set up a trading area to emulate the Brussels-centered bloc.  Kerry Cancels  The EU continues “to believe that Ukraine’s future lies in
a strong relationship with” the western bloc, Maja Kocijancic,
spokeswoman for EU foreign-affairs chief  Catherine Ashton , told
reporters Nov. 22 in Brussels.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who had been expected
to participate in a meeting of the Organization for Security and
Co-operation in Europe in Kiev next month, won’t be going, State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Nov. 22 in  Washington . The
U.S. will be represented by  Victoria Nuland , assistant secretary
for European and Eurasian Affairs.  “Yanukovych may reverse his government’s decision to
suspend the deal with the EU should 100,000 people gather in
Kiev.” said Volodymyr Fesenko, head of the Penta Political
Analysis Center. “Yanukovych himself has not said the final
word yet as he leaves some space for maneuver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  