-- Ukraine Opposition Seeks to Keep Pressure on Yanukovych
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-25T20:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/ukraine-opposition-seeks-to-keep-pressure-on-yanukovych.html
Ukrainian opposition leaders urged a
continuation of the biggest protests since the 2004 Orange
Revolution to force President  Viktor Yanukovych  to reverse a
decision to snub the European Union in favor of Russia.  Boxing world champion Vitaly Klitschko, leader of the UDAR
party, called for continued demonstrations after more than
100,000 people marched yesterday through the capital, Kiev.
Jailed ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  said on her website
that she’d started a hunger strike. The Interfax news service
reported some clashes between protesters and police as
temperatures dropped below freezing and snow began to fall.  Tensions have been rising since the government halted
preparations for a free-trade agreement with the EU on Nov. 21,
saying it wanted to focus on reviving trade with Russia and
other ex-Soviet states. Protesters have since poured into Kiev’s
Independence Square, the focal point of Orange Revolution
protests that overturned a Yanukovych presidential election
victory the opposition said was marred by corruption and fraud.  “We should gather every day,” Klitschko said in remarks
broadcast by Ukraine’s Channel 5. “We should press the
authorities to sign the deal.”  Hunger Strike  Hours after opposition leaders including Arseniy Yatsenyuk
led a march through Kiev, Tymoshenko announced her second hunger
strike since receiving a seven-year sentence for abuse of office
that she says is designed to keep her out of politics.  “Do not step back -- do not let them ruin our lives,” she
said in a statement. “Go ahead and get the victory! Should
Yanukovych fail to sign the agreement with the EU, sweep him out
of Ukraine in a peaceful and constitutional way. Do not stop.”  While Interfax reported minor clashes between demonstrators
and police, Interior Minister Vitaliy Zakharchenko said in a
statement on the ministry’s website that force won’t be used
against peaceful protesters.  “I’ve instructed the police and special forces not to
react to provocations,” he said. “The only exclusion was when
police were attacked and they had to protect themselves.”  Police on the scene yesterday estimated the crowd at
110,000 at noon, with demonstrators erecting several dozen
tents. Pro-EU rallies also took place in other cities, including
Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, and Lviv, where at least 10,000
people gathered, Interfax reported.  European Values  Yatsenyuk, Klitschko and Oleh Tyahnybok, who heads the
right-wing Svoboda party, led a march to the government building
today. Opposition groups, which lack a parliamentary majority,
registered a no-confidence bill in the government, according to
a statement on Tymoshenko’s party website.  “We’ve been coming since Friday,” 20-year-old Nika
Rassadina said today as she stood on Independence Square with 20
fellow students. “European values mean you see yourself as a
part of the society in which you live and you feel personally
responsible for what’s going on.”  Premier Mykola Azarov said yesterday in an interview with
 Russia ’s Channel One that he wasn’t “afraid of” protests. The
authorities will look into how the demonstrations are being
financed, he said, according to a transcript on the channel’s
website. Darka Chepak, Yanukovych’s spokeswoman, didn’t answer
calls to her mobile phone.  East-West Battle  The protests underscore a long-standing dispute over where
Ukraine belongs between its more pro-EU west and the Russian-speaking east and south. The EU and Russia each buy about a
quarter of Ukrainian exports and have been jostling over
relations with the nation of 45 million, the former  Soviet
Union ’s second-most populous and a crucial energy transit route.  European governments have urged Ukraine to sign association
and free-trade agreements at a Nov. 28-29 summit in Vilnius,
 Lithuania . Russia, which supplies 60 percent of Ukraine’s
natural gas, threatened trade measures if the deal went forward,
offering membership in its customs union as an alternative.  The two sides accused each other of blackmail, and Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  said the EU is encouraging protests.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Nov. 23 that Russia
too often views European overtures toward its eastern neighbors
for tighter political and economic ties as “directed against
Russia.” She’ll address the issue with Putin “at the next
opportunity,” she said in her weekly podcast.  ‘Pressure, Blackmail’  The EU is “pressuring and blackmailing” Ukraine to
reverse the Nov. 21 decision, Putin said Nov. 22 in  St.
Petersburg . The Black Sea nation is crucial to Putin’s ambition
to set up a trading area to emulate the Brussels-centered bloc.  The cost to insure Ukrainian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps, which jumped after the
government said it was scrapping the EU talks, fell to 926 basis
points, the world’s third-highest after Argentina and  Venezuela ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the government’s
dollar bond due 2023 was down 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, at 9.55 percent.  “Recent events suggest an increasing probability of
securing a trade deal with Russia,” Citigroup Inc. analyst  Ivan
Tchakarov  said today in an e-mailed note.  While Yanukovych reiterated on Nov. 21 that his country’s
goal is European integration, lawmakers repeatedly failed to
pass a bill to allow Tymoshenko to travel abroad for medical
treatment, a key EU condition for the trade accord to proceed.  Backing for EU membership is 58 percent, according to a
poll of 1,000 people this month by researcher IFAK Institut GmbH
& Co. It gave no margin of error.  The door “remains open” for intensified relations between
the EU and Ukraine, German government spokesman Steffen Seibert
told reporters today in Berlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  