-- Yen Depreciates to Six-Month Low on Iran Nuclear Accord
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-25T22:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/yen-slides-to-4-month-low-as-iran-accord-damps-demand-for-safety.html
The yen slid to the weakest level in
almost six months versus the dollar as demand for the safety of
the currency waned after an accord was struck to set limits on
 Iran’s nuclear program .  Japan ’s currency depreciated to a four-year low against the
euro before a report this week economists said will show
 inflation  accelerated in October. The shared European currency
declined versus the dollar after a policy maker said the
 European Central Bank  is technically prepared to make its
deposit rate negative. The greenback advanced against the
majority of 16 major peers. Thailand’s baht dropped to an 11-week low amid anti-government protests.  “The risk-on environment, along with the nuclear pact
signed by  Iran , has certainly taken the pressure off haven
currencies like the yen,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a Boston-based senior
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview. “The ECB in
recent days have talked up the possibility of cutting rates to
boost growth in the union.”  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 101.67 per dollar at 5 p.m.  New
York  time after reaching 101.92, the weakest since May 29. It
slid 0.1 percent to 137.43 per euro after touching 137.99, the
weakest since October 2009. The dollar added 0.3 percent to
$1.3517 against  Europe ’s shared currency.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the currency
against 10 major counterparts, rose 0.2 percent to 1,020.95.  Baht, Rupee  Protests in Thailand spread to military bases, government
offices and television stations today after more than 100,000
people joined rallies yesterday against Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra. Global funds pulled a net $2.1 billion from Thai
bonds and equities this month through Nov. 22, official data
show.  “Investors want to stay away from Thailand amid concern
the protests will intensify or lead to violence,” said
Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The political
concern encouraged investors to take some money out from
 Thailand .”  The baht fell 0.7 percent to 32.04 per dollar after
touching 32.08, the weakest level since Sept. 11.  India ’s rupee rose the most among emerging-market
currencies on optimism a drop in oil costs after Iran’s nuclear
pact will help shrink the South Asian nation’s current-account
deficit.  Iran agreed to curtail its nuclear activities and in return
won an easing of “certain sanctions” on oil, auto parts, gold
and precious metals. The deal, which is reversible, was
announced yesterday after five days of talks in Geneva.  ‘Positive Impact’  “The Iran deal is a huge boost as our oil costs will come
down,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.
“The swap-window extension will have a limited, but positive
impact on the exchange rate.”  The rupee gained for a second day, adding 0.6 percent to
62.4950 per dollar.  Japan’s statistics bureau will say on Nov. 29 the nation’s
 consumer prices excluding fresh food  rose 0.9 percent last month
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Deflation is coming to an
end and the nation’s economy is recovering as expected,
Mitsuhiro Furusawa, vice minister of finance for international
affairs said today.  The  Bank of Japan  said in April it wanted to achieve 2
percent inflation in about two years. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said today the bank’s target could be hit sometime late in the
fiscal year through 2014 or early in the 2015 period.  Inflation Target  “This week, we will probably see another tick up in the
CPI data out of Japan,”  Steven Saywell , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with Manus
Cranny. “The BOJ is very much focused on reaching the inflation
target and what that means is that the yen continues to
weaken.”  The yen lost 13 percent this year, the biggest decline
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 4 percent and the
euro advanced 6.8 percent.  The euro declined after the ECB’s Ardo Hansson said in an
interview in Tallinn on Nov. 22 that the Frankfurt-based central
bank’s “options on rate cuts are still not fully exhausted and
there are all kinds of other measures that are still on the
table.” Hansson heads  Estonia ’s central bank.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $45 billion, from $47 billion on Nov. 22, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $18 billion, the largest share of
trades at 40 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$5.8 billion, or 13 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 65 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-greenback options trading
was 22 percent below average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  