-- Zimbabwe Wealth Fund to Get Share of State Mining Revenue
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-11-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/zimbabwe-wealth-fund-to-get-share-of-state-mining-revenue.html
Zimbabwe ’s planned sovereign wealth
fund may get as much as a quarter of mining royalties and the
same share of “special dividends” on state mineral and metal
sales. Parliament will also be able to appropriate money to
benefit the fund.  A 16-member board will decide on the fund’s activities,
allowing it to make withdrawals, primarily to pay for
infrastructure developments, according to a draft of the
Sovereign Wealth Fund of Zimbabwe Act obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  “That document will be taken to parliament sometime early
next year,” Fred Moyo, the country’s deputy mines minister,
said in a Nov. 22 interview by phone. “It’s critical for us to
have a sovereign wealth fund, and that’s what every nation
should do to address vulnerable situations.”  President  Robert Mugabe , who extended his 33-year rule in
July elections, is considering a range of options to finance the
recovery of Zimbabwe’s economy, which shrank by 40 percent
between 2000 and 2008. The country suffered from inflation
estimated at 500 billion percent by the  International Monetary
Fund  after the seizure of white-owned commercial farms slashed
exports of crops including tobacco and roses.  As well as the sovereign wealth fund, the government is
considering the sale of bonds, securitization of remittances,
re-engagement with international finance institutions and the
creation of special economic zones, according to a separate
document signed by Mugabe and obtained from the Ministry of
Finance on Nov. 15.  Platinum, Chrome  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-largest deposits of
platinum and chrome and reserves of minerals ranging from coal
and iron ore to gold and diamonds. Investment has been held back
by a law compelling foreign and white-owned companies to sell or
cede 51 percent of their local assets to black Zimbabweans or
the government.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  are among companies that operate
in the country.  The fund’s income will come from no more than a quarter of
all mining royalties as well as the equivalent from ’special
dividends’ on sales by the Minerals Marketing Corp. of Zimbabwe,
which sells minerals on behalf of the state. The law defines
special dividends as 50 percent of the gross value of any sales
made by the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp. from
any project it’s involved in.  The ZMDC has joint ventures with a number of companies on
the Marange diamond field in the east of the country.  Parliamentary Discretion  A 10 percent royalty is currently levied on platinum
miners’ revenue while diamond production attracts a 15 percent
charge. Other precious stones have a 10 percent royalty levied
on them while the charge for gold is 7 percent and other
precious metals face a 4 percent charge. A 2 percent charge is
levied on base and industrial metals as well as coal-bed
methane. The royalty on coal production is 1 percent.  If the endowment needs more money to “help promote the
object of the fund” or doesn’t have enough cash to pay staff,
parliament can legislate to appropriate more money as an advance
or as a grant, according to the bill, which doesn’t set out
where this money would be taken from.  The law also amends the legislation governing the ZMDC,
allowing the accountant-general to set the period of time
between any sale of diamonds and the payment.  The fund will function under the September 2008 Santiago
Principles, which set out measures for better disclosure and
regulating risk management, according to the bill.  The fund will operate under the oversight of the  Reserve
Bank  of Zimbabwe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  