-- Zuckerberg Says U.S. ‘Really Blew It’ on Surveillance
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-11-24T17:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-24/zuckerberg-says-u-s-really-blew-it-on-surveillance.html
The U.S. government “really blew
it” on conducting surveillance programs that riled foreign
leaders and domestic skeptics,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said in a television interview.  “They’re continuing to blow it in some ways and I hope
they become more transparent,” Zuckerberg, 29, said in an
interview broadcast today on ABC’s “This Week.” “These things
are always in balance, in terms of doing the right things and
also being clear and telling people about what you’re doing.”  The National Security Agency is facing scrutiny in Congress
and abroad over revelations that it spied on foreign leaders,
broke into fiber-optic cables overseas and gathered e-mails and
phone records of innocent Americans. Most of the revelations
were exposed by Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor who
remains in  Russia  under temporary asylum.  Zuckerberg, whose  Menlo Park , California-based social media
company started its initial public offering in May 2012, has
spent much of the last year getting involved in political
issues, from education in  New Jersey  to infrastructure
development in  Africa . In April he announced the formation an
advocacy group called  FWD.us  to lobby for changes to U.S.
immigration policy, higher academic standards and investments in
scientific research.  “The future of our economy is a  knowledge economy , and
that means getting the most talented people into this country is
the most important thing we can do to make sure the companies of
tomorrow are founded here,” Zuckerberg, whose estimated worth
of $22.6 billion ranks him 32nd on the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index of the world’s wealthiest individuals, said in the ABC
interview.  Undocumented Misconceptions  There are “a lot of misconceptions” about the legality of
11 million undocumented persons in the U.S., Zuckerberg said,
citing the case of a student he taught in an after-school
program who said he wouldn’t be able to attend college because
he was undocumented.  “When you meet these children and they’re really talented
and they grew up in America and don’t really know any other
country besides that but they don’t have the opportunities that
we all enjoy, it’s really heartbreaking,” he said. “It seems
like it’s one of the biggest civil rights issues of our time.”  Fwd.us supports helping undocumented workers become
citizens and is calling for an increase in  H-1B visas , a program
favored by the technology industry that lets skilled guest
workers come to the U.S. Zuckerberg visited  Capitol Hill  in
September and discussed immigration with lawmakers.  Citizenship Path  The Senate in June passed a bill that, as part of revising
immigration policy, includes a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants. The measure has stalled in the House,
where many Republicans oppose the citizenship provision.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , has said he
wants to approach changes to immigration policy “in a common
sense, step-by-step way.” He has rejected the Senate approach
of using one bill to address multiple issues.  Asked for his advice on what President  Barack Obama ’s
administration should do to resolve snags in the new government-run health-insurance exchanges created under the Affordable Care
Act, Zuckerberg cited his company’s own technological
challenges.  “Sometimes stuff doesn’t work when you want it to,” he
said. “We’ve certainly had plenty of mistakes and things that
haven’t worked the way that we want to. The right thing here is
to keep on focusing on building the service that you think is
right in the long term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  