-- 
Amtrak Restoring New England Service After Snowstorm Strandings

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-11-03T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-03/amtrak-restoring-new-england-service-after-snowstorm-strandings.html
Amtrak  said its long-distance
services through New England were returning to normal today,
after two trains were stranded for as long as 14 hours in a
weekend snowstorm that left tracks blocked by downed trees,
rocks and other debris.  Northbound riders on the U.S. passenger rail service’s
 Vermonter  service between Washington and St. Albans,  Vermont ,
will be able to make the 14-hour trip today, Amtrak said in a
statement. Southbound trains will be available only between
Washington and Springfield,  Massachusetts , with full service set
to resume tomorrow, Amtrak said.  Normal operations on the  Lake Shore Limited  between Chicago
and  Boston  restarted yesterday, according to the statement.  Riders on those two routes were stuck on stopped trains in
Massachusetts for 14 hours and 12 hours, respectively, starting
on Oct. 29. That was the same day passengers flying from Paris
to  New York  on  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines and travelers on a
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  flight from Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , were
stranded for more than 7 hours on the tarmac at Bradley
International Airport in Connecticut.  The storm, the biggest in October in decades, left more
than 2 million homes and businesses without power after hitting
Connecticut, New York and  New Jersey  with record snowfall.  Travelers on Amtrak’s northbound Vermonter were stuck for
14 hours near Palmer, Massachusetts, doubling the normal trip
time for 77 riders, Clifford Cole, an Amtrak spokesman, said by
phone. Lake Shore Limited passengers bound for Boston sat for 12
hours near Amherst, Massachusetts, bringing their total travel
time from 19 hours to 31 hours, Cole said.  Both were delayed because of downed trees and wires and
other debris on the tracks. The Lake Shore Limited also
encountered a rock slide, Cole said.  Snacks, Bathrooms  JetBlue passengers were without food, water or working
restrooms, the  Associated Press  reported. The train travelers
had bathroom service and heat, and the 48 stranded Lake Shore
Limited passengers received complimentary snacks, Cole said.  Amtrak in both cases had to rely on the freight railroads
that own the tracks to clear the debris, Cole said.  “When we’re on a host railroad’s tracks and there is some
kind of stoppage it is not up to Amtrak when to move,” Cole
said. “When we have an operational issue we defer to that host
railroad for how we are able, if we are able, to proceed.”  The Vermonter was operating on the  New England Central
Railroad ’s tracks when it had to stop. The regional freight
carrier is part of Jacksonville, Florida-based  RailAmerica Inc. (RA) ,
which owns 43 short line and regional freight railroads in the
U.S. and  Canada .  Uprooted Trees  “It was a phenomenal amount of trees that came down, all
with their leaves still on, including some that were uprooted,”
Charles Hunter, assistant vice president of government affairs
for RailAmerica, said in a phone interview. “About 100 miles of
track, from the south end of Connecticut into Vermont, was
covered in debris.”  The Lake Shore Limited was using the tracks of
Jacksonville-based  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest U.S. railroad by
revenue east of the Mississippi River.  The railroad had to deploy generators in Massachusetts “to
ensure the operation of signals and warning devices to make up
for the loss of commercial power,” Gary Sease, a spokesman for
CSX, said by phone.  Chainsaw Work  The “tedious process” of clearing tracks took days to
complete, Sease said. “We’ve done a lot with technology, but at
the end of the day there’s nothing that can replace an employee
with a chainsaw removing trees,” he said.  Vermonter rider Zephyr Teachout said she didn’t mind what
happened so much, nor did many of her fellow travelers. “It was
mostly Yankees so most people didn’t grumble,” Teachout, an
associate professor at the Fordham University School of Law in
New York, said in a phone interview.  Some people complained that Amtrak didn’t give them enough
information about what happened and when the problem would be
resolved, she said.  “To say nothing is certainly unacceptable but sometimes
the information is slow to come to us,” Cole said. “Any delay
for us is a problem, whether it’s our fault or not. But under
the circumstances our main goal is to keep people safe and we
think we accomplished that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  