-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Expanded at Fastest Pace in Six Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-03/ism-services-index-falls-slightly.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably grew in November at the fastest pace in six months, a
sign the economy is accelerating in the final months of 2011,
economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing industries, which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, rose to 53.8 last month from 52.9, according to the
median projection of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Factory orders fell in October, another report may show.  The services data may indicate the economic expansion is
spreading at year-end after reports last week showed
manufacturing picked up, consumer pessimism waned and
unemployment dropped. At the same time, risks remain that
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slower global growth will prompt U.S.
companies to cut back.  “Things are improving and strengthening, and the recovery
is broadening out,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . Still,
“there are concerns over the euro area.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data is due at 10 a.m.
Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 51.5 to 55. Fifty
is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The figures follow a report last week from the Labor
Department that showed the economy generated 120,000 jobs in
November after 100,000 a month earlier. The  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly dropped to 8.6 percent, the lowest since March
2009.  Stocks Rally  The labor market figures helped cap the biggest weekly
rally in stocks since March 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 7.4 percent during the week, also helped by
central bank actions to stem Europe’s debt crisis.  Signs the economy is picking up momentum are benefiting
service providers. Transportation companies are joining
retailers such as Kohl’s Corp. and Macy’s Inc. in boosting
holiday hiring.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  may add 55,000 holiday workers
this year, a 10 percent increase from 2010, to help with
shipping gains bolstered by online shopping, the company said
Nov. 7. More than 120 million packages may be delivered in the
week before Christmas, up 6 percent from last year, the world’s
largest package-delivery company said in a statement.  Consumers poured into the malls and took to the Web during
Thanksgiving weekend, spending a record $52.4 billion, the
 National Retail Federation  said, citing a survey from
BIGresearch.  Coach Bags  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, expects
an “excellent holiday season,” partly due to shoppers’
“strong interest” in accessories for self-purchase, Chief
Executive Officer Lew Frankfort said on a conference call last
week.  Limited Brands Inc. and  Macy’s (M)  posted November same-
store sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance.  A Dec. 1 report by the same group showed  manufacturing  last
month grew at the fastest pace in five months, boosted by gains
in orders and production.  The Commerce Department will report today at 10 a.m. that
 factory orders  in October fell 0.3 percent as demand for
aircraft waned, according to the median projection in the
Bloomberg survey. Bookings climbed 0.3 percent the prior month,  The  Federal Reserve  last week said the  U.S. economy 
expanded at a “slow to moderate” pace in 11 of its 12
districts in October and the first half of November, led by
gains in manufacturing and  consumer spending . “Hiring was
generally subdued” and residential real estate “generally
remained sluggish,” the Fed said. “Consumer spending increased
modestly, on balance.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  