-- Acer Returns to Profit After Demand Slowdown
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-15T09:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/acer-returns-to-profit-after-losses-caused-by-slowing-demand.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s fourth-
largest computer maker, returned to profit after two quarters of
losses and said new high-value models will boost earnings this
year.  Fourth-quarter  net income  was NT$75 million ($2.5 million)
compared with NT$3.9 billion a year earlier, Lilia Wang, acting
chief financial officer of the Taipei-based company said in a
conference call today. The average of 18 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was for a profit of NT$176 million.  Competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, a slowing global
economy and weak sales of its own tablet devices led Acer to
post its sixth straight quarterly revenue decline. Earnings may
improve this quarter as a shortage of hard drives eases and
demand for its Ultrabooks, high-end thin laptops, climbs.  “The worst for Acer is over with the hard-disk shortage
being a remaining challenge,” Vincent Chen, who  rates  the stock
“sell” at Yuanta Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , said before the
earnings announcement. “Growth is going to be in Ultrabooks and
Acer is pushing to make them even cheaper.”  Acer climbed 2.9 percent to NT$44.30 at the close in Taipei
trading, before the earnings announcement. The stock, which
declined 61 percent in 2011, has  advanced  26 percent this year,
outperforming the benchmark Taiex index’s 13 percent gain.  Consolidated revenue fell 14 percent to NT$127.7 billion
for the period, beating the NT$112.5 billion average of 19
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ultrabook Sales  The fourth-quarter marked a turnaround for the company,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. T. Wang said on a
conference call today. Ultrabook sales volumes are expected to
increase in the second quarter, he said.  Floods in  Thailand  during October and November disrupted
production by hard disk drive makers including  Western Digital
Corp. (WDC) , prompting prices of the  storage devices  to rise as much
as 20 percent and crimping computer supply.  Microsoft Corp. (MS) , the world’s largest software maker, last
month said sales of computers may have been lower than analyst
estimates during the fourth quarter because of the floods.  Ultrabooks, a category of thin and light laptops developed
by  Intel Corp . to match Apple’s MacBooks, may help revive demand
for notebooks. Acer released its Aspire S5 last month, a device
that’s 15 millimeters thick and weighs less than 1.35 kilograms
(2.98 pounds). Ultrabooks aren’t affected by the floods because
they use chips to store data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  