-- Maersk Leads Shipping Industry Developing Fuels From Waste
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-15T10:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/maersk-leads-shipping-industry-developing-fuels-to-cut-emissions.html
A.P. Moeller  Maersk (MAERSKB)  A/S, the world’s
biggest container ship owner, is leading its industry in
developing biofuels made from organic waste that could cut its
 carbon emissions  and reduce a $6 billion-a-year fuel bill.  Maersk (MAERSKB)  is conducting tests with companies including Man
Diesel & Turbo SE and two Danish universities to develop clean
fuels tailored for ships and has worked with the U.S. Navy to
run vessels using fuel produced from algae, encountering “very
few problems,” said Jacob Sterling, head of climate and
environment at Maersk, which is based in Copenhagen.  “The beauty of biofuels is that they work with the engines
as they are today,” Sterling said in an interview. “There is a
very, very strong link between reducing emissions and reducing
costs.”  The efforts represent some of the most advanced work in the
shipping industry to restrain  greenhouse gases  as the European
Union works to broaden its carbon cap-and-trade system. Shipping
accounts for about 3.3 percent of CO2 emissions, said Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd. That’s more than the 2 percent to 3
percent produced by airlines, now included in the EU rules.  Maersk is a “frontrunner” among companies seeking to
drive down pollution, said Ana Davila Martinez, consultant for
corporate distribution and logistics at  Heineken NV. (HEIA)  The Dutch
brewer is among brands including  Adidas AG (ADS) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  that select their shipping supplier based on
sustainability, Sterling said.  ‘Pioneered by Maersk’  Lloyd’s Register, which checks ships’ compliance with
maritime rules, has given technical advice and independent
verification to the projects. Maersk is “one of the leading
companies seeking new and innovative approaches” to fuel
supplies, said Timothy Wilson, product manager for Lloyd’s
specialist fuel oil service known as FOBAS.  Mediterranean Shipping Co., the No. 2 container shipping
line, said it’s implementing “new technological systems” on
its ships as well as alternative fuels.  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the
biggest cruise line and owner of the Costa Concordia that ran
aground off  Italy  on Jan. 13, said it always looks at efficiency
measures including biofuels, though it gave no details.  Maersk  shares  rose as much as 2.5 percent today to an
eight-month high in Copenhagen trading, increasing their gains
to 23 percent this year. Carnival shares in comparison have
declined 6.7 percent since Jan. 1.  Shipping, Airlines  Efforts by shipping companies to cut emissions follow those
of airlines that this year joined the EU’s carbon cap-and-trade
program. Airlines in July won approval to start flying passenger
planes with fuel made from organic waste and non-food plants,
prompting  Thai Airways International PCL (THAI) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
and Air France-KLM Group to start biofuel flights.  The problem facing both aviation and shipping is producing
the fuels in sufficient quantities and at prices competitive
with traditional fossil fuels. Airplanes use kerosene and ships
a heavier fuel typically low in grade and high in sulfur.  Alternative fuels made from feedstocks such as algae give
the U.S. Navy “increased insulation from a volatile petroleum
market,” said Pamela Kunze, special assistant in public affairs
in the Navy secretary’s office.  Solazyme Inc (SZYM) . supplied fuel for
the test Maersk did with the U.S. Navy.  “The use of alternative fuels in our ships provides
increased  energy security  and mitigates the operational risks,”
Kunze said in an e-mail.  ‘More Expensive’  Biofuels “are often more expensive, and that is what we
are trying to change, so that’s why it’s a bit more longer
term,” Sterling said, adding that he could “easily imagine” a
process that makes biofuels both for airlines and ships.  The  International Maritime Organization , the  United
Nations ’ shipping agency, is considering two proposals to spur
the shipping industry to slash emissions by 20 percent by 2020.
One would create a cap-and-trade system like the EU Emissions
Trading Scheme. The second would tax ship fuel in what would be
known as a “bunker compensation fund.”  The IMO reached agreement in July on new energy-efficiency
regulations that take effect next January. The rules aim to
promote the use of more energy-efficient equipment and engines
and apply to new and existing ships.  Funds raised from the industry could contribute to the $100
billion a year in aid pledged by industrial countries to help
developing nations cope with  climate change . Shipping could
raise at least 10 percent of that target, said Jonathan Grant,
assistant director for sustainability at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.  Pollution Curb  Maersk’s Sterling said biofuels could both cut pollution
and make the company more attractive to customers concerned
about the carbon footprints of their products.  “What we do on the environmental side we hope will both
help us secure the big clients who have a focus on
sustainability and also reduce our costs by lowering the fuel
bill,” he said.  Maersk supports the compensation fund because it puts a
predictable fixed fee on the fuel, Sterling said. It’s also
interested in biofuels because of the potential cost savings.
Fuel represents at least half of Maersk’s operating expenses,
and reducing the speed of ships in transit helped the company
cut emissions 7 percent and save $300 million a year, he said.  The company wants to “be out early” in tapping
alternatives to oil, Sterling said. It plans to test fuels made
from plant waste and non-food crops and some of its vessels have
already tested canola-blended fuels.  “With a fuel bill of $5 billion to $6 billion a year, even
one-digit percentage savings are very significant,” Sterling
said. “There is such a strong link between reducing the cost
and thereby improving the competitiveness of the company and
improving the carbon footprint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  