-- Iranian Bombing Suspects Targeted Israeli Diplomats, Thailand Police Say
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-02-16T07:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/thai-police-say-israeli-diplomats-in-bangkok-targeted-by-iranian-bombers.html
Iranians arrested after blasts on a
Bangkok street aimed to attack Israeli diplomats, and the
devices used were similar to bombs targeting Israelis in  India 
and Georgia this week, according to  Thailand ’s police chief.  “The suspects targeted Israeli diplomats in Thailand,”
Priewphan Damaphong said in Bangkok yesterday, hours after he
confirmed that the bombs contained magnets designed to attach to
vehicles. India’s initial investigations suggest that a magnetic
device was attached to an Israeli diplomat’s car on Feb. 13 in
New Delhi seconds before it exploded injuring the woman, the
city’s police commissioner, B.K. Gupta, has said.  “The type of explosive device is similar to the incident
in India,” Priewphan told reporters. The men “were not
targeting a place.”  The incidents in India, Georgia and Thailand increase
tensions as Israeli leaders, who haven’t ruled out a military
strike, say time is running out for sanctions to deter  Iran  from
building nuclear weapons. The U.S. and the European Union have
tightened economic restrictions while seeking to avert a
military conflagration in a region that holds more than half of
global oil reserves.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s security
cabinet convened yesterday to discuss the attacks and hear
Foreign Ministry and security officials’ assessments of the
situation, Netanyahu’s office said in an e-mailed statement.  Iranian Threat  Before the meeting, Netanyahu told the Knesset,  Israel ’s
parliament, that unless Iran is stopped, attacks against Israel
will spread to other countries.  “Israel’s security apparatus will know how to fight the
Iranian threat,” Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said
yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  Iran denies involvement in the attacks.  “Efforts by Israel to harm the friendly relations between
Thailand and Iran will bear no results,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a
foreign ministry spokesman, was  quoted  as saying by the Iranian
state-run Mehr news agency. Israel’s “coordinated baseless
accusations of our country having a hand in blasts in India and
Georgia and Bangkok shows the plot and the setting up of a
suspicious scenario.”  The attacks follow the deaths of several Iranian nuclear
scientists, the most recent in a Jan. 11 car bombing in Tehran
that Iran said Israel had orchestrated. They also coincided with
the fourth anniversary of the killing of Imad Mughniyeh, who was
a leader of the military wing of the Iranian-backed Lebanese
Hezbollah movement, which Israel and the U.S. consider a
terrorist organization.  International Capability  India, Thailand and  Georgia  were probably targeted
according to the assets the perpetrators were able to deploy,
Will Hartley, head of the Terrorism & Insurgency Centre at
defense researcher IHS Jane’s, said in an e-mail.  “The initial impression is that they were selected to
demonstrate a wide-ranging international capability, rather than
an intent to target the specific countries themselves,” he
said.  Thai officials detained two men with Iranian passports,
including one who blew his own legs off in the Feb. 14 blasts.
Priewphan identified one of the suspects as Mohammad Khazaei,
42, who he said police have connected to the explosions with
closed-circuit television images.  The men were charged yesterday with possession of explosive
devices with the intent to harm others, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Thani Thongpakdi said by phone.  Third Suspect  Malaysian authorities arrested a third suspect in the
attack,  Malaysia ’s Inspector General of Police Ismail Omar said
in a mobile-phone text message. Thai authorities issued an
arrest warrant for the suspect, Masoud Sedaghatzadeh, and are
working with Interpol to arrest Iranian woman Rohani Leila, who
helped the three men rent a house in Bangkok and left Thailand
on Feb. 5, Monthon Ngernwattana, who handles international cases
for the Thai police, told reporters today.  Thailand is seeking approval from Malaysian authorities to
extradite the suspect and a plane has already been prepared to
transport the man, Pol Lt Gen Thanakorn Siri-at, commissioner of
the Special Branch Bureau, told reporters today in Bangkok.  The arrests mark the second time in as many months that
Thai authorities have detained suspects accused of targeting
Jewish sites in Bangkok. Police last month charged a Swedish-
Lebanese man they linked to Hezbollah with possessing illegal
substances after detaining him in connection with a plan to
attack sites frequented by Americans and Israelis.  The arrest came three days after the U.S. Embassy in
Bangkok warned Jan. 13 that “foreign terrorists” aimed to
attack tourist areas. The U.S. and U.K. again warned citizens
traveling in Thailand to remain vigilant after the Feb. 14
attacks, which injured four people in addition to the suspect.  ‘Soft Spot’  “The problems of international politics have affected us
as well as other countries,” Wichien Potephosree, secretary-
general of the Thai National Security Council, said in Bangkok
yesterday. “Thailand is a soft spot because we welcome
foreigners to promote our tourism and economy.”  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 0.1 percent as of 2:54 p.m. local
time after gaining the most in about a month yesterday. The baht
fell 0.3 percent to 30.87 per dollar. Thailand’s economy, the
second-biggest in  Southeast Asia , relies on tourism for about 7
percent of its gross domestic product.  The incident in Bangkok may deter foreigners planning to
visit Thailand, Tourism Minister Chumpol Silapa-Archa told
reporters. In January, the number of visitors increased 7.7
percent to 1.94 million, government statistics show. Tourists
from Israel increased 4.6 percent to almost 14,000.  Exploiting Openness  “Thailand has a tradition of hospitality with large
numbers of people entering and leaving the country as tourists
and on business,” said  Tim Huxley ,  executive director  at the
International Institute for Strategic Studies  Asia  in  Singapore .
“It looks like these terrorists have exploited Thailand’s
openness.”  U.S. officials are waiting for the results of an
investigation into the Thailand, India and Georgia attacks,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters in
Washington Feb. 14.  “These events do come on the heels of other disrupted
attacks targeted at Israel and Western interests,” Nuland said.
“So they serve as a reminder that a variety of states and non-
state actors continue to view international terrorism as a
legitimate foreign policy tool, which we consider
reprehensible.”  ‘Perpetuate Terror’  Israeli police elevated alerts Feb. 14 across the country
following the series of incidents, while Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said the events in Thailand bolstered the case for blaming
Iran.  “The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once
again that Iran and its proxies continue to perpetrate terror,”
Barak said in comments e-mailed by his office.  The Thai incident began when an explosion at the suspects’
rented home in Bangkok prompted them to flee, with one
attempting to hail a taxi to escape the area, Sittipab
Baiprasert, a police officer, said in an interview with the
Nation Channel television network. When a taxi refused to take
him, he threw a grenade at the vehicle, he said.  Sanchai Boonsoongnern, a  taxi driver  who witnessed the
incident, told the Nation Channel the device exploded about 1
meter (3.3 feet) from his car. As a policeman then tried to
arrest the man, the suspect pulled out another grenade and it
detonated, blowing off his legs, Sanchai said.  Police found C-4 explosives in the house the three men were
renting, TNN television network reported, without saying where
it got the information. A nearby closed circuit television
camera showed the three suspects leaving the house after the
first explosion, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  