-- AIG’s Sale of AIA Could Cut Treasury Stake, Benmosche Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-15T14:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/aig-s-sale-of-aia-could-reduce-treasury-stake-benmosche-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, may use proceeds from the sale of  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  shares to reduce the U.S. government’s 77 percent
ownership, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said.  “We can think about using the proceeds if we decide to
sell AIA potentially for  capital management ,” Benmosche said
today at a conference in New York sponsored by Bank of America
Corp. “Capital management means we can buy some of the overhang
from the  U.S. Treasury .”  AIG sold about two-thirds of Hong Kong-based AIA in a 2010
initial public offering to raise funds to repay its government
rescue. The remaining stake in the Asian insurer, valued at
about $13 billion, is part of the collateral backing some
obligations to the government, which must be repaid before
proceeds from an AIA share sale could be used to buy back AIG
shares, Benmosche said.  Benmosche, 67, has focused on improving returns at the New
York-based insurer’s global property-casualty unit and U.S. life
and retirement division after the firm  sold  more than $50
billion in assets to repay a 2008 government rescue that swelled
to $182.3 billion. AIG hasn’t made a decision on what to do with
the AIA shares and would like to pay down its obligations to the
government with other funds, including proceeds from the
eventual sale of its plane-leasing unit, Benmosche said.  Asia ‘Cold’  “We think it pays to wait,” he said. If “a cold comes
over  Asia  and AIA’s back down to HK$20 ($2.58), and AIG is
sitting at $29, it’s going to be pretty tough to want to sell at
that point and buy AIG shares.” AIG fell less than 1 percent in
New York at 9:42 a.m., to $26.57.  AIA rose less than 1 percent to HK$26.85 today in  Hong
Kong . The insurer has climbed about 20 percent in the last 12
months. AIG advanced 15 percent this year through Feb. 14, after
slumping 52 percent in 2011.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold 200 million AIG shares on
May 24 for $29 each. The government needs to receive an average
of at least $28.72 a share to recoup its investment. AIG has
closed below that break-even price every trading day since July
28.  Benmosche said AIG would entertain bids for its plane-
leasing unit, International Lease Finance Corp. The insurer
registered to sell more than 20 percent of the business in an
initial public offering last year and said it would divest most
of ILFC over time.  “People think they can bottom fish, and it’s OK, we’ll
entertain anything,” Benmosche said. “Remember ILFC is big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  