-- AIG Ignored ‘Smoke Signals’ to Cut Europe Risk, Kandarian Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-15T20:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/aig-ignored-smoke-signals-to-cut-europe-risk-metlife-ceo-kandarian-says.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Kandarian , whose company bought an  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  unit in late 2010, said AIG disregarded his hints to
sell European debt held by the business prior to the sale.  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, took a fourth-
quarter impairment of $123 million tied to Greek sovereign debt
holdings. The insurer has been winding down $1.8 billion of
European sovereign debt acquired in the  purchase  of American
Life Insurance Co. from New York-based AIG. Kandarian, who was
chief investment officer at the time, said he tried to get AIG
to sell the debt before the deal was completed.  “I was sending smoke signals to my friends at AIG, ‘Please
sell the peripheral debt,’” Kandarian said today at an investor
conference organized by Bank of America Corp. “But under the
antitrust rules I couldn’t do much more than send smoke signals,
and they chose not to sell.”  Greek 10-year debt dropped 28 percent in the almost eight
months from when the Alico transaction was announced to Nov. 1,
2010, when the deal was completed. The bonds have since plunged
by about two-thirds more. Kandarian, 59, was promoted to CEO in
May of last year.  AIG held $1.03 billion in bonds issued by the Greek
government on March 31, 2010, mostly at Alico and its
subsidiaries, according to a regulatory filing. That holding was
little changed six months later, after the European nation’s
credit rating had been cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and the
country received a bailout.  European Holdings  The portfolio acquired by MetLife included debt from
 Greece ,  Portugal ,  Italy ,  Spain  and Ireland. The investments are
now valued at about $254 million after sales and writedowns,
Kandarian said. MetLife also assumed control of holdings in
European banks through the Alico deal.  AIG’s “exposure to the government of Greece” was
eliminated when the Alico sale closed, the company said in its
third-quarter 2010 regulatory filing. Mark Herr, a spokesman for
AIG, declined to comment.  MetLife recorded a fourth-quarter investment loss of $18
million on the sale of $250 million in securities tied to
European banks, the company said on a separate call today. Talks
over a second Greek aid program have hit a snag as European
leaders are torn between pouring more aid into the struggling
economy or risking a bankruptcy that could roil markets.  “We believe our remaining European exposure is quite
manageable given the size and diversification of our overall
investment portfolio,” said Eric Steigerwalt, MetLife’s interim
chief financial officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 