-- Air Canada Pilots Prefer Contract Talks to Government-Opposed Walkout
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-02-15T21:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/air-canada-pilots-prefer-contract-talks-to-government-opposed-walkout.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  pilots who voted to
authorize a strike said they prefer continuing talks after
walkouts by unions at the country’s biggest airline prompted
government intervention twice in the past year.  “Our members are not the excitable type,” Air Canada
Pilots Association President Paul Strachan said in a telephone
interview. “They are not prone to flying off at the handle, and
they are saying it’s time to engage and come to a negotiated
settlement.”  About 97 percent of members approved a strike mandate, the
union said yesterday. The pilots now have the right to walk off
the job, placing them on equal footing with the carrier, which
has the right to lock them out. Either action would require 72
hours’ advance notice.  Labor Minister Lisa Raitt said both parties agreed to a
six-month negotiation process with two new co-mediators after
government-supervised talks failed to produce a deal by the end
of a cooling-off period yesterday. Raitt told lawmakers in
Ottawa today that she expects the talks to produce an accord.  “The government views  Air Canada (AC/B)  as integral to the
operation of the entire country,” said Paul Tepsich, who
manages the C$65 million ($65.1 million) Advantaged Canadian
High Yield Bond Fund for Scotiabank at High Rock Capital
Management. “Should they actually go on strike, I would think
that the government will mandate them back to work, as we have
seen in the past with other integral Air Canada unions.”  Low Odds  In October, Raitt thwarted a potential strike by referring
a dispute between Montreal-based Air Canada and its flight
attendants to a federal labor tribunal. In June, striking Air
Canada service workers reached a tentative agreement minutes
after the government introduced legislation that would have
forced an end to the labor action.  Air Canada  fell  1 percent to C$1.03 today in Toronto.  “Odds of a strike are very low,” David Tyerman, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve already had two near-strike
situations, and in both cases the government stepped in and
stopped it before the airline was impacted. The most likely
outcome is that there is no strike, no matter how long this goes
on.”  Karl Moore, a professor of business strategy at  Montreal ’s
 McGill University  who specializes in the  airline industry ,
agreed with Tyerman.  ‘Negotiating Tool’  “The government has indicated a couple of times that they
would not want a strike at Air Canada,” Moore said in a
telephone interview. “The strike mandate is just a negotiating
tool to indicate to Air Canada management how unhappy a number
of pilots are. In many ways, it appears the government has taken
away the most powerful tool -- that of a strike -- so the unions
are using whatever they have at hand.”  Talks between pilots and the company began in October 2010.
After rejecting a tentative agreement in May, the pilots are
working under the terms of their last accord, which expired
March 31. That contract froze pay at 2008 rates, the union said.  Pilots are resisting the possible creation of a low-cost
unit that would be based abroad, which the union says would
result in lower salaries. Chief Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu said last week that the company is “evaluating
various models” for a discount carrier, without being more
specific.  Rovinescu cited  Qantas (QAN)  Airways Ltd.’s Jetstar budget unit
on a conference call in May as “perhaps the most notable
example” of a “successful” discount carrier.  Jetstar Model  Jetstar now accounts for almost 20 percent of group sales
at  Australia ’s Qantas, and operates ventures in countries such
as Vietnam and  Singapore .  “We’ve never rejected” the low-cost carrier, Strachan
said yesterday. “What we’ve asked for are fulsome details. Our
CEO has said he’s interested in a Jetstar-type model, and from
our perspective, given what we’ve witnessed in Australia, we
have to be very concerned that any low-cost operator is not
simply offshoring Canadian jobs.”  Canaccord’s Tyerman said he expects an eventual accord that
provides annual wage increases of 2 percent to 3 percent and
creates a “hybrid” pension system for new employees. Pilots
have fought a company proposal to switch from a defined-benefit
pension, which guarantees a specific amount of benefits, to a
defined-contribution plan for new hires.  “The concern is that there will be two classes of citizens
in the pilot ranks at Air Canada: the ones with defined-benefit
pensions and higher wages, and the ones with defined-
contribution pensions and lower wages,” Moore said. “I
appreciate that, but the question is whether this model is
viable anymore given the onset of low-cost competition in  North
America  and around the world.”  Air Canada reported a 2011 net loss of C$249 million, while
smaller rival  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  posted net income of C$148.7
million. Costs at WestJet are 25 percent to 30 percent lower
than at Air Canada, estimated Cameron Doerksen, an analyst at
National Bank Financial in Montreal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  