-- Airbus Told to Swap Aluminum Rivets for Titanium on A380 Jumbo
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-15T16:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/airbus-told-to-swap-aluminum-rivets-for-titanium-on-a380-jumbo.html
Airbus (EAD)  SAS was told by European air
safety authorities to swap some aluminum rivets on its A380
flagship for stronger titanium fasteners, less than a month
after the company was forced to fix cracks on the jet’s wings.  According to a so-called airworthiness directive by
the European Aviation Safety Agency today, six aluminum rivets
used to join fuselage stringers, or stiff pieces of metal to
which the aircraft is fastened, weren’t in compliance with
certification requirements. The rivets were discovered in an
engineering review, said EASA, which made no connection between
the rivets and the hairline cracks found in the A380’s wings.  While the rivets would survive so-called limit load, which
takes into account the maximum stresses likely to be experienced
during flight, fatigue analysis showed the fasteners didn’t
support the ultimate load standard that goes beyond what would
be encountered in real life conditions.  “This condition, if not corrected, could lead to in-flight
loss of the radome in case of rapid decompression, and could
adversely affect the structural integrity of the airplane,”
EASA said the directive. Airlines must replace the rivets within
eight months, EASA said.  EASA spokesman Dominique Fouda didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment. Airbus didn’t immediately have a comment.  The A380 is operated by Emirates, Singapore Airways Ltd.,
 Qantas (QAN) ,  Air France KLM Group (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Korean Air
Lines Co. (003490)  and  China Southern Co. (1055)  The aircraft has two levels and
typically seats about 550 passengers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  