-- Making the Volcker Rule Better for Markets and the Economy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/making-the-volcker-rule-better-for-markets-and-the-economy-view.html
The Volcker rule, a central element
of the U.S. financial reform effort, is facing heavy criticism
as regulators prepare a final version. We encourage them to
stick as close as possible to the rule’s original intent:
severing the links between high-stakes securities trading and
the banking services crucial to the broader economy.  Inspired by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
the  rule  forbids proprietary trading, or the use of a bank’s own
funds to make speculative bets. This has two main aims: prevent
losses on such trades from reducing banks’ ability to lend, and
cut traders off from the taxpayer subsidies implicit in federal
 deposit insurance , emergency central-bank credit and government
bailouts.  In recent days, big banks, investment managers and even the
governments of  Germany ,  Japan  and the U.K. have  lamented  what
they see as the rule’s adverse effects. Their primary complaint
relates to an exemption -- inserted in the legislation by the
finance industry’s lobbyists -- that allows banks to engage in
the business known as market making. This useful activity, which
helps customers buy or sell financial instruments, is dominated
by a handful of U.S. banks. It can be difficult to distinguish
from proprietary trading because both tend to involve buying and
selling for the bank’s own account. Market makers do so in
anticipation of clients’ needs. Prop traders do so solely to
make bets with shareholders’ and creditors’ money.  Impaired Liquidity  The rule’s critics worry that aggressive efforts to
eliminate proprietary trading will complicate market making,
leading banks to charge more for the service or pull out of the
business entirely. This in turn could prompt investors to demand
a higher return to compensate for the extra difficulty in making
trades, thus increasing borrowing costs for governments and
companies. One  study , commissioned by a financial-industry trade
group, estimates that the decreased liquidity -- that is, the
impaired ability to trade quickly and inexpensively -- could add
as much as $43 billion a year in borrowing costs for U.S.
corporations, while knocking as much as $315 billion off the
value of existing corporate bonds.  There are many reasons to question the validity of such
analyses. First, they assume that if the rule puts a chill on
market making, the structure of the market would remain the
same. Unlikely. If big banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. pulled out or charged more, smaller dealers that
are not banks, such as Jefferies Group Inc. and Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, would probably step in to fill at least part of
the void.  The altered environment might also spur new and more
efficient ways to match buyers and sellers, much as high  oil
prices  encourage the development of alternative energy.
Corporations and governments might seek to address the lack of
standardization in bond issues, a characteristic that makes them
much less liquid than stocks.  Second, the Volcker rule’s critics talk as if liquidity is
an unmitigated good. Questionable. Economists from Keynes to
 Larry Summers  -- and more  recently ,  Adair Turner , the chairman
of the U.K. Financial Services Authority -- have  suggested  that
higher transaction costs could be beneficial because they favor
long-term investment over short-term speculative trading.  Beyond that, market makers must always stand ready to take
a client’s trade, no matter what. Consider the financial turmoil
of 2008, when securities firms were trying to get rid of
mortgage-backed investments that were rapidly becoming
worthless. Is it really desirable that federally insured
institutions be among the buyers in such a situation?  Ignoring Benefits  Finally, estimates of the Volcker rule’s costs tend to
ignore its potential benefits, which include protecting the
economy from trading losses. The Government Accountability
Office has  reported  that the six largest U.S. bank holding
companies lost nearly $16 billion on proprietary trading in the
18 months ending December 2008. Assuming banks can lend about
$10 for every dollar in capital, the losses reduced banks’
lending capacity by at least $160 billion, at a time when the
economy desperately needed the money. The GAO’s number doesn’t
fully account for tens of billions of dollars in further losses
on complex mortgage securities, which banks didn’t classify as
proprietary trades.  One genuine danger of the Volcker rule, as currently
written, is that it could impose requirements that nobody can
reasonably follow or enforce. It offers, for example, 17
quantitative measures by which regulators will assess whether
banks’ market-making activities constitute proprietary trading.
Even a genuine market-making operation might look proprietary by
some measures. As a result, regulators will be drawn into
debates with banks about which indicators really matter. The
effect could be chaos -- without actually preventing proprietary
trading.  As they craft the final rule, regulators should pare down
the measures to the few that are most relevant. One to consider
keeping is how much a bank’s market-making desk could lose in
various worst-case scenarios. As long as the value at risk is no
larger than it was before the financial crisis, chances are the
bank isn’t adding any proprietary trading to its market-making
activities. Another is how long the trading desk has been
holding its inventory of securities. Some kinds of distressed
debt can take months to find a buyer, but the average for a big
market-making operation should be a matter of days. A third is
what percentage of trades a desk makes with clients, as opposed
to with other securities dealers. If most trades are with
customers, one can be reasonably sure the bank is engaged in
bona fide market making.  For financial companies that view these measures as too
onerous, regulators could offer an alternative: Allow financial
holding companies to engage in proprietary trading as long as
they split their banking and securities activities into
independent, separately capitalized entities. Regulators in the
U.K. have already adopted this  approach , known as ring-fencing.
The banks wouldn’t be allowed to lend to financial firms, and
the securities side would be subject to capital and liquidity
requirements that vary with size, risk and systemic importance.  The upshot: The securities side won’t enjoy the bank’s
taxpayer-subsidized borrowing costs, and the bank won’t be
directly exposed to trading losses -- fulfilling the Volcker
rule’s intent. Liquidity should hardly be affected at all,
mitigating the concerns of foreign governments and investment
managers.  It’ll be difficult to find a version of the Volcker rule
that executives at the largest U.S. banks will love. But as long
as it makes the economy more resilient to financial shocks
without unduly gumming up markets, it will be good for America.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 