-- Stanford Spent CD Funds on Business, Not Pleasure, Lawyer Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-15T19:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/allen-stanford-spent-cd-funds-on-business-not-pleasure-lawyer-tells-jury.html
R. Allen Stanford invested much of
the millions of dollars he borrowed from investors into growing
businesses prosecutors didn’t consider when they evaluated
Stanford’s operation for fraud, his lawyer told jurors.  “Isn’t it important to tell this jury what he actually did
with the money?” Ali Fazel, Stanford’s lawyer, asked the FBI
agent who reviewed Stanford’s books. “Isn’t it misleading to
say it went into his personal account when clearly these monies
were used for business purposes?”  “All of it was going into his 100-percent-owned companies,
his possessions, his expenditures,” FBI Special Agent Robert
Martin told jurors at Stanford’s criminal fraud trial, now in
its fourth week in federal court in Houston.  “They’re businesses,” Fazel said.  “He spent the money,” Martin replied.  Fazel showed jurors an internal spreadsheet he said
indicated hundreds of millions of dollars in value at Stanford’s
consolidated companies. Martin testified yesterday the
government valued these ventures at “practically zero,”
because they were largely unprofitable and were owned by
Stanford rather than the bank.  ‘Road Map’  “This is a road map that can clearly tell what the
valuations of those companies are, and you never looked at this
document before you told this jury these companies had no
value,” Fazel told Martin. The consolidated companies had “not
only a positive value but positive  cash flow , as of Dec. 31,
2008, and positive cash flow should equate to a positive value
of the company,” he said.  “That’s not always the case,” Martin responded. He
dismissed the spreadsheet as “a mishmash of all kinds of
stuff.”  Stanford, 61, is fighting charges he defrauded investors
through bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Imprisoned as a flight risk
since his indictment in June 2009, Stanford faces as long as 20
years in prison if convicted of the most serious charges against
him.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of secretly borrowing
$2 billion from depositors’ CDs to finance an extravagant
lifestyle and an array of risky ventures, ranging from Caribbean
airlines and real estate developments to cricket tournaments.
Investors were told their money was kept in safe, liquid assets
rather than in speculative ventures.  Actively Consolidating  Stanford’s lawyers have told jurors their client was
actively consolidating more than 100 private ventures onto the
bank’s balance sheet when regulators seized his operations in
February 2009. The attorneys claim that consolidation would have
recapitalized the bank and repaid investors, if regulators
hadn’t stopped it.  Martin testified there was a $7 billion “hole” between
the bank’s actual and reported assets at the time regulators
seized Stanford’s operations on suspicion of fraud in February
2009.  “Does consolidating companies allow you to create billions
of dollars in assets out of thin air?” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Andrew Warren asked Martin. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agent replied that it doesn’t.  Martin said he evaluated Stanford’s side ventures for
profitability to gauge their ability to repay his investment.  “There were several great examples of businesses that just
aren’t worth anything anymore,” the agent said. He told jurors
that Stanford sold his two Caribbean airlines “at a big loss”
after they burned through $333 million. “That’s $333 million in
loans to companies that don’t even belong to Stanford anymore,”
he said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 