-- Amazon.com Said to Be in Talks for Land Near Seattle Campus
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-02-15T19:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/amazon-said-to-be-in-talks-to-purchase-land-near-its-seattle-headquarters.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest
Internet retailer, is in talks to buy land next to its Seattle
headquarters that the company may use for expansion, said two
people with knowledge of the discussions.  The site is being sold by  Clise Properties Inc. , a family-
owned office developer in Seattle. Clise put 12.5 acres (5
hectares) of land up for sale in 2007. The global credit crisis
led to offers falling short of the company’s $600 million
target, prompting it to end talks with potential buyers
including Emaar Properties PJSC of Dubai in April 2008.  Amazon plans to buy part of the Clise parcel, said one of
the people with knowledge of the talks, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The land is
zoned for commercial and residential development, including
towers. The Clise family acquired the property in stages
starting in the late 1920s.  Michele Glisson, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to
comment. Al Clise, chairman of Clise Properties, didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Clise Properties’ triangular parcel is located just north
of  Seattle ’s central business district and immediately south of
South Lake Union, the neighborhood where Amazon moved its
headquarters in 2010. The parcel is bordered by Denny Way,
Westlake Avenue and Fifth Avenue.  Rising Employee Numbers  Amazon employed about 56,200 people, including part-time
workers, as of Dec. 31, up from 20,700 employees at the end of
2008 and 7,500 a decade ago, after the Internet bubble burst,
according to company filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The retailer is considering opening its first physical
store in Seattle in the next few months, the website  Good E-
Reader  reported on Feb. 4, citing sources it didn’t identify.  Companies tend to be less interested in the flexibility
offered by leasing once they establish permanent headquarters,
said  Greg Johnson , president of  Wright Runstad & Co. , the
Seattle-based company that developed  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s campus in
Redmond,  Washington , and leased space to Amazon at its former
headquarters. It makes sense that Amazon would explore buying
land near its new campus to expand, according to Johnson, who
said he has no knowledge of the efforts.  “We saw the same thing with Microsoft 20 years ago,” he
said, adding that ownership gives companies greater control over
amenities to help attract employees. “Once you know this is
your hometown, it starts to make more sense to own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  