-- AMR Unions Urge Early-Exit Plans as Bankrupt Carrier Seeks 13,000 Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/amr-unions-urge-early-exit-plans-to-reduce-planned-job-cuts-in-bankruptcy.html
Unions for  American Airlines ’ flight
attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers urged the bankrupt
carrier to offer incentives for voluntary exits to reduce 13,000
planned job cuts as parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  restructures.  As many as 3,000 members of the  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants  may retire under a program for full pensions
and medical coverage, the union said yesterday. The Transport
Workers Union proposed one-time, $75,000 payments and certain
benefits for ground employees who elect to leave.  The plans countered American’s Feb. 1 strategy to chop
$1.25 billion from annual labor costs at the third-largest U.S.
airline by paring the workforce by about 18 percent, ending
pensions and trimming benefits.  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AMR (AAMRQ) 
would be able to ask the  bankruptcy court  to impose changes if
it can’t reach agreements with unions.  “American wants to get their costs down as quickly as they
can and get the labor contracts resolved as quickly as they
can,” said  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If this moves in that direction,
they should consider it.”  The airline hasn’t assessed the union plans after receiving
them late yesterday, Bruce Hicks, a spokesman, said in an e-
mail. He said American seeks lasting savings while keeping as
many jobs as possible. The Feb. 1 proposal would end the jobs of
2,300 attendants and 8,800 TWU-represented positions.  Lower Salaries  According to the APFA, incentives for members to leave
would let American begin hiring 500 new attendants immediately
at lower salaries than those who would take early retirement.
The proposal also covers employees at regional unit American
Eagle, for which American hasn’t specified any cuts.  “I am calling on management to put this package to our
members immediately, and revise their term sheet factoring in
these new savings,” union President  Laura Glading  said in a
statement. APFA has more than 16,000 members at American.  The TWU, which represents more than 23,000 workers at the
airline, didn’t say how many of its members might take one of
two plans sent to American. One option is for workers at least
55 years old with 10 years of service, with a second early-out
option for those at least 45 and with 10 years on the job.  “It is in short a fair and humane alternative to the
draconian layoff measures currently being contemplated,” TWU
International President Jim Little wrote to American.  American’s planned job cuts also include 400 pilots and
1,400 management and support staff. The company hasn’t disclosed
reductions among customer-service and reservations agents. Two
more executives are leaving in the second round of management
restructuring, American said yesterday.  Executive Departures  Peter Dolara will retire as senior vice president for
 Mexico , Caribbean and  Latin America  and Thomas Del Valle as
senior vice president for airport services and cargo by June 30,
American said. Three executives retired at the end of 2011.  “We must seize every opportunity to streamline and enable
fast, effective decision making,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said in an e-mail to employees yesterday. “This is an
essential part of positioning the new American to win.”  American had a fourth-quarter  net loss  of $1.1 billion,
including $886 million in costs linked to its reorganization and
other items, according to U.S. regulatory filing. Excluding
those items, the loss widened to $209 million from $69 million
on the same basis a year earlier. Revenue rose 7.4 percent to $6
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  