-- Handelsbanken Fourth-Quarter Net Rises
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-02-15T06:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/handelsbanken-fourth-quarter-net-rises.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Sweden ’s
second-largest lender, posted a 5 percent increase in fourth-
quarter profit after reporting higher interest income and lower
loan losses.  Net income rose to 3.05 billion kronor ($458 million) from
2.89 billion kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based bank
said today in a statement. That lagged behind the average 3.11
billion-krona estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Handelsbanken has maintained its strong position on the
funding market,” the bank said in a statement. “Even during the
turbulent fourth quarter, the bank could attract long-term
funding at attractive terms using both senior and covered bond
issues,” it said.  Sweden, home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
banks, wants its lenders to follow stricter capital standards
than those set out by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . Handelsbanken’s core Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.6
percent in the quarter. Finance Minister Anders Borg has said
Swedish lenders face no immediate threat to raise their capital
levels, though banks should be prepared to increase them in the
long term.  Swedish rival  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said yesterday it may need a core
Tier 1 capital ratio of as much as 14.5 percent to meet tougher
Swedish rules.  The lender’s net interest income, the difference between
what the bank earns from lending and what it pays on deposits,
jumped 13 percent to 6.36 billion kronor in the quarter, while
its net commission income fell 12 percent to 1.88 billion
kronor. The lender posted 243 million kronor in net loan losses
in the quarter, 17 percent less than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  