-- AngloGold Profit Retreats, Missing Estimates on Obuasi; Doubles Dividend
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-15T15:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/anglogold-fourth-quarter-profit-drops-misses-estimate-on-obuasi-provision.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest producer of the metal, more than doubled its fourth-
quarter dividend even as profit missed estimates.  Shareholders will receive 2 rand (26 U.S. cents) a share
for the quarter, from 90 cents for the previous three months,
taking the total for last year to 3.80 rand as higher  gold
prices  are boosting its  cash flow , the Johannesburg-based
company said. It may pay 1 rand a quarter this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said on a conference call today.  Adjusted earnings excluding one-time items fell 28 percent
to 6.15 rand a share in the fourth quarter through December from
8.57 rand in the previous three months, lagging the  mean
estimate  of seven analysts for adjusted earnings of 8.69 rand.
Earnings also declined because of a $70 million provision for
the Obuasi mine closure cost in  Ghana , Cutifani told reporters.  Bullion rose 28 percent to an average $1,572.86 an ounce
last year, its 11th year of gains. That helped mitigate the
effects of a 4 percent decline in production to 4.33 million
ounces last year. The company may produce 1.03 million ounces
this quarter to reach 4.3 million or 4.4 million ounces this
year, it said.  AngloGold has “stronger cash flows than we’ve ever seen,”
Cutifani said in a statement today. Gold may trade at an average
of about $1,700 to $1,850 an ounce this year and could break
through $2,000, he said on the conference call.  “Our focus is on pushing our projects through the pipeline
and ensuring continued strong returns for shareholders,”
Cutifani said in the statement.  DRC Projects  AngloGold is looking to dig new mines in  Africa  and  South
America  and extend the life of mines in South Africa to reach an
annual output target of 5.5 million ounces in 2014.  It approved a $416 million life-extension project at its
Mponeng mine in South Africa and the Zaaiplaats phase-two
project for $395 million. In  Guinea , it’s looking to double
production in the next five years, Cutifani said in an interview
from Johannesburg today.  The producer delayed board approval, scheduled for this
month, on its Kibali and Mongbwalu projects in Democratic
Republic of Congo. The board “is expected to receive the final
feasibility document for approval in the coming months,”
AngloGold said of Kibali in a statement today. A study on
Mongbwalu will be submitted to the joint venture board for
approval next month, it said.  ‘Procedural’ Delays  The delays are “procedural,” are not caused by any
“material” issues and won’t affect the projects’ timelines,
Cutifani said in an interview today.  In  South Africa , where the company mines about 40 percent
of its gold, the debate about nationalizing mines has changed to
one on resource rents, and royalties may rise as a result,
Cutifani said.  The threat of nationalization “is not removed but I think
it’s substantially diminished,” Cutifani said in the interview.
AngloGold is “confident in the stability agreements” it has in
Ghana, where the government has formed a committee to review so-
called stability agreements, which incorporate special tax
arrangements for mining companies.  AngloGold fell the most since Oct. 4, slipping 2.9 percent
to 339.90 rand by the close in Johannesburg. The five-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index (JMNNG)  lost 1.1 percent.  Gold advanced 0.8 percent to $1,733.45 an ounce by 3:02
p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  