-- New York Area Factories Unexpectedly Expand at Fastest Pace Since June ’10
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-expands-at-the-fastest-pace-since-june-2010.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in February at the fastest pace since June 2010, a sign
factories are propelling the expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  increased to 19.5 this month from 13.5 in January. The
index exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern
 New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Investment in new equipment and inventory restocking this
quarter will help keep American factories expanding even as
slower global growth limits exports. A pickup in  job creation 
that helps drive bigger gains in  consumer spending  may further
fuel production.  “Given all that’s going on in the world, manufacturing is
pretty healthy,”  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto, said before the report. “We’ve seen
a pretty marked turnaround in manufacturing.”  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey of 56
economists called for a gain to 15. Estimates ranged from 10 to
18.  The Empire State gauge of factory orders grew at a slower
pace, easing to 9.7 this month from 13.7 in January. A measure
of shipments increased to 22.8 from 21.7 and employment was
little changed at 11.8 from 12.1.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now declined to 50.4 from a one-year high of 54.9.  U.S. Manufacturing  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s report on U.S. manufacturing. The Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge, to be released tomorrow, rose two points to 9,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
national ISM factory data will be released on March 1.  Manufacturing output, which makes up 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy  and about 6 percent of the New York economy, has picked
up after a lull in the third quarter as consumers purchased more
cars and businesses boosted inventory levels.  Since November, “we’ve actually seen some improvements in
backlogs,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of consumer
packaging at International Paper Co., said on a Feb. 2
conference call. “For at least the last three weeks, we’ve felt
very good about the demand. From a North American perspective,
the softness is behind us, and we feel much better about the
first quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  