-- Apollo’s Black Pitches European Credit to Texas Fund for Low-Risk Value
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/apollo-s-leon-black-pitches-european-credit-to-texas-fund-board.html
Wall Street private equity leaders
 Leon Black  and  George Roberts  told Texas’s largest public
pension it can meet an 8 percent annual return target by
investing in distressed European assets and commodities.  Regulators are forcing sales of more than 1.5 trillion
euros of assets, offering the chance to “cherry pick” the best
investments, Black, 60, said yesterday at a Texas Teacher
Retirement System board meeting in Lubbock.  The $104.3 billion fund agreed in November to invest $3
billion each with  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , where Black is
chairman, and  KKR & Co.  Roberts, a KKR co-chairman, joined Black
in outlining their views on global markets, investments and the
pension’s goal of achieving an 8 percent return.  “You are really in a good position to do that,” said
Roberts, a 68-year-old Houston native who started KKR with
Jerome Kohlberg and  Henry Kravis  in 1976. He cited energy
investments that provide returns of as much as 5 percentage
points more than high-yield bonds, with less risk. The fund is
working with the firms on investing in  Europe , real estate and
energy, said Steve LeBlanc, a senior managing director.  Roberts’s bullish view contrasts with the actuary adviser
to the $234 billion  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest U.S. public pension, who has suggested 
reducing its assumed rate of return on assets from the current
7.75 percent. The benchmark is used to estimate how much money
will be needed from contributors to cover promised benefits.  2.6 Percent Return  The Texas fund had a five-year return of about 2.6 percent
through September, according to estimates from Hewitt EnnisKnup
Inc. included in board documents.  Large funds have more leverage to bargain with outside
managers for lower fees and more investment options. Public
pensions provided 25 percent of assets managed by private equity
firms from 2009 to 2011, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-
based researcher.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private equity
firm, agreed to manage as much as $1.5 billion in New Jersey
pension money under a fee structure that includes 1 percent of
invested assets and an average of 15 percent of gains each year,
Robert E. Grady, chairman of the New Jersey Investment Council,
said in December. That’s lower than the industry’s traditional
“2 and 20” arrangement that pays a 2 percent management fee
and 20 percent of profits.  The Texas teachers’ fund has refused to disclose fee
agreements with KKR and Apollo, citing state law that permits it
to withhold such information from public view. Yesterday,
Roberts alluded to fees in commenting on the new agreement.  ‘Painfully Better Terms’  “It gives you substantially, painfully better terms than
many of your competitors,” he said. Along with Blackstone, KKR
and Apollo rank among the largest publicly traded private equity
firms. All three are based in  New York .  The pension system began broadening its commitments to
 hedge funds , private equity and other outside managers starting
in 2006, when Britt Harris became chief investment officer.
Harris oversaw changes that led to a doubling in such
partnerships to 200 last year, while its asset allocation
targets shifted away from stocks.  The Teacher fund’s target allocation of assets in U.S.
stocks fell to 20 percent in 2011 from 47 percent in 2006. The
amount invested in private equity, hedge funds, commodities and
real estate rose to 36 percent from 8.7 percent in 2006, plan
documents show.  The pension’s overseers spent $658.1 million on investment
fees and expenses last year, or 0.542 percent of assets, up from
$120.9 million, or 0.117 percent, in 2006, according to
documents prepared for today’s meeting. The system said the
industry median for such costs was 0.535 percent in 2011.  For the most recent 12-month period, ending in September,
the fund gained about 3.6 percent. By comparison, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. equities  returned  about 1.1 percent in
that time, including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas , at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 