-- Apple Overtakes Samsung to Become Biggest Smartphone Vendor
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-15T10:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/apple-becomes-biggest-smartphone-vendor-gartner-reports-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  passed Samsung
Electronics Co. to become the world’s biggest smartphone vendor
in the fourth quarter on surging sales of its iPhone, Gartner
Inc. said.  Almost a quarter of smartphones sold were iPhones as
Apple’s market share rose to 23.8 percent from 15.8 percent a
year earlier, the Stamford, Connecticut-based researcher said.
Apple sold 35.5 million smartphones to consumers while Samsung
sold 34 million, Gartner said.  Global sales of such handsets that use computerlike
processors and can handle business e-mail and streaming video
increased 47 percent to 149 million units. Apple’s sequential
growth may slow this quarter as pent-up demand was largely sated
by holiday sales, Roberta Cozza, a Gartner analyst based in
Egham, U.K., said in an interview.  “The wild card for 2012 is  China ,” Cozza said. “If Apple
closes a deal with China Telecom or China Mobile they could see
their units double in that market.”  Gartner forecast 39 percent growth in smartphones this
year, slowing from 58 percent last year. Google Inc.’s Android
software ran on more than half of all smartphones sold,
according to Gartner.  Nokia Declines  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s smartphone market share fell to 12 percent,
from about 30 percent a year earlier, putting it third, Cozza
said. Nokia’s share declined as the Finnish company shifted its
focus to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone software and phased out
the 10-year-old Symbian line.  The introduction of Nokia’s Lumia handsets didn’t stem a
decline in Microsoft’s market share, which dropped to 1.9
percent from 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter, Gartner said.
Cozza said she expects Windows Phone to reach an 8.6 percent
share of smartphones by the end of the year.  Apple’s smartphone success made it the world’s third-
largest vendor of handsets overall, passing LG Electronics Co.,
which fell to fifth place behind ZTE Corp. Nokia kept its
position as the biggest vendor with a 23.4 percent share,
narrowing its lead over  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to 4 percentage
points.  Gartner forecast overall mobile phone growth to be 7
percent this year, slowing from 11.1 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  