-- Apple Tightens Rules on IPhone Applications That Access Users’ Addresses
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-15T21:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/apple-tightens-rules-on-apps-that-can-access-users-addresses.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  tightened its rules over
software that accesses address-book information, following a
controversy over social-networking applications such as Path
uploading users’ contacts data without permission.  Apple is changing its policy to require app makers to get
users’ approval before uploading data from their address books,
said  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple. Applications that
upload contact-list information will need to be updated to meet
the new requirements or be removed from Apple’s  App Store .  “Apps that collect or transmit a user’s contact data
without their prior permission are in violation of our
guidelines,” Neumayr said. “As we have done with location
services, any app wishing to access contact data will require
explicit user approval in a future software release.”  The change follows criticism of the social-networking
application Path, which was discovered to be uploading and
storing users’ address-book information. Path Chief Executive
Officer Dave Morin  apologized  to users last week for accessing
their contacts without permission and vowed to delete all the
data.  Accessing address data has become a widespread, little-
known practice among many developers for the iPhone, said Alex
Stamos, vice president of ISec Partners, a security consulting
firm with offices in San Francisco,  Seattle  and  New York .  “It’s extremely common,” Stamos said.  Routine Practice?  The approach is often used to see if other people in
someone’s address book are also using the same app. Users don’t
realize it’s happening because they aren’t asked before the
information is taken, Stamos said. That contrasts with the
policy for accessing location data, which requires people to
give permission before the information is made available.  In addition to Path, applications that have been accessing
address-book information include Facebook, Twitter,  Instagram ,
Foursquare, Foodspotting, Yelp and Gowalla, according to a
 VentureBeat report  yesterday.  Accessing the address-book information is drawing scrutiny
in  Washington , where two lawmakers submitted questions to Apple
about the practice today. The matter gained attention when a
developer, Arun Thampi, wrote in  a blog post  that he had
discovered Path was accessing and collecting the contents of his
iPhone address book without his consent.  “This incident raises questions about whether Apple’s iOS
app developer policies and practices may fall short when it
comes to protecting the information of iPhone users and their
contacts,” U.S. House representatives Henry A. Waxman and G.K. Butterfield said in  a letter  to Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook .  Apple faced questions from lawmakers last year about how
user location data was been accessed and stored. Along with
other companies, Apple testified before House and Senate
committees to defend their privacy practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  