-- Apple Asks for Court Approval to Sue Bankrupt Kodak in N.Y. Over Patents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-15T15:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/apple-seeks-permission-to-sue-bankrupt-kodak-for-infringement.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  asked a bankruptcy judge
for permission to sue Eastman Kodak Co. over allegations it’s
infringing patents that Apple says cover technologies used in
printers, digital cameras and digital picture frames.  Apple said in a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in New York that it intends to file a complaint against Kodak at
the International Trade Commission and a corresponding suit in
U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  based on patent-infringement
claims. The suit will seek an order blocking Kodak’s
infringement, according to the filing.  While arguing bankruptcy law doesn’t prevent the filing of
infringement suits against a company in court protection,
“Apple requests express authority from this court before it
initiates the actions out of an abundance of caution,” the
company’s lawyers wrote in the filing.  Kodak will have the right to ask the court to halt the
district court case until the ITC makes its ruling, though a
court order on that request “is not required before Apple
commences” its lawsuits, Apple said in the filing.  Apple previously claimed it is the true owner of the image-
preview patent that is the subject of infringement claims lodged
against Apple and  Research in Motion Ltd . The Cupertino,
California-based company contends that it developed a digital
camera in the early 1990s that it shared with Kodak, and that
Kodak then sought the patent on the technology. Kodak has denied
the allegations.  ITC Rejection  The U.S. International Trade Commission rejected the
ownership arguments in a case that’s still pending at the
Washington agency. Those arguments are also an issue in the
lawsuit now on hold in federal court in Rochester,  New York . In
yesterday’s filing, Apple asked to move that case to Manhattan.  Apple has objected to a patent-infringement complaint that
Kodak filed last month at the ITC against Apple and HTC Corp. In
a Feb. 7 filing with the agency, Apple argued that the ITC
shouldn’t investigate the complaint because of the bankruptcy
filing and the company’s plan to sell its patents and digital
camera business.  “It is against the public interest for the commission to
expend its resources initiating and prosecuting an investigation
when it is known, based on Kodak’s own admissions, that Kodak
will be selling the asserted patents and divesting itself of the
parts of its business” that are part of the ITC case.  Licenses Sought  Kodak, in a Feb. 10 response, said the bankruptcy doesn’t
alter the fact that the company has invested in digital imaging
technology and continues to seek licenses for its inventions.
The commission is scheduled to decide by Feb. 23 whether it will
institute the investigation.  “Apple should not be using the bankruptcy to seek to
disrupt Kodak’s enforcement of its patents given that infringers
like Apple, who continue to violate Kodak’s intellectual
property rights and refuse to properly compensate it, have
contributed to Kodak’s current circumstances,” Kodak wrote.  Kodak, the photography pioneer that introduced its $1
Brownie Camera more than a century ago, filed for bankruptcy
Jan. 19 after consumers embraced digital cameras, a technology
Kodak invented and failed to commercialize.  The company, based in Rochester, listed assets of $5.1
billion and debt of $6.8 billion in Chapter 11 documents.  Andrew Dietderich, a lawyer for Kodak, didn’t immediately
return a call yesterday after regular business hours seeking
comment on Apple’s filing.  The case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  