-- Apple Analyst Zabitsky Is Lone ‘Sell’ Holdout as IPad Maker’s Stock Climbs
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-15T21:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/apple-analyst-zabitsky-is-lone-sell-holdout-as-ipad-maker-s-stock-climbs.html
Edward Zabitsky is the only person
among at least 56 analysts whose  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  ratings are tracked
by Bloomberg who recommends that investors “sell” the shares.  Zabitsky, who analyzes equities for Toronto-based ACI
Research, said he’s sticking to the view even after the shares
soared past $500 and extended Apple’s lead as the world’s most
valuable company, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Blog.  Margins on the iPhone, Apple’s best-selling  product , will
come under pressure as competing handsets, such as those
sporting Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. software, gain wider
acceptance, Zabitsky said. Rivals, including  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , may get a boost from a new Web standard called HTML5 that’s
designed to improve access to software tools on mobile devices,
bolstering alternatives to the iPhone, he said.  “I should have waited for there to be more adoption, but
intellectually, I feel good about the call,” Zabitsky said.  Prices on the iPhone may decline as Apple takes steps to
compete with Android and Windows phones, he predicted. The gross
margin on the device may fall to 25 percent, putting it on par
with the iPad and Mac computers, from more than 50 percent now,
Zabitsky predicted.  One of the biggest beneficiaries may be Samsung, which can
undercut competitors because it also makes many of the parts
used in devices, the analyst said.  “If a price war breaks out in Android phones, Samsung wins
hands down,” he says.  IPhone Alternatives?  Zabitsky is placing a big bet on HTML5. Applications based
on the standard will give users added flexibility in accessing
Web-based tools on a handset, creating a more viable alternative
to the iPhone, according to Zabitsky.  If that standard takes off, customers will be able to get
to most of their favorite services without the need of Apple’s
app ecosystem. The move to speedier 4G cellular networks and the
increased availability of Wi-Fi hot spots will also make the Web
apps more useful.  Zabitsky is not the only one to predict the fall of Apple.
The AAPLinvestors blog maintains a list of bearish predictions
on its  iPhone Death Watch  page.  That list includes a few of Zabitsky’s calls. In 2009, for
instance, he predicted that Apple’s hardware “will eventually
become irrelevant.” Apple’s shares were about $210 then.  Apple’s stock slipped 2.3 percent to $497.67 today, two
days after closing above $500 for the first time. Zabitsky had a
target price of $270 as of January. That compares with $575.56,
the 12-month consensus  estimate  among analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, and the $700 price set by Daniel Ernst, an analyst at
Hudson Square Research.  Zabitsky said it hasn’t been easy sticking by his sell
recommendation, which is more than a year old. Zabitsky said he
didn’t foresee how poorly  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
would fare in comparison with Apple.  Apple isn’t the only one on his negative list. He’s got a
sell on 12 of 15 companies, including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  His only buys are on
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , the European telecommunications equipment maker,
and a company called  Emcore Corp. (EMKR) , which makes optical
components for the networking industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  