-- Marriott Misses Estimates as Hotel Operator’s Quarterly Profit Falls 18.5%
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-02-15T22:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/marriott-s-fourth-quarter-earnings-miss-estimate-from-analysts.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, reported fourth-
quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates as demand from
business groups remained weak.  Net income fell to $141 million, or 41 cents a share, from
$173 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company said today in a statement. Adjusted
earnings, excluding items related to its timeshare business spun
off in November, were 46 cents a share, less than the 47-cent
average  estimate  of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Marriott was hampered by its exposure to group and
convention business, which is recovering “at a much slower
rate” than individual corporate and leisure travel, according
to Patrick Scholes, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp.  “ North America  has definitely been weaker, particularly in
the group segment,” Scholes said in an interview before
earnings were announced.  Marriott, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, said
comparable revenue per available room rose 6.4 percent at hotels
system-wide in North America, and 5.9 percent worldwide. In
October, Marriott said it expected revpar, an industry measure
of occupancy and rate, to grow 5 percent to 7 percent in the
fourth quarter.  The company said today that it expects revpar before
adjustments for currency fluctuations to climb 5 percent to 6
percent this quarter in North America, 4 percent to 5 percent
outside North America and 5 percent to 6 percent worldwide. For
the full year, Marriott expects revpar to increase 5 percent to
7 percent in all regions.  Share Buybacks  Marriott last week said it would buy back an additional 35
million shares, bringing the number of shares authorized for
repurchase to 40 million. The company said it may return $1
billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends if as
much as $750 million in planned investments aren’t realized.  Fourth-quarter earnings were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Marriott fell 1.1 percent to $34.73 today
in  New York .  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc ., owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, on Feb. 2 said fourth-quarter
profit fell after a payment from a lawsuit settlement boosted
year-earlier earnings and demand in  Europe  weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  