-- Asian Currencies Advance on China Plan to Help Resolve Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-02-15T08:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/asian-currencies-advance-on-china-plan-to-help-resolve-europe-debt-crisis.html
The Philippine peso and  South
Korea ’s won led gains among Asian currencies after  China  pledged
to invest in  Europe ’s bailout fund to help ease the region’s
debt crisis.  The country with the world’s biggest currency reserves is
ready to participate in programs including the European
Financial Stability Facility, People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said in a speech today, echoing comments made
yesterday by Premier Wen Jiabao. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia 
Dollar Index gained 0.15 percent after touching a two-week low
as European leaders canceled a meeting slated for today to
discuss a bailout plan for Greece.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 42.643 per dollar as of
the close in  Manila , after losing as much as 0.4 percent earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won closed 0.2
percent stronger at 1,121.40 and  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened
0.2 percent to NT$29.535.  “The market always welcomes reassurances about China’s
participation in the Europe situation,” said Sim Moh Siong, a
currency strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “The immediate
concern is still the Greek issue. China’s firepower will be
useful at a later stage.”  China had currency  reserves  of $3.18 trillion at the end of
2011, according to official data. Europe is the Asian nation’s
biggest export market, making up about 18 percent of its
overseas sales.  European finance ministers will hold a teleconference after
canceling a Brussels meeting to prod Greece to do more to clinch
130 billion euros ($171 billion) of aid along with about 100
billion euros of debt relief from private bondholders.  Greece 
needs the funds to make a 14.5 billion euro payment to
bondholders in March.  Fund Inflows  Nine of the 10 most-traded currencies in Asia excluding the
yen gained this year as global funds bought $14.7 billion more
South Korean, Taiwanese and Indian equities than they sold,
according to exchange data.  Developing Asia may expand 7.3 percent this year, compared
with 1.8 percent growth in the U.S. and a contraction of 0.5
percent in the euro area, according to estimates released last
month by the  International Monetary Fund .  The won gained as international investors were net  buyers 
of the nation’s equities for an eighth straight day and the
Kospi index of shares rose by the most in a week.  “The won will move within a range until Greek issues are
settled,” said Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst
at Daeshin Securities Co. “Exporters selling the dollar to
benefit from a weaker won may” provide some support to the
local currency, he said.  Malaysia’s Growth  The ringgit fell 0.4 percent earlier to this month’s
weakest level. A central bank report at 6 p.m. local time may
show the economy cooled last quarter. Gross domestic product
rose 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 after increasing
5.8 percent in the third, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The ringgit is trading on a weaker bias on expectations
that the Malaysian economy will slow,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman,
a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “The currency should trade within a tight range ahead
of Greece’s debt ratification.”  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 9,044
per dollar.  India ’s rupee climbed 0.1 percent to 49.3350 and the
Thai baht was little changed at 30.83 as was China’s yuan at
6.3000. Malaysia’s ringgit traded at 3.0415 compared with 3.0428
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  