-- U.S. Stocks, Euro Decline on Concern Greece Moving Closer to Debt Default
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-15T21:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/asia-stocks-rise-euro-falls-on-europe-concern.html
U.S. stocks and the euro fell as
concern grew that  Greece  was moving closer to default and
 Federal Reserve  minutes showed policy makers were divided on
buying more assets. Oil led gains in commodities on reports that
 Iran  halted shipments to Europe.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  lost 0.5 percent to 1,343.23 at 4
p.m. in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 97.33
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,780.95. The euro lost 0.5 percent
to $1.3068 and weakened versus 13 of 16 major peers. The S&P
GSCI Index rose 0.6 percent as oil jumped to a one-month high.
Ten-year Treasury yields fell less than one basis point to 1.93
percent, trimming a drop of as much as four points.  Concern that Greece will miss a debt payment next month
grew as a decision slated for tonight on 130 billion euros ($171
billion) of aid was postponed until at least Feb. 20 and
possibly until after a full-time Greek government emerges from
elections later in the year. Minutes of the Fed’s last meeting
showed a few policy makers said the central bank may have to
consider purchasing more securities soon, while others said the
economic outlook would have to worsen.  “I don’t think we’re anywhere near the end of the crisis
in  Europe ,” Howard Ward, who helps oversee $36 billion at Mario
Gabelli’s Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye, New York, said in a
telephone interview. In the U.S., “after better-than- expected
economic data and with GDP forecasts being revised higher, the
chances of QE3 are not as good as they were previously,” he
said, referring to a potential third round of quantitative
easing by the Federal Reserve.  Juncker’s Confidence  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said he’s
confident euro-area finance ministers will make a decision on a
bailout for Greece at their next meeting on Feb. 20. Juncker,
chairman of the group, issued a statement after the ministers
held a conference call today on the Greek package.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost 2.3 percent to halt an eight-day rally, its
longest since July, and helped lead the market lower after an
early gain. Marbridge Consulting said the company asked
Amazon.com Inc.’s China website to stop selling the iPad amid a
patent dispute, while traders speculated the stock’s recent
surge may cause Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. to cut its weighting in
the Nasdaq-100 Index. The shares make up  16.5 percent  of the
index, almost twice as much as Microsoft Corp., the gauge’s next
biggest stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  United Technologies Corp., Chevron Corp. and Caterpillar
Inc. lost at least 1.4 percent to lead declines in the Dow.
Deere & Co. slumped 5.4 percent after the largest maker of
agricultural equipment lowered its forecast for revenue from
U.S. farmers. Industrial, financial and technology companies
were the biggest drag on the  S&P 500  as nine of the 10 main
groups retreated.  Fed Minutes  The Fed minutes showed that a few members said economic
conditions “could warrant the initiation of additional
securities purchases before long,” while “other members
indicated that such policy action could become necessary if the
economy lost momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain”
below 2 percent in the medium run.  Fed data earlier in the day showed  production  at U.S.
factories increased in January, reflecting gains in demand for
automobiles and business equipment that may keep manufacturing
at the forefront of the expansion. Output at factories rose 0.7
percent after a revised 1.5 percent gain in December that was
the largest in five years, the figures showed. A 2.5 percent
decline in utility output prompted by the fourth-warmest January
on record caused total industrial output to be little changed,
trailing forecasts for a 0.7 percent increase.  A separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in February at the fastest pace since June 2010.  Oil, Iran  Oil for March delivery rose $1.06 to $101.80 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
Jan. 10. Brent oil for April settlement increased $1.58, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $118.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Iran stopped crude exports to  France  and the Netherlands
and threatened to end shipments to four other European
countries, state-run Mehr news agency reported, citing an
unidentified official at the National Iranian Oil Co. U.S. oil
supplies unexpectedly decreased in the week ended Feb. 10, an
Energy Department report showed.  Half of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index
advanced, while half fell. Natural gas dropped the most in two
weeks, dropping 4.2 percent to $2.425 per million British
thermal units, amid forecasts for warmer-than-normal weather in
the eastern U.S.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  closed 0.6 percent higher after
China’s comments and better-than-estimated earnings from
companies including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  to Heineken NV. BNP Paribas,
France’s largest bank, and Heineken, the world’s third-biggest
brewer, rose more than 3.6 percent. Clariant AG advanced 5.7
percent after earnings exceeded projections and the chemical
maker said it may sell its textile and paper units.  Europe’s economy shrank less than economists forecast in
the fourth quarter as a better-than-predicted performance in
 Germany  and France helped mitigate the region’s first
contraction since 2009. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation
euro area fell 0.3 percent from the prior three months, the
first drop since the second quarter of 2009, the EU’s statistics
office said today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.9 percent as
benchmark gauges in  India ,  Taiwan  and  Russia  rose more than 1
percent.  In European bond markets, yields climbed at least 15 basis
points on Italian, Spanish and Greek 10-year debt. Germany’s 10-
year bund yield fell four basis points to 1.86 percent, the
lowest in almost two weeks.  The euro weakened the most against the currencies of Taiwan
and  South Korea  and reversed an early 0.5 percent gain versus
the yen.  ‘Playing With Fire’  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that
Europe’s wealthier countries are “playing with fire” by
considering expelling the nation from the 17-nation euro
currency as talks over a second aid program ran into new
obstacles. Greek President Karolos Papoulias slammed Germany’s
finance minister for recent comments about his country as
stalled bailout talks stoked tensions between Greece and the
northern European countries funding its rescue  Stocks and the euro climbed earlier after People’s Bank of
 China  Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing today that his
nation will continue to buy European debt and participate more
in the region’s rescue efforts.  ‘More Involved’  “Yesterday Premier  Wen Jiabao , during the China-EU summit,
said explicitly that China will continue to, under the principle
of security, liquidity and increasing value, invest in European
government debt, and will get more involved in efforts to help
resolve the European debt crisis via all possible channels,”
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing
today.  At stake for China is helping to stabilize the economy of
its largest market amid a global slowdown that has curtailed
export growth.  “It’s very clear that China realized the costs of a
possible European recession that spreads to the rest of the
world,” James Swanson, who oversees about $200 billion as chief
investment strategist at Boston-based  MFS Investment Management ,
said in a telephone interview. “Yet they haven’t fixed their
problems and China can’t fix their problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  