-- Asian Government Bonds to Rally on Slowing Inflation, Western Asset Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-02-15T05:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/asian-government-bonds-to-rally-on-slowing-inflation-western-asset-says.html
Moderating inflationary pressures
and growth-focused policies in Asia will support the region’s
 government bonds , according to  Western Asset  Management Co.  “The rate-hike cycle appears to have come to an end for
most Asian countries, and a shift to accommodative monetary
policies in the near term will provide upside potential to
government bonds,” Chia-Liang Lian, the Singapore-based head of
investment management for Asia excluding  Japan  at Western Asset,
said in a press release sent to Bloomberg today. Western Asset,
which manages $443 billion of assets globally, is part of
Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc.  Asian policy makers are in a “very favorable position” to
employ expansionary measures as their governments have strong
balance sheets, while slower global growth will lead to reduced
inflationary pressure, Lian said.  India’s inflation rate, the highest in  Asia ’s 10 largest
economies, dropped to a two-year low of 6.55 percent in January,
official data show. Consumer prices in  South Korea (KOCPIYOY)  and the
Philippines increased at the slowest pace in a year, while
 Indonesia (IDCPIY) ’s recorded the smallest gain since March 2010.  China ’s  inflation  rate could slip below 4 percent for the
first time in 17 months in February and the full-year rate will
see a “clear deceleration” from 2011, Zhou Wangjun, vice
director of the pricing department at the National Development
and Reform Commission, said in a Feb. 13 webcast with the
official Xinhua News Agency.  Among Asian currencies, Western Asset favors South Korea’s
won, the Singapore dollar, Malaysia’s ringgit, Indonesia’s
rupiah, China’s yuan and the Philippine peso, Lian said.  Lian, who previously worked as an economist at the Monetary
Authority of Singapore, joined Western Asset last year from
Pacific Investment Management Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  