-- Lasry Sees Europe Bankruptcy Bonanza as Bad Debts Obscure Assets
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 7 6 2 1 8 ]   G i l l i a n   W e e   [ ]
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/lasry-sees-europe-bankruptcy-bonanza-as-bad-debts-obscure-assets.html
Avenue Capital Group founder  Marc Lasry  and Bruce Grossman, his senior manager of investment, were
on a private jet returning to New York from Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, in 2005 when they felt the plane’s cabin suddenly
heat up.  Outside the window, smoke billowed from one of the engines.
The two men looked at each other and remained wordless until the
plane landed safely back in Harrisburg.  Grossman wanted to get home by car or train. Instead, he
says, Lasry persuaded him to take another flight, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its March issue.  “He said, ‘If you don’t get on this plane right now, you’re
going to have a much harder time getting on a plane,’” Grossman
says. “One of his greatest strengths is that he believes things
are going to work out.”  Lasry’s optimism carries over into his investing, where he
specializes in picking up bankrupt or distressed assets that
others shun and selling them at a profit. After starting Avenue
in 1995 with $7 million in capital, he manages about $12
billion, including about $9 billion in institutional money and
$3 billion in hedge-fund assets as of mid-January. “The names in
our portfolio will ultimately be worth a lot of money,” says
Lasry, 52, a bankruptcy lawyer by training who shares control of
Avenue with his sister Sonia Gardner. “I just need time. People
have a natural aversion to investing in companies in
bankruptcy.”  Down 10 Percent  Things haven’t always worked out for Lasry. Last year, his
hedge fund fell about 10 percent, twice the 4.9 percent average
decline for the industry, according to the Bloomberg aggregate
hedge-fund index. Lasry saw some of his bets, including
investments in a Greek casino company, lose money. He has also
returned $9 billion to investors since late 2010, shrinking
Avenue’s assets under management from more than $20 billion.  That hasn’t deterred Lasry, who says he sees the biggest
opportunities in  Europe , where he expects that the sovereign-
debt crisis will cause an increase in distressed assets and
defaulted loans. Avenue is raising a fund of more than $2.5
billion that will focus on  Germany , the  Nordic countries ,
Switzerland and the U.K., where Lasry says the legal systems are
more protective of creditors’ rights than those in southern
Europe.  As of mid-January, he had raised $2.1 billion. An earlier
European fund that invested more than $2.6 billion in pubs,
casinos and other beaten-down assets has generated average
annualized returns of 19.3 percent since it began in May 2008,
ranking it in the top 25 percent of its peers, according to
research group Preqin Ltd. in  London .  Emigrated from Morocco  Avenue will have to compete against other distressed-asset
investors for bargains in Europe. In 2011, private-equity firms
raised 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion) on the continent -- a
record, according to Preqin. Oaktree Capital Management LP
raised 3 billion euros last year, the biggest Europe fund on
record, while  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  raised 1.4 billion
euros in 2010, Preqin says.  “Any type of turnaround or distressed strategy is the
flavor of the years to come,” says Antoine Drean, chief
executive officer and founder of global placement agent Triago
SA in Paris, which helps firms raise money.  The son of a computer programmer and a schoolteacher, Lasry
emigrated to the U.S. from  Morocco  with his family when he was 7
and spoke no English. Today, he credits his adopted country with
providing the opportunities that made him a billionaire.  Supporting Democrats  He says he’s giving back by supporting the  Democratic
Party . He gave the maximum $30,800 to President Barack Obama’s
re-election campaign last year. Lasry also is close to Bill and
 Hillary Clinton  and employed their daughter, Chelsea, as an
analyst from 2006 to 2008.  “I’ve been phenomenally successful, and this is the only
country I could have done it in,” says Lasry, who attended
college on a scholarship. “You’re supposed to be out there
helping others. Because of the fact that we came here as
immigrants, we became Democrats. We grew up that way.”  Lasry’s penchant for battered assets extends to his Park
Avenue headquarters in New York; it’s located on a former  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  trading floor. Avenue leased the space at
a 50 percent discount in 2010, two years after Lehman’s
bankruptcy. Lasry, a fan of superheroes since childhood,
installed life-size Superman and Batman figures in the
lunchroom, along with a Ping-Pong table.  Superman Comics  His personal office is adorned with a 3-by-4-foot (1-by-
1.2-meter) Andy Warhol print of Superman flying with one arm
outstretched, four sets of framed Superman comic strips and
pictures of his wife, Cathy, and their five children, one of
whom now works in the White House.  Gardner, 49, the firm’s president and managing partner,
sits around the corner. Also a lawyer, Gardner oversees the
accounting, investor relations, technology and legal teams at
the 280-employee firm, which has 10 branches around the world.
Gardner displays a picture of her son in her office, and photos
of Britain’s Prince William. She sits on the board of New York-
based  100 Women in Hedge Funds , which has raised $2 million for
the prince’s philanthropic causes such as the Child Bereavement
Charity.  Most of the dealmaking falls to Lasry, who took charge of
the task after parting ways with Grossman, who’d been at Avenue
for about a decade and now runs Dillon Hill Capital LLC, a
family office in Armonk,  New York . The split came in 2009, after
Avenue’s hedge fund plunged 25 percent amid a global market
meltdown and the value of its institutional investments dropped
30 percent.  Poker Partners  Lasry and Grossman disagreed about how to invest throughout
2008, both men say. Grossman wanted to scale back on investing
while the markets were unstable. Lasry, who plays poker about
once a month with fellow Wall Street luminaries such as Cliff Asness, who runs hedge fund AQR Capital Management LLC, and
Morgan Stanley quant trader Peter Muller, says it was a very
good time to invest.  In 2009, for instance, Avenue started buying the bank debt
of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  at 50 cents on the dollar.  As General Motors
Corp. (GM)  and  Chrysler Corp. (2251Q)  filed for bankruptcy and Ford wobbled,
the debt’s price went down to 40 cents and then 30 cents. Lasry
kept buying, betting that the loans would rebound, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Ford Pays Off  He was right: Ford turned out to be the only U.S. automaker
to avoid filing for  bankruptcy protection  that year. By the end
of 2010, Lasry had more than doubled his money on the Ford bet,
the person said.  Avenue also bought the debt of Punch Taverns Plc, a U.K.
pub operator, at about 50 cents on the dollar in 2009. As
Punch’s stock market value plummeted 98 percent and ratings
firms downgraded its bonds, Lasry amassed a stake with a face
value of more than $150 million. Since then, Punch has named a
new CEO and announced a plan to split into two companies, to
sell pubs and reduce debt. As of mid-January, the bonds were
trading at about 75 cents on the dollar.  Lasry’s strategy is to make hundreds of similar, relatively
small investments, instead of finding a few giant hits.  David Bonderman , a founding partner of private-equity firm TPG
Capital, helped Lasry raise his first institutional fund and met
Lasry while both worked for Texas billionaire Robert Bass.  Beating Bonderman  “Marc is an instinctual kind of guy,” says Bonderman, who
once played cards with Lasry on an overnight flight to Morocco
for a penny a point. (Bonderman lost 11 cents.) “He’s a card
player. He’s good at figuring out what the odds are. He’s
willing to take moderate risk.”  Lasry says he works with five portfolio managers to decide
which industries to focus on and at what price to start buying.
The goal is to find companies that will generate returns of
about 20 percent.  Overall, Avenue’s funds have delivered gains from 8.6
percent to 20.7 percent since inception, according to investor
documents. Recent years have been more volatile. His hedge fund
gained 66 percent before fees in 2009 and then 20 percent in
2010 before last year’s loss. Clients include state pension
funds and  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , the
sovereign-wealth fund of Singapore.  “He was not afraid to really go into and recognize some of
the newer areas of opportunity,” says Maria Boyazny, founder of
MB Global Partners in New York, which invests in distressed
funds. She cites Lasry’s investments in  Asia  after its 1997
currency crisis.  “The best thing he did was to build a really solid research
organization,” she says. “Marc does a really good job of
breaking down complex things into simpler terms and can relate
to whatever constituencies he’s talking to.”  Son of a Teacher, Programmer  Lasry and his two sisters grew up in a two-bedroom
apartment that had a wooden fire escape, in Hartford,
Connecticut, where two of his aunts had immigrated from
Marrakech. Lasry attended public school until his mother, Elise,
got a job as a French teacher at the private Renbrook School and
enrolled her kids there. Their father, Moise, was a computer
programmer for the state of Connecticut.  At age 12, Lasry, being good at math, tended the cash
register at a family friend’s pharmacy two blocks away. When
business was slow, he read Superman comic books, getting lost in
stories about an ordinary guy who turned into a superhero and
fought villains. Lasry took his pay in cash and comic books.  Attended Clark University  Clark University (78282MF)  in Worcester, Massachusetts, gave Lasry
the most scholarship money when it was time for him to go to
college. His younger sisters, Sonia and Ruth, with whom he had
shared a room for about a decade, attended the university as
well.  After graduating with a history degree, Lasry worked as a
truck driver for  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and thought about
sticking with it because it paid $30,000 to $40,000 a year.
Instead, his mother and his future wife convinced him to attend
law school. At New York Law School, he won a clerkship with
Judge Edward Ryan, who presided over the U.S. bankruptcy court
of the Southern District of New York.  After graduating in 1984, Lasry practiced bankruptcy law
and then moved to distressed-securities firm Smith-Vasiliou
Management Co., where he invested in trade claims, which are
rights to payments from debtors that have filed for bankruptcy.
Lasry next went to Cowen & Co., where he hired Gardner after she
graduated from Yeshiva University’s Cardozo School of Law.  In 1988, the siblings started a distressed-debt brokerage
whose sole client was Bass’s Acadia Partners LP. They managed
$150 million through the brokerage, naming it Amroc Investments
-- an anagram of the French word for Morocco. That’s how Lasry
met Bonderman, Bass’s chief investment officer, who became his
mentor.  70 Percent Returns  Lasry and Gardner parted ways with Bass in 1990, after
which Lasry produced average annual returns of 70 percent. They
started Avenue in 1995, bringing in sister Ruth Steinberg, 47,
who trades bank debt, in 2004.  Lasry and Gardner are opposites. Lasry says he’s more
extroverted, while his sister is introverted. He lives with his
family in a town house on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, while
Gardner and her son live across town on the West Side. A tennis
and basketball player standing 6 feet tall who favors pullovers
and eschews socks with his loafers, Lasry towers over the
slender, 5-foot-5-inch Gardner, who sported a printed dress with
a long aubergine jacket for a December interview.  Greek Casino  “He sees the glass as half full; I see the glass as half
empty, so it works,” says Gardner, who majored in philosophy at
Clark. “He comes into my office and he says, ‘Hey, Smiley, what
are you in a bad mood about today?’”  Gardner and Lasry own 80 percent of the firm.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  bought 15 percent of the firm valued at about $250
million to $300 million in 2006. Bonderman owns less than five
percent. Morgan Stanley spokesman Matt Burkhard declined to
comment for this article.  Lasry’s investments can look dicey. In 2009, Avenue’s
Europe fund invested in  Regency Entertainment SA (HYRGF) , a Greek casino
company, buying stakes at 40 cents on the dollar. As the
European sovereign-debt crisis worsened, the casino’s bank debt
plummeted to 25 cents on the dollar. Lasry also owns bonds of
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the worst-performing homebuilder
stock in 2011. Hovnanian’s bonds in mid-January were trading at
45 cents on the dollar, about the same price he paid for them
last year.  Deal With Trump  Lasry also took control of Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc.
as it went through its third bankruptcy in 2010, gaining a 22
percent stake. In October 2011, Lasry and  Donald Trump  announced
plans to set up an online gambling venture -- if and when the
U.S. legalizes such betting.  “He had a good plan, and his plan turned out to be
correct,” says Trump, the real-estate developer who picked
Lasry’s reorganization plan over one proposed by billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn . “We’re going to be doing a big Internet-
gaming deal together. It’s got to get approvals from government.
It looks like the approvals should be imminent; why shouldn’t
they approve it?”  Despite his optimism, Lasry doesn’t shrink from calling it
quits on businesses that don’t continue to deliver profits. The
firm wound down its Asia funds, which were its most profitable
from the late 1990s to around 2004, after which returns
declined.  And Lasry says his bets in the U.S. and Europe, which
account for 80 percent of assets, could hold negative surprises.
“In June, nobody thought there was a likelihood of Europe
defaulting or of a double dip; now, there’s a likelihood that
Europe could default,” Lasry says, while U.S. growth remains
sluggish.  Still, he’s plunking down money in Europe on industries
ranging from banking to cable. In the U.S., he’s investing in
independent power producers, paper makers, media companies and
homebuilders. Those industries have already taken such big hits,
he says, that the only place for them to go is up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  