-- Tata Motors at Record as JLR Propels Profit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-02-15T08:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/tata-motors-advances-to-record-as-land-rover-propels-profit-mumbai-mover.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  surged to a record
after the owner of the Jaguar and Land Rover marques reported
unprecedented quarterly profit on surging sales in China and
demand for the Evoque compact sport utility vehicle.  Tata Motors rose 6.4 percent to 285 rupees at 2:22 p.m. in
Mumbai, after gaining as much as 9.2 percent. The stock has
advanced 60 percent this year, the biggest percentage gainer on
the 30-company benchmark Sensitive Index, which has added 15
percent. The company is also the  second-best performer  in the
last six months on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Jaguar and Land Rover sales in China and  Russia  boosted
profitability as demand in  emerging markets  helped tide over
slower growth in advanced economies. The Evoque, which the
company began delivering in September, accounted for 30 percent
of  Land Rover ’s 65,287 retail sales in the quarter, according to
a company  presentation .  “Tata’s strong third-quarter results highlight the
multiple positive tailwinds that continue to boost JLR’s
earnings,” Abhijeet Naik and Nitij Mangal, analysts at CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets said in a note to clients after the
earnings announcement. Most of the positive factors “are likely
to remain in place in the near term.”  Net income  increased 41 percent to 34.1 billion rupees
($692 million) from 24.2 billion rupees in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, Mumbai-based Tata Motors said
in a statement yesterday. Profit  surpassed  the 26 billion-rupee
median of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Third-
quarter sales rose to 452 billion rupees.  Monthly Gains  “The huge growth in  China  and the success of the Evoque is
helping propel Tata Motors to record profits,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at Raiffeisen Capital
Management, who oversees about $1.3 billion of emerging-market
assets, including Tata Motors shares. “Volume growth at Jaguar
and Land Rover should continue.”  Global deliveries at the luxury unit rose 44 percent in
January, to 29,293 units, Tata Motors said in a statement today.
Jaguar Land Rover sales have gained 25 percent to 245,705
vehicles in the ten months through January.  Tata Motors is turning to the British luxury brands it
purchased from Ford Motor Co. in 2008 for growth and to drive
international ambitions. The Jaguar Land Rover unit, based in
Gaydon,  England , generated 57 percent of Tata Motors’ revenue
for the year ended March 31, up from 53 percent a year earlier.  China, Russia  Sales of Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles rose 37 percent to
86,322 units in the quarter, the company said. Jaguar sales more
than quadrupled in China, and doubled in Russia in the quarter,
compared with a year earlier, Tata Motors said in a presentation
on its website.  The Evoque was named the North American truck of the year
last month in  Detroit . It received 32,000 orders with deliveries
running into the first quarter of this year,  John Edwards ,
global brand director of Land Rover, said Nov. 10.  “The sales numbers show promising growth with momentum now
building in developed as well as developing markets,” said
 Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers  India 
Ltd. in Mumbai.  Tata Motors’ local sales of commercial vehicles in the
quarter rose 16 percent to 131,220 units, while passenger
vehicle deliveries increased 33 percent to 85,963, it said.  India’s passenger-car sales are forecast to increase 11
percent to 13 percent in the year beginning April 1, the  Society
of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  forecast last month. The
industry body has projected sales growth of 12-14 percent in
truck sales for the 12-month period.  The company plans to introduce this year a new version of
its Safari sport-utility vehicle, which it showed in  New Delhi 
last month, as well as two new truck models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  