-- Consumers Resilient From Australia to New Zealand as World Slows: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-15T01:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/australia-new-zealand-consumers-are-showing-signs-of-resilience-economy.html
Australian and New Zealand consumers
are showing signs of resilience as slower growth in  Asia  and
Europe’s debt crisis inhibit a global expansion.  Australian  consumer confidence  advanced 4.2 percent this
month to the highest level since November as two interest-rate
cuts late last year improved households’ outlook, a  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey showed. Across the
Tasman Sea, a government report in Wellington showed retail
sales gained 2.2 percent last quarter as the nation hosted, and
eventually won, the Rugby  World Cup .  New Zealand’s record-low borrowing costs and Australia’s
rate reductions are helping insulate households even as slower
global growth increases risks to commodity prices that drive
growth in both economies. Demand from Asia for the nations’
agricultural, mineral and energy exports helped elevate the
currencies of both countries last year to their highest levels
since they were freely floated in the 1980s.  “Consumers on both side of the Tasman are holding up well
despite global uncertainties,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest interdealer broker.  Asian stocks rose, trimming yesterday’s losses, as optimism
 Greece  will commit to austerity measures and the yen’s drop to a
three-month low against the dollar boosted the earnings outlook
for Asian exporters. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.5
percent to 125.66 as of 10:43 a.m. in  Tokyo  after falling 0.6
percent yesterday.  Singapore Stores  In  Singapore , retail sales probably rose for a 10th month,
economist predicted before a Statistics Department report today.
The retail sales index rose 5.2 percent from a year earlier in
December, a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists showed.  In  Malaysia , economic growth probably cooled as the
European debt crisis hurt exports, a poll showed.  Gross domestic product rose 4.8 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, compared with 5.8 percent
in the previous quarter, according to the median of 20 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey before a report today.  Southeast
Asia ’s third-largest economy probably grew 5 percent in 2011,
down from 7.2 percent the previous year, a survey of 18
economists showed.  In the day ahead in  Europe , the region’s two biggest
economies  France  and German probably contracted last quarter
from three months earlier, Bloomberg surveys showed before
reports today. Euro-area GDP figures are also scheduled to be
released.  French Growth  Preliminary figures will show France’s GDP fell 0.2 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate of 25
economists surveyed. In  Germany , final figures are predicted to
show the economy shrank 0.3 percent from three months earlier,
according to the median of 43 estimates.  In the U.K., unemployment probably held at a 16-year high,
a Bloomberg survey showed before a report today. The jobless
rate based on International Labour Organization methods remained
at 8.4 percent, the highest since January 1996, according to the
poll of 23 economists.  In the U.S., industrial production probably advanced 0.7
percent in January from a month earlier, when it gained 0.4
percent, a survey of 81 economists showed before a Federal
Reserve report in  Washington  today.  Fed Minutes  The U.S. central bank releases minutes of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s January meeting today. Manufacturing in the
 New York  region probably expanded in February, according to the
median estimate of 56 economists before the New York Fed’s index
is released.  Manufacturers and exporters are struggling in the South
Pacific’s two major industrial economies, hurt by stronger
currencies. The Australia and  New Zealand  dollars are the two
biggest gainers in the past 12 months against the U.S. currency
among the Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Exports account for 30 percent of New Zealand’s gross
domestic product and make up 22 percent of Australia’s economy,
government data show.  The so-called Aussie was little changed today, buying
$1.0677 at 12:31 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0691 late yesterday in
New York, and has increased 7.2 percent from a year ago. The  New
Zealand dollar , little changed at 83.31 U.S. cents today, has
advanced about 11 percent from a year ago.  Commonwealth Profits  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest
lender, said today that first-half profit rose 19 percent as
fewer loans soured. Net income in the six months ended Dec. 31
climbed to A$3.62 billion ($3.87 billion) from A$3.05 billion a
year earlier, according to an e-mailed statement by Sydney-based
lender. That exceeded the median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News for profit of A$3.51 billion.  Commonwealth Bank’s business and private banking profit
rose 10 percent to A$551 million, while retail banking earnings
increased 3 percent to A$1.44 billion, according to the
statement.  Moody’s Investors Service said today Australian corporate
borrowers are well placed to weather global turbulence. “Most
companies are well positioned within their ratings and have
sufficient flexibility to manage the more challenging operating
environment that we expect in 2012,” said Ian Lewis, a Moody’s
vice president and senior credit officer, in a statement.  RBA Cuts  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced
the overnight cash rate target by a quarter percentage point on
Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6 as inflation pressures eased and
risks to global growth increased. It unexpectedly held the
benchmark at 4.25 percent last week, sending the local currency
to a six-month high of $1.0845.  In New Zealand, Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard has kept
the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent since March
to revive confidence after earthquakes in the southern city of
Christchurch. Bollard said last month he wasn’t uncomfortable
with market expectations of no rate change through this year.  In New Zealand today, “retail posted its strongest growth
ever in core terms,” while in Australia “the lift in
confidence we saw today should help keep spending at a solid
pace,” ICAP Australia’s Carr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  