-- Bahrain Deports U.S. Activists for Joining Shiite Protests
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-15T12:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bahrain-deports-u-s-activists-for-joining-shiite-protests-1-.html
Bahrain said it deported six U.S.
activists for participating in demonstrations to mark the
anniversary of last year’s anti-government protests.  The six had applied for tourist visas under “false
pretenses,” the Information Affairs Authority said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. They were taken to Hoora Police
Station for questioning and agreed to leave the country without
further legal procedures, it said. Two other Americans from the
same group, Witness Bahrain, were deported on Feb. 11.  The activists joined protests by the Gulf state’s mostly
Shiite Muslim opposition, whose mass rallies a year ago to
demand democracy and equal opportunities from the island
nation’s Sunni rulers were crushed by security forces, leaving
at least 35 people dead. Troops were sent from  Saudi Arabia  and
other Sunni-ruled Gulf countries to help with the crackdown.  Witness Bahrain said the activists were in Bahrain to
monitor the anniversary, and were arrested while approaching
Pearl Roundabout, the site of last year’s demonstrations and now
a restricted zone. Several bids by demonstrators to reoccupy the
area in the past year have failed.  Riot police used tear gas to halt another attempt yesterday
and raided the homes of suspected demonstrators, arresting 76
people, the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights said.  ‘Chaos and Violence’  “We will abort all attempts to shake security and
stability and exploit democracy to spread chaos and violence,”
Prime Minister Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa said today,
according to the state-run Bahrain News Agency.  The U.S. urged the government and people of Bahrain, which
hosts the U.S. Fifth Fleet, to work together and refrain from
violence.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration supports the
government’s pledge to fully implement the recommendations of
the Bahraini Independent Commission of Inquiry, which looked
into last year’s violence, State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday.  Thirty-five people died during the two months after the
protests began last year, according to the commission. The
opposition says many more have died from torture and inhaling
tear gas, allegations the government denies.  The ruling al-Khalifa family accused Shiite-ruled Iran of
encouraging the unrest, a claim the Islamic republic has denied.
Shiites represent about two-thirds of Bahrain’s native
population, according to the U.S. State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  