-- Bangchak Shares Rise to Five-Month High on Profit, Dividend: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-02-15T04:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bangchak-climbs-to-5-month-high-after-profit-beats-etimates-bangkok-mover.html
Bangchak Petroleum Pcl (BCP) , a Thai
state-controlled refiner, rose to a five-month high in Bangkok
stock trading after the company reported better-than-estimated
profit and raised its dividend payout.  Bangchak, the nation’s smallest publicly traded refiner,
 climbed  3.9 percent to 21.60 baht as of 11:29 a.m. local time.
It was set for the highest close since Sept. 9 and was the
second-best  performer  in the  SET 50 Index . The stock gauge,
which tracks the nation’s 50 largest publicly traded companies,
gained 1.6 percent.  Bangchak’s  net income  in 2011 doubled to 5.61 billion baht
($182 million), topping the median  estimate  of 5.5 billion baht
in a Bloomberg analyst survey. The company will pay a dividend
of 1 baht a share from its second-half operations, compared with
0.55 baht a year earlier.  “Both profit and dividend payment beat our forecast even
as the company had a very difficult year with the floods,”
Charnvut Taecha-amorntanakij, an analyst at Krungsri Securities
Co. Ltd. in Bangkok, said by phone today. “The company may
raise its dividend payout this year on expectations its core
earnings will remain strong.”  Thailand ’s worst floods in almost 70 years shuttered more
than 16,000 factories last year, reducing Thailand’s economic
growth last year to about 1.5 percent, compared with estimates
of as high as 4.5 percent before the deluge, Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said in January.  Bangchak Petroleum halted a biodiesel plant in Thailand’s
Ayutthaya province on concern flooding may disrupt the
transportation of raw materials, the company’s President Anusorn
Sangnimnaun said on Oct. 13. Flooding across the nation may cost
300 million baht in fourth-quarter revenue, Anusorn said on Nov.
28.  The company’s shares have advanced 14 percent this year
compared with a 9.5 percent gain in the benchmark  SET Index. (SET)   -- Editors: Darren Boey,  Matthew Oakley   To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  