-- Morgan Stanley, UBS, Goldman May Be Cut in Moody’s Review
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-02-16T22:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bank-firm-ratings-may-be-cut-by-moody-s.html
UBS AG,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
Morgan Stanley’s credit ratings may be cut by as many as three
levels by Moody’s Investors Service, which is reviewing 17 banks
and securities firms with global capital markets operations.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among companies that may be
downgraded by two levels, Moody’s said in a statement, adding
that the “guidance is indicative only.” Moody’s today cut some
European insurers’ ratings based on risks stemming from the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The potential downgrades, which may raise borrowing costs
and force banks to increase collateral, put the ratings company
at odds with bond investors, who are sticking with bets that new
capital rules and trading limits will make the financial firms
safer in the long run. Funding costs have climbed for banks
worldwide as Greece’s debt woes roil markets.  “In the next two years, these big banks will be less
robust than they used to be, that’s for sure,” Jim Antos, a
Hong Kong-based financial analyst at Mizuho Securities Co., said
by telephone. “For any bank that has to raise capital today,
it’s already very difficult. This makes it just that much more
expensive and difficult.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Credit Agricole SA,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and Royal Bank of Canada may
also be cut by two levels, Moody’s said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Societe Generale SA may be lowered by one grade, it said.  Evolving Challenges  “Capital markets firms are confronting evolving
challenges, such as more fragile funding conditions, wider
credit spreads, increased regulatory burdens and more difficult
operating conditions,” Moody’s said. “These difficulties,
together with inherent vulnerabilities such as confidence-
sensitivity, interconnectedness and opacity of  risk , have
diminished the longer-term profitability and growth prospects of
these firms.”  The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  fell 0.2 percent as of 4:45 p.m. local time in  London .  Credit Suisse’s 2.25 billion euros ($2.95 billion) of 3.875
percent bonds due in 2017 fell 0.4 percent to 103.58 cents on
the euro today, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  UBS (UBSN) ’s
1.5 billion euros of 3.125 percent notes maturing in 2016 fell
0.6 percent to 100.58 cents on the euro, the prices show.  Bond Prices  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, has a long-term rating of
Aa3 at Moody’s, and a three-level downgrade would reduce it to
A3, the fourth-lowest investment grade. Domestic rival Credit
Suisse is currently rated one level higher than UBS at Aa2 at
the group level, while its operating subsidiary Credit Suisse AG
is rated Aa1. New York-based Morgan Stanley is A2, and a three-
level cut would drag it to Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade.  “Today’s announcement by Moody’s does not immediately
affect UBS’s ratings” because it has been on review since
September, the Zurich-based bank wrote in an e-mailed statement
to Bloomberg News. “UBS’s financial position is strong and a
source of competitive advantage.”  Spokesmen for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , New York-based JPMorgan and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America declined to
comment on the review. Spokesmen in  Singapore  for London-based
Barclays, Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , Zurich-based Credit
Suisse and Edinburgh-based RBS also declined to comment, as did
Macquarie in Sydney and Nomura in Tokyo. Spokesmen for Paris-
based BNP Paribas and London-based HSBC weren’t available to
comment.  ‘Unwarranted’ Inclusion  “Our inclusion is unwarranted,” Toronto-based Royal Bank
of Canada said in a statement. “This action does nothing to
help investors differentiate between strong banks and weak ones.
RBC’s credit rating and capital base are among the strongest of
all banks globally.”  As well as UBS, Credit Suisse, Macquarie and Nomura were
already on review before today and those examinations are being
extended, Moody’s said. A one-level downgrade for Nomura would
push its long-term rating to Baa3, one grade above junk.  Citigroup has “a strong capital base, robust structural
liquidity and ample reserves,” said Jon Diat, a spokesman for
the New York-based bank facing a cut to as low as Baa2.  The review by Moody’s “is likely to have very limited
consequences on financial markets, which have adjusted over the
past few months to a new environment in which banks’ ratings
overall are lower,” said Kate Henley, a spokeswoman for  Societe
Generale  in  Hong Kong . A one-level cut would bring the Paris-
based bank to A2, still the sixth-highest investment grade.  Additional Collateral  The maximum downgrades, if they were followed by similar
actions from other ratings companies, would force the five U.S.
banks to post at least $19 billion in additional collateral and
termination payments, as of Sept. 30. That relates to derivative
liabilities which feature credit-rating triggers.  The banks estimated the amounts in their third-quarter
regulatory filing and will update the figures in their annual
reports released in the next few weeks.  The threat of downgrades hasn’t deterred investors from
buying financial debt. The response is similar to that taken in
August when financial markets dismissed the U.S.’s loss of AAA
status at  Standard & Poor’s  by pushing the  yield  on the 10-year
Treasury note to a record-low 1.6714 percent seven weeks later.  Bank bonds from the U.S. to  Europe  and Asia have returned
5.8 percent from the end of November through Feb. 13, poised for
the biggest three-month gain since the period ended September
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Downgrade Expected  “The downgrade is unlikely to shake the market a lot as
this has been expected for quite some time,” said Lewis Wan,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer of Pride Investments
Group Ltd., which manages $250 million of assets. “The banking
industry -- including investment banks, retail banks and
commercial banks -- will run their business more conservatively
because of the increasingly tougher regulations.”  Moody’s wrote on Jan. 19 that credit profiles of many
global lenders are weakening amid worsening government finances,
economic uncertainty and higher funding costs.  Richard Noonan, a spokesman for S&P in Melbourne, said the
company unveiled fresh criteria for assessing banks worldwide in
November and implemented a number of rating actions. “We’re
always looking at bank ratings, and they’re under constant
review by our analysts,” Noonan said in a telephone interview.  Fitch Ratings  Matt Robinson, a spokesman for  Fitch Ratings  in Sydney,
declined to comment on Moody’s action. Fitch released a Feb. 13
report on its decision to review in the fourth quarter of 2011
large banks around the world, which “resulted in a significant
increase in the number of rating downgrades,” he said.  Moody’s took action on European insurers today on risks
tied to the region’s sovereign debt and banks.  Allianz SpA (R) , the
Italian unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, had its
insurance financial strength rating cut to A1 from Aa3 with a
negative outlook, Moody’s said separately today.  The company affirmed the insurance financial strength
rating for Allianz,  AXA SA (CS) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and their subsidiaries,
while changing their outlook to negative because of weaker
economies in the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  