-- Barcelona Tops Leverkusen as Champions League Soccer Resumes; Lyon Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/barcelona-tops-leverkusen-as-champions-league-soccer-resumes-lyon-wins.html
Alexis Sanchez  scored twice as
Barcelona won 3-1 at  Bayer Leverkusen  to close on a Champions
League quarterfinal place.  Lionel Messi , who was named soccer’s best player for the
third straight year last month, got the other goal last night as
defending champion Barcelona won its sixth consecutive away
match in  Europe ’s elite club competition.  “They showed they are probably the best team in the
world,” Leverkusen defender Vedran Corluka said in a televised
interview. “We gave our best but we can’t say anything. They
are a better team than us.”  Lyon beat APOEL Nicosia 1-0 on a goal by Alexandre
Lacazette in last night’s other opening round of 16 game as the
tournament resumed after a two-month break.  Barcelona  and APOEL
will host the return matches in the two-game series on March 7.  Barcelona is seeking to win the continental championship
for the fourth time in seven seasons. The Catalan club last
failed to reach the quarterfinals in 2006-07.  “This result will give us a lot of confidence,” Barcelona
midfielder  Sergio Busquets  said on UEFA’s website. “We’ll be
looking for another victory at home now to finish the tie off.”  Barcelona took the lead four minutes before half time at
the Bay-Arena in Leverkusen, Germany. Messi looped a pass along
the right side which Sanchez ran down and carried into the area
before sending a shot through the legs of goalkeeper Bernd Leno.  Leverkusen scored in the 52nd minute when Michal Kadlec
headed in Corluka’s cross to the far post, though Barcelona
regained the lead three minutes later when  Cesc Fabregas 
threaded a pass between two defenders to Sanchez, who went
around Leno and slid the ball into the open net.  Sanchez Denied  Barcelona goalkeeper Victor Valdes tipped Gonzalo Castro’s
shot onto the post, while Messi hit a post at the other end.
Valdes also stopped Stefan Kiessling’s header, before Leno dived
to knock away Sanchez’s goal-bound header and deny the Chilean
international a hat trick.  Messi made it 3-1 in the 88th minute when he charged into
the area to volley in Dani Alves’s cross after releasing the
defender down the right side with a pass.  In France, Lyon took the lead in the 58th minute after
controlling most of the play against APOEL, the first team from
Cyprus to reach the knockout stage.  Lacazette took a pass from Lyon captain Cris on the left
side of the area, cut toward the middle and fired a shot which
deflected off defender Paulo Jorge and looped over goalkeeper
Dionisios Chiotis.  APOEL didn’t get its first attempt at goal until the 88th
minute as substitute Gustavo Manduca cut in from the right side
and fired a shot which  Hugo Lloris  tipped over the crossbar.  “The game went as we expected,” Lyon coach Remi Garde
said on UEFA’s website. “We would have like to score more
goals, hopefully we won’t regret that in the second leg.”  Seven-time European champion AC Milan hosts Arsenal and
two-time winner Benfica visits Zenit St. Petersburg tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 