-- Berkshire Takes Liberty Media, DaVita Stakes as Weschler Joins
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/berkshire-takes-stakes-in-liberty-media-davita-as-weschler-joins-buffett.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  took stakes
in Liberty Media Corp. and dialysis-facility owner  DaVita Inc. (DVA) 
after billionaire  Warren Buffett  hired Ted Weschler to help
manage investments.  Weschler oversaw investments in the two firms while running
Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge fund he wound down
after agreeing to join Buffett. The new Berkshire stakes, listed
yesterday in a filing disclosing U.S.  equity holdings  as of Dec.
31, probably reflect Weschler’s influence, said  David Kass , a
professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School
of Business, in an interview.  Buffett hired Weschler and Todd Combs to manage a portion
of Berkshire’s portfolio as part of the Omaha, Nebraska-based
firm’s succession plan. Buffett, 81, who is chairman, chief
executive officer and head of investments, is preparing the
company for a second generation of leaders after accumulating
the largest stakes in  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Wells Fargo & Co.   “Warren Buffett is a brilliant selector of people,”  Bruce Berkowitz , who oversees one of the largest stakes in Berkshire
through his Fairholme Capital Management LLC, said in an
interview last week. The biggest challenge for Weschler and
Combs is “look at the shadow you’re in,” he said.  Buffett has said he’ll focus on managing Berkshire’s
largest stockholdings and count on Combs and Weschler to make
smaller investments. Combs, 41, who joined Buffett’s firm in
2010, last year added holdings in companies such as  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and General Dynamics Corp. Berkshire said in
September that Weschler, 50, would join the company this year.  Liberty Media  Buffett’s firm had 1.7 million shares of Englewood,
Colorado-based Liberty Media and 2.7 million shares of DaVita,
according the filing. Liberty Media closed at $85.59 in New York
trading yesterday, and DaVita at $84.75.  Liberty Media, controlled by billionaire John C. Malone,
said in November it will combine tracking stocks of its Liberty
Starz and Liberty Capital units and increase share buybacks to
make the stock more appealing to investors. The company rose 18
percent in the fourth quarter.  Liberty Media, which operates and owns interests in media,
communications and entertainment businesses, has assets that
include the Starz pay-TV business. In August, it agreed to
invest $204 million in book-retailer  Barnes & Noble Inc.   Berkshire boosted its stake in El Segundo, California-based
 DirecTV (DTV)  to 20.3 million shares from about 4.2 million at the end
of September, according to the filing. The satellite TV provider
closed at $45.85 yesterday and was among the largest holdings at
Weschler’s Peninsula Capital Advisors at the end of June.  The Liberty Media and DirecTV stakes are reminiscent of
Buffett’s bet on Capital Cities/ABC Inc., before it was
purchased by Walt Disney Co. in 1996, said the  University of
Maryland ’s Kass.  Free Cash Flow  “Buffett was attracted to communications companies,” he
said. “They threw off a lot of free cash flow.”  Holdings of some of Combs’s picks rose in the quarter.
Berkshire’s stake in CVS Caremark, the largest provider of
 prescription drugs  in the U.S., rose 26 percent to 7.1 million
shares, valued at $290 million at the end of December. Holdings
of Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, increased 23 percent to
11.5 million shares, worth $279 million on Dec. 31. The stake in
 General Dynamics (GD) , which makes Abrams battle tanks and Gulfstream
business aircraft, rose 27 percent to 3.88 million shares,
valued at about $257 million.  Berkshire reported no holding of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest energy company, compared with about 420,000
shares at the end of September. Exxon closed yesterday at
$84.67. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment sent to an assistant.  ‘First-Class Businesses’  The holdings listed in Berkshire’s filing had a combined
value of more than $66 billion as of Dec. 31. Berkshire’s
filings are monitored by analysts and investors for insight into
Buffett’s strategy.  Buffett’s firm seeks to “increase its ownership of first-
class businesses” with a preference for buying them outright,
he said in an article posted on Fortune magazine’s  website  last
week.  Buffett contrasted this approach with investments in gold
or U.S. Treasuries. Bonds are subject to inflation risk which
can erode value over the long run, while making money from  gold 
relies on an expanding pool of “fearful” buyers, he wrote.
Investments in companies face fewer limitations, he said.  “Over any extended period of time this category of
investing will prove to be the runaway winner among the three
we’ve examined,” Buffett wrote. “More important, it will be by
far the safest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  