-- Best Over for Lira Means Better Ahead for Economy: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-16T11:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/best-over-for-lira-means-better-ahead-for-economy-turkey-credit.html
The lira’s 6.5 percent rally this
year that helped  Turkish bonds  outperform all emerging-market
debt may be approaching an end, supporting analysts’ forecasts
that a steadier  exchange rate  will keep the economy resilient.  The lira, which weakened 18 percent in 2011, will stay flat
at best this year based on the average estimate of 1.76 per
dollar from 23 banks surveyed by Bloomberg. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, the most accurate in predicting the
currency’s moves in the past six quarters in a study by
Bloomberg Rankings, says the lira will slide 9.5 percent to 1.95
by year-end. Options trading shows a more than 60 percent
probability the currency will hit that level.  Turkey , whose 9.6 percent expansion in the first nine
months was the second-fastest among major economies after China,
is reassuring investors growth will stay intact this year after
policy makers cut the  main interest rate  to 5.75 percent from as
high as 12.5 percent last month. A central bank survey published
Feb. 8 foresees the economy rising 3.4 percent in 2012.  “Growth is likely to prove resilient and I may be too
pessimistic about my 4 percent target for 2012,” Tim Ash, the
head of emerging-market research at RBS in  London , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Turkey has a new found vibrancy
and self-confidence, driven by political stability, clean
sovereign and bank balance sheets, and demographics.”  Two-Year Yields   Yields (TRABNBM)  on Turkey’s two-year debt slid 161 basis points so
far this year to 9.40 percent, the biggest decline in the 19
largest emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Economists and traders are betting that Turkey’s central
bank will support growth in the $735 billion economy at the
expense of lower inflation, which hit 10.5 percent in 2011, the
highest in three years. Inflation could be brought down faster
with a stronger lira, Erdem Basci, governor of the  Central Bank 
of the Republic of Turkey, said on Jan. 31.  While the central bank’s priority is tackling inflation,
policy makers may miss their target of 6.5 percent for this year
“by a little,” said Basci, 45.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , 57, is forecasting the
economy, the eighth biggest in  Europe  and about half the size of
 Russia ’s, will grow at least 4 percent this year. Gross domestic
product has expanded  an average of  5.9 percent each year since
2002, when Erdogan was first elected, three times the pace in
Europe.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York  abandoned predictions
for a 2012 recession on Feb. 10 and forecast Turkish growth of
2.5 percent. Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG is even more
optimistic than the government, anticipating a 5 percent
expansion this year because export orders from  Germany , Turkey’s
biggest trading partner, will jump,  Tatha Ghose , an emerging-
markets economist for the bank in London, said in e-mailed
comments.  “Turkey will continue to grow in the short term while
accumulating larger imbalances,” said  Ahmet Akarli , an
economist for the region at Goldman Sachs in London, who
predicted the lira will weaken to 1.8 per dollar in six months
and 1.85 by the year-end. “There will also be ample
accommodation provided by the European Central bank and the
recent improvement in global risk appetite.”  Turkey’s central bank’s reserves fell to $75.3 billion on
Jan. 20, the lowest level since September 2010, and were at $77
billion on Feb. 3 compared with Russia’s $507.3 billion of
foreign exchange and gold reserves, according to the latest
central bank data.  Policy makers spent $16 billion between August and January
trying to defend the currency as the lira posted the biggest
decline in  emerging markets  last year.  Foreign Investment  Turkey, with the biggest population in Europe after Russia
and Germany, depends on foreign direct investment to spur growth
because of the nation’s low savings rate, according to Ash.
Direct investment from abroad almost doubled on an annual basis
in December to $3.1 billion, and for the year was $13.4 billion,
almost twice the 2010 level, according to the central bank.  Basci is relying on the capital to help finance the
country’s record  current account deficit , which expanded to more
than 10 percent of economic output in December. The government
 predicts  the deficit will narrow to 8 percent this year and 7.5
percent in 2013.  Rates on the overnight repo , the benchmark source of
lending between Turkish banks, slid to the lowest level in four
months to 6.6 percent on Feb. 10, in a further sign borrowing
costs are coming down and supporting economic growth. They were
at 7.5 percent today, down from as high as 11.5 percent three
months ago.  Lira Gains  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent today to 1.7745 per
dollar, heading for its weakest close this month, a day after it
appreciated less than 0.1 percent as the central bank reduced
the amount of loans available in one-week  repurchase agreements 
at its lowest 5.75 percent lending rate. Basci adopted a
discretionary policy last year of using more than one rate in an
attempt to control inflation without slowing the economy.  The cost to insure against non-payment of Turkish debt for
five years with credit-default swaps rose five basis point to
270 basis points today, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately-negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  Spreads, Volatility  Turkish default swaps cost 19 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.  The  extra yield investors  demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries declined two basis
points to 356, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global
index.  Traders’ expectations of swings in the lira during the next
12 months fell to the lowest since August on Feb. 8, according
to the so-called implied volatility on options contracts.
Volatility has since remained below levels seen in the past six
months.  Slower growth will help the lira appreciate to 1.7 per
dollar by the end of the year, said Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, the third-most accurate lira forecaster.  “The domestic economy is cooling down and the current
account deficit will narrow,” Arko Sen, the bank’s director of
debt and foreign-exchange strategy for emerging Europe, the
Middle East and Africa in London, said in response to e-mailed
questions yesterday.  Floods of Capital  Lira-denominated notes  gained 3.4 percent this year,
beating average increases of 1.9 percent for  JPMorgan’s GBI-
Emerging Market Broad index . Bonds fell 0.2 percent in  China 
while Brazilian debt rose 0.3 percent and Russian securities
advanced 3 percent, JPMorgan indexes show.  Basci said on Jan. 6 that the lira may outperform other
emerging-market currencies this year, helping his fight against
inflation, as foreign capital floods into Turkey. “Lira
investors in 2012 will gain,” he said.  Futures signal the lira will weaken to 1.825 per dollar by
June and 1.893 by the year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Barclays Plc, which was the second-most accurate lira forecaster
in the Bloomberg Rankings study, said the currency will drop to
1.85 per dollar at the end of the first half and to 1.80 in
December.  Yields on two-year debt probably will rise to 10.3 percent
in the second quarter of 2012, according to three economists’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are now less bearish on the lira than we were at the
end of last year but still feel rather nervous about endorsing
the lira as a good carry trade currency,” said  Koon Chow , an
emerging-market currency strategist at Barclays in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  