-- Billionaire Batista in Talks With Sovereign Funds to Sell Gold Unit Stake
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-02-15T19:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/billionaire-batista-in-talks-with-sovereign-funds-to-sell-gold-unit-stake.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
whose investments range from  iron ore  to coal, said he’s in
talks with sovereign wealth funds and other potential
“strategic partners” to sell a stake in his AUX gold unit.  Batista’s EBX Group Co. holding company is also still
weighing a listing of AUX, which last year  paid C$1.08 billion 
($1.08 billion) to acquire  Ventana Gold Corp. (VEN) , Batista told
reporters in Sao Paulo. He didn’t give further details.  Colombia ’s gold deposits have attracted investment from
Batista and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, the third largest producer of
the metal, after record prices and improved security following a
government crackdown on drug-funded rebels. Gold has climbed for
eleven consecutive years, reaching an all-time high of $1,923.70
on Sept. 6 as investors look for bullion to protect their wealth
against economic uncertainty and financial turmoil.  “Sovereign wealth funds are interested in investing in
real assets” such us gold, Batista, 55, told reporters today
before a conference organized by Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Batista said last year he would list AUX in Bogota,  London 
and  Sao Paulo  as soon as May 2012. AUX is worth $5 billion, he
said in October, and has 7.2 million ounces of gold reserves
after the acquisition of Vancouver-based Ventana in March 2011.
AUX’s La Bodega mine, located 400 kilometers (248 miles)
northeast of Bogota, also has copper and silver deposits.  Gold Production  AUX expects to start gold production in between two-and-a-
half and three years, Batista said Oct. 6.  A feasibility study for Batista’s CCX coal unit, which also
has assets in Colombia, will be ready by mid-April, Batista said
today, adding that the company doesn’t need to be listed as it
already has enough cash. Batista said last month he would hold
an IPO for CCX.  EBX is also studying “business opportunities” in the
coffee industry, the company said Jan. 31. In December, EBX
entered the catering services market through NRX-Newrest, a
joint venture with Newrest Group Holding. EBX also last year
started IMX, a partnership with IMG Worldwide Inc. focused on
sports and arena management in  Brazil .  Batista’s joint venture with Foxconn Technology Group, a
maker of metal casings for Apple Inc., will invest $2.5 billion
in a plant to make electronic screens in the South American
country, he also said today. The billionaire is expanding into
new segments after becoming Brazil’s richest person by selling
shares in commodities and logistic startups including  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the country’s second-biggest
oil company by market value, and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA,
an iron-ore producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.ne  