-- Bionor Rises Most in 15 Months on AIDS Drug Study: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-15T17:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bionor-rises-most-in-15-months-on-aids-drug-study-oslo-mover.html
Bionor Pharma ASA (BIONOR) , the Norwegian
developer of an experimental AIDS treatment, jumped the most in
15 months after it confirmed the injection fought HIV in a study
and described plans to develop a drug it once gave up for dead.  Bionor rose 37 percent to 3.45 kroner in Oslo trading,
giving the company a market value of 623 million kroner ($108
million). The gain was the biggest since Nov. 18, 2010. More
than 21 million shares were traded, more than 20 times the daily
average for the past six months and the most in a day since Dec.
13, 2010.  A final analysis of data from a trial of the company’s
Vacc-4x injection showed that the shot reduced the amount of HIV
in patients’ blood by 64 percent when added to standard anti-
AIDS pills, compared with those who got a placebo injection with
the pills, Oslo-based Bionor said in a statement today. The
company announced preliminary results in September.  The findings are helping Bionor revive Vacc-4x after it
said in October 2010 it would abandon the shot because six-month
data showed it didn’t work. The stock plunged 81 percent on the
announcement. The company reversed the decision in November 2010
after further analysis indicated the treatment lowered viral
levels. The company said it’s planning three further trials to
decide the best strategy for developing and marketing the drug,
and said finding a partner is “a natural next step.”  Therapeutic Vaccine  The first study, planned for the first half of this year,
involves giving subjects additional injections with Vacc-4x in
an effort to reduce their viral loads even further. The second
strategy is to combine Vacc-4x with  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s cancer drug
Revlimid to boost patients’ immune systems.  The third trial will combine Vacc-4x with Bionor’s Vacc-C5,
which is designed to stimulate antibodies against HIV. That
combination may “potentially revolutionize the management of
HIV infections,” Bionor said in the statement.  The company is also testing whether Vacc-4x works as well
in nasal drops as injections.  Unlike pills such as  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Atripla that
are the mainstay of HIV treatment, Vacc-4x is a so-called
therapeutic vaccine designed to fight the virus by marshaling
the body’s immune system against it. While the shot hasn’t yet
been shown to subdue the virus as well as antiretroviral
therapy, regular injections that keep it at relatively low
levels may save patients from the side effects, costs and
inconvenience of daily pills.  Trial Design  The  trial  involved 136 patients in five countries who had
been using anti-AIDS drugs to control HIV for at least six
months. Two-thirds received six shots of Vacc-4x in addition to
their regular pills over 28 weeks, while the remainder received
an injection of water with their medicines. After 28 weeks, both
groups stopped taking the regular treatment.  Six months later, those who got Vacc-4x had 64 percent less
virus in their blood than those who got the water injection,
Bionor said. In the preliminary analysis announced in September,
the company said the shot had helped as many as 30 percent of
patients stay off treatment for more than a year, compared with
18 percent of the placebo group.  Bionor’s announcement today contained little new
information, said Jonas Peciulis, an analyst at Terra Markets AS
in Oslo.  “Today’s rally and such strong share price appreciation
during the last couple of months is excessive, in our view,” he
said in an e-mail. “Coupled with few triggers in the short
term, we maintain our  ‘reduce’  recommendation.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  