-- BNP Paribas Profit Falls Less Than Estimated as Bank Sees Better Quarter
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-02-15T12:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bnp-paribas-fourth-quarter-profit-drops-51-on-writedowns-of-greek-loans.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates and said its corporate- and investment-banking unit
had a “good start” to the year.  The shares gained after net income dropped less than
expected to 765 million euros ($1 billion) from 1.55 billion
euros a year earlier. The average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of 587 million euros.  The bank withstood a “quite difficult” period for
financial markets, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe,
50, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.
“Progressively the situation throughout the euro zone should
stabilize.”  Bonnafe, who took over in December after overseeing the
purchase of Fortis assets, inherited a bank hurt last year from
losses on Greek sovereign bonds. French lenders have been
embroiled in  Europe ’s crisis because of their $620 billion in
holdings of private and public debt in  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland, Italy and  Spain , according to figures from the  Bank for
International Settlements .  BNP Paribas rose as much as 2.38 euros, or 7.1 percent, to
35.89 euros, the most in almost a month, and was at 35.73 euros
at 12:44 p.m. in Paris trading.  The shares have gained 18 percent this year, giving the
lender a market value of 43.1 billion euros. European financial
stocks are rebounding after the  European Central Bank  provided
489 billion euros to lenders through a three-year refinancing
operation in December and plans to offer a further series of
loans at the end of February.  Greek Writedowns  BNP Paribas is “well-provisioned” for its Greek holdings,
said Gonzague Legoff, a London-based investment manager at H2o
AM LLP. “The key question remains the level of funding that
might come from ECB facilities at the end of the month.” H2o
manages about 2 billion euros and owns shares of the bank.  The lender booked 567 million euros in writedowns on Greek
sovereign debt in the fourth quarter as it increased the
provisioning level on the securities to 75 percent from 60
percent. In 2011, provisions on Greek sovereign bonds reached
3.24 billion euros.  Loan Losses  BNP Paribas posted losses in the quarter of 148 million
euros from disposing of corporate loans as it raced to reduce
dollar-funded assets. The bank, which expects about 650 million
euros in such losses again this year, is also about halfway in
taking 400 million euros of one-time costs at the corporate- and
investment-banking unit, it said.  The company hasn’t decided whether it will tap the ECB’s
funding offer at the end of the month, Bonnafe said today. BNP
Paribas doesn’t need the funds, he said.  “If it’s clever to move, we will move,” he said in the
interview. “If it’s not clever, we won’t.”  BNP Paribas’s share-price gain in 2012 pares the decline
for the past 12 months to 38 percent.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and
 Credit Agricole  SA, France’s second- and third-largest banks,
respectively, have lost more than half of their market value in
the period.  BNP Paribas plans to pay a dividend of 1.20 euros a share
for 2011, a 43 percent drop compared with a year earlier.
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole scrapped their 2011 payout.  Shrinking Assets  The three banks are retreating, shrinking assets by about
300 billion euros and cutting at least 5,600 jobs to comply with
international capital rules as they book Greek losses.  The lenders, together with Groupe BPCE, France’s fourth-
largest bank, had taken 5.4 billion euros in writedowns on Greek
sovereign holdings as of the end of September. Societe Generale
and  Credit Agricole (ACA)  both operate unprofitable Athens-based
consumer-banking networks.  Euro-area finance ministers yesterday canceled a meeting in
Brussels slated for today and will hold a teleconference instead
to prod Greece to do more to clinch an aid package by
identifying additional budget cuts of 325 million euros. The
measures are among conditions that must be met for Greece to
secure a 130 billion-euro rescue needed to avert financial
collapse.  Dollar Financing  Part of the rescue includes a bond swap intended to slice
Greece’s debt load. The exchange for new 30-year bonds with an
average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent would cut 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the country needs to
make a formal offer to private bondholders for a debt swap by
Feb. 17.  BNP Paribas, which achieved most of its self-imposed goal
of reducing dollar financing by $60 billion by the end of this
year, raised the target to $65 billion, it said today.  The lender is also booking losses after reducing European
sovereign-debt holdings to help make its capital level less
dependent on fluctuations in government-debt prices. The company
posted 510 million euros of losses in the fourth  quarter 
stemming from government bond sales.  BNP Paribas is “at ease” with its levels of holdings in
French, Italian and Belgian sovereign debt, Bonnafe told
reporters at a press conference in Paris, adding that he sees no
relation between participating in the ECB’s three-year funding
offers and buying sovereign debt.  The lender reduced its banking-book sovereign exposure by
29 percent in the second half to 75.3 billion euros as it cut
Italian government holdings by 8.2 billion euros, according to a
presentation handed to journalists.  Job Cuts  BNP Paribas’s pretax profit at the corporate- and
investment-banking division slumped to 6 million euros from 1.09
billion euros a year earlier. Fourth-quarter sales at the unit
fell 40 percent to 1.65 billion euros as fixed-income revenue
slid 68 percent, hurt by losses from selling sovereign bonds.
Equity-and-advisory sales dropped 31 percent to 405 million
euros, while financing revenue slid 16 percent to 894 million
euros, the bank said.  Bonnafe affirmed in the interview today that the division
was off to a good start in 2012, without elaborating.  The company said Nov. 16 it plans to cut about 1,400 jobs
at the division, or 6.5 percent of the unit’s staff worldwide.
BNP Paribas booked 184 million euros in one-time costs in the
fourth quarter after starting the job-reduction plan.  The lender doesn’t have plans for further job reductions at
the corporate- and investment-banking business on top of those
already announced, Bonnafe said. The bank cut the division’s
bonus pool for 2011 by half, the CEO said.  Capital ‘Stretched’  “Growing the corporate and investment bank will require
much more capital than they used before” as new Basel III rules
are introduced, Alain Tchibozo, a London-based analyst at
Mediobanca SpA, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“Let’s face it, the real challenge for BNP Paribas is to emerge
from this crisis stronger, and to do that, to gain market share,
you need capital. Unfortunately their capital base is
stretched.”  BNP Paribas reached the European Banking Authority’s
capital requirements six months ahead of the mid-2012 schedule,
it said today. The London-based EBA in December had found a 1.5
billion-euro capital shortfall at France’s largest bank. The
company repeated that it will satisfy Basel III’s 9 percent
common equity Tier 1 ratio by year end as the lender retains
earnings and adapts its business.  The French lender has no plans for a capital increase after
it complied with the EBA’s targets “quite swiftly,” Bonnafe
said.  BancWest ‘Footprint’  BNP Paribas gets most of its revenue from France,  Belgium ,
 Luxembourg  and  Italy  and the company also owns BancWest, a
network of branches in the U.S. Through its purchase of Fortis
in 2009, the lender added clients in faster-growing economies
such as Turkey and  Poland .  Pretax profit at the French retail-banking network gained
13 percent to 378 million euros, while pretax earnings at San
Francisco-based BancWest increased 1.9 percent to 159 million
euros, the company said. California is the “footprint” of BNP
Paribas in the U.S. and the company has no intention of exiting
that retail-banking market, Bonnafe told reporters after the
press conference.  BNP Paribas’s Italian retail network, Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA, had 102 million euros in pretax profit, up 11
percent from a year earlier, the company said. The Europe-
Mediterranean division, which includes consumer-banking networks
in countries such as Turkey, Ukraine and  Egypt , had a 20
million-euro pretax profit, compared with 7 million euros a year
earlier.  Pretax earnings at the investment-solutions unit, which
includes asset management, private banking and insurance, fell
61 percent to 212 million euros on lower asset-management
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  