-- King Says BOE Stimulus Isn’t at Limit as Euro-Area Debt Crisis Poses Risk
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-15T15:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/boe-sees-severe-implications-if-europe-fails-to-stem-crisis.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said policy makers can expand their stimulus program further if
needed to ward off the threat to Britain’s “slow and uncertain
recovery” posed by the euro region’s debt crisis.  “If we wanted to do more, we certainly could do it,” King
told reporters in London as he presented the bank’s quarterly
Inflation Report. The bank’s program to hold as much as a third
of the gilt market is a “high number, but it’s only a third and
the amount of gilts which is out there is increasing all the
time” and “I don’t think that’s a practical limit at all.”  The central bank expanded its  bond-purchase  program to 325
billion pounds ($510 billion) this month after the economy
shrank in the fourth quarter. Policy makers raised their
forecast for inflation today, predicting an undershoot of their
2 percent goal in two years and an even chance of reaching it in
three years.  “The path of recovery is likely to be slow and
uncertain,” and “for much of this year, there is likely to be
a ‘zigzag’ pattern of alternating positive and negative
 quarterly growth  rates,” King said. “The biggest risk to the
recovery stems from developments in the euro area, where there
remain concerns about the indebtedness and competitiveness of
some member countries.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar, trading at
$1.5686 as of 3:06 p.m. in London. It weakened against higher-
yielding currencies such as the New Zealand and Australian
dollars. The yield on the two-year gilt was at 0.40 percent.  ‘Disorderly Outcome’  The Bank of  England  also said that failure to implement
reforms in the euro area “could trigger a disorderly outcome
and result in sharply lower growth” in the region.  While Greece has agreed to austerity measures needed to
secure a second bailout package, euro-area finance ministers
canceled a Brussels meeting slated for today, citing a lack of
political assurances from Greek leaders to stick to the pledges.
Ministers will instead hold a teleconference to prod  Greece  to
do more to clinch the package.  The central bank sees U.K.  inflation  slowing to its 2
percent target by the end of this year and easing to 1.8 percent
in two years, according to the Inflation Report. It sees annual
gross-domestic-product growth at about 3 percent by the end of
2013. The trough in growth will be in the first half of 2012.
The forecasts today were published in the form of fan charts and
the data underlying the charts will be released next week.  “Inflation is judged somewhat more likely to be below the
target than above it for a good part of the forecast period,”
the Monetary Policy Committee said. At the end of three years,
“those risks are judged to be broadly balanced.”  ‘Loosening’ Bias  “The MPC does not see a strong case for more quantitative
easing, although it retains a bias toward further loosening,”
said  Simon Hayes , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London and
a former Bank of England economist. “Although the growth
outlook remains weak, there should be no presumption of further
monetary stimulus.”  BNP Paribas SA changed its forecasts for more QE, dropping
a call that the central bank would expand stimulus again in May.
David Tinsley, an economist at BNP in London and a former
central bank official, said the report “appears quite
deliberately pitched to damp expectations for further asset
purchases.”  Market Expectations  The Bank of England’s forecasts are based on the bond-
purchase target staying at the 325 billion-pound level set on
Feb. 9 and market expectations for interest rates. Those show
the  benchmark rate  staying at current record low of 0.5 percent
until the third quarter of 2014.  In November, the central bank forecast that inflation would
slow to 1.7 percent at the end of this year and 1.3 percent at
the end of 2013. It saw annual GDP growth at about 3.1 percent
at end-2013.  “Moving to a world of steady growth, inflation close to
our 2 percent target, and a more normal level of  interest rates ,
will take time,” King said. “There is a limit to what monetary
policy can achieve when real adjustments are required. But with
falling inflation, and the prospect of an end to the squeeze in
real incomes leading to a recovery in growth, we are moving in
the right direction.”  The central bank said the “quarterly path of output is
likely to be volatile through 2012, reflecting the impact of
various one-off factors” such as the Queen’s Jubilee holiday in
June. Growth is “likely to remain weak in the near term, before
gradually strengthening as households real incomes recover,
supported by continued stimulus from monetary policy.”  Recent surveys indicate the economy may strengthen in the
current quarter. U.K.  manufacturing  returned to growth in
January, while expansion in the services sector accelerated.
Stocks have risen this year, with the MSCI All-Country gauge up
9.3 percent. The FTSE 100 Index has added 6.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  