-- Boeing Targets $2.3 Trillion Market With Jet-Service Expansion
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-02-15T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/boeing-targets-2-3-trillion-market-with-jet-service-expansion.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is expanding its
maintenance offerings to airlines to capture more of an
airplane-services market that may be worth as much as $2.3
trillion over the next 20 years.  The planemaker’s rebranded “Boeing Edge” will offer full-
service care for jets it has sold, from daily monitoring of a
carrier’s fleet to maintenance consultation or actual repair
work. It extends the GoldCare service package that originated on
Boeing’s new 787 Dreamliner and was broadened to the single-
aisle 737.  Singapore Airlines’ cargo division is hiring Boeing for
engineering and planning services for its 13-plane fleet of 747-
400 freighters, the aircraft maker said today. Under the
agreement, Singapore Air’s own maintenance unit will do the work
Boeing recommends, said Lou Mancini, the head of Boeing
Commercial Aviation Services.  Growth in services, which generated more than $14 billion
in revenue in 2011 across commercial and defense programs, is
one of the company’s top priorities, Boeing Chief Executive
Officer Jim McNerney said Feb. 8. Boeing forecasts  air travel 
will keep growing at more than 5 percent a year, with
planemakers selling more than $4 trillion worth of jets through
2030.  Airline services made up 15 percent of Boeing Commercial
Airplanes’ $36 billion in sales last year, Mancini said on a
conference call. His unit has 13,000 employees and provides
services including maintenance, crew training, parts management
and maps.  The company created a NASA-like mission-control center near
Seattle that tracks customers’ problems with aircraft to get
planes back in the air as quickly as possible. Boeing also
developed new tools and algorithms to learn from maintenance
statistics for thousands of its aircraft flying now, Mancini
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  