-- BofA Seeks to Change Venue on $8.5 Billion Mortgage Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-15T16:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/bofa-seeks-to-reverse-venue-ruling-on-8-5-billion-mortgage-deal.html
Bank of America Corp.  and a group of
investors that reached an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement
with the bank are seeking to overturn a ruling that kept the
deal before a federal judge for review.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and
the investor group, which includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , have said the
settlement over Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds
should be considered by a state court in  New York , where it was
first filed last year for approval.  “This case does not belong in federal court at all,”
Charles Rothfeld, a lawyer for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
which is seeking approval of the settlement, said at a hearing
today before the U.S. Appeals Court in Manhattan.  The accord would resolve claims from investors about
defective Countrywide mortgages underlying their securities. The
deal has the support of the investors that negotiated it,
including BlackRock and Pacific Investment Management Co.
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and others are opposed or have
demanded more information to evaluate it.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan in October
ruled that the settlement should be considered in federal court
for approval because it “implicates core federal interests in
the integrity of nationally chartered banks and the vitality of
the national securities markets.”  Class Action Fairness  Bank of America, the investor group and Bank of New York,
the trustee for the mortgage securitization trusts, are asking
the appeals court to overturn Pauley’s ruling. Under the federal
Class Action Fairness Act, it should be returned to state court,
they said in court papers.  “The decision below disrupts a streamlined state
proceeding that BNYM invoked to determine the validity of a
settlement that affects hundreds of trusts, thousands of
investors, and billions of dollars,” Bank of New York said in a
filing.  Entities under the name Walnut Place, which own Countrywide
mortgage bonds, said the case should remain in federal court.
Bank of New York is trying to obtain approval for one of the
largest class-action settlements in history “without providing
adequate protection” for investors, Walnut Place said.  “This is precisely the type of case that CAFA was designed
to bring within the scope of federal jurisdiction,” Walnut
Place said in court papers.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-05988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  