-- Brazilian Poultry Group to Approach WTO About South Africa Chicken Tariffs
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-02-15T11:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/brazilian-poultry-group-to-approach-wto-about-south-africa-chicken-tariffs.html
Brazil ’s poultry association said it
will ask the government to approach the  World Trade Organization 
about  South Africa  imposing higher tariffs on some imports from
the South American nation.  These are “flagrant violations of the WTO’s anti-dumping
agreement,” Ubabef Markets Director Francisco Turra said in a
 statement  posted on the Sao Paulo-based organization’s website
yesterday and dated Feb. 13. “It’s clear that South African
importers’ responses and information from Ubabef about how the
costs of the Brazilian products are calculated weren’t
considered, besides other technical failures.”  Import charges of 6 percent to 63 percent have been imposed
on the poultry for six months, as initial information showed
Brazilian producers are dumping products in South Africa and
neighboring countries, Francois Dubbelman of Pretoria-based FC
Dubbelman and Associates, which represents the South African
Poultry Association, said yesterday.  The South American producers include  BRF Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) ,
the world’s biggest poultry exporter, and Seara Alimentos, the
pork and poultry unit of  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s
second-largest producer of beef.  South Africa’s International Trade Administration
Commission, which asked for the tariffs, will finalize its
findings once interested parties have commented on the
preliminary outcome, it said in its Jan. 30 report.  Antitrust Investigation  South Africa imports 16 percent of all chicken consumed in
the country, with 70 percent of that coming from Brazil,
according to Ubabef.  “The products under investigation for dumping represent 3
percent of the poultry products” in the South African market,
Ubabef said.  The charge on whole chickens will be 63 percent in addition
to the current 5 percent, while that for boneless cuts is an
extra 47 percent on the 27 percent now, it said.  Ubabef estimates the tariffs will result in the industry
losing $70 million annually.  South Africa’s antitrust authority, which is completing an
investigation into complaints about market allocation and
information-sharing by local producers, has found contraventions
and talks for possible settlements have started,  Business Day 
reported today, citing Keith Weeks, head of enforcement and
exemptions at the  Competition Commission .  Hardly Threatening  Rainbow Chicken Ltd. (RBW) , one of the local producers who made
the application, is South Africa’s biggest chicken producer.  The move to raise tariffs are unnecessary as the shipments
aren’t a threat to local producers, according Dave Wolpert,
chief executive officer of the Association of Meat Importers and
Exporters of South Africa.  “Imports from Brazil of the two products that are the
subject of the anti-dumping action represent less than 2 percent
of local production of these same products -- hardly
threatening,” Wolpert said in a letter published in Business
Day on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  