-- U.K. Pound Reaches Highest in Week Versus Euro on Greek-Aid Delay Concern
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-15T15:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/britain-s-pound-weakens-on-speculation-boe-may-consider-buying-more-bonds.html
The pound reached the strongest in a
week against the euro amid speculation a Greek aid package may
be delayed until after April elections, spurring demand for
alternatives to the 17-nation currency.  Benchmark 10-year gilts rose as Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said  Europe  is “playing with fire” by
delaying a bailout decision and Reuters reported a deal may not
be ready until after April elections. Sterling weakened against
higher-yielding currencies such as the New Zealand and
Australian dollars after the Bank of England said the U.K.
economy is likely to remain “weak” and a report showed U.K.
 jobless claims  rose more in January than economists forecast.  “There’s a broad based euro sell-off,” including against
the pound, after the news on the Greek aid deal, said Peter Kinsella, a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “The Bank of England didn’t really tell the market
anything it didn’t already know. It said the outlook was poor
and that the main risks were coming from the euro-region.”  The pound rose 0.4 percent to 83.40 pence per euro at 3:37
p.m. in  London , after reaching 83.34 pence, the strongest since
Feb. 8. It was little changed at $1.5691. Sterling slid 0.5
percent to 53.38 pence per  New Zealand dollar , after falling to
53.66 pence, the weakest since Aug. 2.  Venizelos leveled the accusation after a decision slated
for tonight on aid for  Greece  totaling 130 billion euros ($171
billion) was postponed until Feb. 20 at the earliest. The
package could be put off until after the Greek elections in
April, Reuters reported, citing European Union sources.  Gilts Fall  The 10-year  gilt  yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.07 percent. The 3.75 percent bond due
September 2021 gained 0.165, or 1.65 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 114.455.  The  Bank of England  said in its Inflation Report that the
economy remains feeble because of the government’s fiscal
squeeze and the euro-area crisis.  “There continue to be substantial uncertainties
surrounding the outlook,” the central bank said. Growth is
“likely to remain weak in the near term, before gradually
strengthening as households real incomes recover,” it said.  “The U.K. economy faces considerable downside risks and
those are outlined” in the central bank’s report, said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London. “We are more on the pessimistic side. The pound
weakened into the report, which overall is consistent with
current market thinking.”  Inflation Report  The pound has declined 1.4 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. Over the past 12 months, it slid
4.9 percent, the indexes show.  The central bank sees inflation at its 2 percent target by
year-end before easing to 1.8 percent in two years, according to
the Inflation Report. In November, it forecast inflation would
slow to 1.7 percent at the end of this year and 1.3 percent at
the end of 2013.  “People look at the inflation forecasts and see they are
slightly higher so think there’s a reduced risk for more
quantitative easing,” said  John Hydeskov , chief analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in London. “They didn’t rule out more asset
purchases but they didn’t promise them either. I think the pound
is going to weaken further,” because of the stimulus already in
place, he said.  Jobless Claims  The number of people claiming jobless benefits rose by
6,900 to 1.6 million last month, the most since January 2010,
the  Office for National Statistics  said. Unemployment measured
by International Labour Organization methods jumped by 48,000 to
2.67 million in the fourth quarter, leaving the rate at 8.4
percent, the highest since 1995.  The Bank of England announced an additional 50 billion-
pound program of bond purchases on Feb. 9 after gross domestic
product contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter. The
Monetary Policy Committee kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent the same day.  Gilts have lost investors 1.3 percent this year, after
returning almost 17 percent in 2011, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  