-- California Loans Planned for State Agency That Aided Solyndra
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/california-loans-planned-for-state-agency-that-aided-solyndra.html
California (STOCA1)  is working with banks to
develop low-interest loans for owners of commercial and
industrial property to finance upgrades that curb energy use,
state Controller John Chiang said.  A pool of funds would be made available under criteria set
by the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
Financing Authority, Chiang said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Legislation fleshing out the proposal will be
introduced this year, he said.  The authority, whose five members include both Chiang and
state Treasurer Bill Lockyer, came under scrutiny last year for
awarding more than $25 million in tax relief to Solyndra LLC,
the now-bankrupt solar-panel manufacturer.  “We’re hoping this moves money off the sidelines,” said
Chiang, a 49-year-old Democrat, who declined to identify the
banks the state is working with. “We have a lot of dislocated
workers because of what happened in the real-estate and
financial sectors in 2007 and 2008.”  Chiang said the bank loans would be aggregated by the state
and offered at below-market  interest rates  to property owners to
lower energy use, while the environmental retrofits would put
people to work.  “As the investment bankers say, this could be a game-
changer,” he said. “I don’t want to say billions off the bat
but it would be a major improvement.”  While many larger businesses have been able to absorb the
costs of mandated improvements in  energy efficiency , smaller
companies are struggling, said  Matthew Hargrove , the senior vice
president of governmental affairs at the California Business
Properties Association, an industry trade group.  Financing ‘Harder’  “A lot of the folks you talk to will say it’s hard to come
by capital,” Hargrove said by telephone. “It’s harder to get
financing for something that takes longer to get a return on the
investment.”  Last year, the alternative energy authority temporarily
paused its tax-relief program to review procedures in the wake
of Solyndra’s collapse. Lockyer, the authority’s chairman,
defended the incentives and the program resumed by year’s end.  Joe DeAnda, a Lockyer spokesman, declined to discuss the
authority’s role in the proposed loan program in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Beth Mills , a spokeswoman for the  California  Bankers
Association, said the trade group is working with Lockyer and
Chiang on the program.  “We don’t really have a position until we’ve had a chance
to go over all of the details,” Mills said by telephone
yesterday.  In November 2010, the authority granted Solyndra a tax
break on equipment for its solar-power equipment factory in
Fremont, California. The break was valued at $34.7 million,
according to a report from Lockyer’s office, of which Solyndra
used $25.1 million.  Solyndra, which received $535 million in U.S. loan
guarantees from the Energy Department, filed for court
protection from creditors on Sept. 6. The bankruptcy filing
prompted investigations by the FBI and congressional committees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 