-- Canadian Currency Declines to Parity After Reaching Highest Level in Week
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-15T22:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/canadian-dollar-rises-for-third-day-as-crude-oil-reaches-a-month-high.html
The Canadian dollar fell for the
first day this week versus its U.S. counterpart as bets that an
aid package for  Greece  may be delayed until after it holds
elections this year damped appetite for riskier assets.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, rose earlier the most in almost two weeks
as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed. The loonie
weakened after Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
 Europe ’s wealthier countries are toying with the idea of
expelling his nation from the 17-nation euro area.  “The Canadian dollar is reacting to all of the headlines
out of Europe,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York . “There is still
a lot of uncertainty out of Europe. Unless we get a clearer sign
the bailout will be approved, it will be hard for sentiment to
be positive.”  Canada ’s dollar depreciated 0.1 percent to parity with the
greenback, C$1 per U.S dollar, at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It advanced
earlier as much as 0.5 percent to 99.38 cents, the strongest
level since Feb. 9.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index dropped 0.5 percent after
rising as much as 0.4 percent. The loonie has a 60-day
correlation coefficient of 0.83 with the equity gauge. A reading
of 1 would indicate they move in lockstep.  Crude oil touched $102.54 a barrel in New York, the highest
level since Jan. 12, before trading at $101.88, up 0.9 percent.  Bonds Gain  Canadian  government bonds  rose for a second day, pushing
the yield on the benchmark  10-year note  down one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.1 percent. It touched 1.99 percent,
the lowest level since Feb. 7. The 3.25 percent securities due
in June 2021 increased 7 cents to C$110.45.  The government auctioned C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion) of
five-year notes today at an average yield of 1.424 percent,
according to a statement on a  Bank of Canada  website. That was
down from 1.441 percent at the last offering of the securities
in November.  The sale attracted $8.5 billion in bids. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the
amount offered, was 2.43, versus an average of 2.39 at the past
five auctions. The 1.5 percent securities are due in March 2017.  Yields on current  five-year note  declined one basis point
to 1.37 percent.  ‘Playing with Fire’  The Canadian currency erased gains against the U.S. dollar
and the euro fell versus most major peers on speculation a
bailout package for Greece, where Europe’s debt crisis began
more than two years ago, could be delayed until after the nation
holds elections. Greece’s second-biggest political party,  New
Democracy , wants voters to go to the polls in April.  Greek Finance Minister Venizelos said wealthier euro-area
nations were “playing with fire” after a decision scheduled
for today on aid was put off until at least Feb. 20. The rescue
totals 130 billion euros ($171 billion). Luxembourg’s Jean-
Claude Juncker, who leads euro-area finance chiefs, said after a
conference call he’s confident the needed decisions will be made
Feb. 20. He said Greece made “substantial further progress.”  Greece faces a bond redemption on March 20, when the
government must come up with 14.5 billion euros or become the
first country in the euro’s 13-year history to default.  “Reality will set in when Greece actually has to pay down
their bond issues and implement the austerity measures,” said
 John Curran , a senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “Stay tuned.”  Euro Slides  Canada’s dollar advanced as much as 0.8 percent to C$1.3021
per euro, the strongest level since Feb. 6, before trading at
C$1.3066, up 0.4 percent.  The Canadian currency fell from its high for the day
against the greenback even after production at factories in the
U.S., its biggest trade partner, increased in January.  Output at factories rose 0.7 percent after a revised 1.5
percent gain in December that was the largest in five years,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed. A 2.5 percent decline
in utility output prompted by the fourth-warmest January on
record caused total industrial output to be little changed.  A gauge of manufacturing in the New York region climbed
this month at the fastest pace since June 2010. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic index  increased to
19.5, from 13.5 in January.  The loonie remained higher than nine of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “People are choosing to express their favor for the
Canadian dollar much more against other currencies then against
the  U.S. dollar ,” Curran said.  The loonie gained 1.6 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
fell 1.1 percent, and the euro tumbled 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  