-- Canada Pension May Buy Stakes in More Land Securities Group’s U.K. Assets
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-15T17:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/canada-pension-may-buy-stakes-in-more-land-securities-group-s-u-k-assets.html
Canada’s second-biggest retirement
fund may buy more stakes in  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) ’s U.K.
assets after acquiring part of the Victoria Circle project near
 Buckingham Palace  today.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board will discuss further
opportunities with Land Securities, the U.K.’s largest real
estate investment trust, after the joint-venture deal for
Victoria Circle in  London  is completed, said Graeme Eadie,
senior vice president for real estate investments at the
Canadian fund.  “We’ll explore with them what other opportunities might
work for both parties,” Eadie said today in a telephone
interview. “They’re a very high-quality group and we’d like to
do more with them but we haven’t taken the conversation beyond
that.”  Canada Pension, the world’s third-biggest net buyer of real
estate last year, has C$14.4 billion ($14.5 billion) of property
investments including shopping malls in  Australia , Brazil,
 Germany , the U.K. and the U.S. among its C$152.8 billion of
total assets as of Dec. 31, according to financial statements.
Land Securities said today it sold the 5.5-acre (2.2-hectare)
Victoria Circle site for 163 million pounds to a 50-50 venture
it will own with the Canadian fund.  The joint venture will develop five buildings on the land
containing more than 900,000 square feet (84,000 square meters)
of housing, offices and shops across from Victoria Station. The
development will have a value of more than 1 billion pounds,
($1.57 billion) when completed, Land Securities said.  Canada’s second-biggest retirement fund bought a 45 percent
stake in a $4.8 billion joint venture for 12 U.S. properties,
its partner  Westfield Group (WDC)  said today. Talks had been under way
on the deal for about a year, Eadie said.  “We like retail, it tends to be very stable, it tends to
generate good returns,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 