-- Cape Wind’s Nstar Deal May Spur Financing of U.S. Offshore Farm
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cape-wind-s-nstar-win-may-pave-way-for-first-u-s-offshore-farm.html
Nstar (NST) ’s agreement to purchase power
from Cape Wind Associates LLC may lead to financing of the first
U.S. offshore wind project.  Nstar agreed to purchase 129 megawatts of capacity from the
planned 468-megawatt project as part the Boston-based utility
holding company’s $4.8 billion acquisition by  Northeast
Utilities (NU) , in a deal approved yesterday by Massachusetts
regulators.  That means the developer has lined up buyers for 77.5
percent of the wind farm’s total output and will be enough to
seek financing, said  Mark Rodgers , a Cape Wind spokesman. State
regulators must approve the Nstar contract, as they did with
National Grid Plc’s 2010 agreement to buy 234 megawatts of
capacity from the project off the coast of Nantucket.  “We believe these two contracts will be enough for us to
get financing,” Rodgers said in a phone interview. “We’ll
continue to look for buyers for the remainder as that process
moves forward.”  The Cape Wind project has been in development for more than
a decade.  Opposition to the project, which would place 130 Siemens AG
turbines in Nantucket Sound, say that offshore wind is too
expensive compared to onshore wind and solar energy. Offshore
wind costs almost three times as much as onshore, and four times
that of an efficient natural-gas plant, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance data.  “Ratepayers are not going to stand still for the kind of
bills that the governor, Nstar, National Grid and Cape Wind want
to impose on them,” Audra Parker, president of Alliance to
Protect Nantucket Sound, said in a statement. “Other green
energy is available at a fraction of the price.”  Tax Credit Expiring  The contract with Nstar, similar to National Grid, will
probably include provisions for the potential loss of a federal
tax credit that provides wind-power producers 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour, Rodgers said.  National Grid agreed to pay Cape Wind 18.7 cents a
kilowatt-hour for half the output that the project produces. The
price will increase 3.5 percent annually for the 15-year life of
the contract.  The production tax credit for wind will expire at the end
of this year unless Congress passes an extension.  Even a two-year extension may not help Cape wind and other
offshore developers qualify for the credit, because large
offshore projects take longer than that to complete, said Amy Grace, a wind energy analyst at New Energy Finance in  New York .  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty,” Grace said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  