-- Carbon Traders Group Urges Overhaul of EU Cap-and-Trade Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-15T13:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/carbon-traders-group-urges-overhaul-of-eu-cap-and-trade-plan.html
The European Union should change its
carbon-trading plan by introducing a mechanism to allow changing
the bloc’s pollution cap to reflect economic conditions, the
International Emissions Trading Association said.  While the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program is working
as intended, fragmented policies are undermining its price
signal at the time when an economic slowdown weighs on the
market, IETA said in a statement today. EU carbon allowances
lost 46 percent from a year ago amid oversupply and concerns
that the crisis will erode demand for pollution rights.  “IETA wants a system to change caps, as soon as possible,
consistent with stakeholder engagement and full understanding of
what’s being proposed,” the associations’ president  Henry Derwent  said in a phone interview. “What we’re asking for is a
reexamination of a system which would essentially index the
baseline and make this more like an indexed system.”  The Geneva-based group also called on the EU policy makers
to provide a “credible” framework for long-term carbon
targets, including legislation to confirm the bloc’s 2050
political emission-cut pledges, mid-term milestones and caps for
the so-called Phase 4 of the emissions trading system, or the
ETS, after 2020.  No Cap Adjustment  Started in 2005, the EU cap-and-trade program is the
cornerstone of the bloc’s carbon-reduction policy. It imposes
pollution limits on more than 11,000 manufacturers and utilities
in the region, allowing those who discharge less carbon dioxide
to sell their surplus allowances.  The system, which expanded this year to include flights to
and from  Europe , leads to a cap on emissions in 2020 that will
be 21 percent below 2005 levels. The supply was set by  member
states  before the crisis started and the program doesn’t include
any cap-adjustment mechanisms.  Prices for carbon permits have fallen 46 percent in the
past year as industrial output in Europe declined. EU permits
for December were up 1.7 percent at 8.25 euros ($10.82) at 1:10
p.m. in  London .  “We have to regard it as likely that between now and 2020
something will happen that will require some re-examination of
the ETS directive,” Derwent said. “The system just is not seen
to be stable in terms of producing good responses to all the
priorities that people have wanted from it in the phase of
significant economic disruptions.”  Transparent Process  A potential decision on recalibrating the cap should be
made in a transparent process, including consultations with
institutions, non-governmental organizations and industry
associations, according to IETA. While the Australian program of
rolling target could be taken into account in such an overhaul,
it has some disadvantages from the point of view of market
certainty, the association said.  “An alternative, probably less intrusive way, that should
also be assessed is systemic recalibration by which the baseline
would be automatically adjusted periodically according to well-
known and widely available indicators,” it said.  While such a model would be more complex than a fixed cap,
the alternative of sticking with intact targets amid a radical
change in the economic environment “is clearly causing
problems,” according to IETA.  Should the EU decide to temporarily withhold allowances to
alleviate oversupply from 2013, a plan considered by the
European Parliament, it should ensure permits are set aside in
an “objective, predictable and transparent manner,” IETA said.  EU regulators should ensure that rules allowing a roll-over
of allowances to the next trading period are not changed and
reassure market participants that such “interventions” are
unique, according to IETA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 