-- Catholic Bishops Join the Culture War on Obama: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/catholic-bishops-join-the-culture-war-on-obama-margaret-carlson.html
I was surprised when the bishops
didn’t declare victory last week. Heeding their protests,
President  Barack Obama  relieved Catholic institutions of the
indignity of having to pay directly for contraception for their
employees.  In the  compromise  worked out by the White House, insurance
companies would instead provide contraception coverage
separately and absorb the cost, which is less than paying for
the alternatives.  Instead of marveling at this miraculous turnaround, the
bishops raised holy hell, calling the deal an “outrage” and a
“sham.” Cardinal Donald Wuerl, the archbishop of  Washington ,
said it was like letting Catholics have pornography as long as
someone else paid for it.  To borrow a football metaphor, the bishops moved the pearly
gates. They want the president to enforce a religious doctrine
against artificial  birth control  that they gave up  enforcing 
long ago.  I grew up in a devout Catholic family of three children,
small for my neighborhood. My father called out numbers at
Friday night bingo. My mother delivered starched linens to the
sanctuary on Saturday night. But they didn’t take Communion on
Sunday morning. I got a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach at
every Mass because I was ashamed of them, though I didn’t know
what they’d done wrong.  Despite the misplaced shame, I wanted to be married in the
church. By 1972, many priests and most Catholic women had given
up on church rules on sexual conduct. When I volunteered at my
obligatory pre-wedding confession that I used the pill, the
priest said that would no longer deprive me of a state of grace.
I said five Hail Mary’s, took Communion and later baptized my
daughter at St. Ann’s.  Good Faith Effort  Last week, the federal government made a good-faith effort
to comply with a religious doctrine that isn’t taken seriously
even by many of its most vocal champions. Why do the bishops
want to continue this fight? Plenty of Catholics would like to
rally around a church still (justly) paying a price for
protecting priests who sexually abused children. Despite all,
the church continues its commitment to helping the poor and the
sick.  But if the controversy evolves from a conflict over
religious prerogatives to one about contraception, the bishops
will lose cafeteria Catholics who are accustomed to picking and
choosing our doctrines.  The bishops are being encouraged by the Republican right,
which is forever recruiting reinforcements for its culture wars.
 Rick Santorum , a Catholic with seven children and a wife who, he
boasts, properly stays at home with them, outdoes the bishops.
He wants no insurance coverage for contraceptives lest we live
in a world where the irreligious “impose their values on
somebody else.” (Only Santorum’s values should be imposed on
somebody else.)  Newt Gingrich  is almost as zealous -- or at least pretends
to be. A convert to Catholicism, Gingrich’s multiple marriages
make a mockery of at least one church doctrine. His destructive
politics and personal vitriol pretty much take care of the rest.
Obama, Gingrich said, “will wage war on the Catholic Church the
morning after he is re-elected.”  To compete with Santorum and Gingrich,  Mitt Romney , the
suspect moderate, grows even phonier. Providing “contraceptives,
morning-after pills -- in other words, abortive pills -- and the
like at no cost,” he said, “is a violation of conscience.” Yet a
similar  policy  didn’t violate his conscience when he was
governor of  Massachusetts .  War on President  To the extent conservative voters support the bishops, it
is largely on abortion, not contraception. Evangelical doctrine
doesn’t prohibit birth control. If they pursue their current
course, the bishops risk looking like allies of the Republicans’
war on all things Obama: health-care reform, big government,
fiscal policy and now contraception.  Balancing the desires of our varied religions without
endorsing any one in particular can be messy. Should insurers
tailor their policies to conform to Shariah law for Muslim
employers? Should reporters at the Christian Science Monitor be
deprived of health care in favor of prayer healing? If not, why
should Catholic employers be allowed to deprive employees -- who
pay insurance premiums -- of coverage for contraceptives?  The president has no obligation to yield to the
anachronistic, largely unenforced policy of one religion.
Americans didn’t leave the Church of  England  behind only to
embrace a Church of the  United States  as defined by an
overreaching Catholic hierarchy. Thank God for that.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 