-- CBS in Talks to Produce New Shows for Netflix, Moonves Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-16T01:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cbs-in-talks-to-produce-shows-for-netflix.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the broadcast
network and the Showtime cable channel, is in talks to produce
an original program for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Chief Executive Officer
Leslie Moonves said.  “We are talking to Netflix about a potential deal to
produce a show for them,” Moonves said today on a conference
call. “Until they are doing 22 hours a week of premium content,
we do not look at them as a competitor, but rather another place
to put our content.”  Supplying Netflix would give CBS, based in  New York , new
revenue as online video services order more exclusive shows.
Netflix is is adding five original programs by 2013, including
“Lilyhammer,” “House of Cards” and “Arrested Development,”
said Steve Swasey, a spokesman for Los Gatos, California-based
Netflix. He wouldn’t comment on CBS talks.  Netflix, pressing competition with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO,
will produce 13 episodes of a new comedy series, “Orange Is the
New Black,” a person with knowledge of the situation said
yesterday. The series from “Weeds” creator Jenji Kohan is
based on the memoir of a communications executive who served
time for drug-related crimes.  The fifth series is expected to be Gaumont International
Television’s 13 initial episodes of the horror series “Hemlock
Grove,” the person said.  Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in
December he sees an “arms race” to dominate Web-based TV
viewing, one that will be won by companies that offer the most
compelling content and easy access.  Separately, Netflix director Charles Giancarlo won’t stand
for re-election in May, according to a regulatory filing today.
He had served on Netflix’s board since April 2007.  Netflix fell 0.8 percent to $122.06 at the close in New
York. CBS declined 0.7 percent to $29.57. The company, which
reported fourth-quarter results after markets closed, has added
9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  