-- Cenovus Seeks Partner to Tap Global Markets for Oil Sands
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-15T21:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cenovus-fourth-quarter-profit-triples-on-rising-crude-oil-prices.html
Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , the oil
producer spun off by Encana Corp. in 2009, is looking for a
partner to help it sell more products abroad, said Chief
Executive Officer Brian Ferguson.  Cenovus is in talks with “several” potential partners and
more have expressed interest in recent weeks, Ferguson said in a
telephone interview today. The deal, potentially worth billions
of dollars, may include future projects, such as developing
Telephone Lake oil-sand assets, and existing production, he
said.  “We are in no way capital-constrained,” said Ferguson.
“It’s the strategic uplift that the right partner might bring
in terms of additional coking arrangements, transportation, and
supply arrangements.”  Cenovus, based in Calgary, operates mainly in the provinces
of  Alberta  and Saskatchewan. The company is searching for new
ways to export its crude and is looking at Kinder Morgan Inc.’s
Trans-Mountain pipeline to Vancouver and additional railcar
capacity as oil production soars in the coming years.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has signaled his
support for new pipelines to transport oil from landlocked
Alberta to  Canada ’s Pacific Coast and on to  Asia , Ferguson said
during a conference call today. Asian countries will eventually
want direct access to Canadian oil resources, he said.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to C$266 million ($267
million), or 35 cents a share, from C$78 million, or 10 cents, a
year earlier, Cenovus said in a statement today. The company
plans to boost investment 23 percent this year to as much as
C$3.4 billion, according to a statement in December.  Cenovus shares fell 1.2 percent to C$38.12 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  