-- CFTC’s Staff, ‘Criminal Club’, Volcker: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-18T17:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cftc-s-staff-criminal-club-plea-volcker-critics-compliance.html
(Corrects to remove pay reference in third paragraph of
Citigroup item in column published Feb. 15.)  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  says it will shift enforcement staff to meet Dodd-
Frank Act demands in 2012, after failing last year to adequately
oversee  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange.  The CFTC didn’t meet its own goals to review CME, the
Chicago Board of Trade, and ICE Futures U.S. in the year ending
Sept. 30, 2011 for compliance with the agency’s core principles
for exchange-traded markets, according to an agency  report  on
its own performance. In a separate  spending plan  for fiscal 2013,
the agency said it would reassign staff this year from
enforcement to oversee new applications for registration with
the agency that stem from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  and CFTC are leading
U.S. efforts to write new regulations required under the 2010
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul. The agencies aim this year to
complete rules designed to have most swaps guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other venues.  The CFTC received authority to oversee the bulk of the
swaps market, which was largely unregulated prior to Dodd-Frank
and blamed by congressional lawmakers for fueling the 2008
credit crisis.  Changes to oversight of the futures market have been
considered by the CFTC since  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed
last year.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Volcker Rule  Ralph Schlosstein Says Volcker Rule Will Boost Costs  Ralph Schlosstein, president and chief executive officer of
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , talked about action by the world’s
largest banks to escalate the lobbying effort against the
Volcker rule five months before it takes effect.  The rule will limit banks from trading on their own behalf
and from investing in private-equity and hedge funds.  Schlosstein spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Moody’s Zandi Says He’s ‘Not a Fan’ of Volcker Rule  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
talks about action by the world’s largest banks to escalate the
lobbying effort against the Volcker rule which is to take effect
July 21.  Zandi spoke with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Reed, Kelleher, Rosenthal Comment ‘Pro and Con’ on Volcker Rule  John S. Reed, who helped engineer the merger that created
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , said the U.S. should make the proposed Volcker
rule stronger by targeting bank traders’ pay and using “severe
penalties” to enforce it.  Regulators should ensure traders are paid “based on the
results of their market-making and hedging activities after
those positions are fully unwound,” Reed wrote in a  letter  to
regulators Feb. 13. There should be “specific and vigorous
penalties for individual traders, management and firms” who
don’t comply with the new regulations, Reed wrote.  The letter from Reed, 73, was among comments filed Feb. 13
with regulators who are finalizing the Volcker rule, which bans
banks that accept deposits from trading that could put their
firms at risk and create another financial crisis. Lenders
including New York-based Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. have called for revisions amid concern that
the rule could harm profits.  “A strong Volcker rule is one of the most important
provisions to prevent “too big to fail” financial institutions,
stop conflicts of interest and support credit in our economy,”
Reed wrote. “Failure to comply should be severely punished.”  Reed said the proposed Volcker rule should be strengthened
by requiring chief executive officers to sign a statement each
quarter affirming that they are complying.  Molly Millerwise Meiners, a spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on Reed’s letter. Citigroup filed its own
comment letter saying the proposal should be made simpler and
less burdensome.  For more, click here.  Separately,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest
brokerage, said the Volcker rule suffers from a misunderstanding
of how banks earn returns from market making and threatens to
curb profitable services.  “There appears to be a real misconception about how
principal market makers generate revenues,”  Colm Kelleher , who
runs the bank’s trading business, and Chief Operating Officer
Jim Rosenthal, wrote in a comment letter posted to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s website yesterday. “The proposal
should be revised to reflect the realities.”  “Some of the criteria for market making in the proposal
are more characteristic of agency trading and principal market
making in certain highly liquid, exchange-traded markets, rather
than the more common situation of principal market making in
less liquid markets,” the executives wrote.  For more, click here, and click here.  Separately,  Bond Dealers of America  said the Volcker rule,
as proposed, “would have construed the municipal bond exception
very narrowly and effectively only exempted general obligation
bonds.” BDA made the comments in a Feb. 13 letter to U.S.
regulators, according to a statement on BDA’s website.  BDA is a Washington-based trade organization representing
securities dealers and banks focused on fixed income markets.  Separately, a group known as  Occupy Wall Street  submitted a
325-page letter containing a detailed critique of the Volcker
Rule. Occupy Wall Street is a working group affiliated with the
protest at Manhattan’s Zuccotti Park last fall.  The group held a conference call on Jan. 12 with staff
members from the Securities and Exchange Commission and
subsequently responded to 244 of the 395 questions regulators
asked concerning the Volcker rule.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Brazil Creates Group to Assess the Derivative Markets  Brazil’s Finance Ministry created a group to assess and
propose measures to the  derivatives market , according to a
statement published today in the official gazette.  The group, which will have participation of central bank
and Brazil’s securities regulator members, aims to promote a
balanced growth of the derivatives markets and monitor the
companies’ exposures in this market, according to the statement.  China Shows Concrete Interest on EFSF, Sovereign Bond Investment  China  has shown concrete interest in investing in European
sovereign bonds and the European Financial Stability Facility,
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at a briefing
yesterday.  Europe welcomes Premier Wen Jiabao’s remarks that China
wants to be more involved in helping solve the European debt
crisis, Van Rompuy said. At the same briefing, Wen said the
sides will enhance consultation on helping solve the European
crisis.  Europe and China will hold talks on a substantive
investment agreement,  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso 
said at the briefing.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Citigroup Executive Denies Wrongdoing in Tibor-Fixing Case  A former Citigroup Inc. executive accused by Japanese
regulators in a probe of suspected interest-rate manipulation
denied wrongdoing and said authorities never questioned him
before they issued findings.  Christopher Cecere, who worked for Citigroup in Tokyo as
head of G10 trading and sales for Asia until 2010, was
identified as “Director A” in a Dec. 16  administrative  case by
Japan’s Financial Services Agency, according to two people with
knowledge of the inquiry. The agency said Director A and another
Citigroup trader engaged in “seriously unjust and malicious”
conduct by asking bankers to alter data they submitted in the
process of setting a benchmark Japanese lending rate. Japan’s
FSA penalized the firm and took no action against the employees.  During Citigroup’s internal investigation, the New York-
based bank didn’t question Cecere about his conduct or indicate
to him that it suspected he had acted improperly, he said in a
Feb. 10 phone interview. Regulators also didn’t seek his version
of events, he said. He left the firm in good standing, he said.
He later joined Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, a London-
based hedge fund that manages about $33 billion.  Japan’s regulators were the first to announce findings as
authorities in Asia, Europe and the U.S. conduct widening
inquiries into whether employees at some of the world’s biggest
banks sought to manipulate the  London , Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor, respectively.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on Cecere’s remarks.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan, HSBC Implicated by Informant Bank in Canada Libor Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings
Plc are among at least seven firms accused by another bank of
participating in a conspiracy to manipulate the price of
derivatives worldwide for more than three years.  The unnamed bank, seeking immunity, told Canada’s
 Competition Bureau  that traders and cash brokers conspired to
influence the Yen London interbank offered rate from 2007 to
2010 to profit on interest-rate derivative positions linked to
the benchmark. The bureau spelled out the probe in documents it
filed with the Ontario Superior Court in May.  “There is no conclusion of wrongdoing at this time and no
charges have been laid,” Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the
Competition Bureau, said in an e-mailed statement.  Libor rates are generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London.  Canadian officials, who were seeking records from the
companies, said the cooperator claimed that the banks’ employees
agreed to make artificially high or low submissions for Yen
Libor to improve the outcomes of trades tied to the rate.
According to the documents, banks communicated with one another
and with cash brokers to form agreements. In some cases,
derivatives traders allegedly asked cash brokers to help
influence submissions for Yen Libor.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup Inc.,
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and London-based ICAP Plc declined to comment.  Diane Soucy Bergan, a spokeswoman for London-based HSBC in
Chicago, didn’t respond to requests for comment. A call after
normal business hours to a U.K. phone number listed on RP Martin
Holdings Ltd.’s website for media inquiries wasn’t answered, nor
was a call to a number listed for the broker’s  New York  office.  For more, click here.  Vietnam Exchange May Miss Trading Hours Deadline, Bang Says  Vietnam may miss a planned Feb. 20 deadline to begin
extended trading hours on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange as
it’s still waiting for ministerial approval, State Securities
Commission Chairman Vu Bang said today.  Final approval may be delayed for a few weeks as the
exchange waits for final approval, Bang said.  Southeast Asia’s second-smallest exchange by market
capitalization after Laos wants to add an afternoon session from
1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. to the existing 8:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. trading
day, Nguyen Duy Phong, an analyst from ACB Securities, said on
Aug. 11, citing a document sent to the company by the bourse.  Bang said all technical issues related to the extension had
been addressed and the only concern is that “liquidity in the
market is low” and the extension may not increase trading
volumes as much as expected.  Courts  Raymond James U.K. Unit Wins Court Battle Over Client Poaching  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) ’s U.K. unit won a lawsuit in
which financial advisory firm Towry Holdings Ltd. accused the
company and seven employees of taking its clients.  A U.K. judge dismissed Towry’s claim, which sought as much
as 6 million pounds ($9.4 million), Faegre Baker Daniels LLP, a
law firm representing Raymond James, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Towry sued for breach of contract after seven of its
financial advisers joined Raymond James’ U.K. unit and were
followed by some of their clients, the firm said.  The seven employees had worked for a company taken over by
Towry in 2009 and were employed under different contracts to its
other staff, Andrew Fisher, Towry’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Dell Insider-Trading Suspects Plead Not Guilty in New York  Four men arrested last month for allegedly participating in
a “criminal club” that made almost $62 million from using
illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  stock pleaded not guilty.  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson; Todd
Newman, a portfolio manager formerly at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC; Jon Horvath, an analyst at hedge fund Sigma
Capital Management LLC; and Danny Kuo, a  fund manager  for
Whittier Trust Co. entered not guilty pleas to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said the ring, which allegedly involved five hedge
funds and investment firms, is the largest identified by the U.S.
to date tied to a single stock.  All four men, who were arrested Jan. 18, are charged with
one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. They are
individually charged with additional counts of securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  King Says U.K. Banks Have Made Progress in Building Up Capital  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said U.K. banks have
made progress in repairing their finances in comparison to many
euro-zone financial institutions.  “Relative to many continental banks, we have moved a long
way in the process of putting our banking system back into a
healthy position in terms of capital,” King said at a press
conference in London today.  While U.K. banks are exposed to the real economy, they have
made “much more progress than many others,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 