-- China Stocks Drop Most in Week as FDI Slump Adds to Concerns About Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T08:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/chalco-leads-state-stock-rally-on-pledge-to-help-europe-china-overnight.html
China’s stocks  fell, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest loss in a week, as a slump in foreign
direct investment and delays in a Greek aid package boosted
concerns the nation’s economic slowdown will accelerate.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. led
declines for metal producers after European officials postponed
a decision on a 130-billion euro ($169 billion) bailout for
 Greece .  Cosco Shipping Co. (600428) , a unit of China’s biggest shipping
company, slid 2.9 percent after the commerce ministry said the
outlook for foreign investment and trade is “grim.”  Huayi
Brothers Media Corp. (300027)  paced gains for media stocks as the
government pledged to support the “culture” industry.  “The fundamentals of the economy aren’t good and monetary
policy will still be kept relatively tight this year,” said
 Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co., which manages about $120 million.
“But investors anticipate the government will have measures to
support equities. Stocks will be volatile for the moment.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 9.84 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,356.86 at the close, the most since Feb. 7. The
 CSI 300 Index  lost 0.5 percent to 2,536.07. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 0.9 percent yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 9.7 percent from a
Jan. 5 low on speculation the central bank will cut lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios to spur growth. It announced a
reduction in reserve ratios on Nov. 30, the first since 2008,
after boosting them and  interest rates  last year to cool
inflation.  Investment Slump  Cosco Shipping declined 2.9 percent to 4.65 yuan. China
Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, slumped 1.3 percent to 5.51 yuan.  Foreign investment fell for the third month in January,
commerce ministry data showed. FDI declined 0.3 percent from a
year earlier to $9.997 billion, the ministry said in a
statement. That followed a 12.7 percent drop in December and a
contraction the previous month that was the first since 2009.  The outlook for foreign direct investment in  China  this
year is “grim,” Shen Danyang, spokesman for the commerce
ministry, said in Beijing today. The drop in investment adds to
drags on growth in the world’s second-biggest economy from
slumping home sales and slowing output gains as Premier  Wen Jiabao  sustains curbs on real estate. The government may extend
a monetary policy pause as it assesses whether manufacturing and
job gains in the U.S. lead to a trade rebound and inflation
moderates after an unexpected acceleration last month.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
1.1 percent to 26.50 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of the
nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, fell 0.7
percent to 7.24 yuan.  Europe Deadline  Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday
the nation will continue to hold European sovereign debt. The
comments echoed Premier Wen, who said on Feb. 14 that China is
ready to get “more deeply involved” in helping the region.
Exports from the nation, which counts the European Union as its
biggest trading partner, fell for the first time in two years in
January, Feb. 10 data showed.  While “further considerations are necessary regarding the
specific mechanisms to strengthen the surveillance of program
implementation,”  Europe  is set to make “all the necessary
decisions” on Feb. 20, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker  said in an e-mailed statement after chairing a
conference call of finance chiefs late yesterday.  Europe makes up about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas
shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  ‘Culture Industry’  China will encourage listings of “culture industry”
companies, according to a five-year government plan published by
the state-run Xinhua News Agency. China will also promote
mergers and acquisitions in the industry, Xinhua said. The
“culture industry” includes publishing, film making,
advertising, exhibitions, animation and games, it said.  Huayi Brothers gained 1 percent to 15.17 yuan.  Zhejiang
Huace Film & TV Co.  climbed 3.8 percent to 30.39 yuan. Anhui
Xinhua Media Co., a  book publisher , advanced 2.1 percent to
11.73 yuan.  China’s so-called blue chips offer “rare” investment
values, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  Stocks Support  Major companies including CSI 300 members may offer average
annual returns of about 8 percent with a price-to-earnings ratio
of less than 13 times, the report said. Average share prices of
Chinese-listed companies are close to those of peers in U.S.,
Europe, India and  Brazil , it said.  Guo has pledged to support stocks since he took office in
October. The securities regulator said on Jan. 10 it will
“actively” push local pension and housing funds to invest in
stocks. The Shanghai Composite slumped 33 percent over the past
two years, making it the worst performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.1 percent to a four-day
high of $39.81. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has advanced 16
percent this year, compared with a 7.8 percent gain in the  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  of developed-nation stocks.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in  Singapore .
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  