-- Chavez Misses $10 Billion a Month Curbing Oil Spending: Energy
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-15T16:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/chavez-missing-10-billion-a-month-by-curbing-state-oil-investment-energy.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
reliance on state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  to
finance government budgets and social spending is forcing the
company to delay investments and lose billions of dollars of
export revenue.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is called, planned to
produce 5.8 million barrels a day this year, according to a 2007
 bond prospectus . Since then, output has remained little changed
at around 2.5 million barrels a day, according to the
 International Energy Agency . The 3.3 million barrel-a-day gap
between the five-year business plan and actual result costs the
company around $10 billion a month in unrealized revenue at
current oil prices.  “There has been a choice here to maximize the short-run
cash contribution to the central government and that has had
long-run costs,” said New York-based Bank of America Corp.
economist  Francisco Rodriguez . “If they had taken a longer run
perspective to sacrifice immediate  cash flow  to increase
production, right now they would have a much higher stream of
revenue.”  PDVSA, which reported that sales rose to a record $128
billion in 2011, supplies the Venezuelan government with 95
percent of export revenue. Even as the country’s export oil
basket price reached the highest yet, the company has had to
turn to the central bank and state-run banks for short-term
loans, ask the government to review shipments to China to
recover losses and borrow in U.S. dollars at  interest rates 
above 10 percent.  Dig Deeper  Chavez, 57, is about to dip deeper into his country’s oil
fortune as he prepares a bid for re-election to a third
consecutive six-year term when  Venezuela  holds presidential
elections later this year.  Chavez has pushed the state oil company to channel $53
billion into social development programs that include importing
food, constructing houses and financing health care clinics from
2006 to 2010, compared with $1 billion for exploration
activities, according to  financial statements  from PDVSA.  PDVSA, which says it is investing around $15 billion a
year, is falling behind other Latin American oil producers
including  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Petroleos Mexicanos and
 Ecopetrol SA. (ECOPETL)   Mexico ’s Pemex, for instance, is investing $18
billion to $20 billion a year to refurbish and expand its
infrastructure, according to  Juan Cruz , an emerging-market
corporate debt analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York .  “For companies that are trying to increase their resource
and production, companies the size of Ecopetrol, which are
significantly smaller, are spending about $10 billion a year,”
said Cruz. “A company like Petrobras, which has a very
challenging program, they’re spending about $45 billion.”  Chinese Burden  While Venezuela has received more than $30 billion of loans
from China for infrastructure projects, the repayment of
financing agreements falls on the shoulders of PDVSA, which
sends the world’s second-largest economy about 400,000 barrels a
day without directly receiving any revenue.  The financial burden of exporting one-sixth of oil
production to  China  without receiving cash prompted Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  to send an internal memo to the government to
seek a change to the repayment mechanism.  “The 419,000 barrels of oil a day sent to China in the
first quarter of 2011 represent a very heavy financial burden
for PDVSA and requires a structural solution,” the minister
said in a memo sent to Chavez in April of last year that was
released by opposition lawmaker Miguel Angel Rodriguez.  China Shipments  Ramirez said in November that Venezuela’s government had
modified the structure for shipments to China and that PDVSA
would receive around $7 billion for its deliveries there in
2011. The minister, also PDVSA’s president, said on Feb. 9 that
China paid Venezuela higher prices than the U.S. and that PDVSA
wanted to double oil exports to the Asian country by 2015.  Due to the strains on PDVSA’s finances by diverting cash to
social projects, PDVSA has had to resort to heavy borrowing. The
company vowed in 2006 to raise 30 percent of the investment plan
through loans and finance 70 percent from its own resources.
Since then, PDVSA’s long-term borrowing has surged to $34.9
billion through December from $2.5 billion in 2006, including
the 2007 sale of $7.5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds, a
record for a Latin America corporate issuance at the time.  “When a company like Petrobras takes on new debt, everyone
is happy,” Ramirez said on Feb. 6. “But they criticize us when
we do.”  Perceived Risk  PDVSA pays higher borrowing costs than regional peers
because of the country’s perceived risk. Its bonds due in 2017
yield more than 12.5 percent, compared with between 3 percent
and 4 percent for similar maturity securities denominated in
U.S. dollars and sold by Petrobras, Ecopetrol and Pemex.  “PDVSA has not gone bankrupt yet because they are taking
on debt,” said Ricardo Villasmil, a professor at Venezuela’s
 Catholic University  and an economic adviser to opposition
political candidates. “Delaying planned investments is also a
form of taking on debt, because they are going to have to pay
more in the future.”  Net income at the state oil company fell to $3.16 billion
in 2010 from a record $9.4 billion in 2008 amid record  oil
prices , and down from $6.5 billion in 2005. The company hasn’t
published financial reports from 2011 on its website.  “Both private sector analysts and public sector officials
expect 2012 production to be flat relative to 2011 at worst,”
Credit Suisse analysts Casey Reckman and  Igor Arsenin  wrote in a
Feb. 10 report. “PDVSA compensates for the squeeze on its cash
flow by issuing debt, running arrears with suppliers and
postponing dividend payments to private partners.”  New Threats  PDVSA, which wants to increase production by 500,000
barrels a day in 2012 from new output in the Orinoco belt, can
only send heavy crude typical of the region to specialized
refineries and may not be able to move new barrels into the
market without cutting prices, said Carlos Bellorin, an analyst
with IHS in  London .  Venezuela, which in November saw its exports to the U.S.
fall to a nine-year low of  764,000 barrels a day  according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration, is already starting
to lose market share at refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast
that were originally built to process Venezuelan crude. The
South American country exported as much as 1.9 million barrels a
day of crude to the U.S. in May 1997.  Houston Contract  Houston Refining LP and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , which together
imported 34 percent of the 906,000 barrels of oil a day
 delivered to the continental U.S.  from Venezuela in the first
eight months of 2011, want to diversify suppliers and may be
able to replace Venezuelan crude with Canadian heavy barrels now
planned to increase supplies. Houston Refining has not renewed a
long-term contract with PDVSA that expired in July, company
spokesman  David Harpole  said in a phone interview from Houston.  Oil minister Ramirez, meanwhile, said in January that the
Venezuelan government wasn’t concerned about the proposed
pipelines that could transport competing Canadian crude to its
traditional markets and reduce its access to its main source of
export dollars.  “Oil is a scare commodity, and there will always be
demand, especially from China,” he said. “There are a lot of
buyers for crude from the Orinoco belt. It sells like hot
bread.”  Oil for March delivery rose 61 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$101.35 a barrel at 10:31 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  