-- Chile Drought Threatens Power at Mines as Reservoirs Dwindle
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-15T17:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/chile-reservoirs-at-40-capacity-amid-drought-government-says.html
Chile ’s two-year drought has reduced
water levels at reservoirs that supply power dams to 40 percent
of capacity, threatening electricity generation for the
country’s copper mines.  Levels at reservoirs, which also supply water for
irrigation, plunged 13 percent in January, Chile’s hottest
month, the country’s public water department said in a  report 
yesterday, citing Public Works Minister  Laurence Golborne .
Summer runs from December through March in the Southern
Hemisphere.  The La Nina pattern has brought two years of dry weather to
Chile, where dams generate a third of electricity, at a time
copper producers are increasing demand for power. Electricity
consumption in central Chile, where state-run Codelco and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  operate copper mines, will grow 6 percent a year on
average in the next decade, according to data on the website of
 AES Corp. (AES) ’s unit in the Andean country.  “If La Nina persists beyond June, it’s foreseeable we’d
have a very complex season in terms of energy generation in the
second half of the year,” Fernando Santibanez, an agronomy
professor at the University of Chile in Santiago, said by
telephone today.  Chile’s increasing use of coal, diesel and liquefied
natural gas in a bid to cut dependency on hydroelectric dams is
increasing power generation costs and reducing the country’s
competitiveness,  Diego Hernandez , chief executive officer of
Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, said Dec. 6.  The dry spell is also threatening the irrigation of crops
in Chile, the world’s largest grape exporter and the second-
ranked in avocado exports.  Mexico  is the top avocado exporter,
according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.  Prices  The drought will “undoubtedly” impact the prices of some
goods in the short-term, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters today in Santiago. Golborne said last week that the
drought wouldn’t drive up prices of produce and electricity.  The minister is heading a campaign to avoid further forest
fires after blazes charred eucalyptus forests on the Pacific
Coast, covering Santiago in black smog last week.  Agriculture and people living in rural areas will
“undoubtedly” suffer rationing, Santibanez said. “The
economic impact of this drought is very high.”  The drought in central Chile contrasts with flash flooding
in mountainous areas of the Atacama Desert in northern Chile,
where rains have disrupted operations at Codelco and a mine
belonging to Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  