-- Chile Central Bank Delays Key Rate Cuts as Growth Defies Need for Stimulus
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-15T12:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/chile-delays-key-rate-cuts-as-growth-defies-need-for-stimulus.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged yesterday as faster-than-
expected growth at home and abroad persuaded policy makers not
to repeat last month’s surprise reduction.  The policy board, led for the third time by bank President
Rodrigo Vergara, held the overnight rate at 5 percent yesterday,
as forecast by 12 of 20 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Eight
had expected a second consecutive quarter-point cut.  Chile rejoined Mexico and  Peru  in delaying rate cuts until
it becomes clearer the weak global economy is damping domestic
demand. Chile’s economic expansion surpassed analyst forecasts
in December, reducing the urgency to stimulate growth in the
world’s  top copper producer , Cristobal Doberti, an economist at
Bice Inversiones in Santiago, said by phone yesterday.  “We have an external situation that in terms of economic
data is doing better than we had previously seen along with
reduced tension in financial markets and a local economy that is
evolving faster than expected,” he said. “That being said, the
economy still will decelerate in the first half.”  That slowdown will motivate policy makers to reduce
borrowing costs to 4.5 percent in the current easing cycle, he
said.  Chile’s six-month interest rate swap, which reflects
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, rose 7 basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.76 percent at 9:07 a.m. Santiago
time from yesterday.  Outperforming  The economy expanded an estimated 6.3 percent last year,
surpassing the 6.2 percent forecast made by policy makers in
December, economists at the central bank wrote in a Feb. 13
report. Growth will slow to between 3.75 percent and 4.75
percent this year, according to policy makers.  “Economic activity and domestic demand have tended to
outperform forecasts,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying yesterday’s decision. “Any future changes in the
monetary policy rate will depend on the implications of domestic
and external macroeconomic conditions on the inflationary
outlook.”  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on
interest-rate swaps, increased 19 basis points to 3.06 percent
at 9:33 a.m. today from Jan. 12, when the central bank cut
rates.  The central bank targets 3 percent inflation plus or minus
one percentage point over a 24-month horizon.  Annual inflation 
has exceeded the upper limit of the target for the past two
months, reaching 4.2 percent in January.  Global Scenario  The global economic scenario has also improved in recent
weeks. The U.S. jobless rate fell more than forecast in January,
while Greek lawmakers came closer to averting a default by
approving austerity plans to secure rescue funds.  Advanced economies are growing “slowly” as the U.S. shows
improved signs of vigor and doubts remain about  Europe ’s ability
to resolve the debt crisis, policy makers said in yesterday’s
statement.  “The central bank is still ahead of the curve and the rate
cut in January signaled the predisposition to act by adding
monetary support to the economy,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , wrote in a note e-
mailed to investors yesterday. “There is still a fair
probability that we will see additional rate cuts.”  Yesterday’s decision risks putting more pressure on the
Andean country’s exchange rate, Italo Lombardi, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, wrote. The peso has gained
4.7 percent against the dollar in the past month, the strongest
performance among the seven major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg behind  Mexico .  “The Chilean central bank’s decision risks sending a
confusing message to the market, while supporting inflows to the
Chilean peso, which has faced substantial appreciation
pressures,” he wrote in a note e-mailed to investors.  Chile’s peso strengthened 0.7 percent to 481.34 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:29 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 