-- Chinese Move to Wealth Products May Undermine Bank Stability
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T07:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/chinese-depositors-shifting-to-wealth-products-seen-eroding-bank-stability.html
Lin Baozhen, a 61-year-old retired
accountant in  Shanghai , is a dream customer for Chinese banks.
For a decade, she has kept her money at  China Construction Bank
Corp. (601939)  in an account currently paying  3.5 percent interest .  Not anymore. This month, Lin moved half her 800,000 yuan
($127,000) savings into a 95-day investment product offered by
the bank that guarantees the principal and pays 5.5 percent
annualized returns -- 1 percentage point higher than the
 inflation  rate. Like other Chinese moving deposits to higher-
yield investments in record numbers, Lin plans to shop around
for the best rates for the rest.  “I am not investment-savvy, but it would be stupid of me
if I just leave the deposits there doing nothing,” Lin, clad in
a black down coat, said in the lobby of her bank branch in
Pudong. “The math is simple. I need something safe and with
return that can at least beat inflation.”  Depositors such as Lin bought 16.5 trillion yuan of what
banks call wealth-management products in 2011, more than double
the amount a year earlier, according to Benefit Wealth Co., a
Chengdu-based data supplier which tracks the market. At the same
time,  deposit  growth at Chinese banks last year slowed to 12.7
percent after rising 20 percent in 2010, central bank data show.  In January, depositors pulled 800 billion yuan from  savings
accounts , about 1 percent of the total, the central bank
reported. It was the largest monthly decline in at least 12
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Cash Pressures’  The trend may undermine the stability of the  $1.8 trillion
banking system , say analysts including Charlene Chu, a Beijing-
based senior director at Fitch Ratings Ltd. That’s because money
moved out of savings accounts into wealth-management products no
longer counts as deposits, reducing the ability of banks to
lend. Having to pay higher returns also could force banks to
borrow, driving up the  interbank rate .  “Before the crisis, banks had this never-ending deposit
base that was immobile and just constantly growing,” Chu said.
Now, “for the first time, a large number of Chinese banks are
beginning to face cash pressures, and fewer resources are
available today than in the past.”  Chinese banks often set the maturity date for wealth-
management products at the end of the month so the cash can be
re-categorized as savings to meet month-end, loan-to-deposit-
ratio requirements, said Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
CCB International Securities Ltd., the investment-banking unit
of the nation’s second-largest lender.  Yu Baoyue, a spokesman for Beijing-based China
Construction, declined to comment about the bank’s deposits or
its accounting practices.  Supplementing Returns  To pay higher returns for these wealth-management products,
most banks invest the proceeds in the money market and
supplement the returns they get by drawing on their balance-
sheet assets, using money earned from new product issuance, or
borrowing funds from the  interbank market , Chu said. Money-
market investments on Feb. 16 were paying banks the Shanghai
interbank offered rate, or  Shibor (SHIF3M) , of 5.28 percent annually over
three months. The Shibor rate, the cost of lending among
Shanghai banks, is a gauge of the cash firms have on hand to
lend to each another.  “As this activity grows and you have more and more payout
to meet, whatever resources you have on hand that would normally
go to lending are increasingly going to pay off these other
obligations,” Chu said. “It’s drawing away a lot of resources
from credit.”  Riskier Products  Products invested in the money market typically require
that cash be invested for a specific period of time in exchange
for a return implicitly guaranteed by the bank. Sales increased
77 percent last year, according to Benefit Wealth, and now make
up 54 percent of  China ’s wealth-management products, up from 40
percent a year earlier.  Other products offered by banks don’t have implicit
guarantees of returns or principal. Considered riskier, they
invest in stocks, property, loans, yuan and foreign currencies,
returning as much as 10 percent annually.  One such product based on stocks and mutual funds and sold
by  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
largest lender, lost 16.5 percent of its value when it matured
in January after two years, making it the worst performer among
such investments so far this year, Beijing Business Today
 reported  on Jan. 13.  “People will realize that these investments are not as
safe as they perceived them to have been in the past,”  Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
wrote in a note to clients on Feb. 9.  Chinese ‘Lifeblood’  China has the world’s highest savings rate at more than 50
percent of the nation’s economic activity. Of the 80.1 trillion
yuan in  deposits , 46 percent comes from households and 35
percent from companies, according to the  People’s Bank of China .
The central bank has maintained the one-year deposit rate at 3.5
percent since July, keeping it below inflation for the longest
stretch in 16 years.  “Deposits are the lifeblood of Chinese banks,” said
Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based analyst at  Guotai Junan Securities
Co. (GJSZ)  “Since the  interest rate  is still fixed by the government,
the best banks can do to retain customers is to offer those
high-yield, wealth-management products as quasi-substitutes,
even though sometimes that is a money-losing business.”  ‘Deposit Flight’  Last year’s 12.7 percent deposit-growth rate was the lowest
since the government opened up its economy in the late 1970s,
according to Werner. New lending this year may not exceed 7.7
trillion yuan because of the deposit constraints, he estimates,
lower than the forecasts of between 8 trillion yuan and 8.5
trillion yuan by bank economists surveyed by Bloomberg. New
lending in 2011 was 7.5 trillion yuan.  Chinese banks made 738.1 billion yuan of  new loans  in
January, the lowest lending for that month in five years. The
industry’s loan-to-deposit ratio climbed to 69 percent at the
end of January, the highest since 2005, according to Werner,
indicating that banks don’t have much room to grow their loan
books. Banks are restricted to lending no more than 75 percent
of their deposit base.  “Deposit flight will limit banks’ ability to extend
lending and support economic growth,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-
based economist at BNP Paribas SA.  Hu Huaibang, chairman of  Bank of Communications Ltd. , the
nation’s fifth-largest lender, said this month that Chinese
banks face rising pressure to attract savings in 2012 and that
the industry’s high profits of the past cannot be sustained.  Giving Away Gold  Premier  Wen Jiabao , who has pledged to fine-tune policies
to support growth in the world’s second-largest economy, cut
lenders’ reserve requirements in December for the first time in
three years to give banks resources to boost credit.  Shares of China’s eight largest publicly traded banks have
gained an average of 14 percent this year in  Hong Kong , after
dropping 17 percent in 2011.  Lenders are going all out to attract depositors shopping
for rates that beat inflation.  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  is
giving away gold necklaces from Hong Kong jeweler Chow Tai Fook
to those willing to park at least 600,000 yuan with the bank,
according to Ke Jieru, a manager at the Shenzhen-based bank’s
Shanghai branch. Such depositors will also be eligible to buy a
90-day investment product with an expected annual return of 6.6
percent, she said.  Bank of Communications , based in Shanghai, is granting its
best customers, or those depositing at least 500,000 yuan over
three months, a 5 percent discount on the five-year benchmark
lending rate of 7.05 percent when buying their first homes. It’s
also offering a 140-day wealth-management product with a return
of 5.3 percent.  Warning Lenders  The China Banking Regulatory Commission has repeatedly
warned lenders over the past year about the risks of sales of
high-yield wealth-management products and banned them from
selling products with maturities of less than one month. The
regulator in June also banned lenders from paying investors the
expected rate of return by using profits earned from other
business segments.  Only 37 out 15,038 wealth-management products failed to
meet the highest expected rate of return stated in banks’
marketing brochures last year, Benefit Wealth data showed. All
37 were based on riskier investments such as stocks.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SCHOMP) ’s 33 percent drop in 2010 and
2011 made it the worst performer among the world’s 10 biggest
markets.  Chinese investors say they believe the government will make
good on investment promises by the banks, even implicit ones for
the money-market-invested products -- particularly by state-
owned entities such as China Construction.  “For me, safety is a priority, so that’s why I choose
investment products sold by banks,” said Lin, the retired
accountant. “They’re government-owned, aren’t they? I don’t
want to make the same mistake I did years ago by putting money
into the stock market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  