-- China Capital Inflows May Limit Room for Immediate Cut in Reserve Ratios
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T01:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-sees-renewed-capital-inflows-this-year-expectations-for-yuan-gains.html
Capital flows into  China  have
rebounded this year, the central bank said, bolstering the case
for officials refraining from any immediate cuts in banks’
reserve requirements.  Expectations for a decline in the value of the yuan against
the  U.S. dollar  have also reversed, with non-deliverable forward
contracts now forecasting no change or some appreciation, the
People’s Bank of China said in a quarterly monetary policy
report posted on its website yesterday. It didn’t specify when
the document was prepared.  China reduced the amount of money banks must set aside as
reserves for the first time in three years in December as
capital inflows dried up amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, exacerbating
a domestic credit crunch. UBS AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. have
scaled back forecasts for cuts after liquidity increased and the
 trade surplus  surged.  “Large foreign-currency inflows may exert great influence
on Chinese central bank monetary policy, and may reduce the
likelihood of a cut in  reserve requirements ,” said Liu Li-Gang,
head of Greater China economics at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong , who previously worked at the
 World Bank . Inflows this year, including a higher-than-forecast
trade surplus, may also put “relatively large” appreciation
pressure on the yuan, he said.  China’s  foreign-exchange reserves , the world’s biggest at
$3.18 trillion, dropped for the first time in more than a decade
in the fourth quarter as foreign investment moderated, the trade
surplus narrowed and Europe’s crisis spurred investors to sell
emerging-market assets.  ‘Closely Monitor’  The country will see net inflows of capital this year,
albeit at a lower level than previous years, as the nation
maintains a  trade surplus  and the “vast potential” of its
domestic market draws funds, the PBOC said. It didn’t provide a
forecast.  The central bank said it will “closely monitor” the trend
of rising capital inflows, including financial institutions’
purchases of foreign exchange, and improve the flexibility of
its policy adjustments.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards traded at 6.2798 per
dollar in Hong Kong yesterday, a 0.3 percent premium to the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts traded at a discount from mid November to early
January.  Increase Yuan Flexibility  China will “increase two-way flexibility” of the yuan,
the central bank said. The change in wording from the previous
report’s “increase flexibility” points to a “clear slowdown
in the pace of yuan appreciation,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Societe Generale SA, said in a note to clients
late yesterday.  The yuan closed at 6.30 in  Shanghai  yesterday compared with
6.2996 the previous day, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  A cut in banks’ reserve requirements is “unlikely in the
near future and may not even happen at all this year” provided
market liquidity is “adequate” and foreign-exchange reserves
increase,  Wang Tao , Hong Kong-based chief China economist at UBS,
said in a Feb. 10 note. She previously estimated two or three
reductions in the first half of the year. Zhang Zhiwei, chief
China economist at Nomura in Hong Kong, said last week the
central bank may postpone a cut until March.  Reduced Chances  ANZ’s Liu said he expects two or three reductions this year,
based on the central bank’s expectation of a 14 percent growth
in M2, the broadest measure of  money supply . Capital inflows may
be around $369 billion this year and if they turn out to be
larger, that may reduce the chances for a reduction, he said.  The PBOC said yesterday it will improve the use of
differentiated reserve ratios, a mechanism where individual
lenders hold different percentages of deposits as reserves
according to their capital adequacy levels and lending growth.
The levels will also be adjusted on economic and credit
conditions, it said.  The government will still need to control the “magnitude
and pace of macroeconomic policy” to prevent a rebound in
consumer prices, according to the report. Inflation expectations
haven’t stabilized and prices could rebound as global liquidity
is “loose” and upward pressure on oil costs remains, the PBOC
said.  ‘Appropriate Growth’  Inflation (CNCPIYOY)  unexpectedly accelerated to 4.5 percent in
January, quickening for the first time in six months, as prices
climbed ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday.  M2 will probably grow by about 14 percent this year, the
central bank said. That compares with a 13.6 percent increase in
2011. The central bank also pledged to maintain “appropriate
growth” in  lending  this year, without giving more details.  The report suggests “cautious monetary easing in the near
term,”  Societe Generale ’s Wei said. “The overall tone was not
particularly dovish, due to concerns over inflation and
financial stability.”  The central bank’s preliminary M2 growth target would be
consistent with an 8 trillion yuan increase in bank lending this
year, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  