-- China to Buy $4.3 Billion of Soybeans in Deals With U.S. Exporters in Iowa
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-15T22:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-to-buy-4-3-billion-of-soybeans-in-deals-with-u-s-exporters-in-iowa.html
China, the world’s biggest soybean
 importer  and consumer, signed agreements in  Iowa  to purchase
8.62 million metric tons of the oilseed from U.S. suppliers in a
deal valued at $4.3 billion.  Soybeans will be supplied by companies including Cargill
Inc.,  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) ,  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and CHS Inc., Iowa
Soybeans Association Chief Executive Office Kirk Leeds said
today in Des Moines, Iowa, during a U.S.-China trade cooperation
conference. Iowa Governor Terry Branstad is hosting a two-day
visit by Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping , 58, who is slated to
become president in March 2013. Iowa is the biggest U.S.
producer of corn, soybeans, hogs and eggs.  “It is phenomenally important to have Vice President Xi
here because it says that Iowa is an important place to do
business,” Leeds said yesterday in an interview. “These
agreements are the direct result of activities by U.S. soybean
groups in  China  since 1981 to promote soybean-meal demand in
livestock, chicken and aquaculture feed.”  China became the largest buyer of U.S. farm products in
2010, and  last year  boosted purchases to $22.17 billion, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. The nation purchased 20.6
million metric tons of soybeans from the U.S. last year, or 60
percent of the total shipped overseas. China probably will
increase purchases from all suppliers by 62 percent in the next
decade to 90 million tons from a projected 55.5 million this
year, the USDA said Feb. 13.  Feed Fish  “It would take half of the Iowa soybean crop just to feed
China’s fish,” said Leeds, who will be traveling to China next
month on a sales-promotion trip for the producer-funded
organization. “Soybean profitability depends on international
demand, especially from China.”  Additional sales agreements may be announced in  Los Angeles 
on Feb. 17, bringing the total for this week above the 11.5
million tons reached during a similar trade visit in  Chicago 
last year, Leeds said. The 2011 deals involved 21 purchase
agreements valued at $6.7 billion.  Iowa farm exports to China in 2010 were 13 times larger
than in 2000, data from Iowa Department of Agriculture show.
Agriculture and related industries contributed 27 percent to the
state economy in 2010 and 17 percent of Iowa workforce is
employed in producing food.  Prices Gain  Soybeans have jumped 5.1 percent this year on the Chicago
Board of Trade, partly as hot, dry weather damaged crops in
Brazil and  Argentina , the two biggest exporters after the U.S.
last year. Today, the price reached $12.765 a bushel, the
highest since Sept. 27, on speculation that China may increase
purchases from the U.S. to rebuild inventories and cushion
against any additional adverse global weather later this year.  Earlier today, the government reported U.S. exporters sold
China 116,000 tons of soybeans for delivery before Aug. 31.  Chinese and U.S. officials will attend a symposium tomorrow
in  Des Moines  sponsored by the USDA. Chinese companies intend to
invest more on advanced agricultural technology and sustainable
farming from U.S., Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an
interview with Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu, who is
accompanying Xi this week on his trip to Iowa.  “The conference will help to improve relationships to
achieve mutually beneficial development in the future,” Bill
Northey, Iowa’s secretary of agriculture, said in a telephone
interview on Feb. 13. “At the end of the day, it’s all about
getting business done company to company rather than government
to government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  