-- China Reduces Holdings of U.S. Treasuries to Lowest Level Since June 2010
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-15T22:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-trims-holdings-of-treasuries-to-lowest-level-since-2010.html
China , the largest foreign lender to
the U.S., reduced its holdings of Treasuries in December to the
least since June 2010 amid efforts to assist  Europe  in
addressing its debt crisis.  The world’s second-largest economy decreased its U.S. debt
securities by $31.9 billion from November, or 2.8 percent, to
$1.11 trillion, according to Treasury Department data released
yesterday. Its position in longer-term notes and bonds also fell
$32.5 billion, or 2.8 percent, to $1.1 trillion, the least since
June 2010.  Japan , the second biggest buyer, increased its
holding by $3.5 billion to $1.04 trillion.  “We continue to see Chinese Treasury holdings trending
lower as they are acting on their desire for diversification and
as they may get more involved in the situation in Europe,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  China’s policy makers have advocated diversification of the
nation’s foreign exchange reserves away from U.S. assets. China
may support Europe through channels such as the  International
Monetary Fund , the European Financial Stability Facility and the
European Stability Mechanism, said People’s Bank of China
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  European Assets  “China will always adhere to the principle of holding
assets of EU sovereign debt,” Zhou said in Beijing yesterday.
“We would participate in resolving the euro debt crisis,” he
said.  Chinese Officials, including central bank adviser  Li
Daokui , have urged diversification of the nation’s foreign
exchange reserves. The Asian nation will “seek diversification
in the management of reserve assets, strengthen risk management,
and minimize the negative impacts of the fluctuations in the
international financial market on the Chinese economy,” Zhou
said in August.  Foreign investors held 47.6 percent of outstanding public
Treasury debt as of December, the smallest proportion since
October 2006, Treasury data show.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.9 billion during the month compared with net purchases of
$61.3 billion the previous month, the Treasury Department said.
Including short-term securities such as stock swaps, foreigners
bought a net $87.1 billion in December compared with net buying
of $42.9 billion the previous month.  China increased its position in shorter-term bills by $600
million to $2.9 billion. The U.S. updated data on Feb. 28, 2011
to show China’s Treasury investments in October 2010 were a
record $1.18 trillion, 30 percent more than the initial estimate
of $906.8 billion.  “Overall flows were weak for the U.S. and the Chinese
tactical selling reflected that as Treasuries were giving back
very little,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist BNP
Paribas SA in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve . “As yields rise, look for
China to buy Treasuries again.”  Treasuries have lost 0.1 percent this year after returning
9.8 percent last year, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  