-- China Steel Prices May Fall Amid High Inventories, Mirae Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-15T11:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-steel-prices-may-fall-amid-high-inventories-mirae-says.html
Steel prices  in  China  may fall this
month as high inventories at traders and end-users signal weak
demand, Mirae Assets Securities Co. said.  Inventories are at a 44-week high and stockpiles held by
Chinese machinery traders have climbed to a record, Mirae Assets
analysts Shirley Zhao and Henry Liu said today in an e-mailed
note, without giving details.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, raised its products prices by at least 150 yuan ($24)
a ton for March delivery, the second increase in three months,
the company said Feb. 10. The market usually expects steel
demand to rise as construction resumes after the weeklong
Chinese New Year holidays, which ended on Jan. 29 this year.  “Construction demand for machine power remains weak, with
a disappointing improvement post the Chinese New Year, due to
insufficient cash injection from local governments into
infrastructure projects,” Mirae Assets said in the note. “The
current rise in ex-factory prices is mainly being driven by
 steel mills  rather than end-user demand. We believe steel mills
will have to compensate traders later when prices fall.”  China’s automotive inventory stood at about 4 million units
at the end of last year, higher than the normal level of 2
million to 2.5 million units, the analysts said.  The prices of hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product, traded
in China at 4,239 yuan a ton today, little changed from 4,219
yuan on Dec. 30, according to researcher Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co. Prices have fallen 15 percent from a
year earlier.  Annualized  steel output  in China was about 612 million
metric tons in January, down 3.2 percent from a year ago, Mirae
Assets analysts said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  