-- China’s Fu Baoshi, Dealt With Boozing, Despots: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-s-fu-baoshi-art-pioneer-dealt-with-boozing-despots-lance-esplund.html
“Chinese Art in an Age of
Revolution: Fu Baoshi (1904-1965),” at the  Metropolitan Museum 
of Art in  New York , is the first comprehensive survey held
outside  Asia  of the landscape painter, art historian and
translator Fu Baoshi, who is revered as the Van Gogh or Monet of
his native China.  Artistically uneven, politically charged, in turns academic
and sublime, the show may have more historical than aesthetic
importance.  It is certainly timely, and feeds present-day Western
appetites for all things Chinese. There is also much here to
ponder beneath the surface.  Comprising about 90 paintings and 20 hand-carved seals
spanning four decades, it marks the first time the Met has
devoted a retrospective to a 20th-century Chinese artist.  He’s a talented, pioneering painter equally influenced by
ancient Asian brush painting and Western Modernism -- which
aren’t easy bedfellows.  Looking at his work, which illumines the conflict among
art, government and globalization, increases our understanding
of contemporary Chinese artists like Zhang Huan and Ai Weiwei,
who came of age during the Cultural Revolution.  Happy Boozer  We see how Fu, a traditionalist and nationalist, struggled
politically and artistically. And how he -- remarkably, as he
was often drunk -- navigated the treacherous waters between
opposing shores of old and new, East and West, freedom and
oppression.  Fu lived through the communist rebellion, the Sino-Japanese
War, the civil war and the Communist Revolution.  His artwork argued for the magnitude and beauty of China’s
cultural past, as it embraced the turbulent world of his
present.  In late landscapes such as the visionary, nearly abstract
“Heaven and Earth Glowing Red” (1964), which is dominated by a
large communist-red globe, Fu professes his love of Chinese
painting (and perhaps even of Kandinsky) first, with Communism
taking a far-distant second.  A Communist artist working under the regime of  Mao Zedong ,
which favored banal, propagandistic, Soviet-style Socialist
Realism, Fu courageously modernized Chinese painting through a
process that grafted it to its ancient roots, which had been
severed by industrialization and by prejudice against the
imperial “decadence” of traditional Chinese painting.  Early hanging scrolls such as “Viewing a Waterfall From a
Mountain Ridge” (1940s) and “The Drunken Monk” (1944) --
without Western perspective -- hover dreamily and move
vertically, impressing like poetic, reflective verse.  Meanwhile, the panoramic landscape “Approaching Yanbian”
(1961), painted from a sketch made at dawn from a moving train,
zigzags far into the distance, as if in a Cezanne.  Perhaps because of his divided loyalties or an addiction to
booze, Fu was unable to synthesize conflicting influences into a
consistent oeuvre.  But this was not for lack of trying.  Despots  The exhibition begins, in the 1920s and ‘30s, with Fu’s
devoted homages to Chinese painters such as the 14th-century
Yuan master Wang Meng -- a passionate influence that would
pervade his work.  His career represents a love affair with Chinese art -- and
with  China  itself. It is also a record of survival. It
demonstrates how an artist keeps alive -- furthers -- the
language and traditions of an art form threatened by the
prejudice and ignorance of despots.  In China, where traditional culture continues to be under
threat -- by government and postmodernism -- Fu’s battle with
globalization goes on.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 