-- China Money Rate Gains a Third Day as Reserve Ratios Maintained
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-15T09:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-money-rate-gains-for-third-day-as-reserve-ratios-held.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a third day as policy makers refrained from cutting
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios and as upcoming company share
sales tied up cash.  The People’s Bank of China has avoided lowering the amount
lenders must set aside as reserves since it cut the rate by 50
basis points to 21 percent in December. Data this month showed
faster manufacturing activity, higher-than-forecast inflation
and a rising trade surplus. Shantou Dongfeng Printing Co. may
raise up to 739 million yuan ($117 million) in an initial public
offering on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange , according to a Feb. 5
filing to the bourse.  “Obviously the PBOC doesn’t want to ease further,” said
Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based emerging-market rates strategist at
UBS Securities Ltd. “They have been cautious this time because
there were some side effects from the 2008 stimulus and given
the stronger economic data. Also, there are mid-sized stock IPOs
coming” driving money-market rates higher, she said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 12 basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 3.91 percent in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  China’s economy  will maintain stable, fast development this
year even as the international situation remains “grim” and
“complicated,” the People’s Daily reported today, citing Li Pumin, the Beijing-based spokesman for the National Development
and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planner.  Prudent Policy  The People’s Bank of China will adopt “prudent” monetary
policy as prices in China still face upward pressure, while the
economy is moderating, the central bank said in a statement
posted on its website today. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in
January from a year earlier after increasing 4.1 percent in
December, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Feb. 9.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose seven basis points to 3.34
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The monetary authority didn’t gauge demand for bill sales
today, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions. The central bank asked banks to submit orders
for 91-day repurchase contracts this morning, according to the
trader who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  Government bonds  fell, with the yield on the 3.93 percent
securities due August 2021 rising two basis points to 3.53
percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  