-- China’s U.S. Mortgage Buying May Be Bet on QE3, Nomura Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-15T18:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-s-u-s-mortgage-bond-buying-may-be-bet-on-a-coming-qe3-nomura-says.html
Chinese investors added U.S.
government-backed mortgage securities and so-called agency
debentures in December, signaling the country may be
anticipating further purchases of housing debt by the  Federal
Reserve , according to Nomura Securities International analysts.  The $9.5 billion rise  reported  today in  China ’s holdings in
the debt came as the nation dumped $33 billion of long-term
Treasuries, according to New York-based analysts at the Japanese
bank. The category includes home-loan bonds guaranteed by Ginnie
Mae and the Federal Home Loan Bank system’s unsecured notes.  Fed officials including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have been
saying the central bank may undertake additional bond buying,
focusing on mortgage debt, to stimulate the economy in a process
known as quantitative easing, or QE. Officials from China to
 South Korea  were among critics of the last round, announced in
November 2010 and called QE2, as Asian countries were raising
 interest rates  in part to stem property and stock surges.  “The Chinese have always viewed QE2 as an aggressive act
by the Fed,”  George Goncalves , head of rates research at
Nomura, wrote today in a note to clients. “Seems like this time
around they are positioning to profit from QE3 when it comes.”  Another round of asset purchases by the Fed would make
mortgage debt less available in the secondary market and
probably drive up prices.  Overseas Ownership  China owns about 40 percent of U.S.-backed mortgage bonds
held overseas, according to a separate note today by Nomura
analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi. The Treasury Department released
monthly data today on changes in international holdings of U.S.
assets.  The Treasury data for individual countries fails to
differentiate between mortgage bonds and the corporate debt of
U.S. agencies and government-tied issuers. It also doesn’t
reflect changes in holdings stemming from repayments on the
underlying home loans.  China’s holdings of agency mortgage bonds and debentures
fell in four of the eight months from April through November,
with increases of less than $2.1 billion in three of the periods
and $3.3 billion in September, according to Treasury data.  Total international investment in the $5.4 trillion market
for mortgage securities guaranteed by U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae or
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  rose by $4.6
billion in December, following declines in October and November
that totaled $23.6 billion, according to Nomura. Those figures
include adjustments for prepayments.  Discussing the “underperforming economy,” Bernanke said
at a Jan. 25 press conference that more bond buying by his
central bank is “an option that is certainly on the table.”
The Fed chairman underscored his desire to bolster housing last
month by sending Congress a paper on policy options prepared by
his staff.  As the Fed announced QE2 in November 2010, China’s Vice
Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said the U.S. “owes us some
explanation on their decision,” and Chinese central bank
adviser Xia Bin called it “uncontrolled” money printing. Under
that program, the U.S. central bank bought $600 billion of
Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  