-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Week After PBOC’s Zhou Pledges Help to Europe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-15T07:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-on-greece-bailout-optimism.html
China’s stocks  rose to a two-month
high after Premier  Wen Jiabao  and the central bank governor said
they will help  Europe  resolve its debt crisis, easing concerns
an export slowdown will worsen and curb growth.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd. led a
rally for metal producers after China pledged to invest in
Europe’s bailout funds and sustain its holdings of euro assets.
China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-
bulk ships, rose to its highest in two months on optimism Greece
will commit to budget cuts to secure a second bailout package.
 Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining Co. (601666)  advanced 2.6 percent after
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. recommended buying the stock.  “In the short term, they will get the funding and they
will still survive,” Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of multi-
asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd., said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television, referring to  Greece . “As
people don’t think China is going to hard-land, they’ll have to
buy Asian emerging equities.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 21.93 points, or 0.9
percent, to 2,366.70 at the close, the highest since Dec. 1. The
 CSI 300 Index  gained 1.1 percent to 2,549.61. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, slid 0.2 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 10 percent from a Jan.
5 low on speculation the central bank will further cut lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios to spur economic growth. It announced
a reduction in reserve ratios on Nov. 30, the first since 2008,
after boosting them and  interest rates  last year to cool
inflation.  ‘Sincere and Firm’  “China will always adhere to the principle of holding
assets of EU sovereign debt,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said in a speech in Beijing today. “We would
participate in resolving the euro debt crisis,” he said,
echoing comments by Premier Wen yesterday.  Wen said at yesterday’s joint press conference with
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  the nation is willing
to get “more deeply” involved in resolving Europe’s debt
crisis, although the continent must send a clearer message to
show how it’s working to strengthen its finances.  “China’s willingness to support Europe to cope with
sovereign debt problems is sincere and firm,” he said. “China
is ready to get more deeply involved in participating in solving
the European debt issue.”  A measure of 54 material stocks in the CSI 300 advanced 1.4
percent. Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
rose 1.6 percent to 26.78 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of the
biggest maker of the lightweight metal, gained 1.8 percent to
7.29 yuan.  Huludao Zinc Industry Co. (000751) , the nation’s second-
largest zinc producer, climbed 1.1 percent to 5.74 yuan.  Shippers Rally  European finance ministers canceled a Brussels meeting
slated for today and will hold a teleconference instead to prod
Greece to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion
euros ($170 billion) along with about 100 billion euros of debt
relief from private bondholders. Greece needs the aid to make a
14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of
commodity shipping costs, rose for a seventh session yesterday
as demand to transport crops from  South America  helped to reduce
the supply of vessels.  China Cosco jumped 3.5 percent to 5.58 yuan, the highest
since Dec. 13. China Shipping Development Co., a unit of the
second-biggest sea-cargo group, added 3.8 percent to 6.53 yuan.
 China Shipping Container Lines Co. (601866) , the second- largest carrier
of sea-cargo boxes, surged 4 percent to 2.89 yuan.  Coal Stocks  “The rebound in shipping stocks could continue should the
economies of Europe and the U.S. sustain their recovery and
cargo volumes improve from the second half of February,” Du Jianping, an analyst at Bank of China Ltd., wrote in a report.  Pingdingshan Tianan Coal, the listed unit of China’s fifth-
largest producer of the coal, advanced 2.6 percent to 12.60
yuan. Shenyin & Wanguo Securities raised the rating on the stock
to “buy” from “neutral,” Liu Xiaoning, an analyst at the
Shanghai-based brokerage, said in a report dated today.  The brokerage’s estimated price-to-earnings ratio for the
coal producer this year of 13 times is lower than the industry
average of 15 times, according to the report. Shenyin & Wanguo
set a share-price estimate of 15.5 yuan.  The Shanghai Composite’s 7.6 percent rally this year may
falter as a so-called rising wedge pattern mirrors previous
failed rebounds, according to  Thomas Schroeder ,  managing
director at Chart Partners in Bangkok. A rising wedge pattern
refers to a trading range on a chart that begins wide at the
bottom and contracts as prices move higher.  “Our concern stems from the current rising wedge
similarity to previous false bounces and odds of a failed
breakout or failure at the topside of the wedge near 2,375,” he
said. “The price action is not that constructive which
increases odds that this bounce is like previous formations and
a head-fake rally.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  