-- Cisco Asks EU Court to Overturn Microsoft-Skype Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-15T18:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cisco-asks-eu-court-to-overturn-approval-of-microsoft-skype-deal.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, asked a European Union court to
overturn antitrust approval for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s $8.5 billion
takeover of Skype Technologies SA.  The European Commission should have required Microsoft to
use open standards for video communications to allow rival
products to work smoothly with Skype before it authorized the
deal, Marthin De Beer, a senior vice-president at  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco, said in a blog post.  Microsoft won unconditional approval from the commission,
the EU’s antitrust agency, in October to buy Skype, the world’s
most popular international calling service. EU regulators said
the deal wouldn’t harm competition for video communications
services because the market was growing and they faced
“numerous players, including Google.”  The commission “should have placed conditions that would
ensure greater standards-based interoperability, to avoid any
one company from being able to seek to control the future of
video communications,” said De Beer.  Microsoft is “confident that the decision will stand up on
appeal,” said Jesse Verstraete, a Brussels-based spokesman for
the company. EU approval of the deal followed “a thorough
investigation of the acquisition in which Cisco actively
participated.”  The commission will defend the decision in court, said
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the regulator in Brussels.  Microsoft’s plans to integrate  Skype  with its Lync
messaging and teleconferencing software for corporate customers
“could lock-in” companies to Microsoft’s products, Cisco said.
By 2016, video will account for more than 70 percent of all
mobile traffic, up from about 52 percent in 2011, according to
Cisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  