-- Citigroup Mortgage Division Agrees to Pay $158.3 Million in HUD Settlement
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-15T20:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/citigroup-mortgage-division-agrees-to-pay-158-3-million-in-hud-settlement.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to pay $158
million to settle a whistle-blower’s claims that a unit of the
third-biggest U.S. lender deliberately reduced oversight of its
loan origination process, causing a surge in borrower defaults.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara today said the
federal government had joined and resolved a civil lawsuit
alleging that the unit, CitiMortgage, violated the requirements
of a Federal Housing Administration program that allowed the
lenders to decide for which of their home loans they would be
federally insured against loss.  CitiMortgage admitted to falsely stating that some loans
met FHA and U.S. Housing and Urban Development agency standards
for mortgage eligibility, the prosecutor said.  “For far too long, lenders treated HUD’s insurance of
their mortgages like they were playing with house money,”
Bharara said in the statement. “In fact, they were playing with
other people’s money and other people’s homes.”  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York approved the
accord today, and CitiMortgage must pay the agreed-on amount
within 30 days, the prosecutor said. The case was filed under
seal in August by Sherry Hunt, a Missouri resident and
CitiMortgage employee. Marrero ordered it unsealed today.  49-State Settlement  The settlement is independent of the $25 billion, 49-state
settlement with the biggest U.S. mortgage lenders announced by
the states’ attorneys general on Feb. 9. Citigroup is
contributing $2.2 billion toward that accord, which followed a
nationwide probe into disclosures that banks were using flawed
documents in seizing homes.  Regulators alleged that Citigroup appointed internal
“gatekeepers” to pressure quality control employees to
downgrade their reports on defective loans, according to the
complaint. Internal reviews of bad loans remain a
“battleground” in the CitiMortgage unit, while the bank’s own
head of quality control described the conduct of “business
personnel” as “nothing short of abuse and bordering on
fraudulent,” regulators claimed.  “As a result, Citi’s quality control program lacks the
basic independence from business unit control that is required
by HUD,” according to the complaint.  30,000 Loans  Since 2004, the lender had endorsed about 30,000 loans for
FHA insurance.  “It repeatedly submitted certifications that were
knowingly or recklessly false,” Bharara said.  The CitiMortgage unit is run by Sanjiv Das, who was hired
by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  in July 2008. Both Das
and Pandit are former Morgan Stanley executives.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter in conjunction with
the National Mortgage Settlement reached last week among the
five largest mortgage servicers and the  Department of Justice 
and state attorneys general,”  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New
York-based Citigroup, said in an e-mailed statement.  “As with the larger mortgage agreement, we have fully
provided for this settlement as of the fourth quarter of 2011.”  Das declined to comment.  Citigroup said Feb. 9 that it will record a $125 million
after-tax charge to fourth-quarter results “in connection with
the resolution of related mortgage litigation,” according to a
statement.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Hunt v. Citigroup Inc., 11-
cv-5473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  