-- McKeon Calls Obama Defense Cuts a ‘Strategy Founded on Hope’
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-15T20:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/mckeon-calls-obama-defense-cuts-a-strategy-founded-on-hope-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s  defense
budget  would cut the military too deeply and leave the U.S. with
a “strategy founded on hope,” the Republican chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee said.  “Although this strategy is framed as making the military
more nimble and flexible, it is not clear how slashing the armed
forces by over 100,000 during a time of war, shedding force
structure, and postponing modernization makes that so,”
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon of  California  told Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta at a hearing of the panel today.  Obama’s $525.4 billion defense request for fiscal 2013
would be $5 billion less than Congress enacted for the current
fiscal year and $46 billion less than previously planned. The
Republican criticism opened an election-year fight over what the
Pentagon has called a new strategy built on a leaner, more agile
military.  “One does not mask insufficient resources with a strategy
founded on hope,” McKeon said.  Panetta said cuts in troop strength and weapons programs
were required as part of a deficit-reduction law passed by
Congress last year.  ‘Handed a Number’  “We were handed a number for defense reductions,” Panetta
said. “We stepped up to the plate. But you can’t balance the
budget on the backs of defense, either.”  He said he would do “everything possible” working with
Congress to avoid further, automatic cuts of $500 billion over
10 years that the budget law would require unless alternative
savings are found.  Republicans portrayed the Obama administration as cutting
the military to fund domestic programs.  “We want to reduce the deficit,” said Representative J. Randy Forbes, a Virginia Republican. “We just don’t want to do
it on the backs of our men and women who are fighting for this
country every day.”  Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington, the panel’s top
Democrat, said defense spending has doubled over the past 10
years. Even with the proposed cuts, the defense budget will
continue to increase each year, though at a slower pace than
previously planned, he said.  Citing events such as the killing of  Osama bin Laden  by
U.S. commandos, Smith said in a written statement, “The budget
lays out a strategy that will enable the  United States  to build
on those successes and confront the threats of today as well as
in the future.”  Base Closings Opposed  Panetta’s call for two new rounds of military base closings
in 2013 and 2015 produced the most complaints from lawmakers in
today’s hearing and yesterday’s before the Senate Armed Services
Committee.  “There’s obviously no wild enthusiasm in the Congress for
additional BRAC rounds,” said Representative Roscoe Bartlett, a
Maryland Republican, referring to the Base Realignment and
Closure process, which was last conducted in 2005.  Panetta said the closings would save money in the long term
as the size of the military gets smaller. The budget would trim
the force by 123,900 troops by 2017.  The defense secretary said he is considering closing 23
military bases in  Europe  as part of plans to cut troop levels
there. The U.S. has closed about 100 bases in Europe in the past
six or seven years, he said.  Lockheed, General Dynamics  In response to other questions on the Pentagon budget:  -- Panetta reaffirmed support for all three versions of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program. Panetta lifted
probation last month of the Marine’s version.  “We’re talking about spectacular technology that would be
part of this plane,” Panetta said. “Countries are all lined up
waiting for this plane because they know how good it’s going to
be.”  -- Panetta said he was “prepared to look at” funding an
additional Virginia-class attack submarine in fiscal 2014 if
savings could be found elsewhere in the defense budget.  The new budget plan calls for buying only one submarine in
2014. The budget calls for buying two submarines in 2013 for
$3.2 billion. The subs are built jointly by  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) ’s Electric Boat shipyard in Groton,  Connecticut  and
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. of  Newport News , Virginia.  Northrop Grumman  -- General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, defended the Pentagon’s decision to cancel the Block 30
version of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk unmanned
aircraft. He has said U-2 spy planes are more cost-effective.  “The Block 30 Global Hawk has fundamentally priced itself
out of our ability to afford it,” Dempsey told the House panel.  -- Panetta said the transition to Afghan-led security in
 Afghanistan  is on track to be completed by 2014 as planned.  “So far it is working,” he told the committee. “The
Afghan authority is doing a great job.”  Panetta set another marker this month, saying the U.S.
would end its primary combat role and shift mostly to advising
Afghan forces by the end of 2013.  “I was a bit shocked with your comments,” Representative
K. Michael Conaway, a Texas Republican.  Panetta said his comments about 2013 “were perfectly in
line with commitments under Lisbon,” referring to the 2010 NATO
summit that called for a transition to Afghan-led security by
2014.  Referring to U.S. allies, Panetta said, “We’re in together
and out together in 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  