-- Clariant Considers Sale of Textile, Paper, Emulsions Units to Boost Margin
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-15T09:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/clariant-considers-sale-of-textile-paper-emulsions-units-1-.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  is exploring the sale of
units with 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.09 billion) in revenue as
Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann focuses the Swiss
company on chemical catalysts and other higher-margin products.  Exiting additives used in textiles, paper and emulsions is
a mid- to long-term goal, and the Muttenz-based company has yet
to test the market for interest, Kottmann said in an interview
today. All options are being considered, including a sale to
private equity or strategic bidders as well as joint ventures.  The $2.7 billion  acquisition  of catalyst maker Sued-Chemie
last year has given Kottmann the basis to extend a revamp by
enabling disposals that would have been financially crippling to
Clariant before. The CEO is resurrecting shelved plans to exit
paper, textiles and emulsions after spending three years cutting
costs and moving production to lower-cost sites in  Asia .  “This used to be the strategic backbone of the company, so
it would have killed Clariant if we had decided to divest in
2009,” Kottmann said. “Now all these businesses are
profitability leaders.”  Clariant  gained  as much as 6.7 percent to 13.19 francs in
Zurich trading, buoyed by a decision to resume dividend payments
and better-than-estimated profit. With the help of Sued-Chemie,
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
rose 42 percent to 241 million francs in the fourth quarter.
JPMorgan estimated 204 million francs. Sales jumped 13 percent
to 1.92 billion francs, beating a 1.86 billion-franc estimate
from a Bloomberg survey.  Dividend Welcome  Clariant stock was trading at 12.74 francs as of 10:50
a.m., bringing its year-to-date advance to 37 percent this year.
Shareholders will receive a 30-centime payout, the first
dividend since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the extent of volume weakness in the fourth quarter
it’s a strong performance,” said Paul Satchell, an analyst at
 Collins Stewart . “The size of the payout is likely to be well
received.”  Kottmann forecast a “ low-single-digit ” increase in annual
sales in local currency as a recovery in the U.S. gathers pace
in the second half, with profit margins holding steady as the
benefits from efficiency gains feed through.  There has been a “stabilization” in demand in January and
February and decreasing demand in  China  and  India  is likely to
ease. Kottmann reiterated a 2015 Ebitda  margin goal  of 17
percent. First-half earnings will be lower because of stronger
comparative results in the year-earlier period.  Under Pressure  Kottmann mandated all division managers to formulate a
business plan and make their case for their operations to remain
within the company.  The lower-margin leather chemicals unit “made the cut,”
though its heads are under pressure to meet goals over the next
three to five years, he said. The company will reassess whether
to keep the unit after that time, Kottmann said in the
interview. The CEO has no plans to make acquisitions in that
area, he said.  Clariant separately announced the departure of Chairman
Juerg Witmer at the annual investors’ meeting on March 27, to be
replaced by vice-Chairman Rudolf Wehrli. Board member Klaus
Jenny will also step down, the company said.  The businesses earmarked for sale are being prepared so
that they can operate in an independent way.  “We have to clean up our portfolio step by step,”
Kottmann said. “If we want to find solutions for textiles,
paper and emulsions for detergents and intermediates, that’s
enough on our plate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  