-- Clearwire Falls After Sales Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-17T01:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/clearwire-loss-widens-on-expenses-sales-forecast-falls-short.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , which is building a
wireless broadband network across the U.S., dropped as much as
13 percent in late trading yesterday after its full-year sales
forecast missed analysts’  estimates  and the company disclosed it
may need additional money to fund operations.  Revenue will be $1.25 billion at most in 2012, the
Bellevue, Washington-based company said. Analysts had predicted
$1.36 billion on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Clearwire also reported a wider fourth-quarter loss, hurt by
higher interest and tax costs. The loss expanded to $236.8
million, or 81 cents a share, from $128 million, or 79 cents, a
year ago.  Clearwire also said it may need to raise more money to fund
its current business and build out new network capacity. In a
separate  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the company said it “may be required to raise
additional capital in the near term to fund our current
business, even in the absence of any further network
development.”  It may also need to raise “substantial additional
capital” to fund its business beyond the next year, the filing
said.  Clearwire’s shares tumbled as low as $2.06 in extended
trading following the report.  The stock  had climbed 22 percent
this year.  Stock Sales  The company, which is trying to build out a higher-speed
long-term evolution, or LTE, network, in December said it plans
to raise $595 million through two sales of common stock,
bolstering the finances of the money-losing wireless broadband
provider as it tries to turn profitable.  Clearwire said today it added 904,000 wholesale customers
in the fourth quarter, for a total of 9.1 million such
subscribers. Interest expenses almost doubled to $128.9 million.
Sales more than doubled to $361.9 million, in line with the
company’s Jan. 24 preliminary announcement that beat analysts’
estimates.  Recent troubles experienced by rival LightSquared Inc.
could drive more wholesale customers to Clearwire, Chief
Executive Officer Erik Prusch said in an interview.  “We’ve had confidence in our business model all alone,”
he said. “While there have been some unfortunate circumstances
for others, perhaps this means we can accelerate faster.”  New Customer  The company also said that FreedomPop, a startup backed by
Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom, will become a
wholesale customer. FreedomPop had previously struck a similar
agreement with LightSquared and decided to look for an
alternative after that carrier’s network introduction was
delayed by regulatory setbacks.  The Federal Communications Commission said yesterday that
it won’t let LightSquared begin  service  after an Obama
administration adviser found that the service disrupts GPS
navigation gear used by planes, boats and autos.  The company’s largest customer and shareholder, Sprint
Nextel Corp., said in December that it will extend its
purchasing contract with Clearwire and provide additional funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  