-- Coal India Plunges on Penalties for Failing to Supply Nation’s Utilities
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-16T10:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/coal-india-ordered-to-sign-first-contracts-in-three-years-to-ease-shortage.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , facing a decline in
production, fell the most in seven months after the government
ordered it to increase sales to power utilities and said it will
face penalties for failing to meet the obligations.  The world’s largest producer of the commodity declined 5.8
percent to 320.05 rupees in Mumbai, the biggest loss since July
8. The stock has climbed 6.5 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The government ordered Coal India yesterday to sign
agreements to supply projects due to be completed by March 2015,
and import the fuel to overcome local production bottlenecks.
The decision came after  Anil Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Power
Ltd. (RPWR) , and Gautam Adani, chairman of  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , joined
Tata Power Co. Chairman  Ratan Tata  last month in urging Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  to help ease fuel shortages.  “Coal India is clearly in no position to meet this
demand,” said Rahul Jain, an analyst with RBS Equities India
Ltd. who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “By forcing Coal
India to sign supply agreements for higher quantities of coal,
the government is shifting its responsibility to the company
without an adequate compensation mechanism.”  Coal India will pay a fine if supplies fall short of
commitments, the Prime Minister’s  office  said yesterday in a
statement. The mining company hasn’t signed fuel agreements
since April 2009, after saying it could provide only 50 percent
of the requirements of  power plants .  Output Drop  The power plants that will benefit from the new supply
agreements will generate an estimated 50,000 megawatts of
electricity, according to the statement. That’s equivalent to
about 27 percent of the country’s current installed capacity.  Adani Power  gained 3.2 percent to 81.35 rupees, Tata Power
rose 3.3 percent and Reliance Power climbed 0.3 percent.  State-owned Coal India, which produces more than 80 percent
of the country’s output of the fuel, reported a 2.8 percent drop
in production to 291.2 million metric tons in the nine months
ended Dec. 31, according to a Feb. 13 statement. Operations were
curbed by heavy rains, while the development of new mines was
hampered by delays in land acquisition and environmental
approvals.  Power companies have mothballed plans to spend a record $36
billion to build new capacity needed to spur expansion in the
world’s second-fastest growing major economy.  India’s coal demand is expected to climb 41 percent to 981
million tons in the next five years, according to estimates by
the Planning Commission. Output may rise 28 percent to 715
million tons in this period.  The nation had 187,549.6 megawatts of installed capacity as
of Jan. 31, according to the  Central Electricity Authority .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  