-- Coal Weighs on Buffett’s Most-Watched Index: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/coal-weighs-on-buffett-s-most-watched-index-chart-of-the-day.html
The biggest component of  Warren Buffett ’s most-watched index is falling, and the decline may
depress first-half earnings at U.S. railroads.  Buffett follows a gauge of freight-train traffic that’s
compiled by the Association of American Railroads, as he told
ABC News in a 2009 interview. This indicator tracks the number
of carloads, and coal accounts for a bigger percentage of the
shipments than any other category.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the number of freight cars
carrying coal each week for the past 12 months. The top panel
compares the figures with year-ago levels, and the bottom panel
tracks them as a percentage of total shipments.  “Coal results have been significantly below our prior
expectations for the first quarter,” Gary Chase, a Barclays
Capital analyst, wrote yesterday in a report. Shipments in the
first five weeks of this year dropped 2.9 percent from the same
period of last year. The total of 120,052 carloads for the week
ended Feb. 4 was the lowest for that time of year since 2004.  Earnings per share swing by 0.5 percent at  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and
 Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  and by 0.2 percent at  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) 
for every 1 percent change in the amount of coal they ship,
Chase wrote. The New York-based analyst cut first- and second-
quarter profit estimates on the railroads because of the current
slump. Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  owns a competitor,
Burlington Northern Santa Fe.  CSX and Norfolk Southern also face “an overhang” from
lower natural-gas prices, the report said. Natural gas traded
last month in New York at the lowest price since February 2002.
The decline gave utilities an incentive to curb their use of
coal, an alternative to natural gas at some power plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  