-- Pub Manager to Coal Miner Abbott Is Turning Dealmaker at LME: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-02-15T17:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/coal-miner-abbott-becomes-dealmaker-at-london-metal-exchange-commodities.html
Martin Abbott  has been a fashion
journalist, advertising salesman, pub manager, security guard
and coal miner. The chief executive officer of the London Metal
Exchange, the biggest metals market, may soon be a dealmaker.  More than a century after being founded above a hat shop in
London’s financial district, the bourse is considering ending
its independence after record trading volumes attracted multiple
bidders. The exchange, which handles about 80 percent of global
trade in metals futures, may be valued at $1.3 billion,
according to  Diego Perfumo , an exchanges analyst at Equity
Research Desk, a hedge-fund adviser in Greenwich, Connecticut.  The LME, which is owned by its members including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc., handled $15.4
trillion of contracts last year and set today as a deadline for
offers. While more than $37 billion of exchange mergers failed
last year because of populist outcry, antitrust concern and
volatile markets, the biggest challenge facing a bidder for the
LME may be its owners.  “We didn’t put ourselves up for sale and we’re not trying
to be sold,” Abbott, 51, said in an interview Feb. 8 at his
office on Leadenhall Street, where the only view is the
exchange’s trading floor. “We can’t stop people coming and
offering us money. We have an obligation to show those bids to
the shareholders, but that doesn’t mean that we’re for sale.”  Bull Market  The LME has operated independently since it started trading
tin and copper in 1877, later adding other non-ferrous metals
such as aluminum, nickel, zinc and lead, minor metals including
cobalt and steel contracts. Since Abbott’s appointment in 2006,
the volume of transactions increased 69 percent and their
combined value advanced 90 percent, as a decade-long  bull market 
in commodities accelerated. The LME index of aluminum, zinc,
copper, tin, lead and zinc has climbed 10 percent this year.  Abbott achieved that while retaining London’s last so-
called open outcry trading floor, a 6-meter-wide (20-foot)
trading pit that handled about 20 percent of transactions in
2010. Its origins are in the Jerusalem Coffee House in the
financial district where metals traders would meet in the early
19th century. Merchants would draw a circle in the sawdust
around which people could make bids.  The exchange maintained the practice even as London bourses
from the International Petroleum Exchange, taken over by
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , and the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange, acquired by Euronext NV,
closed their trading pits in the past two decades. Of the LME’s
93 members, 12 have the right to trade on the floor. Brokers
also trade through the bourse’s Select electronic platform and
by phone.  IntercontinentalExchange  Bidders for the exchange may include  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ,
 NYSE Euronext Inc. (MVOLUSE) , IntercontinentalExchange,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd., according to Perfumo
of Equity Research Desk. Officials from the companies declined
to comment.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Deutsche Boerse’s plan to create
the world’s biggest exchange was blocked by regulators on Feb. 1
because it would hurt competition.  CME, based in Chicago,  acquired  the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  for $7.6 billion in 2008, and Atlanta-based ICE bought
the  New York  Board of Trade in 2007 for $1.79 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore Exchange ’s A$8.3 billion
($8.9 billion) offer to buy ASX Ltd., the owner of Australia’s
main bourse, was blocked by the Australian government in April.  ICE Futures handled 381.1 million futures and options last
year, CME’s trading was 3.4 billion contracts and a record 146.6
million lots changed hands on the LME.  “The LME is like the last man standing,” said  Thomas
McMahon , a former CEO of the Singapore Mercantile Exchange and
president, deputy chairman of the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange,
who has known Abbott since the 1990s. “If you go back to all
the amalgamations of early 2000s, the LME is the last one out
there. It’s got plenty of room to grow.”  Coal Pit  Abbott became CEO in 2006 after a career that took him from
running a pub when he finished a law degree at Leicester
University in central England to a decade-long stay in
 Connecticut  that ended with him becoming president of AMM LLC, a
publisher of information on the metals industry. Jobs as a
student included working at an opencast coal pit near the
northern English city of Leeds.  “Probably he wasn’t the traditional sort of candidate,”
said  David Brooks , Abbott’s successor at AMM in New York. “He
still surprised a lot of people. He had the insider’s experience
with the outsider’s perspective.”  Metal Bulletin  While a three-month stint as a security guard in 1982 took
him to Leadenhall Street, where the LME would move to 12 years
later, it wasn’t until 1984 that he had his first sight of the
trading ring. On his first day as a reporter at Metal Bulletin,
a news and data service, he was sent to the bourse in Fenchurch
Street, about a 10-minute walk from the  Bank of England .  “It pressed all the right buttons,” Abbott said. “It was
a complete mystery what was going on but it was quite clear that
what was going on was exciting, international, it involved lots
of money, lots of customers, lots of countries.”  He had joined Metal Bulletin from Drapers Record, a
fashion magazine where he worked as an advertising salesman and
then as a reporter. The pay was so low that in the final months
he had to walk to work from his single room in Notting Hill. He
now lives in Putney, southwest  London , and commutes into work by
train to arrive for 7:30 a.m., except two days a week when he
takes his 16-month-old daughter to nursery.  Poetry remains his passion, even after he was thwarted from
pursuing a masters degree in the subject because of education
cuts in the early 1980s. His taste in poetry now ranges from
Sylvia Plath, with a collection of her works on his bedside
table, to  Leonard Cohen , “one of the greatest poets of the last
100 years.”  Aluminum-Alloy Contract  Abbott has sought to expand the exchange’s business through
new products, including so-called mini-contracts in copper, zinc
and aluminum in Singapore a year ago to take advantage of Asian
demand. As director of marketing at the LME for three years
through 1993, he designed its aluminum-alloy contract.  Not all the innovations worked as planned. The LME withdrew
its plastics contracts in April, six years after they were
introduced, because of a lack of trading. The  Far East  and
Mediterranean steel contracts were merged in 2010.  The CEO is now trying to increase revenue from trading fees
to fund a new clearing house that will claw back business from
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and increase the exchange’s value. The
bourse has traditionally kept those fees low, generating net
income of 9.5 million pounds ($14.9 million) in 2010 as $11.6
trillion of contracts changed hands, according to a filing with
 Companies House . The exchange has yet to report its profit for
2011, when the value of trading increased about 33 percent.  Fee Resistance  There is resistance to the higher fees, with three
directors writing to members last month opposing it. A meeting
was held in London on Feb. 7 to explain the changes and the
board will review them on Feb. 23. Shareholders may get to vote
on bids as early as April, Abbott said in an interview in
September. Of the bourse’s 93 members, 66 hold the class of
share that entitles them to a say in the takeover. The exchange
needs 75 percent of shareholders to approve a takeover.  Abbott recognized the growing importance of Asia in the
metals markets, opening the LME’s first overseas office in
 Singapore  in 2010. He has just come back from meeting Chinese
brokers and regulators and travels to Japan this month to host a
reception at the British ambassador’s residence in Tokyo.  “We all get very excited, quite rightly so, about the
importance of  China , the rise of China,” Abbott said. “But
it’s really important to remember that actually Japan is still
one of the world’s biggest economies and the Japanese industry
is a major player in the LME.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 