-- Cocoa Rises as Olam Sees More Upside; Coffee Falls; Sugar Gains
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-02-15T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/cocoa-rises-as-olam-sees-more-upside-coffee-falls-sugar-gains.html
Cocoa futures rose to a two-week
high after raw-materials trader  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  said the
beans have “more upside,” with demand outstripping supply this
season. Coffee fell, while sugar gained.  Cocoa processing has been “stronger than expected” and
prices have additional upside, Sunny Verghese, Olam’s chief
executive officer in Singapore, said during an earnings
conference call yesterday. A production deficit of 100,000
metric tons is forecast for the 2011-2012 season that started in
October, Gerry Manley, a managing director and global head for
cocoa at Olam in  London , said on Dec. 12.  “We also expect to see higher prices for cocoa due to
expectations of global output reduction and a resulting global
market deficit,” Zug, Switzerland-based Tiberius Asset
Management AG said in a monthly report e-mailed yesterday.
“Harvest losses in West  Africa  are a real threat due to
expected bad weather.”  Cocoa for May delivery advanced 5 percent to $2,383 a ton
at 11:15 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, after reaching
$2,385, the highest for a most-active contract since Jan. 27.  “Traders are hearing reports of big winds in western
Africa,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Prices Futures in
 Chicago , said today in a report. “That could hurt quality or
cause cherries to drop off the trees. There are also reports
that farmers are holding the crops in some areas and hoping for
higher prices.”  Arabica-coffee futures for May delivery fell 2.5 percent to
$2.01 a pound in  New York , heading for the sixth straight
decline, the longest losing streak since late November.  Raw-sugar futures for May delivery rose 0.1 percent to 23.4
cents a pound on ICE.  In London futures trading, cocoa and robusta coffee gained
on NYSE Liffe, while refined sugar fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  