-- Coene Urges Additional Spending Cuts as Belgium Faces Economic Contraction
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/coene-urges-spending-cuts-as-belgium-faces-economic-contraction.html
Belgium  needs additional budget cuts
of at least 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to meet its 2012
deficit target as the central bank forecast the euro region’s
sixth-largest economy will contract this year.  Belgium’s budget deficit will reach 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year following a 2011 shortfall of 3.8
percent that was narrower than previously estimated, the
 National Bank of Belgium  said today. The  Belgian economy  will
contract 0.1 percent in 2012, the bank forecast, cutting a Dec.
14 prediction for growth of slightly less than 0.5 percent.  Central bank Governor Luc Coene urged Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s six-party coalition to maintain its deficit target of
2.8 percent of GDP this year and said an additional 1.3 billion
euros of cuts are needed if the government wants to unblock
planned expenditure that was frozen last month to win a reprieve
from European Union sanctions.  “The growth rate in government expenditure remains a
fundamental problem that needs to be solved and it is closely
linked to an increase in public-sector employment,” Coene told
reporters in Brussels on Feb. 14. His comments were embargoed
until today. “One should do more to stimulate economic  growth 
and make the budgetary correction a bit easier.”  Public spending less debt-servicing costs in Belgium
increased an average 2.8 percent a year in the past decade,
reaching 49.9 percent of GDP last year and surpassing an
economic expansion that averaged 1.6 percent annually in the
period, according to the central bank’s annual report.  Municipal Finances  Last year’s deficit will be revised down to 3.8 percent of
GDP from 4 percent because Belgian municipal finances are in
better shape than previously estimated, Coene said.  An analysis of actual budget data covering about 80 percent
of local authorities, rather than extrapolations based on
samples, will show next month that the central bank
overestimated their  capital spending , he said. At the same time,
income from investments was higher than previously estimated,
according to Coene.  The central bank also raised its forecast for the average
increase in 2012  consumer prices  to 2.6 percent, from a Dec. 14
prediction for inflation of 2.4 percent, saying the change is
entirely due to an increase in indirect taxes including value-
added tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  