-- Danone 2011 Profit Rises on Baby Formula, Water Sales
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-02-15T13:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/danone-2011-profit-rises-on-baby-formula-water-sales.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, said strong fourth quarter sales of infant nutrition and
bottled water products helped fuel growth in 2011 earnings.  Baby food  revenue rose about 11 percent and sales of
bottled water climbed 23 percent on a comparable basis in the
three months through December, the Paris-based  company  said
today, exceeding the group’s 7.8 percent gain. Full-year
adjusted net income climbed 4.5 percent to 1.75 billion euros
($2.3 billion), compared with the 1.76 billion-euro average
estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Waters continues to over-deliver,”  Andrew Wood , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein, said in a note, adding that baby
nutrition growth “again came in ahead of expectations.”  The baby food market is growing at a faster pace than the
 dairy industry , attracting Danone, owner of the Bledina brand
and Neocate hypoallergenic  infant formula , and competitors such
as  Nestle SA. (NESN)  Both companies made first-round bids for Pfizer
Inc.’s baby-formula unit, which may fetch as much as $10.5
billion, people with knowledge of the process said last month.  Danone declined to comment today on whether it was
interested in buying the Pfizer unit, though Chief Executive
Officer Franck Riboud said the company isn’t planning a big
acquisition. Still, in baby food especially, “we will look at
spare parts which are going to consolidate our position,” the
CEO said at a press briefing in Paris.  Shares Advance  Danone rose as much as 2.3 percent in Paris trading and was
up 1.6 percent at 49.77 euros as of 2:47 p.m.  The maker of Activia and Actimel yogurts said it expects
business conditions to remain difficult this year, with no
improvement in the economic climate or in  consumer spending .  The company also  expects  the operating margin this year to
be “stable,” excluding certain items, after widening 0.2
percentage point last year. So-called like-for-like sales will
probably rise by 5 percent to 7 percent in 2012, it said.  “We assume that the environment in 2012 is going to remain
in line with what we have seen during the second half of 2011,”
Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a
conference call.  Raw-material price increases are expected to remain
“strong” in the first half and at a “mid-single-digit” level
for the year, according to the company. Danone said it aims to
offset the higher costs partly through price increases. It has
no plans for “significant” price rises.  Unimilk  Like-for-like sales growth in the fourth quarter exceeded
analyst estimates for a 5.7 percent gain. Total revenue for the
period rose 11 percent to 4.79 billion euros.  Like-for-like revenue excludes divestments and currency
changes and is reported on a basis that assumed Danone owned
Russian dairy company OAO Unimilk from the start of 2010. Danone
took a controlling stake in Unimilk at the end of that year to
become the biggest dairy producer in  Russia .  “It looks like Unimilk’s profitability is picking up
quicker than expected and the market will take that as a
positive,” said  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Financial
Markets.  Sales of dairy products gained 3 percent in the quarter on
a comparable basis as demand increased in North and Latin
America. The unit generates more than half of Danone’s revenue.
The company doesn’t report fourth-quarter profit. Danone said in
October it was “late” to expand into the market for Greek
yogurt, which is boosting growth in the North American market.  Medical Nutrition  Fourth-quarter like-for-like revenue at Danone’s medical-
nutrition unit rose 9.8 percent. Price increases contributed 5.6
percentage points to the sales growth, more than the 4.3 percent
impact expected by analysts.  The owner of the Evian and Volvic bottled-water brands gets
more than half its sales from  emerging markets . Danone has said
it plans to expand in markets such as China, India, Indonesia
and Mexico as well as the U.S.  The French company in August agreed to buy Wockhardt Ltd.’s
Indian nutrition business for 250 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  