-- Derivative CDs Backed by FDIC Tempt Savers as Banks Reap 8% Fees
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-02-15T02:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/derivative-based-cds-tempting-savers-as-fdic-backed-banks-garner-8-fees.html
A gray-haired woman picking a flower
with a young girl adorns the cover of an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
brochure that promises investors both “the growth of the
market” and “the security of FDIC Insurance.”  By tying  interest rates  to everything from the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to precious metals, the pamphlet for HSBC’s
 Market-Linked Certificates of Deposits  explains U.S. investors
have the potential to earn “enhanced returns” over as long as
seven years. A separate disclosure states that they also may
earn zero, getting just their original principal back after the
CD matures, while brokers may collect fees of 6 percent or more.
Investors that need to get their money earlier must find a buyer
for the CD, risking a loss.  As the  Federal Reserve  holds interest rates at about zero
for a fourth year,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Inc. and
the rest of Wall Street are selling record numbers of the CDs to
savers seeking the chance to earn eight times what fixed-rate
deposits pay, while having principal backed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Officials at the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, or Finra, said they’re examining whether
buyers understand the risks of CDs that may lock up money in
derivatives bets for as long as 20 years.  ‘Hugely Profitable’  “They are hugely profitable for the issuers, much more
profitable than typical CDs, and they are poorly understood by
retail investors, who will not be able to figure out how much
profit the issuers are making,” said  Frank Partnoy , a
University of San Diego law professor and former  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
derivatives trader. “The institutions that are selling them
might as well be marketing CDs whose value depends on which team
wins the Super Bowl.”  Sales of the investments may total $25 billion a year, Sean Gordon, who oversees distribution of market-linked CDs in the
U.S. at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said in a December interview. Banks sold a
record 1,271 of them last year, according to
StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database used by the industry,
with some offering potential annual returns of as much as 24
percent by tying rates to everything from gold to  Brazil’s real .  Bank revenue from the investments more than tripled to $99
per million dollars in retail deposits in October from $30 in
January, according to Kehrer-LIMRA Research compiled from
approximately 30 lenders, including  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and
SunTrust Banks Inc.  No License Needed  The dollar amount of so-called structured CDs sold isn’t
known because they aren’t registered with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, and the brokers that sell them aren’t
required to be licensed by Finra.  Four years after subprime mortgages caused the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, the government-
backed insurance pool created in 1933 is guaranteeing
investments that marry derivatives with what are supposed to be
the safest product offered by a bank other than savings
accounts.  “When banks start doing other things with insured
deposits, it veers away from the intent and purpose of the FDIC
insurance,” said Andrew “Skip” Hove, a former acting FDIC
chairman who is now an adviser at Promontory Financial Group LLC
in  Washington . “The FDIC was created for depositors who wanted
some security of their money, so they didn’t have to worry about
a bank run.”  As long as a CD’s principal is guaranteed at maturity and
risks are disclosed to investors, it’s considered a bank
deposit, even if tied to a basket of stocks, commodities or
other assets, said James Deveney, chief of the FDIC’s deposit
insurance division.  Finra Probe  “You can tie one to how many points Kobe Bryant might
score” in a Los Angeles Lakers basketball game as long as the
risks are disclosed, said Robert Colvin, president of Robert
Colvin Consulting LLC, who created a structured CD program for
community lenders. “Banks have the ability to write those
contracts any way they want.”  Given the increasing complexity and lengthening maturities
of the investments, Finra wants to make sure they’re properly
understood by investors, Maria Rabinovich, a lawyer in the
watchdog’s risk division, said in a Feb. 6 interview in  New
York .  “HSBC supports Finra’s efforts to ensure financial
products, including market-linked CDs, are properly understood
by investors,” Juanita Gutierrez, a spokeswoman for the bank,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Yield Odds  Goldman Sachs offered a  four-year CD  in December tied to
the monthly returns of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Under
the best scenario, the investment would return as much as 24
percent annually. Under the worst, the CD would return the
minimum 0.5 percent, less than half of what an investor might
earn putting money into a traditional CD that matures one year
sooner.  To reach the maximum yield, the Dow would have to steadily
gain by at least 2 percent each month over the life of the CD,
according to disclosures in an offering statement. Gains higher
than 2 percent aren’t passed on to the CD investor.  The odds of making more than the minimum 0.5 percent may be
as low as 22 percent and the chance of earning more than the
current rate on a four-year, fixed-rate CD may be as low as 13
percent, according to more than 100 years of monthly Dow returns
analyzed by Bloomberg.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment.  ‘Performance CD’  Structured CDs allow investors with as little as $1,000 to
be involved in the derivatives market. Unlike traditional CDs,
which typically have no commissions and have fixed penalties if
a buyer sells before maturity, an investor exiting some
structured CDs has to sell on the secondary market, meaning the
amount of principal returned is subject to how much buyers are
willing to pay.  At  Popular Inc.’s (BPOP)  Banco Popular branch on East 116th Street
in Manhattan, a window display lights up an ad for a
“Performance CD,” promising guaranteed principal with the
possibility for returns higher than traditional certificates of
deposit.  The CD is “conservative in structure” because it’s linked
to stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index or to “blue-chip
global stocks” and insured by the FDIC, Manuel Chinea, the head
of U.S. retail banking for Banco Popular, said in an e-mailed
statement.  United Community Banks, Inc. in Blairsville, Georgia,
pitched a so-called steepener CD in November that bets on the
Treasury yield curve, or the difference between short- and long-
term interest rates, according to a disclosure statement. The CD
matures in 20 years.  ‘Complex’ Instruments  “Structured CDs are complex financial instruments that
require detailed risk disclosures and special considerations
with respect to investor suitability,” Michael Burke, treasurer
of United Community Banks, said in an e-mail. The lender
“issues and distributes its structured CDs through registered
broker-dealers regulated by Finra,” he said.  Most of the structured CDs sold to individual investors
aren’t tied to such interest-rate formulas and have shorter
maturities, said Tim Bonacci of CD Funding Securities LLC in
Cincinnati, who has helped about 30 banks start their own
businesses to sell the investments, using a competitive bid
process with the longest maturity at six years.  The vast majority have maturities of five to seven years
and typically are tied to a basket of stocks, he said.  “All of our clients, many of which are regional banks, are
more interested in plain-vanilla, simple market-linked
structures,” Bonacci said in a telephone interview.  Benefit to Banks  Demand for structured CDs has increased as interest-rates
on traditional deposits fall to record lows and after Congress
approved a permanent expansion of FDIC coverage of bank deposits
to as much as $250,000, from the $100,000 limit that had been in
place since 1980. The typical one-year CD is now paying an
average 0.75 percent, down from 2.65 percent at the end of 2008,
according to  Bankrate.com (ILSYNAVG) .  The CDs allow banks to raise cash at rates that are on
average about 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, less
than what they pay on Federal Home Loan Bank advances, Bonacci
said. To return principal on a $1,000 CD, banks may use the
money raised from an investor to buy a zero-coupon bond for $880
that returns $1,000 at maturity. The remaining $120 covers
commissions and the cost of the underlying derivatives.  Chase Manhattan Bank, now part of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
offered the first structured CD in 1987, the “Market Index
Investment Deposit Account,” winning approval from the late
FDIC chairman William Seidman that the investment should be
insured as a deposit.  State Investigations  The SEC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
agreed they were deposits, allowing banks to forgo registering
them with the securities regulator.  In addition to Finra, as many as 10 states are
investigating how some of the investments are being marketed,
according to Ronak Patel, co-head of a working group for the
 North American Securities Administrators Association  and
director of inspections for the Texas State Securities Board.  Finra has already been investigating other types of
structured products, and it has fined brokerage firms for
misleading investors about the safety of “principal-protected”
notes.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank, was ordered to pay
investors $8.25 million and fined $2.5 million over sales of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. securities marketed as “100%
Principal-Protection Notes” that became almost worthless after
Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  ‘Walked Off Mars’  The payouts of the instruments may be too difficult for
many individual investors to understand and buyers might receive
yields closer to those on Treasuries rather than any outsized
returns, according to Steve Swidler, a professor at Auburn
University in Auburn, Alabama.  Some would take him several lectures to explain to his
class on financial engineering, such as an HSBC  10-year CD  that
pays 4.5 percent for the first year and then ties the yield for
the remaining nine years to leveraged bets on interest-rate
swaps, he said, a so-called “steepener” because it bets on the
steepness of the Treasury yield curve.  “If I mention the yield curve to your typical customer,
standing in line at a bank making a $100 deposit, and I ask
them, ‘What do you think about 2-year and 10-year spreads?’
Swidler, who’s written academic papers on the products, said in
a telephone interview, “They’ll probably look at me like I just
walked off Mars.”  Wells Fargo, Citigroup  Wells Fargo offered a 6.5-year CD tied to the  S&P 500  Index
last month that pays bankers and brokers a fee of as much as 8
percent, according to the CD’s disclosure statement.  The CD returns the gains of the index if it doesn’t
increase by more than about 62 percent from its starting level.
If it breaks the so-called “barrier,” investors receive 2
percent annually, which has happened about 60 percent of the
time, according to an analysis of more than 80 years of S&P 500
data by Bloomberg.  “Our Market Linked CDs provide value to our clients and
their fees are fully and clearly disclosed,”  Elise Wilkinson , a
spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based bank, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  offered a 15-year CD last month called the
“Libor Inverse Floater Contingent on the S&P 500 Index Market-
Linked Certificate of Deposit” that pays an initial 6.5
percent, more than eight times current one-year, fixed-rate
deposits, according to a Citigroup term sheet.  ‘Enhance Returns’  After the first year, the rate is based on a formula of 1.1
times the difference between 5 percent and the three-month
London interbank offered rate on days when the S&P 500 is equal
to or above 75 percent of its starting value. The index closed
yesterday at 1,350.50. The New York-based bank has the option to
redeem the CD after the first year.  “The investment allows clients to take advantage of a view
that rates will remain relatively low,” Nicholas Parcharidis,
managing director and the head of Americas sales for Citi
Private Investor Products in New York, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It gives them the opportunity to earn 6.5 percent
return in year one and to potentially enhance returns above low
fixed rates in subsequent years. The risk is the opportunity
cost of potentially earning zero interest in subsequent years.”  The derivatives and formulas make the investments difficult
to value, Auburn’s Swidler said.  “It is questionable whether some of these products should
be sold to retail investors in the first place,” said Moritz Seibert in Westport,  Connecticut , the former U.S. head of equity
derivatives structuring at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
who’s now starting an alternative investment business. “Traders at
issuing banks understand the nitty-gritty pricing of those
products very well. It seems that professional institutional
investors would be a more suitable clientele.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 