-- Detroit Finance Study Team’s Closed Sessions Permanently Barred by Judge
-- B y   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-15T21:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/detroit-finance-study-team-closed-door-sessions-barred-by-michigan-judge.html
A  Michigan  judge permanently barred
a review team studying Detroit’s finances from holding closed-
door sessions, handing a legal victory to city employees.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, appointed the
10-member group in December after a preliminary study by the
state treasurer found the city was in “probable financial
stress.” The financial review team is considering whether
Michigan’s largest city needs an emergency manager.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette last
week issued a temporary restraining order barring closed-door
sessions after a union official claimed they violated Michigan’s
open-meetings law. Collette made the order permanent at a
hearing today.  The first foundation “of this society is that we have an
open government,” Collette said today. “To meet in private is
to meet in private.”  Robert Davis , an official with a union that represents city
employees, sued Snyder, the treasurer and the review team,
saying the group is required under Michigan law to hold meetings
open to the public.  “This is a big victory for democracy,” Davis, who is
staff representative of the American Federation of State, County
& Municipal Employees, said in an interview after the hearing.  Emergency Manager  If the panel declares a financial emergency, the governor
may appoint a manager with sweeping powers to fire people, sell
assets, void union contracts and assume authority over the mayor
and city council.  The Detroit finance study group isn’t a public body as
defined under Michigan’s  Open Meetings Act  and isn’t governed by
that law, Michelle Brya, an attorney for the state, told the
judge at today’s hearing.  “The review team only makes recommendations,” she said.
“The governor has options” on implementing the findings, she
said, adding that no reports had been made by the review team.  “How do people know that if everything is private?”
Collette asked.  Michigan’s Treasury Department and the Snyder
administration are reviewing today’s ruling and consulting with
the state attorney general “to determine appropriate next steps
that will help ensure the fiscal and academic health and
wellbeing of our communities and schools,” Terry Stanton, a
spokesman for the Treasury Department, said in an e-mail. “The
financial review team’s work will continue in accordance with
the Open Meetings Act.”  Highland Park  Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing and unions representing most city
employees have reached tentative accords on concessions aimed at
avoiding a state takeover. The agreements are pending
ratification by union membership.  The mayor and the firefighters union continue to negotiate
over concessions. Bing and Snyder have said they want to avoid
an emergency manager.  Davis also sued over a separate review team, appointed to
study the finances of the schools of Highland Park, which
neighbors Detroit.  Collette today said in court that the review team
considering Highland Park public schools also violated the open-
meetings law, and he voided all of that team’s actions, which
led to the appointment of an emergency manager.  Stanton said the state doesn’t believe Collette’s order
erasing the review team’s actions would affect Snyder’s
appointment last month of an emergency manager for  Highland
Park ’s schools.  ‘Only Basis’  “That’s not what the law is,” Andrew Paterson, Davis’s
lawyer, said in an interview. The team’s recommendation “was
the only basis the governor used to appoint an emergency
manager,” he said. By erasing the Highland Park review team’s
actions, this removed the governor’s right to appoint an
emergency manager, Paterson said.  “The Highland Park School District is in a severe fiscal
crisis that only will further jeopardize the district’s students
and families and get worse without continued state support and
assistance,” Stanton said. “The district has already needed
two advances in state aid to avoid payless paydays, and the
Michigan Department of Education expects yet another request for
additional hardship funding.”  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
12-112-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  