-- Deutsche Bank Sued in New York Over $512 Million in Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-15T18:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/deutsche-bank-sued-in-new-york-over-512-million-in-mortgage-securities.html
Deutsche Bank AG’s Ace Securities
was sued in New York state court for fraud for allegedly
misrepresenting the quality of $512 million worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities by Phoenix Light SF Ltd.  Phoenix Light, which bought and later sold the securities,
is seeking at least $300 million in damages, according to a
summons filed yesterday. It accuses Ace Securities of making
“material misrepresentations and omissions” regarding
underwriting standards used to issue the  mortgage loans  that
were pooled together into the offerings, according to court
filings.  Ace Securities knew about problems with the mortgages
underlying the securities because of reports they received from
mortgage-review firm Clayton Holdings, yet still included them
in the offerings that were sold to the plaintiffs, according to
Phoenix Light.  “The securities have performed worse than expected due to
the poorer-quality collateral, and defendants’ wrongdoing has
led directly to plaintiffs’ damages, which include loss of
market value on the securities,” Phoenix Light said in the
filing. “Plaintiffs have lost the entire value of certain of
the securities.”  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Duncan King , a New York spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, said in a phone interview that the claims had no
merit and the company would fight the suit.  The case is Phoenix Light SF Ltd. v. Ace Securities Corp.,
650422/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  