-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Weigh Exit Options for U.K. Venture
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-16T17:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/deutsche-telekom-said-to-weigh-exit-options-for-u-k-mobile-phone-venture.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
largest telephone company, is evaluating options for an exit
from the U.K. as it seeks to raise cash after failing to sell
its  T-Mobile USA  unit, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Bonn-based company is in the early stages of deciding
whether to sell its half of the Everything Everywhere wireless
venture it owns with  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the people said,
declining to be identified because the discussions are private.
Deutsche Telekom has yet to hire investment banks and any
decision on an exit is unlikely before later this year as it
focuses on improving operational performance first, they said.  Mobile operators are re-evaluating their operations as
revenue growth stalls in developed markets and regulators set
limits on fees from services like international roaming. Paris-
based  France Telecom  began a review of its European portfolio
last year as part of an effort to concentrate on  emerging
markets , and has agreed to sell units in Austria and  Switzerland 
in the past two months.  For Deutsche Telekom, “more cash might have to be
allocated to the U.S. market” in the mid-term to cover
potential investments in high-speed network infrastructure, said
Jochen Reichert, an analyst at Warburg Research in Hamburg.
“And then there could come the question of how Deutsche Telekom
can raise more cash.”  Options  Options for Everything Everywhere may include France
Telecom buying out its German partner’s stake, or a process to
seek a third-party buyer for the entire operator, such as a
group of private-equity firms or other phone companies, the
people said. The French company could face financing challenges
that would make taking full control of the venture difficult,
they added.  An initial public offering of part or all of Everything
Everywhere may also be an option, said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London. The operator may be
valued at 12 billion euros ($15.6 billion), based on a multiple
of about seven times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to Espirito Santo
analyst Nick Brown.  Deutsche Telekom spokesman Andreas Fuchs declined to
comment, saying the company has a “long-term commitment” to
the U.K. market and that its venture is “competing
successfully.” A France Telecom spokesman declined to comment.  Telecommunications companies’ stocks have declined amid
price competition and costs tied to network upgrades. Deutsche
Telekom shares have plunged 12 percent in the past year to 8.85
euros today, while France Telecom shares have fallen 31 percent
in the same period to 11.26 euros on the Paris exchange. The
 Bloomberg European Telecommunications Index (BEUTELE) , which tracks the
share prices of the region’s largest phone companies, has slid
17 percent.  Called Off  Deutsche Telekom and AT&T Inc. in December called off a $39
billion deal to sell T-Mobile USA to the U.S. phone company
after concluding it would be too difficult to overcome
opposition from regulators.  The former German phone monopoly had planned to use the
proceeds to cut debt by 13 billion euros and repurchase 5
billion euros of its own shares. Deutsche Telekom also needs
funds to upgrade fiber and wireless networks in Germany and
other European markets.  France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom agreed to merge their
U.K. operations in 2009, creating the country’s largest mobile
operator by leapfrogging Telefonica SA’s O2 unit. The deal took
the U.K. from five full-service mobile operators to four, in
line with  Italy ,  Spain , and  Germany . At the time, the venture
was valued at between 6 billion pounds ($9.4 billion) and 7
billion pounds, one of the people said.  Everything Everywhere announced a management shake-up in
September, cutting the number of directors from 25 to 10 as Olaf Swantee, the former head of France Telecom’s European
operations, took over as chief executive officer. In that month,
Deputy CEO Richard Moat, a Deutsche Telekom executive, left the
operator along with five other senior managers.  The venture reported a 4.3 percent decline in third-quarter
sales as it lost clients amid a push to shift them to longer-
term contracts.  The price of Everything Everywhere’s first traded bonds,
issued last month, slipped to their lowest level ever today. The
500 million euros of 3.5 percent bonds due in 2017 fell 1.7
cents on the euro to 98.35, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  