-- Distell Says South African Spirits Market Is Challenging
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-15T14:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/distell-says-south-african-spirits-market-is-challenging-1-.html
Distell Group Ltd. (DST) , South Africa’s
biggest wine and spirit producer, said the South African market
is “challenging” because of competition from lower-cost drinks
such as beer.  “The consumer in general continues to buy down,” Managing
Director Jan Scannell said in a phone interview today from
Stellenbosch, where the company is based. “The market is
extremely competitive, which drives up the cost of doing
business.”  Net income rose 23 percent to 776.9 million rand ($101
million) in the six months ended Dec. 31, from 630.7 billion
rand a year earlier, Distell said in a stock exchange statement
today. Sales gained 16 percent to 7.97 billion rand.  South Africa’s economy expanded 1.4 percent in the three
months through September, close to a two-year low, even after
the central bank held the benchmark lending rate at 5.5 percent
for 18 months to spur growth.  The rand’s 17 percent decline against the dollar in the
second half of 2011 boosted Distell’s profit from exports, while
adding to the cost of its South African sales by boosting the
prices of imported raw materials, Scannell said.  “The rand had a positive effect on our export business but
a negative effect in  South Africa ,” he said. “We’ll have to
work with our suppliers to become more efficient” to cut costs
in the home market, he added.  Distell’s products include Klipdrift brandy, Tassenberg
wines and Count Pushkin vodka. They compete for market share
against  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s Castle, Hansa and Peroni beers, and
 Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Smirnoff vodka and Guinness stout brands.  Distell “will look for opportunities” to make
acquisitions, using its 943 million rand in cash, though it
doesn’t have any “immediate” targets, Scannell said.  Distell shares were unchanged at 77.50 rand in Johannesburg
today. The shares have climbed 16 percent in the past six
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  