-- Drugmakers Vie for Piece of Future Hepatitis C Combo Pill
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-15T21:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/drugmakers-jockey-for-piece-of-future-hepatitis-c-combo-pill.html
A developing medical theory that
hepatitis C can be overcome with the same type of drug cocktails
that tamed HIV may drive acquisition strategies as companies try
to anticipate which products work best with other medicines.  Because only a few hepatitis C drugs are approved, and
others in testing may not pan out, “we don’t know what the
winning formula will be,” Ben Weintraub, an industry analyst at
Wolters Kluwer InThought in New York, said during a Bloomberg
Industries panel. To raise the odds, “companies are doing M&A
and starting new trials on almost a daily basis.”  With more than two dozen drugs in development, doctors
predict a new age of therapy for a bloodborne virus carried by
170 million people that now has few treatment options. The
promise of a potential $20 billion market has already spurred
three deals in the last year, the latest Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.’s $2.5 billion purchase this month of  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)   Next in line may be  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  and
 Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , said Raghuram Selvaraju, an
analyst with Morgan Joseph TriArtisan in New York.  “I don’t think either of these companies will remain
independent very long,” Selvaraju said in a telephone
interview. “I think we’ll see both of them out of there by the
end of the year.”  Blocking the Virus  Achillion, based in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , is testing a
so-called  protease inhibitor , while Idenix, of Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , is developing a nucleotide polymerase inhibitor.
The two medicines, which work differently to block the virus’s
ability to replicate in the body, are in the second of three
stages of testing normally required for U.S. approval.  By combining several classes of these new hepatitis C
drugs, doctors may be able to limit the virus’ ability to
infect, mimicking the strategy that a decade earlier helped turn
HIV from a killer disease to a controlled one, said  Charles
Chiu , an infectious disease doctor at the University of
 California ,  San Francisco .  With the success of treatments that “work on the virus
itself, there’s an increased urgency now to explore drugs in
many different stages of the viral life cycle,” Chiu said in a
telephone interview.  Until last year’s introduction of Victrelis from Merck &
Co. and Incivek by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc., both protease
inhibitors, the standard treatment combined the antiviral drug
ribavirin with interferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck as PegIntron and by
Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as Pegasys.  Interferon Shots  That treatment relied on interferon shots given weekly for
a year and cured only about half of patients with the most
common U.S. strain, called genotype 1. The drugs also caused
side effects that include fatigue and flu-like symptoms.  The new protease inhibitors stop an enzyme that splits
proteins and allows them to replicate. While they’ve been shown
to cure more patients in less time than previous therapies, with
fewer side effects, they still need to be combined with
interferon shots.  Scientists see promise in the other class being developed,
the nucleotide polymerase inhibitors, which bind to a different
part of the virus than the protease inhibitors. These drugs are
pan-genotypic -- meaning they are effective across the different
types of hepatitis C. They could become the backbone for an
interferon-free combination.  Mixing the classes together may be even more effective in
beating the disease, which is blamed for more than 350,000
deaths a year worldwide.  ‘Dramatic Change’  “We waited 15 years for protease inhibitors, and a year
later we could have a new class of drugs, nucleotides, that
surpass them,” said Steve Worland, former chief executive
officer of Anadys Pharmaceuticals, an experimental hepatitis C
drugmaker acquired by Roche in November for about $230 million.
“That kind of dramatic change I have never seen before.”  Drugmakers want to own a piece of the eventual cocktail
that will work best among patients worldwide, and have been
working in the lab to create their own drugs as well as scouting
other companies with an eye toward buying promising candidates.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  paid $10.8 billion for Pharmasset Inc.
last month to use its experimental nucleotide drug, PSI-7977, as
a cornerstone to a new hepatitis C combination -- one that it
expects other drugmakers will want to use -- opening the door to
added licensing revenue.  Pill’s ‘Driver’  “7977 is going to be the driver of an all oral regimens,
and all of these other drugs are going to be layered on top of
it,” said Selvaraju.  Rivals have the same idea as they hunt for potential
targets. That’s why Achillion and Idenix are being closely
watched as potential takeover targets, Selvaraju said. Abbott
Laboratories and Roche are potential bidders, he said.  Merck (MRK) ,
Bristol-Myers and Johnson & Johnson are also in pursuit of the
new regimens.  The potential market size for these therapies is at least
$20 billion, according to Michael Kishbauch, chief executive
officer of Achillion. The company is considering a licensing
deal, selling itself or just its hepatitis C “asset,” the
protease inhibitor, ACH-1625, Kishbauch said in a November
interview.  Gilead increased its offer to acquire Pharmasset four times
last year to $137 a share from $100 a share, after a clinical
trial showed PSI-7977 cured all patients in a study and the
company reached out to four other potential bidders.  ‘Amazing Breakthroughs’  “The opportunity to be able to cure people with three
months of therapy is one of the most amazing breakthroughs we
can bring to health care -- and there’s a lot of competition,”
Gilead CEO  John Martin  said in a Jan. 9 interview.  Gilead  rose  less than 1 percent to $54.82 in  New York 
trading. The company’s shares have gained 41 percent in the past
12 months.  Idenix is in talks to find a partner to create a
combination hepatitis C treatment, said Ron Renaud, the
company’s CEO. While declining to comment on whether the company
may be acquired, he said interest in hepatitis C drugs picked up
last year during a liver disease conference.  “There is a tremendous market opportunity here, that
people want to take advantage of, and there’s an intense race
that’s under way to get to that point,” Renaud said in an
interview on Jan. 11.  Multiple Bids  Inhibitex and Pharmasset parlayed multiple bids for their
companies into record premiums. Inhibitex sold for a premium of
126 percent over the 20-day average of its share price in the 20
days prior, the second-largest on record for a drugmaker worth
more than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
since 1999. Gilead’s purchase of Pharmasset, completed last
month, featured an 89 percent premium.  At least one other buyer was willing to match Bristol-
Myers’ $2.5 billion offer on Jan. 6 for Inhibitex, U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filings  reveal. Inhibitex
began attracting bids last year, and had at least six suitors,
including  Bristol-Myers. (BMY)   “This market is giant,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group in New York, who estimates sales of hepatitis C
treatments may reach $100 billion over a decade.  Bristol-Myers and another, still unnamed, company both
offered bids of $26 a share to buy Inhibitex. That’s raised
questions as to whether another deal, led by the mystery bidder,
is on the horizon, said ISI Group analyst Schoenebaum in a note
to clients on Jan. 17.  “The revelation that there were six parties looking at
Inhibitex could intensify investor speculation that
consolidation in the HCV space could continue,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  