-- Dubai Plans to Prove ‘Everybody Wrong’ as $3.25 Billion in Repayments Loom
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2012-02-16T09:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/dubai-sees-difc-investments-jafza-debt-refinancing-without-state-support.html
Dubai, the emirate that teetered on
the brink of default in 2009, expects two of its main companies
to refinance $3.25 billion of debt this year without government
help as economic growth accelerates.  The second-biggest member of the United Arab Emirates
federation doesn’t need to raise money from international bond
markets in 2012 and has “no intention” of seeking support from
 Abu Dhabi , Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of the Dubai
ruler’s court, said in an interview yesterday in Dubai. Abu
Dhabi gave $20 billion to its neighbor in 2009 to help
restructure debt.  “We have been proving everybody wrong in the last three
years and this is going to be a fourth year proving everybody
wrong,” he said. “This year is much better than last year in
every way you look at it.”  Dubai’s default risk has dropped over the past two years as
debt restructuring deals, bond repayments and profitability at
companies boost confidence in its economic rebound. The
 benchmark stock index  gained 12.5 percent this year, making it
the best performer in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council.
Dubai economy’s may expand as much as 5 percent this year after
growing more than 3 percent in 2011, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , the head of Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Policy Committee,
said yesterday.  Repaying Debt  Dubai may “muddle” through a financing strategy this
year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in December. DIFC
Investments LLC, a unit of the emirate’s tax-free business
financial center, has $1.25 billion in Islamic bonds maturing in
June, while Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, another  business park ,
faces maturity of 7.5 billion dirhams ($2 billion) in Shariah-
compliant notes in November.  “I’m very confident they will manage to sort out these
issues on their own,” Al Shaibani said. “We are available for
any advice, any help. But mainly they will manage it
themselves.”  The emirate’s five-year credit default swaps tumbled 46
basis points this year to 399, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. They remain the
fourth-highest in the  Middle East .  DIFC Investment’s sukuk were at 96.62 cents on the dollar
yesterday in Dubai, near the highest level since November 2007.
Jebel Ali Free Zone notes were at 94.64 cents on the dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s
5.591 percent government dollar bond due June 2021 has dropped
37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, this year to 5.61
percent.  ‘No Default’  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main holding
companies, roiled world markets in 2009 when it sought a delay
in repaying about $25 billion of debt, accumulated as part of
its plan to transform the sheikhdom into the Middle East’s
business and trade hub.  The borrowing binge saw Dubai build the world’s tallest
skyscraper, a man-made, residential island shaped like a palm
frond, and a business park hosting offices of companies such as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Standard Chartered Plc.  Dubai Airports, home to the biggest Arab airline Emirates,
handled a record 51 million passengers last year, an increase of
8 percent from 2010, the state-run company said Jan. 24. In
December, 4.69 million travelers passed through the airport
compared with 4.26 million a year earlier.  Repayment Estimates  Dubai and its state-controlled companies face about $10.3
billion in debt repayments this year, Bank of America Merrill-
Lynch estimates from October show. Al Shaibani declined to give
an estimate of total debt due this year.  “What people sometimes forget is that for all the noise of
out Dubai, the fact is that there has been no default of a
traded instrument,” Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at
the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said by e-mail yesterday. “They
didn’t default even in 2009 when the situation was worse. Even
back then, they paid off the debt. Since then, Dubai’s economy
has recovered well.”  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a property
and hospitality company owned by the emirate’s ruler, paid back
a $500 million bond that matured on Feb. 1.  Drydocks World  Several companies are still seeking to restructure debt.
Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  also owned by the ruler,
offered to pay creditors over five to 10 years as it seeks to
restructure $6 billion of bank loans, a banker familiar with the
proposal said Feb. 6. Drydocks World LLC, a ship-repair unit of
Dubai World, said in December it may reach an agreement with
creditor banks on $2.2 billion of debt in March.  The government is encouraging companies and lenders to
reach agreements before seeking government help, Al Shaibani
said. “They should initiate the process of refinancing and
sorting out their issues and if they have any issue or
difficulty or advice, or if they want support they will come
back to us,” he said.  Government support doesn’t necessarily mean offering debt
guarantees, he said. He listed the Dubai Support Fund, set up in
2009 with the help of Abu Dhabi’s money, as one potential avenue
of assistance “under certain conditions, of course.”  Some creditors “thought they just go straight to the
government and expect the government to write a check,” he
said, giving the example of Drydocks. “It doesn’t work this
way. They have to go through the process, and they have to
respect corporate governance.”  Monarch Alternative Capital LP, a New York-based investment
company, filed a claim of about $45.5 million in a London court
in October against Drydocks. The company is relying on its
operations in Dubai to make up for the “challenge” posed by
its investments in the  Far East , Al Shaibani said.  “In reality the main money generator is Dubai, and Dubai
is doing really well,” he said. “They are very busy, almost
100 percent occupancy. They have a huge business in the
pipeline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  