-- The Case for Publicly Owned Internet Service: Susan P. Crawford
-- B y   S u s a n   P .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/the-case-for-publicly-owned-internet-service-commentary-by-susan-crawford.html
In cities and towns across the
U.S., a familiar story is replaying itself: Powerful
companies are preventing local governments from providing
an essential service to their citizens. More than 100 years
ago, it was electricity. Today, it is the public provision
of communications services.  The  Georgia  legislature is currently considering  a
bill  that would effectively make it impossible for any city
in the state to provide for high-speed Internet access
networks -- even in areas in which the private sector
cannot or will not.  Nebraska ,  North Carolina ,  Louisiana ,
 Arkansas  and  Tennessee  already have similar laws in place.
South Carolina is considering one,  as is Florida .  Mayors across the U.S. are desperate to attract good
jobs and provide residents with educational opportunities,
access to affordable health care, and other benefits that
depend on affordable, fast connectivity -- something that
people in other industrialized countries take for granted.
But powerful incumbent providers such as AT&T Inc. and Time
Warner Cable Inc. are hamstringing municipalities.  At the beginning of the 20th century, private power
companies electrified only the most lucrative population
centers and  ignored most of America , particularly rural
America. By the mid-1920s, 15 holding companies controlled
85 percent of the nation’s electricity distribution, and
the Federal Trade Commission found that the power trusts
routinely gouged consumers.  Costly and Dangerous  In response, and recognizing that cheap, plentiful
electricity was essential to economic development and
quality of life, thousands of communities formed electric
utilities of their own. Predictably, the private utilities
claimed that public ownership of electrical utilities was
“costly and dangerous” and “always a failure,” according to
the November 1906 issue of Moody’s Magazine. Now more than
 2,000 communities  in the U.S., including  Seattle ,  San
Antonio  and  Los Angeles , provide their own electricity.  Today, the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, which
advocates for community broadband initiatives, is tracking
 more than 60  municipal governments that have built or are
building successful fiber networks, just as they created
electric systems during the 20th century. In Chattanooga,
Tennessee, for example, the city’s publicly owned electric
company provides fast, affordable and reliable fiber
Internet access. Some businesses based in Knoxville -- 100
miles to the northeast -- are adding jobs in Chattanooga,
where connectivity can cost an  eighth as much .  Meanwhile, less than 8 percent of Americans currently
receive  fiber service to their homes , compared with more
than 50 percent of households in  South Korea , and almost 40
percent in  Japan . Where it’s available, Americans pay five
or six times as much for their fiber access as people in
other countries do. Fully a third of Americans don’t
subscribe to high-speed  Internet access  at all, and AT&T
Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson   said last month 
that the company was “trying to find a broadband solution
that was economically viable to get out to rural America,
and we’re not finding one, to be quite candid.” America is
rapidly losing the global race for high-speed connectivity.  Tamping Down Enthusiasm  Like the power trusts of the 20th century, the
enormous consolidated providers of wired Internet access
want to tamp down any enthusiasm for municipal networks.
Last year, telecom lobbyists spent more than $300,000 in a
 failed effort  to block a referendum in Longmont,  Colorado ,
to allow that city to provide Internet access. Time Warner
Cable managed to get a North Carolina law enacted last year
that makes launching municipal networks there
 extraordinarily difficult . The pending measures in Georgia
and  South Carolina  are modeled on the North Carolina bill.  The Georgia bill is chock-full of sand traps and areas
of deep statutory fog from which no local public network is
likely ever to emerge. In addition to the ordinary public
hearings that any municipality would hold on the subject, a
town looking to build a public network would have to hold a
referendum. It wouldn’t be allowed to spend any money in
support of its position (there would be no such prohibition
on the deep-pocketed incumbents). The community wouldn’t be
allowed to support its network with local taxes or surplus
revenues from any other services (although incumbents
routinely and massively subsidize their networks with
revenue from other businesses).  Most pernicious of all, the public operator would have
to include in the costs of its service the phantom, imputed
“ capital costs ” and “taxes” of a private provider. This is
a fertile area for disputes, litigation and delay, as no
one knows what precise costs and taxes are at issue, much
less how to calculate these amounts. The public provider
would also have to comply with all laws and “requirements”
applicable to “the communications service,” if it were made
available by “a private provider,” although again the law
doesn’t specify which service is involved or which provider
is relevant.  The end result of all this vague language will be to
make it all but impossible for a city to obtain financing
to build its network. Although the proponents of Georgia’s
bill claim that they are merely trying to create a level
playing field, these are terms and conditions that no new
entrant, public or private, can meet -- and that the
incumbents themselves do not live by. You can almost hear
the drafters laughing about how impossible the entire
enterprise will be.  Globally Competitive Networks  Right now, state legislatures -- where the incumbents
wield great power -- are keeping towns and cities in the
U.S. from making their own choices about their
communications networks. Meanwhile, municipalities,
cooperatives and small independent companies are
practically the only entities building globally competitive
networks these days. Both AT&T and Verizon have ceased the
expansion of next-generation fiber installations across the
U.S., and the cable companies’ services greatly favor
downloads over uploads.  Congress needs to intervene. One way it could help is
by preempting state laws that erect barriers to the ability
of local jurisdictions to provide communications services
to their citizens.  Running for president in 1932,  Franklin D. Roosevelt 
 emphasized  the right of communities to provide their own
electricity. “I might call the right of the people to own
and operate their own utility a birch rod in the cupboard,”
he said, “to be taken out and used only when the child gets
beyond the point where more scolding does any good.” It’s
time to take out that birch rod.  (Susan P. Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of
Government and  Harvard Law School . In 2009, she was a
special assistant to President  Barack Obama  for science,
technology and innovation policy. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net  