-- East European Deleveraging Remains Risk, Capital Economics Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-02-15T18:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/east-european-deleveraging-remains-risk-capital-economics-says.html
Eastern European growth is at risk
of western European lenders’ asset cuts to meet tighter capital
rules even as European Central Bank loans to banks at discount
rates eased concern of a squeeze,  Capital Economics  said.  “There remains a very real threat that euro-zone banks
will gradually scale back credit lines to emerging Europe and
this could still have a marked impact on growth in a handful of
countries -- notably  Hungary  and the Balkan states,” economists
at the London research company said in an e-mailed note today.  The ECB’s longer-term refinancing operation in December
improved funding conditions for western European lenders, which
control about three-quarters of the banking industry in eastern
Europe. European banks must have core capital reserves of 9
percent by the end of June, European Union leaders decided in
October. That sparked concern they will meet the goal by
withdrawing funding and selling assets in the EU’s east.  The ECB is flooding the banking system with cheap money in
a bid to avert a credit crunch after the market for unsecured
bank debt seized up last year and funding from U.S. money
markets disappeared.  The ECB made available 489 billion euros ($641 billion) of
three-year loans at a 1 percent annual interest in December and
is planning a second auction on Feb. 29.  Under the most likely scenario, provided that the current
improvement in European bank funding conditions persists,
deleveraging by western lenders in eastern  Europe  will be
gradual and moderate, Capital Economics said.  Still, 35 billion euros of funding may be withdrawn from
eastern Europe, according to Capital. Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria
and  Romania  would be the most affected, with the pace of
economic growth 0.5 percentage point lower and lending growth
slowing by 2 percentage points, Capital predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  