-- ECB Signals Plan to Hand Governments Greek Bond Profits Amid Aid Shortfall
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-15T12:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ecb-signals-plan-to-hand-governments-greek-bond-profits-amid-aid-shortfall.html
European Central Bank policy makers
signaled they may distribute profits from Greek bond holdings to
governments to help make up a possible shortfall in aid to the
embattled nation.  Governing Council member and Belgian central bank governor
Luc Coene said ECB officials have agreed that they “don’t wish
to make a profit on Greece.” Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, echoing remarks by fellow board member Benoit Coeure,
told Reuters that the ECB can pass any profits on to national
central banks and “then the  member states  can decide to use
this as a contribution to finance the Greek program.”  The comments suggest the ECB may disburse profits on Greek
bonds as they mature, giving governments additional cash to help
Greece avoid a default. While the ECB has also looked at
exchanging its Greek securities for bonds from the government-
based rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann suggested politicians don’t
favor that plan.  “If governments were prepared to buy the bonds from us, we
certainly wouldn’t shy away from that discussion,” he told the
Handelsblatt newspaper. “Such willingness is not apparent.”  Meeting Canceled  Euro-area finance ministers canceled a Brussels meeting
slated for today and will hold a teleconference instead to prod
 Greece  to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion
euros ($171 billion) along with about 100 billion euros of debt
relief from private bondholders. Greece needs the money to make
a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
have proposed an extra 15 billion euros in funds for the second
Greek aid program, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said on Feb. 11.  “We agreed upon 130 billion,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said yesterday. “If now it seems more is needed,
we should explore other ways.”  While the ECB is barred by its founding treaty from
directly financing governments, it distributes profits and
income from its investments and monetary policy operations
annually to the 17 national central banks that make up the
Eurosystem. Those central banks can then pass those profits to
national governments.  ‘Not Monetary Financing’  “If the ECB redistributes parts of its profit to euro-area
member countries via the euro-area national banks according to
its capital key, that is not monetary financing,” ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 9.  The Frankfurt-based ECB began purchasing Greek government
debt in May 2010 as part of its Securities Markets Program,
which is aimed at restoring the transmission of monetary policy
on financial markets distorted by the debt crisis. Since then,
it has bought bonds including those of Spain, Portugal and  Italy 
totaling 219.5 billion euros.  Between 36 billion euros and 55 billion euros are invested
in Greek sovereign debt, according to estimates by  Barclays
Capital  and UBS AG.  “These bonds were acquired at an average price that is
below face value,” Coeure told Liberation newspaper in an
interview published yesterday. “If there is a profit, as with
all monetary holdings, it should be distributed to the states.
They can use it to contribute to sustainability of Greece’s
debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  