-- ECB ‘Welcomes’ Spanish Bank Overhaul, Cautions on Mergers
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-16T11:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ecb-welcomes-spanish-bank-overhaul-cautions-on-mergers-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  praised
Spain’s bank overhaul, saying the measures will make the
industry more resilient, even as it cautioned that mergers
between weak lenders may undermine the aim of the legislation.  “The ECB welcomes in general these measures as they
strengthen the resilience of the Spanish banking sector,” it
said in an opinion due to be published on the Frankfurt-based
bank’s  website  that Bloomberg News obtained from the  Economy
Ministry  late yesterday. A spokeswoman at the ECB declined to
comment on the report, which was dated Feb. 15.  The revamp, which was ratified by Parliament this morning,
forces lenders to recognize deeper losses on real-estate assets
as part of the government’s efforts to regain investor
confidence and steer the economy to growth. Banks that merge
will have longer to meet the new provisioning rules, as the two
month-old government tries to reduce capacity in the industry.  “Mergers carried out only between weak lenders could limit
the general benefits of the reform,” the central bank said.  The ECB also called for additional details to avoid
“ambiguities” on how banks should make provisions for assets
on their books that may be sold in 2012, according to the
document.  The decree was passed by the People’s Party-led Cabinet on
Feb. 3 and ratified today in congress, the lower house of
Parliament. Of the 337 deputies present, 303 voted in favor,
including the backing of the Socialist opposition.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today 52 billion
euros ($68 billion) in provisions and capital buffers will be
made by the industry, which is saddled with 175 billion euros of
what the Bank of  Spain  calls “troubled” assets linked to real
estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  