-- Ecopetrol Profit Beats Estimates as Colombian Output Jumps
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-02-15T23:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ecopetrol-profit-beats-estimates-as-colombian-output-jumps-1-.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest oil
company, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 64 percent as
production climbed, beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose to 4.44 trillion pesos ($2.47 billion) from
2.70 trillion pesos in the year earlier period, the Bogota-based
 company  said today in an e-mailed statement. Profit exceeded the
average estimate of 4.36-trillion pesos average estimate
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Production rose to 741,700 barrels a day of oil and natural
gas in the quarter from 651,300 barrels a year earlier, the
company said in the report released today after the close of
regular trading.  Ecopetrol is investing $80 billion through 2020 to increase
production to 1.3 million barrels a day. The government-
controlled company will need to discover reserves in  Colombia ,
 Brazil  and the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  to meet that target, Juan David Pineros, an analyst at Colombia’s largest brokerage
Interbolsa SA, said by telephone from Medellin.  Rising profit at Ecopetrol may prompt the government to
postpone selling a stake in the company, Nicolas Bernal, an
analyst at brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Bogota. The government is in “no
rush” to sell its stake in Ecopetrol, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told analysts Feb. 8.  $11 Billion Investment  Ecopetrol plans to invest $11 billion this year on
exploration, production, pipelines and refineries. The company
last month agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in an exploration
block in the Peruvian Amazon from a unit of Repsol YPF SA.  Ecopetrol’s second-largest refinery this month will begin
tapping a $2.8 billion loan from the U.S. Export-Import Bank as
it more than doubles capacity within two years, the refinery’s
Chief Executive Orlando Cabrales said in a Feb. 2 interview.
Reficar, as the Cartagena, Colombia-based refinery is known,
will spend more than $4 billion by 2014 to expand.  Ecopetrol rose 0.5 percent to close at 4,810 pesos in
Bogota. Shares have climbed 14 percent this year, compared with
a 6.7 percent gain in Colombia’s benchmark  Colcap (COLCAP)  stock index.  Colombia is South America’s third-largest crude producer
after Venezuela and Brazil. The nation’s output has risen as
improved security draws investors including billionaires  Carlos
Slim  and  Eike Batista .  Colombia expects about $10 billion in international
spending in crude, mining and energy projects this year, similar
to last year’s foreign investments, Mines Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  