-- Heineken Profit Beats Estimates; Dutch Brewer Unveils New Cost-Saving Goal
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-15T08:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/heineken-profit-beats-estimates-dutch-brewer-unveils-new-cost-saving-goal.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, reported annual profit that beat estimates and
unveiled a new cost-saving goal to combat higher ingredients
expenses, sending the shares up the most in a year.  Earnings before interest and tax in 2011 rose 2.8 percent
to 2.7 billion euros ($3.44 billion), excluding some one-time
items, the Amsterdam-based maker of Amstel  said today . The
median estimate of eight  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for profit on that basis of 2.65 billion euros.  Heineken plans to save 500 million euros by 2014 with the
successor to its Total Cost Management program, which it said
achieved savings of 614 million euros over three years. The
brewer forecast that the cost of making beer will rise further
this year and said the outlook for  Europe  is “not superb.” The
region accounts for almost half of  earnings , analysts estimate.  The results “are a good starting point for 2012,” said
 Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The
outcome for 2011 is better than expected on several lines.”  Heineken  rose  as much as 5.7 percent to 38.64 euros in
Amsterdam trading, the steepest gain since Feb. 16, 2011. The
stock traded up 4 percent at 38.02 euros as of 9:31 a.m.  Heineken forecast that input costs per hectoliter will rise
about 6 percent this year. The price of malting barley, a key
beer ingredient, has “gone up substantially,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean Francois Van Boxmeer said today. The brewer
benefited from forward purchases of the commodity in 2011, which
are now unwinding, the CEO said on a conference call.  Fewer Employees  The new cost-saving program will focus on more efficient
global purchasing of commodities and services, according to
Heineken, whose previous plans involved reducing capacity. The
beermaker has closed 47 breweries and malting plants globally
over the last 10 years, according to UBS AG. Heineken said it
expects  employee numbers  to reduce this year.  Investors should be “relieved” by the scope of the
planned cost reductions, Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at  Banco
Santander  in  London , wrote in a note.  Stripping out acquisitions, disposals and currency moves,
Heineken’s Ebit last year rose 1.4 percent, compared with the
median analyst estimate for 0.4 percent growth.  So-called organic revenue rose 3.6 percent, exceeding the
median estimate for a 2.8 percent increase. Total revenue
increased 6.1 percent to 17 billion euros, Heineken said.  Profit growth was aided by increased prices in Europe as
well as savings, the company said.  Emerging Markets  Heineken is among beermakers that are pushing into  emerging
markets  to keep sales growing. The Dutch brewer bought  Mexico ’s
Fomento Economic Mexicano SAB’s beer unit in April 2010 to
expand into Latin America.  “Revenue development will continue to be supported by an
ongoing shift towards higher growth economies in  Africa ,  Latin
America  and  Asia ” in 2012, the company said in the statement.  Organic adjusted net income rose 8.8 percent to 1.58
billion euros, more than the company’s forecast that profit on
the same basis would be “broadly in line” with fiscal 2010.
Heineken reduced its outlook in August as low  consumer
confidence  in Europe and wet weather in July and August reduced
the amount of beer it sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  