-- Eircom Investors Face Losses Irish Lenders Escaped: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-15T10:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/eircom-investors-face-losses-irish-lenders-escaped-euro-credit.html
As Ireland seeks to convince
investors it will repay its debts, the country’s largest phone
company may be heading for what would be the nation’s biggest
creditor protection filing.  Dublin-based Eircom Group Ltd has hired Morgan Stanley to
find its seventh owner in 13 years. Yet, the most likely outcome
is that the debt-laden company will seek  protection  from
creditors as early as next month, according to three people with
knowledge of the restructuring discussions who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  “Eircom’s financial position has been eroded through a
number of ownership changes over the past decade or so,” said
Ivan Palacios, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. “Almost
every change in ownership came with a bit more leverage, which
ultimately made the company’s capital structure unsustainable.”  Creditor protection will give the company space to trade
while it reorganizes the 3.75 billion euros ($4.9 billion) of
debt it has accumulated since the government sold shares to the
public in 1999. Eircom’s first-lien loans, the most senior class
of debt, are trading at between 55 and 58 percent of face value,
while its second-lien debt is changing hands for between 3.5 and
4.5 percent, according to distressed-debt traders.  ‘Premature’  “It’s premature to be talking about a route to debt
remediation at this time,” Paul Bradley, an Eircom spokesman,
said by telephone yesterday. “The next stage is for the sales
process to run its course.”  Eircom’s customers have cut spending or ditched their
contracts as unemployment tripled with the economic collapse
that led Ireland to seek a bailout in 2010.  “Eircom’s operating environment is very difficult,” said
Palacios. “People are looking at their own budgets and others
are leaving the country, lowering the subscriber base and
leading to increased competition for customers.”  While Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating to junk in July,
the company downgraded Eircom’s probability of default rating to
Ca in December, implying it’s certain that the company will
renege on obligations, according to Palacios.  By contrast, Ireland’s government has insisted it won’t
seek to impose losses on sovereign bondholders even as Greek
investors face discounts of more than 70 percent. Ireland’s
October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, yield 6.84
percent, down from a euro-era high of 13.8 percent on July 18.  Examinership  Should the company draw a bidder, Eircom may still file for
examinership, an Irish variant of a U.S. Chapter 11 creditor
protection petition, due to the scale of the debt, the people
familiar said. Alternatively, Eircom may file for protection
from creditors through a pre-packaged administration in a U.K.
court, a pre-arranged plan between a company and certain
creditors to reorganize debt, one of the people said.  Either such filing allows day-to-day trading to continue
while the debt is reorganized, according to Barry Lyons, partner
in Dublin-based  Lyons Kenny Solicitors .  “Examinership is a very effective way of restructuring a
balance sheet, dealing with the various strands of creditors in
a way that’s overseen by a judge, and allowing everybody get on
with things afterwards,” said Lyons, who has worked on about
100 examinerships over the past 12 years. “It also avoids years
of litigation by different creditor classes.”  Thirteen years ago, with Ireland on the cusp of a boom, the
government sold shares in Eircom.  Two years later, Irish billionaire Anthony O’Reilly led a 3
billion-euro buyout, before selling shares to investors again in
2004. Babcock & Brown Ltd., an Australian investment bank,
acquired the company in 2006, before Singapore Technologies
Telemedia Pte. took it over in 2010.  Covenant Waiver  The company secured a financial covenants waiver from its
senior lenders in September, after breaching a condition
covering the size of its debt compared to earnings. This has
been lengthened twice, with the latest extension until March 31.  Irish unemployment tripled to an average 14.2 percent last
year from 4.5 percent in 2007, as the economy shrunk about 15
percent after a real-estate bubble burst. Irish households are
now the second-most  indebted  in the industrialized world, at
more than 200 percent of disposable income, according to
research by Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers .  Eircom’s income has been falling. In June, the company told
lenders that earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, known as EBITDA, will drop about 20 percent to as
low as 550 million euros in coming years from their 2009 peak,
people familiar said. The senior lenders are due to get an
update in coming weeks, Eircom’s Bradley said.  Plan Rejected  In December, the company’s lenders rejected a debt
restructuring proposal by STT. They objected to a clause any
additional equity STT injected into Eircom convert into debt
outranking other creditors should Ireland drop the euro, two
people familiar with the matter said on Dec. 16.  Now, Eircom’s board is discussing proposals from the first-
lien lenders. Under the lenders’ plan, they would write off
about 8 percent of their 2.36 billion euros of loans and take
full control of the company, two people familiar with the
proposal said on Nov. 30. Under the proposals, junior lenders
will lose almost all of what they are owed.  At the behest of the senior lenders, Eircom suspended
coupon payments on 350 million euros of floating rate notes,
including a payment scheduled for today.  Morgan Stanley  Eircom’s board has hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to advise on a
final attempt to find a buyer for the company. The company said
Jan. 27 it has set mid-March deadline for expressions of
interest from interested parties. Some potential buyers have
already passed, with Irish billionaire Denis O’Brien saying in
November he wouldn’t proceed with a bid.  The ultimate outcome may be that the first lien lenders may
take control. In the event of a default, losses on the first-
lien loans may be around 23 percent, Moody’s said. Junior
lenders may lose more than 70 percent of their investment, the
ratings company said.  “The market is clearly telling us that we’re going to see
a pretty severe haircut for the bonds,” said Bo Andersen, bonds
analyst at Jyske Bank A/S in Silkeborg,  Denmark . “Eircom’s
problems lie not only in the negative environment in Ireland,
but the fact that there has been underinvestment. That’s what’s
killing this company, along with the economic slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  