-- Eksportfinans Handling Betrays Political Mess That Led to Junk
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-16T11:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/eksportfinans-handling-betrays-political-mess-that-led-to-junk.html
The failure of Norway’s government
to persuade  Standard & Poor’s  to keep state-backed  Eksportfinans (6120B) 
ASA investment grade is drawing criticism from investors and
analysts confused by signals sent before yesterday’s downgrade.  “It’s a politically rather messy process which has
resulted in a fragile funding situation,” said Paal Ringholm,
head of credit research at Swedbank First Securities in Oslo.
“Obviously, we are surprised over this conclusion, given the
statements” from the government, said Jonas Shum, a credit
analyst at SEB Merchant Banking in Oslo.  Trade Minister Trond Giske in a Dec. 6 interview described
Eksportfinans as a “strong, solid” company that enjoyed
government backing and said a spate of downgrades in November
was unjustified. Yet S&P said yesterday it felt compelled to cut
Eksportfinans to junk after the Norwegian government proved
unwilling to provide the kind of backing needed to keep the
lender investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
Eksportfinans to junk in November.  “They have stressed that they are an owner of the company
but not more than that,” said Per Tornqvist, an analyst at S&P,
in a phone interview. “They are not providing support in such a
form that it would drive the rating higher. Our view is that the
government no longer is supportive relative to Eksportfinans.”  Government Response  Norway ’s Finance Ministry is satisfied that the company has
“good liquidity and solvency,” adding that the lender’s owners
“expect to fulfill all its obligations,” according to an e-
mailed reply to questions sent by Tor Audun Gram, a ministry
spokesman.  The November downgrades shocked credit markets around the
globe and sent tremors through bond markets as far as Japan,
where investors hold more than 1 trillion yen ($12.7 billion) of
Eksportfinans debt, including its Samurai and Uridashi notes,
according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. The lender has about $35
billion in bonds outstanding.  S&P will no longer treat Eksportfinans as a government
related entity and lowered the lender to BB+, the highest non-
investment grade, with a negative outlook. The cut follows a
five-step downgrade to BBB+ on Nov. 25.  ‘Take Action’  The  Finance Ministry  in Oslo said the government and the
central bank remain vigilant in monitoring financial markets for
stresses after yesterday’s downgrade, saying the authorities are
ready “to take action” to prevent any “serious consequences
for the Norwegian financial markets and the real economy”
should such a situation arise, according to an e-mail.  The yield on Eksportfinans’ 4.75 percent 1 billion-euro
note maturing June 2013 eased to 5.44 percent today, from 5.58
percent yesterday, according to generic Bloomberg prices. The
yield, which traded below 2 percent before Moody’s November
downgrade, soared to almost 10 percent on Dec. 1.  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the Norwegian
government.  DNB ASA (DNB) , the country’s biggest bank, holds 40
percent, while 23 percent is held by Nordea Bank AB, the largest
Nordic lender. Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  Norway has defended its move to wind down Eksportfinans as
necessary to safeguard financing for the country’s exporters,
arguing the lender still has the backing to honor its
obligations. The government will provide direct credit to
exporters after winding down Eksportfinans.  ‘Never Stronger’  “Giske said that the support has never been stronger,”
Arne Eidshagen, a  fund manager  at Alfred Berg Kapitalforvaltning
in Oslo, which manages $4.9 billion and holds $13.9 million in
Eksportfinans bonds, said in an interview. “There must have
been something that hasn’t gone right in the communication.”  “I’m not sure who’s to blame. All in all it turned into a
big mess,” he said, referring to events since November. As a
high-yield investor, Eidshagen said he’s benefiting from the
turmoil. “Eksportfinans has become my biggest exposure. Except
for investors like me, everyone else is a loser in this
situation.”  The government said Nov. 18 it decided to dismantle
Eksportfinans, created in 1962 to aid exporters, after rejecting
the lender’s pleas to sidestep European capital rules limiting
loans to single industries. Under the new regulations, the
company would have had to increase capital levels fivefold,
according to S&P, which rated Eksportfinans AAA until June 2001
and AA until three months ago.  Poorly Handled  “The whole Eksportfinans affair was poorly handled by the
government initially, and that was very damaging to Norway’s
reputation,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-based fund manager at
Storebrand Asset Management, which oversees $72 billion. “Quite
frankly, given how it was handled last time,” yesterday’s
downgrade to junk “is not a surprise,” he said.  Japan ’s Securities Dealers Association wrote to Norway’s
government last month urging it to keep talking to the rating
companies, according to a copy of the letter obtained by
Bloomberg.  “If big shareholders including the government make it
clear that they support Eksportfinans properly or complement its
credit, Eksportfinans can be upgraded to an investment level,”
Atsushi Sakiyama, a spokesman for JSDA, said by phone on Feb. 2.  To restore Eksportfinans to investment grade, the
government would need to show it can remove risk from the
lender’s balance sheet or put in place a guarantee scheme,
“which means you transfer the risks of Eksportfinans to whoever
is the guarantor,” Tornqvist said. “Obviously such a guarantor
would have to be investment grade.”  Norway’s government didn’t indicate it was planning such a
move in its talks with S&P, Tornqvist said.  According to Jani Kurppa, a bond investor in Helsinki at EQ
Asset Management Ltd., which manages $4.7 billion in assets,
there is “certainly frustration” over the handling of
Eksportfinans, “but no fear of default.”  “It’s not good news that S&P thinks Eksportfinans has lost
government support,” he said in an interview. “S&P gave the
company some time to work, but no solution was found, I guess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  