-- Telenor Ends VimpelCom Conflict, Seeks Compensation From Partner in India
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/telenor-ends-vimpelcom-conflict-seeks-compensation-from-partner-in-india.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  ended a conflict in its
foreign holdings by boosting its stake in Russian phone company
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , and may have started another by saying it will
seek compensation for damages from its partner in India.  The Nordic region’s largest phone company bought a block of
234 million preferred VimpelCom shares from Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris ’s investment company Weather II for $374.4
million and said yesterday it withdrew all claims in arbitration
against  Russia ’s  Alfa Group  and VimpelCom. Telenor’s share rose
as much as 4.3 percent in Oslo. VimpelCom shares rose as much as
6.5 percent in  New York , the most since May 2010.  Telenor said in January 2011 that it was unfairly denied
its preemptive right to buy more shares to maintain the size of
its stake when VimpelCom merged with Sawiris’s Wind Telecom SpA
through a share issue to Wind. The Norwegian company opposed the
merger plan, but agreed to support VimpelCom after shareholders
voted to acquire the Wind assets.  “It’s undoubtedly a near-term positive, mainly because it
means they’re only going to be paying $374 million to maintain
their voting interest instead of $2.8 billion which they might
have had to spend to exercise their preemptive rights in the
arbitration case,” said Barry Zeitoune, a London-based analyst
with Berenberg Bank.  The preferred shares don’t come with any economic rights
and will disappear if the owner doesn’t pay the prevailing
VimpelCom share price before April 2016, Zeitoune said. “What
they’re effectively doing is postponing the payment rather than
eliminating it altogether,” he said.  Happy Solution  Telenor said its voting share in VimpelCom will be 36.36
percent, subject to adjustment arising from “certain put and
call arrangements.” The Norwegian operator will also work to
expand the VimpelCom board to eleven members from nine directors
currently.  “This transaction takes Telenor to approximately the same
voting position as a successful outcome of the arbitration
process would have achieved, and is therefore a commercial
solution we are happy with,” Telenor Chief Executive Officer
Jon Fredrik Baksaas said. The end to the arbitration “will
prevent further dilution of the VimpelCom shareholders, and it
will enable a more normal corporate governance situation,” he
said.  Telenor raked in 4.56 billion kroner ($788 million) in
profit from associated companies, mainly VimpelCom, last year.
The company hasn’t decided yet whether to convert their
preferred shares into ordinary stock,  Dag Melgaard , a Telenor
spokesman, said by phone from Oslo.  “At the moment, voting rights in VimpelCom are our
priority and not the dividends,” he said. Telenor may decide
“at any time” whether to buy another 71 million of preferred
shares in which would boost its voting stake to 39.8 percent,
Melgaard said.  Yearlong Conflict  While the VimpelCom agreement settled a yearlong conflict
in one of its foreign ventures, Telenor set the stage for
another struggle yesterday, saying it would seek compensation
from Indian partner Unitech Ltd. for the breach of warranties
related to the cancellation of joint venture Uninor’s mobile
licenses by India’s  Supreme Court .  “The legality and validity of the licenses was a
fundamental term of the share subscription agreement between
Telenor Group and Unitech Limited,” Telenor Group General
Counsel Paal Wien Espen said in a statement.  Telenor entered  India  by buying 67.25 percent of Unitech
Wireless, an arm of Unitech, which still owns the remainder.
Their Uninor wireless brand opened to customers in December
2009, using permits secured by Unitech. The Indian government
this month canceled 122 wireless licenses, including 22 to
Uninor, following a court investigation into their award.
Telenor wrote down $721 million on the venture.  Seeking New Partner  Telenor will seek a new partner to develop mobile services
in India, it said. The Norwegian company has invested 8.9
billion kroner for its stake in Uninor, and is also fully
guaranteeing 8.1 billion kroner of short-term debt.  Unitech Ltd., India’s third-largest developer by value,
hasn’t breached the warranties of its agreement with Telenor,
Nirjhar Goel, Unitech’s nominee on Uninor’s board said in an e-
mail.  “At best, Telenor can claim damages from the government
under the investment bilateral treaty,” he said.  Telenor shares rose 3.2 percent to 100.8 kroner at the 5:30
p.m. close in Oslo, valuing the company at 162 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  