-- Elpida’s Failure May Push Chip Industry Closer to Oligopoly
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-16T06:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/elpida-s-failure-may-push-dram-semiconductor-industry-closer-to-oligopoly.html
Japan’s government may push the DRAM
chip industry closer to an oligopoly by not bailing out  Elpida
Memory Inc. (6665) , a market researcher said after the company warned
its survival was in doubt as a debt repayment deadline nears.  Shares and bonds of Japan’s biggest maker of dynamic random
access memory  plunged  yesterday, a day after the Tokyo-based
company said it hasn’t obtained financing for 92 billion yen
($1.2 billion) in bonds and loans due by April. Competitors
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the top
two DRAM makers, had risen in  Seoul  on speculation they may
benefit if Elpida doesn’t survive.  “If the Japanese government does not step in to offer
assistance and Elpida backs out from the  DRAM industry  due to
financial difficulties, the negative impact on the PC and DRAM
markets will be severe,” Taipei-based DRAMeXchange said in a
statement yesterday. “The DRAM market will be one step closer
to an oligopolistic state.”  Japan government wouldn’t want to “blemish” its name by
not supporting the supplier of chips to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  because that
would mean lenders won’t get their money back and  6,000 workers 
may lose their jobs, an analyst said. The U.S. personal-computer
market declined for the first time in a decade last year as
consumers bought more smartphones and tablets, which use 75
percent fewer of the chips in a typical laptop.  Oligopoly is a system in which a small number of companies
control the total market supply of a specific product. In an
oligopoly, price competition is essentially nonexistent.  ‘Greece Situation’  “Elpida’s situation is similar to that of  Greece ,” said
Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. who has a “neutral plus” rating on the company.
“The government will offer to save Elpida again by keeping the
support. No one is going to benefit from a hard landing.”  The company’s  shares  fell 0.3 percent to 319 yen at the
close of trading in  Tokyo . Elpida lost  62 percent  of its market
value last year, extending a 37 percent slump in 2010.  Samsung, Asia’s largest electronics company, was unchanged
at 1.13 million won as of 3:45 p.m. in Seoul trading. Hynix fell
1 percent to 28,700 won.  DRAM is the most common chip in computers. Samsung
controlled 45 percent of the market by value in the third
quarter, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc.’s
iSuppli. Hynix held a 22 percent share and Elpida 12 percent.  Bonds Fall  The Japanese chipmaker’s 0.7 percent August 2016
convertible bonds plunged to 66 yen per 100 face value, to yield
20.8 percent as of 2:50 p.m. in Tokyo today, according to prices
from the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Its 0.5 percent October 2015 convertible notes slumped to
72.1 per 100 face value, at 24.8 percent, TSE prices show.  Elpida hasn’t been able to reach a deal with  Japan ’s trade
ministry, the  Development Bank of Japan  and its main lenders,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement Feb. 14. Its ability
to repay bonds and loans by April is made more difficult by
plunging  chip prices .  The chipmaker has the equivalent of $4.16 billion of bonds
and loans outstanding, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Japan Credit Rating Agency, the only risk assessor to grade
Elpida, cut its rating on the chipmaker to BBB-, the lowest
investment level, from BBB.  Getting Finance  The company’s comments reversed a Feb. 2 announcement that
it expected to secure financing by March 31.  Spokespeople for  Development Bank  of Japan, Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo
Trust & Banking Co. -- among 15 lenders to Elpida as of June 28
last year, according to company regulatory filings -- declined
to comment.  Trade ministry officials also declined to comment.  Spokespeople at Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., which
was also among the chipmaker’s lenders as of June 28, weren’t
immediately available to comment.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Fujitsu Ltd. abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips, which
are used in tablet computers and smartphones.  Japan’s government shouldn’t bail out Elpida like it did
Tokyo Electric Power Co. and  Japan Airlines Corp. (9201) , said Takashi Aoki, a senior  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  ‘National Policy’  “I wonder if we really need to have the DRAM makers as
part of our national policy,” he said. “It’s hard to see
growth in Elpida and there are many developed countries that
don’t have DRAM makers.”  The company’s  cash and savings  fell to about 50 billion yen
to 60 billion yen in cash and savings as of Feb. 2, from 97.4
billion yen in December, Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto
said. Elpida redeemed 30 billion yen in bonds on Jan. 24.  Elpida may be able to collect about 50 billion yen through
support from customers, he said Feb. 2. The company faces a
deadline to redeem 15 billion yen in bonds on March 22 and repay
about 77 billion yen in loans from lenders on April 2, according
to its filings.  ‘Rice Ball’  The company’s slump indicates the difficulty Japanese
companies have in competing with Samsung, which had 7.34
trillion won ($6.5 billion) in operating profit from selling
chips last year. Chip prices had become as cheap as a “rice
ball,” Sakamoto said last year.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM, which
plunged to a record low of 71 cents in November, fell 61 percent
to 88 cents in the past year amid slowing personal-computer
sales, according to Taiwan-based Dramexchange,  Asia ’s biggest
spot market for the chips.  Elpida, Hynix and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  “They are sounding out their financial issues for the
customers,” said Amir Anvarzadeh, a Singapore-based manager for
Asian equity sales at BGC Partners. “They’re basically saying:
We’re in trouble, we need upfront payments from our customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  