-- Elpida Poised to Drop on Survival ‘Uncertainty’: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-15T00:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/elpida-poised-to-plummet-in-tokyo-on-survival-uncertainty-tokyo-mover.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
chipmaker facing an April deadline to repay debts, was poised to
plunge in Tokyo trading after saying it still doesn’t have the
necessary financing to stay in business.  Japan ’s largest maker of dynamic random access memory chips
was offered at 294 yen as of 9:32 a.m., 21 percent below
yesterday’s closing price on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
shares were untraded because orders to sell outnumbered buyers.  Elpida said yesterday there is “uncertainty” about its
future as it hasn’t reached a deal with the trade ministry, the
 Development Bank of Japan  and its main lenders, reversing a Feb.
2 statement that it expects to secure financing. The Tokyo-based
company’s ability to repay 92 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in
bonds and loans is made more difficult by plunging  chip prices 
and five straight quarters of  losses .  “The chip industry is in trouble,” said Edwin Merner,
president of Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment Research, which
manages $300 million. “Most commodity type chip companies are
losing money and the business continues to be capital
intensive.”  The  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier needs government backing to stay in
business as  South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  profitably
diversified while chip prices collapsed, analysts said.  “Elpida has not made as much progress as initially
envisioned in discussions with the relevant parties,” the
company said yesterday. “Therefore, material uncertainty about
its assumed going concern is found.”  Samsung Rising  Elpida’s slump contrasts with Samsung, which had 7.34
trillion won ($6.6 billion) in operating profit from selling
chips last year.  Samsung boosted its profits by producing specialty chips
for products with rising demand, including smartphones, tablet
computers and servers.  Elpida is also discussing advance payments and capital
investments with  customers , it said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  