-- Emerging Stocks Climb Most in a Week on China’s Europe Pledge
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-02-15T23:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/emerging-stocks-advance-to-one-week-high-as-china-pledges-to-help-europe.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in a week after  China  said it will get more involved in
resolving Europe’s debt crisis, boosting demand for riskier
assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1.1 percent to
1,058.47 at the close in  New York , the most since Feb. 8.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose to a six-month high as OAO OGK-3
surged on speculation it will merge its power assets in a share
swap.  India ’s BSE Sensitive Index, or Sensex, also advanced to
the highest level since August, led by  Tata Motors (TTMT)  Ltd., while
 Brazil ’s Bovespa added 0.5 percent in  Sao Paulo  as homebuilders
jumped.  People’s Bank of China  Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the
nation will invest in Europe’s bailout funds and keep holdings
of euro-denominated assets, bolstering the debt-stricken region
that is China’s biggest trading partner. China is ready to get
“more deeply involved” in helping  Europe , Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said on Feb. 14.  Zhou’s statement “definitely gave markets a boost,”  Nick Chamie , head of  emerging markets  at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, said by phone today. “It just helps to remind people
that China will continue to buy European  government bonds .”  The measure pared gains of as much as 1.5 percent as a
decision slated for tonight on $130 billion euros ($171 billion)
of aid for  Greece  was postponed until at least Feb. 20.
Separately, minutes from the U.S. Federal Reserve showed a few
policy makers said the central bank may have to consider
purchasing more securities soon, while others said the economic
outlook would have to worsen.  Beating Developed Nations  The MSCI emerging-markets gauge has advanced 16 percent
this year, compared with a 7.8 percent gain for the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed nations. Developing-nation stocks trade for
10.6 times analysts’ earnings estimates, compared with a
multiple of 12.7 for developed-market shares.  Chinese stocks listed on  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 2.4 percent, the most in two weeks.
Europe accounts for 18 percent of China’s overseas shipments,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  The so-called BRIC countries of Brazil, India, Russia and
China are all well disposed toward helping Europe resolve its
debt crisis, Zhou said in Beijing today. China is ready to be
more involved in resolving the issue through the European
Financial Stability Facility and European Stability Mechanism,
he said in a speech.  The  Micex (MICEX)  advanced 1.1 percent in Moscow to 1,579.38, the
highest level since Aug. 5.  OGK (OGKC)  jumped 4.6 percent. Inter RAO is
considering merging its Russian power assets, including OGK-3,
into a single company this year, an Inter RAO spokesman, who
declined to be identified in line with company policy, said by
phone.  Slowing Inflation  Brazilian homebuilders advanced as slowing inflation fueled
speculation that further interest-rate cuts will help companies
that depend on credit growth.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes SA  gained 5.1 percent to 18.09
reais, the highest level in a year.  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  jumped 2 percent, extending its climb from a
Dec. 20 low to 19.95 percent, just short of the 20 percent
threshold that signals a  bull market .  Mumbai-based Tata Motors, owner of the Jaguar and Land
Rover brands, jumped 7.4 percent to an all-time high after
posting record third-quarter profit on rising sales at its
luxury car unit in China.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 384 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Vietnam’s  Sacombank Securities JSC (SBS)  and Ceylon  Tobacco Co.
Plc (CTC)  of  Sri Lanka  will be added to the MSCI Frontier Markets
Index at the close on Feb. 29, according to a statement posted
on MSCI Inc.’s website. India’s  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  will be
removed from the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. No stocks were
added to the index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  