-- Emirates NBD Quarterly Profit Declines 62% on Provisions, Misses Estimates
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-02-15T13:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/emirates-nbd-quarterly-profit-declines-62-on-provisions-misses-estimates.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  reported a 62
percent decline in fourth-quarter profit as the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets boosted bad loan provisions and
said it sees lending growing by 4 percent this year.  Net income dropped to 152 million dirhams ($41 million)
from 403 million dirhams a year earlier, the Dubai government-
controlled bank said in a statement to Nasdaq Dubai today. The
 median estimate  of four analysts was for a profit of 172 million
dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The results are strongly ahead of our expectations, but
the main positives were lower provisioning and lower losses from
associates,” said  Raj Madha , an analyst at Dubai-based Rasmala
Investment Bank Ltd., which raised its recommendation on the
stock to “buy” yesterday. “There were slightly higher costs
than we expected, and that meant operating profits were a little
bit lower than we had forecast.”  Emirates NBD is one of the biggest lenders to units of
Dubai Holding LLC, which owns an  investment company  that’s in
talks with banks to reschedule at least $10 billion of
liabilities. The bank paid 10 dirhams ($2.72) to buy Dubai Bank
PJSC last year and received a deposit from the federal
government and a state guarantee as part of the transaction.  Provisions rose to 1.06 billion dirhams from 201 million
dirhams a year earlier, while the takeover of Dubai Bank in
October didn’t impact the group’s “net profit or non-performing
loans ratio on the date of the takeover,” the lender said.  Loan Growth  The board recommended a  dividend  of 20 fils a share for
last year, it said. The  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 3 dirhams in
Dubai today, taking this year’s gain to 2 percent. That compares
with a 13 percent rise in the benchmark  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Emirates NBD expects lending to increase in the “range of
4 percent” this year, “with signs of modest pickup in new”
lending in the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Rick
Pudner  said in a conference call with reporters today.  U.A.E. banks had to face an increase in loan defaults after
the global credit crisis hurt the country’s real-estate industry
and slowed trade.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the second-
biggest lender in the Persian Gulf nation, posted a 1 percent
drop in fourth-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates, as
expenses rose and it set aside more money to cover bad loans.  Non-performing loans on the books of Dubai’s banks will
peak at 15 percent to 16 percent in 2013, up from 4.8 percent in
2009 and 11.3 percent in 2010, investment bank Exotix Ltd. said
in December. Moody’s Investors Service expects provisions to
peak at 13 percent to 16 percent this year.  Possible Downgrade  Emirates NBD’s ratio of non-performing loans to gross loans
rose to 13.8 percent in the quarter from 12.9 percent at the end
of the previous one, according to the statement. The non-
performing-loan ratio will rise to between 14 percent and 15
percent this year and to between 15 percent and 16 percent in
2013, it said.  Fitch Ratings  placed Emirates NBD’s credit rating on watch
in October for a possible downgrade on concern that an increase
in bad loans due to a weak  property market  and a slowing global
economy will affect the bank’s outlook. Fitch rates the company
A+, the fifth-highest investment grade, while Moody’s Investors
Service rates the bank A3, the fourth-lowest.  Emirates NBD’s net interest income from lending rose 19
percent to 1.93 billion dirhams, according to the statement.
Lending in 2011 grew 4 percent to 203.1 billion dirhams, while
deposits dropped 1 percent to 284.6 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  