-- Energy Transfer Profit Falls on Texas Pipelines and Propane
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/energy-transfer-profit-falls-as-warm-weather-hurts-propane-unit.html
Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP) , whose
parent is buying  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  for $5.4 billion, said
fourth-quarter profit dropped 28 percent because of lower
earnings at its propane unit and natural-gas pipelines in Texas.  Net income fell to $91.87 million, or 41 cents per share,
from $126.8 million, or 61 cents, in the fourth quarter of 2010,
the company said in a statement yesterday. The earnings were 20
cents lower than the average of four analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy Transfer said a warm winter caused earnings before
interest, taxes, deductions and amortization at its retail
propane business to fall to $71.3 million from $94.4 million.  Energy Transfer, based in  Dallas , sold its retail propane
business in January to  AmeriGas Partners LP (APU)  for $2.78 billion in
cash and partnership units.  EBITDA also fell at Energy Transfer’s intrastate pipeline
business, which transports gas in Texas, while rising at its
interstate and midstream units.  Energy Transfer’s parent,  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) , is
buying Southern Union for $44.25 in cash and partnership units.
Chief Executive Officer Kelcy Warren has said the purchase will
shift the company’s focus to the interstate business. The deal
is scheduled to close by March 31.  The Texas intrastate results were slightly worse than
projected, underscoring the need for the Southern Union
transaction, John Cusick, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities
Inc. in New York, said in an interview.  “The interstate looks to be the better part of the
business now and hopefully going forward,” said Cusick. He
rates Energy Transfer a “hold” and owns none of its
partnership units.  The earnings were released after the close of trading.
Energy Transfer Partners rose 1.6 percent to $48.27 at the close
yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  