-- Eni Profit Drops 9.5% on Libya Outages, Lower Gas Demand
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-15T17:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/eni-fourth-quarter-profit-decline-as-libya-closures-cut-its-production.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil
producer, reported a 9.5 percent decline in fourth-quarter
profit as field closures in  Libya  cut output and natural-gas
demand dropped.  Adjusted net income dropped to 1.54 billion euros ($2
billion) from 1.7 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based
company said today in a statement. The profit was in line with
analyst estimates of 1.52 billion euros.  The Libyan conflict that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  shut down
most oil and gas fields in the North African country last year,
where the company is the largest producer. Earnings were also
curbed by a loss from refining crude into fuels and lower gas
sales on milder weather in  Europe .  “We have rapidly restarted our Libyan operations,” Chief
Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in the statement. “The
difficult macro-economic situation in Italy and Europe has
impacted our results.”  Output fell 14 percent to 1.68 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter. Full-year output was down 13
percent to 1.58 million barrels a day. Eni resumed operations in
Libya in September, where it’s now pumping about 80 percent of
the 280,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day it produced before
the unrest.  ‘Giant Discovery’  Separately, the company announced “a new giant natural-gas
discovery” at the Mamba North 1 prospect, with 7.5 trillion
cubic feet of gas resources off  Mozambique  in  East Africa . The
company in October made the Mamba South gas discovery, which
holds about 20 trillion cubic feet of gas, making it “by far
the most important operated finding ever made by Eni,” it said
today.  Eni shares were little changed today, closing at 17.31
euros in Milan.  Eni gas sales fell 11 percent to 25.5 billion cubic meters
as gas and power operating profit dropped 51 percent to 385
million euros in the fourth quarter. Refining margins, or profit
from processing crude oil into fuels, “remained at unprofitable
levels,” generating a loss of 271 million euros in the period.  The refining and marketing losses “were deeper than
expected,” Jean-Charles Lacoste, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA, wrote in an e-mailed report. “Management still
sees a growth trajectory in production, boosted by the
continuing ramp-up in  Italy  and  Iraq  and new field startups.”  Spending, Dividend  The company plans to invest about the same in 2012 as the
13.4 billion euros it spent in projects last year.  The board plans to increase the dividend for 2011 to 1.04
euro per share, up from 1 euro in 2010.  “The 2012 outlook to be a challenging one due to
continuing signs of an economic slowdown, particularly in the
Eurozone,” the company forecast, basing its budget on a $90 a
barrel of Brent oil assumption. “Recovery perspectives look
poor in the gas sector. Refining margins are anticipated to
remain at unprofitable levels.”  In January, the Italian government agreed to force Eni to
dispose of its 50 percent holding in Snam, which owns the
nation’s natural-gas distribution network.  Eni has been in talks with  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, the
largest supplier of gas to Europe, to lower prices for the fuel.
European importers buy about two-thirds of their gas under long-
term contracts linked to oil, which is more expensive than gas
on the energy equivalent.  “There was no news on the Snam disposal, but we expect Eni
has kept some of its powder dry for its strategy update” on 15
March, Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote in an e-mailed report. The company may announce this year
production guidance and discus the “progress on renegotiations
with Gazprom” on an analyst call this afternoon.  Eni will hold a  Webcast  at 3 p.m. central European time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  