-- Eni Reports Second ‘Giant’ Natural-Gas Find Off Mozambique
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-02-15T09:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/eni-reports-second-giant-natural-gas-find-off-mozambique-s-coast.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s largest oil
company, reported a second “giant” natural-gas discovery off
Mozambique, near the Mamba South find that it made last year.  The new discovery adds 212.5 billion cubic meters of gas in
place, bringing total resources in the Mamba complex to 850
billion cubic meters (30 trillion cubic feet), Eni said today in
a statement. That’s more than three times the U.K.’s remaining
gas reserves.  The find about 45 kilometers (28 miles) from the coast of
Cape Delgado reinforces East Africa’s status as home to some of
the biggest natural-gas strikes in a decade, attracting drillers
from Royal Dutch Shell Plc to Norway’s Statoil ASA as
exploration spreads in the region to neighboring Tanzania.  Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in December that
Eni’s  Mozambique  “super-giant” find is big enough to justify a
liquefied natural gas plant to export fuel by tanker to  Asia .
The Rome-based company said today that it plans to drill at
least five further wells this year to evaluate the potential of
the Mamba complex.  “The key take-out is very encouraging flow rates with
estimated gas production per well expected to reach” more than
4 million cubic meters a day, or about 23,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mailed report. With an estimated
70 percent recovery of reserves from the field, the discovery
potentially can add 40 cents a share to Eni’s value.  Eni, Galp  Eni holds 70 percent of Mozambique’s offshore Area 4 where
the Mamba discoveries were made.  Portugal ’s Galp Energia SGPS,
 Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos de
Mocambique have 10 percent each.  Eni  gained  as much as 0.9 percent to 17.54 euros in Milan
and traded little changed at 17.35 euros at 10:40 a.m. local
time. Eni today reported a 9.5 percent decline in fourth-quarter
profit as field closures in  Libya  cut output. Galp shares rose
as much as 2.5 percent in Portugal.  Mamba North discovery that was announced today is 23
kilometers north of Mamba South in water depths of 1,690 meters
(5,545 feet). The well encountered 186 meters of gas-bearing
rock, Eni said.  In the neighboring Area 1, a group led by The Woodlands,
Texas-based Anadarko Petroleum Corp. said it has discovered
fields that may yield as much as 30 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas.  Statoil,  Norway ’s largest oil company, plans to drill a
well this year at an exploration block in Tanzania where it’s a
partner with Exxon Mobil, according to CEO Helge Lund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  