-- Mountain Carving Marks Kim’s Birth as North Korea Burnishes Family Legacy
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-02-16T10:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/epic-poem-marks-kim-s-birth-in-n-korea.html
North Korea  today commemorates the
birthday of late dictator  Kim Jong Il , capping off weeks of
celebration that included carving his name into the side of a
mountain, as it tries to burnish the legacy of the Kim dynasty.  The anniversary comes two months after Kim’s death and the
succession of his son Kim Jong Un as head of the impoverished
state. North Korea’s state-run media has released commentaries
describing weeping masses and an epic poem that thanks the late
leader for “entrusting the people in the wide bosom of Kim Jong
Un,” who “steadfastly carries on the bloodline.”  The celebrations are part of an effort to secure the
younger Kim’s hereditary grip on a shrinking economy that must
contend with  South Korea ’s improving ties with China, the
North’s ally. The new leader led the mourning at his father’s
funeral and has made several publicized inspections of military
units as the regime bolsters his image ahead of the April
centennial of his grandfather, state founder Kim Il Sung.  “This anniversary is more about heralding the start of Kim
Jong Un’s rule than commemorating Kim Jong Il,” said An Chan
Il, head of the World Institute for North Korea Studies in Seoul
and a former North Korean army officer who defected and worked
for South Korea’s  National Intelligence Service . “By Kim Il
Sung’s birth anniversary on April 15, it will be clear in North
Korea that the curtain has fallen for the older two
generations.”  Statues Unveiled  Statues of  Kim Il Sung  and Kim Jong Il were unveiled on
Feb. 14 in the capital of Pyongyang, the official Korean Central
News Agency reported. A national cooking competition was held
the same day in Pyongyang to mark “the approach of the Day of
the Shining Star,” KCNA reported, using the term to describe
Kim Jong Il’s birthday.  Three days earlier, the words “Peerless Patriot General
Kim Jong Il, Feb. 16, 2012” were carved on the side of a
mountain, with each character of his name 10 meters (33 feet)
high, 5.5 meters wide and 1.4 meters deep, KCNA said. An
announcement yesterday said he had been posthumously awarded the
title of Generalissimo, like his father before him.  Citizens in Pyongyang were up early this morning to clean
the streets and enjoy the holiday, said Gunter Unterbeck, a
German national who has lived in the capital since 1996. While
artificial flowers in red, pink and yellow and banners with
slogans honoring the Kims adorn buildings, there have been no
announcements of a rally or military parade, he said.  ‘Internal Mourning’  “The people are mourning Kim Jong Il’s death but it’s more
of an internal mourning, without much noise expressed
externally,” Unterbeck said. “The guideline, according to the
newspaper, is to honor Kim Jong Il and Kim Jong Un.”  The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly issued a
decree authorizing the granting of amnesty to convicts on Feb. 1
to mark the birthdays of the two deceased leaders, KCNA reported
on Jan. 10, without specifying how many will be freed. There was
no news of convicts being freed on Feb. 1.  Kim Jong Il’s age is a matter of dispute. In the official
version of his birth, a double rainbow heralded his arrival in
1942 on sacred Mount Paektu at a secret guerrilla camp where Kim
Il Sung was leading the struggle against Japanese colonial rule
during World War II.  Soviet records instead indicate he was born in 1941 in the
eastern  Soviet Union  where his father was training at an army
base. The alteration in dates allowed for milestone birthdays to
be celebrated at the same time as Kim Il Sung, who was born in
1912.  Dependent on China  The newest leader, thought to be under 30 and largely
unknown until being named heir in 2010, is dependent on Chinese
aid to feed his 24 million people. He has given no sign he plans
to alter his father’s policies, even as the country struggles
under international sanctions imposed over its nuclear weapons
program.  The North’s economy contracted 0.5 percent to 30 trillion
won ($26.8 billion) in 2010, compared with South Korea’s 1,173
trillion won, according to the South’s central bank. North Korea
had a shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric tons of food last
year, which could affect a quarter of its population, according
to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.  South Korea is moving to boost ties with  China ,  Asia ’s
biggest economy. The central bank is considering buying several
hundred million dollars worth of Chinese equities and a greater
amount of the nation’s bonds to diversify its $306 billion in
foreign-exchange reserves. South Korea and China on Feb. 8 began
negotiations on a free trade agreement.  South Korean Balloons  South Korean activist groups today sent 10 balloons into
the North carrying leaflets, dollar bills and pamphlets on South
Korea’s economic development, said Park Sang Hak, of the
Fighters for Free North Korea. The balloons were launched from
Imjingak, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of Seoul.  The U.S. will hold talks with North Korea next week in
Beijing in the first such meeting since Kim Jong Il’s death. The
discussions are aimed at determining whether to resume formal
negotiations over the denuclearization of the North. The Obama
administration was in talks to provide food aid before Kim Jong
Il’s death on Dec. 17.  North Korea, which has twice detonated a nuclear device,
has more than 250 long-range artillery installations along the
world’s most fortified border in reach of  Seoul . North Korea and
South Korea remain technically at war after their 1950-1953
conflict ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  