-- Thermo Fisher Targeting Pay Down on Debt, Bolt-on Acquisitions, CEO Says
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-02-15T21:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/thermo-fisher-targeting-pay-down-on-debt-bolt-on-acquisitions-ceo-says.html
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , the
largest maker of laboratory instruments, will use cash this year
to pay down its $7 billion in  debt  and will continue to seek
bolt-on acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Marc Casper said.  While the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company still has an
appetite for deals, Casper said in an interview that he doesn’t
see a larger transaction happening “any time soon.”  Thermo Fisher  made five acquisitions in 2011, including its
$3.5 billion acquisition of Phadia AB and $2.1 billion purchase
of Dionex Corp.  “Our cash will remain relatively stable, but we’ll reduce
debt a little bit,” Casper said. “That’s the starting
assumption.”  Thermo Fisher has $900 million of commercial paper
outstanding, and a 2.15 percent $350 million senior note coming
due Dec. 28, 2012. The instrument-maker has a share repurchase
program pace of about $750 million a year, about half of its
 cash flow , Casper said.  Laboratory budgets are going to be increasing as new
construction is spurred by an increased focus on quality
assurance, he predicted. Thermo Fisher also is benefiting from
some of its specialty diagnostics  products , such as greater
sales of allergy tests, he said.  While the economy is struggling, Casper said research
funding and academic funding is relatively well protected in
 Europe . In the U.S., spending by research institutions in the
fourth quarter was better than the third quarter, he said.  “What we saw in second half will continue through the
course of 2012,” Casper said.  Thermo Fisher gained less than 1 percent to $55.86 at the
close in  New York . The company’s shares  declined  1.3 percent in
the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  