-- Tesla’s Musk Targets Second-Half Sales Boost With Model S Sedan
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-16T21:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/tesla-motors-fourth-quarter-loss-widens-to-81-5-million.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
battery-powered cars run by entrepreneur Elon Musk, projects
revenue will grow in the year’s second half as deliveries of the
new Model S sedan eclipse those of the outgoing Roadster.  The company said yesterday its fourth-quarter  net loss 
widened to $81.5 million. Revenue in 2012 may be as much as $600
million, almost triple that of last year, with 90 percent coming
in the second half, Tesla said.  “The bulk of 2012 revenue is Model S-related,” Musk, 40,
said in a conference call yesterday.  Palo Alto , California-based
Tesla plans to deliver as many as 5,000 of the cars this year.  The carmaker, named for inventor Nikola Tesla, wants to be
a dominant maker of premium electric vehicles and to be
profitable as early as next year. Sales of its $109,000 Roadster
sports car are ending and production of the Model S, with a
$57,400 base price, begins mid-year with a goal of boosting
annual vehicle deliveries to more than 10 times the current
pace.  Until Model S deliveries begin, Tesla’s main revenue source
is supplying battery packs and other parts to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and  Daimler AG (DAI) , two of its  investors .  The net loss for the three months ended Dec. 31 was 78
cents a share. That compares with a deficit of $51.4 million, or
54 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding some items, the per-
share loss was 69 cents, compared with 47 cents a year earlier,
Tesla said. The average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for a loss of 62 cents.  Tesla rose 1.7 percent to $34.18 at the close in New York.
The stock gained 20 percent this year.  Daimler Deal  The company also said it’s starting a development program
with Daimler for a new Mercedes-Benz vehicle with a full Tesla
powertrain, including batteries, a motor and electronic controls
and software. Musk didn’t elaborate on the project, saying
details would come from Daimler.  “I do expect that this will be significant, probably more
significant than the sum of all deals we’ve done with Daimler to
date,” Musk said. Tesla has previously supplied battery packs
for Daimler’s electric Smart minicars and Mercedes A-Class
hatchbacks.  Tesla said Nov. 2 it had a letter of intent from Daimler
for the new vehicle, and provided no details at the time.  Daimler is “checking the feasibility of the project,”
said Han Tjan, a company spokesman based in  New York . “It’s
more likely it would be something in the compact car segment,”
he said, without elaborating.  Design Expertise  “It’s probably not something that will be for a mass-scale
vehicle,” said Ed Kim, an industry analyst at researcher
AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,  California . While Tesla’s projects
with Daimler and Toyota aren’t large in vehicle volume, “the
benefit they get from even associating themselves with Daimler
and Toyota is worth a ton,” he said.  Tesla will begin shipping battery packs and motors for use
in an all-electric version of Toyota’s RAV4 compact sport-
utility vehicle this year.  “What those projects say is they’re being viewed as a
credible source of design expertise,” said Alan Baum, principal
of Baum & Associates, a provider of auto-industry analysis in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “Daimler has the capability
internally to do this, but is choosing to work with Tesla.”  Tesla said fourth-quarter revenue rose 8.5 percent to $39.4
million and that annual  sales  in 2011 increased 75 percent to
$204.2 million.  “The market, at least so far, is a little skeptical,”
said  Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of Edmunds.com, an automotive
pricing and data service in  Santa Monica , California. “The risk
for Tesla is that they get overenthusiastic and run ahead of the
market for electric vehicles.”  Roadster Sales  Sales of Roadsters exceeded 2,150 through the end of 2011,
and a final 330 units of the car will be sold in  Asia  and  Europe 
this year, Tesla said. Chassis production for the car at Group
Lotus Plc’s factory in Hethel,  England , has ended.  Tesla plans to build as many as 20,000 Model S cars next
year, with top-end versions selling for $97,900. The company
unveiled and began taking reservations last week for the Model X
battery-powered SUV, which will go on sale in late 2013.  Advance sales of the Model X exceed 500 vehicles,
representing future revenue of more than $40 million, Tesla said
in a statement yesterday.  “This is by far the best-selling car in Tesla history, by
a significant margin,” Musk said.  Model X  The Model X, Tesla’s first crossover, is derived from the
underpinnings of the Model S. The mid-size SUV, touted by Tesla
as faster than  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s 911 sports car and roomier than the
Q7 SUV of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand, will be built in 2013 at
the Fremont, California, plant that starts making the Model S
this year.  Model S reservations exceed 8,000, Tesla said yesterday.  Tesla is among the most-shorted U.S. stocks. Almost 65
percent of its shares available for trading, or float, were sold
short as of Jan. 31, the second-highest total in the  Russell
1000 Index (RIY) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Short
sellers profit from price declines by selling borrowed
securities and replacing them with stock bought at lower levels.  The company will face tougher competition in the next few
years as larger automakers begin releasing lower-priced electric
vehicles, Anwyl said.  “Success is not assured,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  