-- MetLife’s Kandarian Urges Fed to Approve Job-Creating Dividends
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-15T16:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/metlife-s-kandarian-urges-fed-to-approve-job-creating-dividends-buybacks.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Kandarian , who is cutting jobs at the insurer’s banking
business, said he is forced to hold too much capital and that
 shareholders  could use the funds to boost employment.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, is seeking Federal
Reserve permission to return capital to investors and expects
the regulator to rule on its plan by March 31, Kandarian said
today on a conference call to discuss the New York-based
company’s fourth-quarter results. The Fed last year rejected the
insurer’s plan to raise its dividend and resume share buybacks.  “We believe that approval for our capital plan is
consistent with the Fed’s mandate to promote  maximum employment ,
as MetLife shareholders would redeploy idle capital in a more
productive manner,” Kandarian said. “It is our intention to
begin returning excess capital to shareholders this year,
pending regulatory approval.”  Financial-firm executives including  Jamie Dimon , CEO of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have said regulators’ attempt to attempt
to prevent another financial crisis may backfire by stifling
economic growth. MetLife is exiting the banking business to
reduce federal oversight.  The insurer has said it holds more capital than needed to
meet obligations to policyholders,  lenders  and investors, and
maintain a buffer against market declines. The “deployable
capital” was $3.5 billion on Dec. 31 and will grow to as much
as $7 billion by year-end, Kandarian said.  ‘We Feel Good’  “We’ve submitted what we’re comfortable doing in terms of
capital redeployment for 2012 to the Fed and, again, we can’t
pre-judge things, but we feel good,” Kandarian said. “We’ll
have to see what happens over the course of this year in terms
of what we do around the area of  dividends  and share buybacks.”  The Fed can reject dividend plans from the largest U.S.
financial firms, a group that includes MetLife because of its
bank.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest life
insurer, isn’t subject to the same government reviews of its
capital plans and raised its dividend and announced a  buyback  in
the past year. MetLife last increased its dividend in 2007.  MetLife said last month it would shut its mortgage-
origination operation, and most of the 4,300 employees there
would lose their jobs.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York , declined to comment.  MetLife’s fourth-quarter  net income  surged to $1.16 billion
from $82 million a year earlier on earnings from outside the
U.S. and gains from derivatives, the company said late
yesterday. The insurer advanced 1.8 percent to $37.99 at 10:49
a.m. in New York and has jumped about 22 percent this year.  MetLife expanded in  Asia ,  Europe  and  South America  with the
$16 billion acquisition of American Life Insurance Co. in 2010.
The company’s derivatives, used to generate income and guard
against interest-rate declines, produce losses when bond yields
rise, as they did in the last quarter of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 