-- Tetragon Financial Shareholder’s Fraud Lawsuit Dismissed by U.S. Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-15T20:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/tetragon-financial-shareholder-s-fraud-lawsuit-dismissed-by-u-s-judge.html
Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG) 
officers and directors won dismissal of an investor’s lawsuit
claiming they used an “abusive scheme” to profit at the
company’s expense.  Investor Daniel Silverstein sued officers and directors of
Tetragon, the firm’s investment manager and Polygon Investment
Partners LLP in July 2011, alleging an “ongoing” scheme to
profit at Tetragon’s expense. U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff
in  Manhattan  yesterday granted motions by the defendants to
dismiss the complaint, according to a court filing.  In the suit, Silverstein claimed Tetragon’s directors
allowed the company to manipulate its net asset values to
maximize performance fees paid to its  investment adviser . The
case was a shareholder derivative suit, which is a claim filed
on behalf of the company to enforce legal rights the company’s
officers and directors have allegedly failed to assert.  Tetragon, based in Guernsey in the  Channel Islands , said in
a statement that Rakoff had agreed with the defendants that the
“purported shareholder who brought the lawsuit failed to
satisfy basic pleading requirements of derivative actions.”  Silverstein, a Pennsylvania resident who has been a
Tetragon shareholder since March 2010, hasn’t complied with a
court rule that requires a plaintiff in a derivative suit to be
a shareholder or a member at the time of the transaction in
dispute, Rakoff wrote in his order.  “Even if some conduct that was the basis of the complaint
continued to occur after the plaintiff bought his stock, it is
clear that he did not own stock throughout the course of
activities that constitute the primary basis of the complaint,”
Rakoff said in the order.  The case is Silverstein v. Knief, 11-CV-4776, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  