-- EU Commission Says Greek Bond Swap Requires Time for Investor Decisions
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-02-15T18:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/eu-says-greek-bond-swap-in-aid-plan-requires-time-for-investor-decisions.html
Greek investors will need time to
review settlement details and make decisions as a debt swap
takes shape along with a second rescue package for the country,
the European Union said.  Euro-area finance ministers need to agree on all elements
of the bailout plan and the conditions Greece must meet to
receive the bailout,  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , told reporters
today in Brussels. When asked whether the debt swap would be
technically able to proceed ahead of a broader deal, he
responded that “decisions are first and foremost political.”  Even though a framework and many of the details have been
agreed upon, the bond exchange has stalled because of broader
clashes between the EU and Greek authorities. EU officials have
said Greece needs to show more commitment to promised reforms in
order to receive the 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) aid package
that was broadly endorsed in October.  Finance ministers are discussing Greece on a conference
call today, scheduled in place of a previously planned emergency
meeting in Brussels. Institute of International Finance
officials, who have been representing creditors in the
negotiations and who had planned to be on the sidelines of the
Brussels meeting, postponed their travels once the in-person
meeting was canceled. The finance ministers have a regularly
scheduled meeting in Brussels next week.  Altafaj said today that there is an “urgency of proceeding
smoothly” with all elements of the rescue package, including
private-sector involvement.  ‘Heavy Operation’  “PSI of course is a heavy operation that requires time and
a number of settlements and decisions by the private sector,”
as well as by officials, Altafaj said. “The sooner the better,
but we cannot of course move forward without having all the
conditions in place.”  Greece  is seeking to reduce its debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year. A
debt-swap agreement would slice 100 billion euros off more than
200 billion euros of privately held debt, provided investors
follow through on pledges to participate voluntarily.  Private creditors have been prepared to accept an average
coupon as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the
exchange, which calls for investors to take a 50 percent cut in
the face value of their existing bond holdings. The rescue
blueprint includes a net present value loss of 70 percent or
more for bondholders.  Drawn-Out Negotiations  Pressure has been mounting for the deal to be wrapped up
soon because of a 14.5 billion-euro March 20 bond payment
looming over Greece. As negotiations drag on, that deadline may
no longer be enough to force a conclusion to the drawn-out
negotiations, said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING
Group in Brussels.  “We’ve seen before, if really push comes to shove, there
are always little exit doors in  Europe ,” Brzeski said in a
telephone interview. “These very tight and very strict
deadlines might turn out to be more flexible than they might
think.”  The IIF, which has represented investors in the swap
negotiations, has maintained that the goal should be a voluntary
agreement in line with the original October outline.  Widespread participation may be more difficult now, as
banks have sold to hedge funds and other “more risk-prone”
investors who may be more inclined to seek higher returns by
holding out, said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a
Brussels-based economics research group. He said many investors
expect participation will not be high enough to avoid a  credit
event , possibly triggered by collective-action clauses that
force creditors to join in to the deal.  “The difficult question is how much leverage do the
governments have on the investor base,” Veron said in a
telephone interview. “My expectation would still be that having
the deal is better than alternatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  