-- Euro-Area Economy Shrinks
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-15T11:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/euro-economy-shrinks-less-than-forecast-with-first-contraction-since-2009.html
Europe’s economy shrank less than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as a better-than-
predicted performance in  Germany  and France helped mitigate the
region’s first contraction since 2009.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.3
percent from the prior three months, the first drop since the
second quarter of 2009, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.4
percent, the median of 42 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
shows. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, GDP dropped less
than economists projected in the fourth quarter, while France’s
economy unexpectedly expanded in that period.  German companies have boosted output and spending over the
past year to meet export demand, helping soften the impact of
tougher budget cuts from  Spain  to Ireland. While Moody’s
Investors Service cut the ratings of six of the region’s member
states on Feb. 13, saying policy makers haven’t done enough to
restore investor confidence, the economy is showing some signs
of stabilization. Euro-region economic sentiment improved in
January and services output expanded.  “It could have been worse,” said Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “The debt crisis has
thrown the  euro-zone  recovery into reverse. The recent
improvement in leading indicators suggests there is a fair
chance that the euro-zone economy as a whole might not shrink
further in the first quarter.”  Economic Stabilization  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3174 at 11:19 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.3
percent on the day. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index advanced as much as
1.1 percent, reversing yesterday’s losses.  Recent surveys indicate the pace of contraction won’t
accelerate in the current quarter. Euro-region  services output 
expanded in January after shrinking in the previous four months
and economic confidence increased the first time in almost a
year. In Germany, investor confidence jumped to a 10-month high
in February and business sentiment rose in January.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi has pointed to
signs of stabilization in the euro-area economy and said the ECB
averted a credit crunch with its three-year loans to lenders in
December. The central bank will offer a second round of
financing, known as LTRO, at the end of this month.  ‘Growth Pause’  German GDP fell 0.2 percent from the third quarter, when it
rose 0.6 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a drop of
0.3 percent.  France ’s economy grew 0.2 percent in that period.  “The German economy only took a growth pause and is not
approaching a new recession,” said  Carsten Brzeski , a senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Of course, a quick rebound
is not an automatism and the big unknown for the German economy
remains the sovereign-debt crisis.”  Governments across the euro region may find it harder to
plug their budget gaps as an economic slump deepens.  Greece ’s
GDP slumped 7 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
according to a report yesterday. The economies of Spain,
Belgium, the Netherlands,  Italy  and Portugal also contracted in
the final three months of 2011.  Brussels Meeting  In the 27-member EU, GDP dropped 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter after rising 0.3 percent in the previous three months.
In  Hungary , the economy expanded 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, while Bulgarian GDP advanced 0.4 percent and the  Czech
Republic  reported a drop of 0.3 percent, reports showed today.  European finance ministers canceled a Brussels meeting
slated for today and will hold a teleconference instead to prod
Greece to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion
euros ($171 billion), along with about 100 billion euros of debt
relief from private bondholders. Greece needs more money to make
a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  “I did not yet receive the required political assurances
from the leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the
implementation of the program,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who heads meetings of euro-region finance
ministers, said yesterday. He pressed for “further technical
work” on Greek budget cuts.  More than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
Greece, European leaders face international pressure to do more
to tackle the source of contagion that threatens to drag down
the global economy. Group of 20 nations have signaled they won’t
reach a consensus on crisis aid for  Europe  via the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Feb. 24-26 meeting of finance chiefs until
Europe increases the size of its firewall.  ‘Severe Implications’  The  Bank of England  said today the U.K. economy remains
weak because of the government’s fiscal squeeze and the euro-
region debt crisis, saying that failure to end the turmoil would
have “severe implications” for growth. The central bank
started a 50 billion-pound ($78 billion) round of bond purchases
this week after the economy shrank in the fourth quarter.  The region’s crisis is also affecting companies.  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, said today that fourth-
quarter profit dropped 51 percent, hurt by writedowns on Greek
sovereign debt.  MAN SE (MAN) , the German truckmaker controlled by car
manufacturer  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said yesterday that sales and
operating profit will decline in 2012 as the debt crisis
discourages companies from investing.  Euro Recession  “Despite some recent improved euro-zone surveys and
evidence that Germany is returning to growth, we doubt that the
euro zone will be able to avoid further contraction in the first
quarter,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “We expect the euro zone to start
growing gradually again during the second half.”  In a separate report today, the EU statistics office said
that euro-region exports rose 0.1 percent in December from the
previous month, when adjusted for seasonal swings. Imports fell
0.9 percent from November and the  trade surplus  widened to 7.5
billion euros from 6.1 billion euros.  Some companies are relying on faster-growing markets to
bolster sales.  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the French maker of
Birkin bags, reported full-year sales on Feb. 9 that beat its
own forecast, led by a 29 percent surge in  Asia . The same day,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  forecast higher 2012 profit than analysts had
predicted, propelled by record demand for Mercedes-Benz cars.  “The U.S. certainly is the bright spot as far as the
development in the recent months is concerned,” Daimler Chief
Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said. “We see a buildup in
momentum there. We’re bullish about the further development in
 China .”  The euro region’s statistics office is scheduled to publish
the breakdown of euro-area fourth-quarter GDP next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  