-- Greek Budget Controls Pushed as Europe Struggles to Complete Bailout Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-16T07:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/europe-struggles-to-bridge-divide-in-forging-bailout-for-debt-laden-greece.html
Europe ’s creditor countries
struggled to bridge divisions over a rescue of Greece, seeking
more control over how future aid is spent as the clock ticked
toward a possible default next month. Stocks and the euro fell.  In a replay of the brinkmanship that marked the early
stages of the Greek crisis two years ago, euro-area finance
ministers extracted concessions from political leaders in  Athens 
intended to pave the way for the endorsement of a 130 billion-
euro ($171 billion) aid package next week.  While “further considerations are necessary regarding the
specific mechanisms to strengthen the surveillance of program
implementation,” Europe is set to make “all the necessary
decisions” on Feb. 20, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in an e-mailed statement after leading a
conference call of finance chiefs late yesterday.  Greece’s plea for more aid on top of the 110 billion euros
awarded in 2010 has stirred recriminations on both sides of
Europe’s north-south economic divide, with taxpayers in better-
off countries rebelling against further handouts. Each day lost
brings Greece closer to a March 20 bond redemption when it must
make a 14.5 billion-euro payment or become the first country in
the euro’s 13-year history to default.  Greece made “substantial further progress” by outlining
325 million euros in additional savings and providing written
pledges from the leaders of its two main parties not to
backslide on the budget cuts, Juncker said.  Meeting Conditions  Greece has now met all conditions set by the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  for the lifeline, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in Athens after the
3 1/2-hour telephone consultations.  Before the call,  Finland  and the Netherlands had appealed
for the postponement of a new program until elections as early
as April produce a full-time Greek government that replaces the
caretaker administration, one European official said. In that
scenario, the euro area would arrange a bridge loan to get
Greece past the March payment, the official said.  “Ultimately the question is whether Greece has political
will to sort out their economy and fulfill the conditions,”
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen told reporters in
Helsinki yesterday.  Juncker’s post-call statement didn’t address the question
of a possible interim loan. It indicated that there is no accord
yet on a proposal to set up an escrow account to ensure that the
aid money goes to paying creditors.  Markets  Tensions over  Greece  pushed the euro down 0.4 percent to
$1.3012 at 8:20 a.m. in Brussels. Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50
Index slid 1 percent.  A delayed decision on public support for Greece until after
the still-unscheduled election would risk snagging a separate
component of the package: a bond exchange by private investors
designed to wipe 100 billion euros off of Greece’s debt.  While some German finance officials see the merits of
putting back approval of a multi-year aid program until after
the Greek election,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hasn’t made her
stance clear yet, the European official said.  Buoyed by an uptick in opinion polls, unemployment at a
two-decade low of 6.7 percent and European backing for a German-
designed fiscal discipline treaty, Merkel has warned in recent
weeks of the risks of letting Greece default or pushing it out
of the euro.  Merkel’s Concern  The leader of Europe’s dominant economy is also under
pressure from Italy’s new prime minister,  Mario Monti , who has
emerged as the spokesman for economically depressed southern
European countries struggling against German-imposed austerity.  A former European commissioner who leads an interim
government in  Rome , the nonpartisan Monti said Greece is being
put under unbearable strains and traced the origins of the
crisis to moves by prior German and French leaders to soften the
euro’s deficit rules.  “The very tough approach being taken toward Greece today
may lead us to regard this as being excessive, and it probably
is,” Monti told the European Parliament yesterday in Strasbourg, 
 France . “There are no good guys and bad guys. We all need to
feel jointly responsible.”  Sarkozy’s Campaign  By twinning fiscal savings with an economic overhaul in
 Italy , Monti has earned respect in  Germany  just as Merkel’s
chief crisis-management partner, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , plunges into a re-election campaign that polls 
indicate he will lose.  Greece has squandered credibility by missing targets for
 deficit reduction , economic reforms and asset sales that were
set for the first aid package. As a result, the once-taboo
notion of a departure or expulsion from the euro has crept into
the mainstream political debate.  In Athens, political leaders responded with alarm to the
threats from northern Europe. Early yesterday, Venizelos said
wealthier countries are “playing with fire” by toying with the
idea of booting Greece out of the euro.  The head of Greece’s second-biggest party,  New Democracy ’s
Antonis Samaras, was dragged into another German-Greek spat when
he was blamed by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  for
holding up economic reforms.  Samaras was defended by Karolos Papoulias, Greece’s largely
ceremonial president, a veteran of the anti-Nazi resistance
during World War II.  “I don’t accept the ridiculing of my country by Mr.
Schaeuble,” the 82-year-old Papoulias said in Athens. “I don’t
accept it as a Greek. Who is Mr. Schaeuble to ridicule Greece?
Who are the Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to
defend not just our own freedom, not just our own country, but
the freedom of all of Europe.”  In solidarity with 11 million Greeks reeling from two years
of spending cuts and tax increases, Papoulias said he would work
for free, giving up an annual salary estimated by Bloomberg at
300,000 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  