-- Euro Drops, Global Stocks Pare Gains on Concern Greek Aid Will Be Delayed
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-15T16:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/euro-drops-global-stocks-pare-gains-on-concern-greek-aid-will-be-delayed.html
The euro fell while global stocks
and commodities trimmed gains amid concern European officials
will delay  Greece ’s second bailout, tempering optimism that
 China  will get more involved in the region’s rescue efforts.  The euro slipped for a fourth day against the dollar,
losing 0.5 percent to $1.3066, and weakened against 15 of 16
major peers as of 11:15 a.m. in New York. The MSCI All-Country
World Index added 0.4 percent, erasing yesterday’s 0.4 percent
drop. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed near
the 1,351 level. The cost of insuring against default on
European  government bonds  gained for a sixth day. The S&P GSCI
Index rose 0.7 percent, paring an earlier 1.4 percent advance.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that
 Europe ’s wealthier countries are “playing with fire” by
considering expelling the nation from the 17-nation euro
currency as talks over a second aid program ran into new
obstacles. A decision slated for tonight on aid totaling 130
billion euros ($171 billion) was postponed until at least Feb.
20 and possibly until after a full-time Greek government emerges
from elections later in the year.  “It’s all about headlines whipping price action around,”
said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York. “It’s lack of details from China’s
pledge and lack of details with regards to Greece and if they’re
going to be able to secure the next round of aid weighing on the
euro.”  The euro weakened the most against the currencies of
 Brazil ,  New Zealand ,  Taiwan  and  Australia  and reversed a 0.5
percent gain versus the yen. The shared currency  rallied earlier 
as China said it will get more involved in Europe’s bailout
efforts and sustain its holdings of euro assets.  ‘Principle of Security’  “Yesterday Premier  Wen Jiabao , during the China-EU summit,
said explicitly that China will continue to, under the principle
of security, liquidity and increasing value, invest in European
government debt, and will get more involved in efforts to help
resolve the European debt crisis via all possible channels,”
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing
today.  At stake for China is helping to stabilize the economy of
its largest market amid a global slowdown that has curtailed
export growth.  “It’s very clear that China realized the costs of a
possible European recession that spreads to the rest of the
world,” James Swanson, who oversees about $200 billion as chief
investment strategist at Boston-based  MFS Investment Management ,
said in a telephone interview. “Yet they haven’t fixed their
problems and China can’t fix their problems.”  U.S. Stocks  Among U.S. stocks,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  rallied 5.6 percent after
the largest U.S. cable company authorized a $6.5 billion buyback
as profit jumped 26 percent. Kellogg Co. advanced 5.4 percent
after agreeing to acquire  Procter & Gamble Co .’s Pringles potato
chip business for about $2.7 billion in cash. Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. climbed 4.1 percent as billionaire  John
Paulson  filed a document with regulators so he can approach
other investors about his plan to break up the insurer.  Technology, consumer-discretionary and financial companies
climbed at least 0.3 percent as a group to lead gains among six
of the 10 main industries in the  S&P 500 . Industrial and
telephone companies fell the most.  Economic Data  Federal Reserve data showed production at U.S. factories
increased in January, reflecting gains in demand for automobiles
and business equipment that may keep manufacturing
at the forefront of the expansion. Output at factories rose 0.7
percent after a revised 1.5 percent gain in December that was
the largest in five years, the figures showed. A 2.5 percent
decline in utility output prompted by the fourth-warmest January
on record caused total industrial output to be little changed,
trailing forecasts for a 0.7 percent increase.  A separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in February at the fastest pace since June 2010.  European  stocks  climbed, sending the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
up 0.6 percent, after China’s comments and better-than-estimated
earnings from companies including BNP Paribas SA to Heineken NV.
BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, and Heineken, the world’s
third-biggest brewer, rose more than 3 percent. Clariant AG
advanced 5.3 percent after earnings exceeded projections and the
chemical maker said it may sell its textile and paper units.  Europe’s economy shrank less than economists forecast in
the fourth quarter as a better-than-predicted performance in
Germany and France helped mitigate the region’s first
contraction since 2009. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation
euro area fell 0.3 percent from the prior three months, the
first drop since the second quarter of 2009, the EU’s statistics
office said today.  In European bond markets, yields climbed at least 12 basis
points on Italian, Spanish and Greek 10-year debt.  Germany ’s 10-
year bund yield fell four basis points to 1.86 percent, the
lowest in almost two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  