-- Teva Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises 23% on Cephalon Acquisition
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-15T21:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/teva-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-cephalon-acquisition.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
said fourth-quarter profit rose 23 percent as last year’s
acquisition of Cephalon Inc. shifted the company further away
from its original identity as a generic-drug maker.  Earnings excluding some costs climbed to $1.4 billion, or
$1.59 a share, from $1.1 billion, or $1.25, a year earlier, the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a statement today.
Profit matched the average estimate of $1.59 a share from 25
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Teva, the world’s biggest maker of copied medicines, bought
Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon for $6.5 billion last year
in a bid to broaden a portfolio of brand-name drugs that has
been dominated by the multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone. In
May, Teva will replace Chief Executive Officer  Shlomo Yanai  with
Jeremy Levin, a  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  executive known for
overseeing the U.S. drugmaker’s “string of pearls” strategy of
small acquisitions and partnerships.  “I hope that in May he knows exactly what he wants to do
because he doesn’t have time to waste,” Gilad Alper, a Tel
Aviv-based analyst for Excellence Nessuah Brokerage, said in a
telephone interview today. “Whatever Levin wants to do, he’ll
need a lot of money. He needs the goodwill of lenders, and that
will decline rather quickly if Copaxone market share declines.”  Pipeline  Teva has a strong pipeline of branded drugs, Yanai said at
a press conference in Tel Aviv today. The company is in
“advanced talks” with U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
officials to craft a study to enable it to win approval for
multiple sclerosis pill laquinimod, he said. The drug failed in
one trial last year and yielded disappointing results in a
second.  “I am optimistic about the continued growth of Teva in the
branded products sector,” Yanai said.  Teva repeated the target it issued in December, saying
earnings excluding some costs this year will be $5.48 to $5.68 a
share, while revenue will reach about $22 billion. The company
said in December it may not meet its long-term target of $31
billion in sales by 2015, which Yanai described then as an
“aspirational goal.”  Teva rose 2.4 percent to 167.80 shekels in  Tel Aviv . The
company’s American depositary receipts gained 3.5 percent to
$45.04, the biggest gain in six weeks. Teva’s ADRs lost 15
percent in the past year before today, including reinvested
dividends,  compared with  a 17 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Narcolepsy  Sales rose 28 percent to $5.7 billion, as revenue from
brand-name medicines soared 68 percent to $2.3 billion with the
inclusion of Cephalon’s products. Sales of generic drugs in the
U.S. fell 5 percent to $1.2 billion. The company said it plans
to introduce new treatments that will generate $650 million in
sales this year.  Cephalon’s top-selling drug, Provigil, loses patent
protection in April, Natali Gotlieb, a Tel Aviv-based analyst
for Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said in a telephone
interview today. The narcolepsy treatment had sales of $350
million in the fourth quarter.  “Everyone already has 2012 in their mind,” Gotlieb said.  Teva and U.S. partner  BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BPAX)  won
U.S. clearance to sell Bio-T-Gel, a testosterone-replacement
therapy for men, the Food and Drug Administration said late
yesterday. BioSante estimates the U.S. market for male
testosterone products exceeds $1.2 billion.  Copaxone Peak  Fourth-quarter revenue from Copaxone, which faces
competition from newer treatments, increased 11 percent to $927
million. Teva said sales will probably be more than $3.8 billion
this year.  The company reported profit that doesn’t meet generally
accepted accounting principles because it excludes costs linked
to acquisitions such as Cephalon. On a net income basis, Teva
earned $506 million in the quarter, 34 percent less than the
$771 million in the year-ago period.  Teva increased its quarterly  dividend  25 percent to 1
shekel a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  