-- Ex-Juror Arrested, Forced to Testify in Bid for New Tax Shelter Case Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-15T23:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ex-juror-arrested-forced-to-testify-in-bid-for-new-tax-shelter-case-trial.html
A juror who helped convict four
defendants in a 10-year tax shelter scheme said she lied about
her background to make herself “more marketable” to serve on
the panel.  Catherine Conrad, who was Juror No. 1 in the trial of Paul Daugerdas, a former lawyer at the defunct law firm  Jenkens &
Gilchrist , and three others, testified in a hearing in  Manhattan 
federal court today that she failed to disclose that she’s an
alcoholic and a suspended attorney with numerous arrests for
crimes including shoplifting and driving under the influence of
alcohol.  Daugerdas and the other defendants convicted in May at the
end of a 10-week trial have asked U.S. District Judge William Pauley to order a new trial based on Conrad’s lies and omissions
about her past during jury selection. Pauley ordered her
arrested this morning after she telephoned a judge’s clerk in
Manhattan federal court to say she wasn’t going to obey a court
subpoena requiring her to testify today.  “I know I served and I know I did my civic duty,” Conrad
told Pauley near the end of her testimony today. “I know my
disclosures would definitely not have allowed me to serve as a
juror.”  Two-Day Hearing  Pauley is holding a two-day hearing to determine whether to
throw out the convictions and order a new trial. Conrad was
granted immunity for her testimony today, after invoking her
constitutional right not to incriminate herself. Pauley released
Conrad at the end of 3 1/2 hours on the stand.  Jurors convicted Daugerdas on more than 20 criminal counts,
including conspiracy, multiple counts of  tax evasion  and
attempting to impede the  Internal Revenue Service . He faces more
than 20 years in prison.  The defendants claim Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to
serve on the jury if she’d told the truth about her background.
Her presence on the panel deprived them of a fair trial, they
said.  Frequently during her testimony today, Conrad defended the
verdict reached by her and the other jurors in the case, which
she called “fair and just and unbiased.”  ‘Shocking Disregard’  Conrad, who said her primary practice had been personal
injury law, was indefinitely suspended from practicing law in
2007 after a panel of judges found her behavior showed “a
shocking disregard for the judicial system.”  She told Pauley that part of her motivation to be on the
jury was that she missed being in the courtroom and was eager
for the intellectual challenge of the case.  During jury selection, Conrad said she lived in Bronxville,
New York, in her father’s home, rather than an apartment in the
Bronx that defense lawyers claim is her real residence. And
Conrad testified today that she lied about owning her home,
rather than renting.  “I thought that would seem more juror-marketable,” she
said.  The jury also returned guilty verdicts for Denis Field, the
former chief executive officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman
LLP; Donna Guerin, a Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyer; and David Parse, who worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown Inc. a
second former Alex. Brown accountant, Robert Craig Brubaker, was
acquitted.  Letter to Prosecutor  Defense lawyers asked for a new trial after Conrad sent a
May 25 letter to Assistant U.S. Attorney Stanley Okula praising
the prosecution team and discussing the jury’s deliberations.  In the letter, Conrad described herself as “the nerdy
person with the ‘Susan Brune’ glasses, I was always head down
taking notes!” Susan Brune is a lawyer who represented Parse in
the case.  Conrad wrote that she “held out for two days” to convict
Parse of a conspiracy charge, then “had to throw in the
towel.”  Conrad denied Gair’s suggestion today that the letter to
Okula was “flirtatious” and said she hadn’t specially chosen a
“Love” stamp for the postage.  Under Gair’s questioning, Conrad said she had stolen a bag
of shrimp from a convenience store while drunk. On another
occasion she punched a police officer in the stomach as he
arrested her for drunk driving. At the time of the Daugerdas
trial, there was an outstanding warrant for her arrest issued in
Winslow,  Arizona , after she was arrested for an altercation with
her husband and failed to appear in court.  Conrad didn’t disclose any of those incidents in response
to juror questions asking about arrests and convictions, she
said.  ‘Career Criminal’  Conrad also admitted she didn’t tell the judge that her
husband had been convicted of crimes including check fraud,
weapons possession, harassment and burglary. He served seven
years and seven months in prison for auto theft, Conrad
testified.  “Your husband is a career criminal, isn’t he,” Gair asked
Conrad.  “So are most attorneys,” she answered, prompting laughter
from some in the courtroom.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 