-- Ex-Lampoon Chief Durham Seeks Dismissal of U.S. Fraud Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-02-15T21:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ex-national-lampoon-ceo-tim-durham-seeks-dismissal-of-u-s-fraud-case.html
Timothy S. Durham, the one-time
president and chief executive officer of National Lampoon Inc.,
asked a federal judge to throw out a U.S.  securities fraud  case,
claiming prosecutors violated federal wiretap laws and rules.  Durham was indicted last year for allegedly cheating 5,000
investors in a $200 million scheme involving the sale of
interest-bearing notes by Akron, Ohio-based Fair Finance Co.  His lawyers said prosecutors began wiretapping Durham’s
phones before getting permission to do so and asked the grand
jury to consider a charge different from those for which the
surveillance was authorized.  “The government misconduct in this case shows a complete
lack of respect for the rights and the privacy of not only Mr.
Durham, but for every one of the dozens of people who were
unknowingly overheard and recorded,” his attorneys said.  U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson in Indianapolis
heard arguments on the dismissal requests today. Durham’s
lawyer, John Tompkins of Indianapolis, asked the judge to throw
out the indictment or at least suppress the wiretap evidence he
said was illegally gathered.  Durham is CEO of the Indianapolis-based leveraged buyout
firm Obsidian Enterprises Inc. and a Republican Party
fundraiser.  Resigned From Lampoon  He resigned his National Lampoon posts last month, said
Cora Victoriano, a spokeswoman for that company, in an e-mailed
statement. National Lampoon isn’t mentioned in the indictment.  Also charged are former Fair Finance Chairman James F. Cochran and ex-Chief Financial Officer Rick D. Snow. The three
men face 10 counts of wire fraud and one count of securities
fraud, all punishable by as long as 20 years in prison, and one
count of conspiring to commit those crimes. The court last year
entered automatic not-guilty pleas for each defendant.  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. Operating in  Ohio  since 1934, Fair Finance
provided liquidity to businesses by purchasing their accounts
receivable at a discount, according to the March 15 indictment.
It raised money by selling interest-bearing certificates to
investors.  By February 2005, as Fair Finance continued selling the
certificates, it had shifted from providing commercial financing
to making loans to its principals, their associates and Obsidian
and other entities they controlled, according to the indictment.  ‘Deceived Investors’  “Durham, Cochran and Snow then deceived investors by
making and causing others to make false and misleading
statements about Fair’s financial condition and about the manner
in which they were using Fair investor money,” the charging
document said.  Durham allegedly spent $250,000 in Fair Finance capital to
remodel his garage and another $150,000 at a casino, according
to the indictment, while Cochran spent $50,000 on country club
fees.  Fair Finance closed after a November 2009 raid by U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents. In February 2010, its
creditors forced it into involuntary bankruptcy in Akron.  In a court filing, those creditors accused Durham, Cochran
and companies they controlled of taking $176 million in loans
from Fair Finance.  ‘Lo and Behold’  Tompkins, the defense lawyer, said that after challenging
alleged discrepancies in the timing of the warrant and
collection of recorded calls detailed in one government log,
“lo and behold I was given another surveillance log”
ostensibly covering the same dates and showing a different
sequence of events.  “I hope my somewhat calm demeanor does not fail to express
my outrage at the government’s behavior,” Tompkins told Magnus-
Stinson. The government’s “shifting explanations were a clear
attempt to capture communications” that were not authorized, he
said.  Prosecutors in court papers have called Durham’s misconduct
claims frivolous and said the dismissal request should be
denied. The U.S. attorneys said they had briefed Durham’s
lawyers on how the wiretap operated in this case and that the
defense has offered no proof those explanations were inaccurate.  Henry  Van Dyck , a U.S. Justice Department lawyer, today
called the defense arguments “just ridiculous.”  ‘Flip a Switch’  “The government does not have the capability to just flip
a switch and listen to a conversation,” Van Dyck said. The
phone carrier must relay the call to the FBI for its agents to
be able hear and record it, he said.  Magnus-Stinson didn’t rule on Durham’s requests and delayed
hearing arguments on other dismissal requests.  Defense lawyers had also argued in court filings that while
the court granted prosecutors permission to listen for evidence
of bank fraud, wire fraud and  money laundering , the government
then asked to consider it as proof of the “distinctly separate
crime” of securities fraud.  Prosecutors told the court the securities fraud charge is
based on the same set of facts as the  wire fraud  charges.  Durham, Cochran and Snow have also been sued in a parallel
civil case by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Durham, 11-cr-00042; the civil
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Durham, 11-cv-
00370, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Indiana 
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Smulevitz in Indianapolis at 
 shsmulevitz@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 