-- Ex-News Corp. Phone Hacker Wins Permission to Appeal to U.K. Supreme Court
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-15T18:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ex-news-corp-phone-hacker-approved-for-supreme-court-appeal.html
The ex- News Corp. (NWSA)  private detective
who was jailed in 2007 for intercepting mobile-phone voice mails
won permission to appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court in a dispute
over giving incriminating evidence in civil cases against him.  Glenn Mulcaire , 41, won the court’s approval today in
London, according to his lawyer  Sarah Webb . The private eye, who
hacked into phone messages for News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid, was re-arrested last year as part of a new police probe
involving hundreds of newly identified victims. The appeal
relates to parallel civil lawsuits filed by victims.  “It’s clearly a very important matter of law which the
Supreme Court have decided they should rule on,” Webb, of Payne
Hicks Beach in  London , said in a phone interview. A two-day
hearing scheduled to start May 9 could affect how British courts
deal with self-incrimination in lawsuits, she said.  Mulcaire and  Clive Goodman , a reporter for the News of the
World, pleaded guilty and were jailed for as long as six months
in 2007 for intercepting phone messages for members of Prince Charles’s staff and five other public figures. Police opened a
new probe a year ago after celebrities’ civil lawsuits revealed
evidence of thousands more potential victims and the involvement
of more News Corp. journalists.  Mulcaire, whose phone-hacking notes were seized by police
in 2006, has been named in many of the claims filed against
News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit since the scandal erupted again
in 2010. The appeal stems from lawsuits by actor  Steve Coogan 
and Nicola Phillips, a former employee of celebrity publicist
 Max Clifford , whose voice mails were intercepted.  Intercept Messages  The Court of Appeal on Feb. 1 upheld a ruling that Mulcaire
must disclose who at the tabloid told him to intercept messages
left for Coogan and Phillips, what information was collected
and to whom he gave it. Mulcaire’s lawyers argued that by doing
so he would incriminate himself if he’s charged in the new
police probe. While Coogan has since settled his case, Phillips
hasn’t and the ruling could affect future cases.  Mulcaire had to ask the  Supreme Court  directly for
permission to appeal because the Court of Appeal denied his
request to do so. Britain’s top court will only hear appeals in
such circumstances if they address legal questions that will
benefit the public.  In a separate phone-hacking suit filed by the Welsh pop
star Charlotte Church, scheduled for a trial starting Feb. 27,
Mulcaire’s lawyers are seeking to block the press from reporting
on evidence about the private detective’s activities that could
potentially undermine him in a criminal case.  London police, who are examining Mulcaire’s notebooks and
identified more than 800 likely victims, have arrested about 30
people in three related investigations, including the
newspaper’s former editors, Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson . The
other probes involve police bribery and computer hacking.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July to help
contain the scandal. Mulcaire has successfully sued the company
over claims it improperly stopped covering his legal fees after
lawmakers questioned the payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  