-- Ex-Sun CEO Jonathan Schwartz Connects Caregivers With New Site
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ex-sun-ceo-jonathan-schwartz-connects-caregivers-with-new-site.html
Two years after Sun Microsystems
Inc.’s sale to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  ended his run as one of Silicon
Valley’s most prominent chief executive officers, Jonathan Schwartz is resurfacing on a smaller stage.  Schwartz announced today the debut of  CareZone , a startup
website that lets family members and health-care workers share
information about aging or ill parents, spouses and children.
CareZone has seven employees, is funded with less than $2
million of Schwartz’s own money, and came about as a reaction to
his need to care for older parents -- and a desire to try a
different business than Sun’s, Schwartz said in an interview.  “You find yourself having to care for someone else,” said
Schwartz, 46, whose parents are in their 80s and moved to
 California  to be closer to their son. “The amount of time I
wanted to spend on golf courses talking about server
consolidation -- those days are gone.”  Schwartz took the reins at Sun, once a power in the
computer workstation and server market, from co-founder Scott McNealy in 2006. The company was losing money and  forfeiting
sales  of servers that used its expensive Sparc processors to
makers of low-cost machines with Intel Corp. chips. The losses
deepened, and by January 2010, Sun was sold to Oracle for $7.3
billion -- or an enterprise value of  less than half its annual
sales , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Decimated’ Sun  “When the financial crisis hit, we were decimated,”
Schwartz said, still sporting his trademark ponytail. After
Oracle’s nine-month takeover process ended, he began planning
his next venture with CareZone co-founder  Walter Smith , a
longtime friend and college mate who was a developer of Apple
Inc.’s Newton handheld computer in the early 1990s. Schwartz
took some lessons from working with the millions of independent
software developers who wrote for Sun’s platform.  “In the enterprise space today, switching costs off their
existing systems are near-infinite,” Schwartz said. “The
innovation has really slowed down.” Consumers, on the other
hand, are more open to trying new products, he said.  CareZone is based in San Francisco, with software
developers in  Seattle . It provides a repository for families’
information on medications, medical documents and care
instructions, borrowing elements of social-network websites with
strict privacy controls for sensitive data. The site will charge
$48 a year, or $5 a month, avoiding the need to show ads or mine
users’ data for marketing purposes, which can be intrusive when
handling personal information, Schwartz said.  “We’ve been lulled into believing you can trade off
privacy for productivity,” he said. “Privacy is toxic to a
social-media company. It forces companies that are based on ads
to push the limits of privacy.”  Privacy Controls  On CareZone, the account creator is in charge of all
information and limits who can see it. There’s also no
integration with Facebook Inc. or other social-media sites, and
no concept of followers or other ways for outsiders to view what
a user is doing on the site.  John D. Halamka, a doctor and chief information officer of
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in  Boston , said CareZone
could address a fast-growing sector of the health-care market
because patients want to control their own medical information.  Yet consumers may have little patience for typing
information into a website, as evidenced by Google Inc.’s
decision to shut down its Google Health site.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
also offers an online health-information locker called
HealthVault at no charge, Halamka said in an e-mail. Support for
electronic medical records could save patients from having to
type data into CareZone, he said.  Hospitals, Companies  Schwartz said HealthVault primarily targets hospitals and
large health-care companies. CareZone’s beta testers preferred
leaving management of electronic records to hospitals while
using the site for other tasks.  CareZone plans to have 100,000 users signed up within a
year, Schwartz said. And he said he’s moved on from the Oracle
sale, when CEO  Larry Ellison  essentially cut him out of public
communications during the acquisition process, preferring to use
McNealy as a spokesman.  “Unlike selling a Sparc machine, there’s no limit on
market size” on the Web, he said. “I don’t spend a lot of time
worrying about my reputation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  