-- Texas Primaries May Face More Delay Amid Redistricting Dispute
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   T r a v i s   P o l i n g   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/texas-primaries-probably-delayed-until-may-as-map-fight-continues-in-court.html
Texas’s primary elections will
probably be delayed until May while a three-judge panel
struggles to redraw voter maps created by state Republican
lawmakers and challenged by minorities as racial gerrymanders.  U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry Smith, at the end of a two-day
hearing in federal court in  San Antonio  yesterday, said a
primary as late as May 29 was a possibility. He then asked the
state party leaders to submit information on timelines and
schedules needed for political conventions so the judges could
make a decision on the date, currently scheduled for April 3.  Luis Vera, a lawyer representing the League of United Latin
American Citizens, or LULAC, said after the hearing that he
interpreted Smith’s comments to mean that the primaries would be
scheduled for May 29.  Smith and two other federal judges are creating temporary
voter districts that can be used in the state’s 2012 elections
while legal challenges continue.  Super Tuesday  The six-month redistricting fight has already created
delays that knocked  Texas  out of the influential March 6 Super
Tuesday presidential primaries. More Americans vote in primaries
or caucuses on that date than on any other.  The state and the minority groups fighting over the lines
drawn by the Republican-controlled Legislature for the 2012
elections told the judges yesterday they were still far from a
consensus and had “insurmountable” issues on at least one
proposed congressional district.  Earlier yesterday, the groups told the judges they had
reached a deal on the state Senate maps, one of three sets of
maps in dispute. The judges ordered the parties to remain in the
courthouse after the hearing to continue negotiations on state
House maps.  The  Republican National Committee  revamped the presidential
primary calendar last year so that the nomination contest would
extend beyond Super Tuesday.  Remaining Candidates  The four remaining candidates have shown no sign of
dropping out of the race soon. Thus far, they have split
victories in the early races with Rick Santorum winning  Iowa ,
 Newt Gingrich  taking  South Carolina , and  Mitt Romney  pocketing
New Hampshire,  Florida  and Nevada. Texas congressman Ron Paul
came in second place in New Hampshire, third in Iowa and fourth
in Florida and South Carolina.  Santorum picked up three more wins last week in  Colorado ,
 Minnesota , and  Missouri , and Romney won the Feb. 11 Maine
caucuses.  Both Republicans and Democrats are set to hold their Texas
political conventions in early June, on dates and in locations
committed to years ago.  Texas Republican Party Chairman Steve Munisteri asked the
judges to issue an order allowing the party to change its
delegate election rules.  “It’s already a hotly contested presidential race, so I’d
like to not have any lawsuits to deal with and having a court
order helps on that end,” Munisteri said.  Four New Districts  The Legislature carved out four new U.S. congressional
districts to accommodate the 4.3 million residents the 2010  U.S.
Census  found the state added since 2000. Hispanics, who more
often vote for Democrats than Republicans, accounted for about
65 percent of the growth. Republican Governor Rick Perry
approved the maps.  Latinos and lawmakers whose jobs were threatened by the
Legislature’s new maps sued over claims Republicans distorted
districts to prevent the election of minorities, in violation of
the Voting Rights Act. Republicans claimed they didn’t
discriminate and are legally permitted to draw lines that favor
the elected political majority.  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Travis Poling in San Antonio at 
 poling.travis@att.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 