-- Falklands War Victory Telex to Be Sold on Conflict’s Anniversary
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-02-15T14:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/falklands-war-victory-telex-to-be-sold-on-conflict-s-anniversary.html
One of three copies of the telex
signaling the end of the war between the U.K. and  Argentina  over
the Falkland Islands will be auctioned by Bonhams on the
conflict’s 30th anniversary.  Sent by Major General Jeremy Moore on June 14, 1982, the
document announced the Argentine surrender on the archipelago
following a 74-day conflict that cost the lives of 255 British
and 649 Argentine soldiers. The British victory helped bring
down Argentina’s military dictatorship while bolstering the
government of then-Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher .  “In Port Stanley at 9 o’clock pm Falkland Islands time
tonight the 14th June 1982, Major General Menendes surrendered
to me all the Argentine Forces in East and West Falkland,” the
telex reads. “The Falkland Islands are once more under the
government desired by their inhabitants. God save the Queen.”  Tensions over the Falklands have risen over the past month,
with Argentina filing a complaint to the  United Nations  over the
“militarization” of the islands, citing Britain’s decision to
dispatch one of its newest destroyers, HMS Dauntless, and the
arrival of  Prince William  at the archipelago for a tour of duty
as a military pilot.  “We’re not militarizing the South Atlantic,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in  London  on Feb. 8. “Our defense posture remains
unchanged.”  Anniversary Sale  Argentina claims sovereignty over the islands, which it
calls Las Malvinas.  The sale by Bonhams will take place on April 3, one day
after the 30th anniversary of Argentina’s invasion of the
islands, and is expected to fetch as much as 3,000 pounds
($4,700), according to Leonora Oldfield, a press official for
the company.  The dispute between Argentina and the U.K. deepened in 2010
after four British companies announced plans to search for oil
around the Falklands, located about 480 kilometers (280 miles)
from the South American mainland. The explorers will drill wells
this year in offshore areas that may hold as many as 8.3 billion
barrels, three times the U.K.’s reserves.  Argentina traces its ties to the Falklands to 1820, when
Colonel David Jewett claimed possession of the islands in the
name of the United Provinces of the Rio de la Plata. Britain
assumed military control of the archipelago in 1833, evicting
Argentine authorities the following year.  Argentine military dictator Leopoldo Galtieri ordered the
invasion of the islands on April 2, 1982. The following year the
junta called for democratic elections and was replaced by a
government led by President Raul Alfonsin. Galtieri died in
2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in  Buenos Aires  at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  