-- Fed Considers Policy Changes After Repo Reform Effort Falls Short of Goals
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-15T22:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/fed-considers-policy-changes-after-repo-reform-effort-falls-short-of-goals.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
increase oversight of reform efforts in the market for borrowing
and lending securities and consider policy options after an
industry group failed to meet goals for reducing risk.  Restrictions on the types of collateral that can be
financed in the tri-party repo market and the development of an
industry-financed facility to foster the orderly liquidation of
collateral in the event of a dealer’s default are among the
options being considered, according to a statement posted to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  website  today.  The central bank is stepping up efforts after the private-
sector Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Task Force that was
sponsored by the Fed in 2009 issued its final report today
saying that more time and effort was needed to reach its primary
goal of the “practical elimination” of the extension of
intraday credit to dealers from industry’s two clearing banks.
The Fed said the  task force ’s failure to meet that goal by the
end of the fourth quarter leaves the infrastructure of the tri-
party repo market with significant structural weakness that
undermines market stability in a stressed environment.  “It is clear that the infrastructure that was developed
over many years is really inadequate,” said Bruce Tuckman,
director of financial markets research at the Center for
Financial Stability in New York. “Whether the Fed is going to
be able to succeed in pushing them any faster to implement
changes isn’t clear.”  Bear Stearns, Lehman  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party
repurchase agreement which neared collapse in 2008 amid the
demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., and required central bank assistance during the
financial crisis.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in March 2009 called for an
overhaul of U.S. financial regulations, including “enhancing
the resilience of the tri-party repurchase agreement market.”
“It may be worthwhile considering the costs and benefits of a
central clearing system for this market, given the magnitude of
exposures generated and the vital importance of the market for
dealers and investors,” Bernanke said.  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding, and typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender.
In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two clearing
banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and holds the
security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Bank of  New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.  ‘Target State’  “There was progress made and it’s good that the industry
is still working to further reduce risks,” said Jeff Kidwell ,
a managing director of funding and direct repo at  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based broker dealer AVM LP. “At this point, it is a
positive that the Fed will now take a more active role.”  The Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force
outlined a “target state” for the industry and said further
changes were needed to reduce risk in this primary dealer
funding market, according to a note on the Fed’s website.  The “target state” that the task force described as
necessary to insure that the market can function effectively and
efficiently, includes that secured credit for the settlement of
tri-party repo trades from clearing banks being capped at 10
percent of a dealer’s notional tri-party book, that non-maturing
trades not be unwound, and agreed upon common set of rules to
govern settlement prioritization.  Volume Declines  Over $2.8 trillion in securities were being financed on
average daily during the market peak in 2008 through tri-party
transactions, many of which had short-term maturities. During
the first quarter of 2010, the value of securities financed by
tri-party repo had fallen to an average of $1.7 trillion,
according to  New York  Fed calculations of Bank of New York and
JPMorgan data and presented in May 2010 Fed paper. In 2008, the
largest dealer borrowing position exceeded $400 billion, and
remains at more than $200 billion now, Fed researches noted in
the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  