-- Fed’s Fisher: Congress, Not Fed, Should Spur Jobs
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-15T16:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/fisher-says-job-growth-depends-on-u-s-government-cutting-budget-deficits.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said more Fed easing may backfire and
that Congress and the Obama administration should streamline tax
and regulatory policies to spur long-term job growth.  “No amount of monetary accommodation will change the
pathology” businesses face, Fisher said today in a speech in
San Marco, Texas. “Excessive monetary accommodation might only
add a further dosage of angst, fueling fears of future
inflation.”  The Fed on Jan. 25 said it will keep rates near zero at
least through late 2014, extending a previous date of mid-2013
or later. The Dallas Fed president, who doesn’t vote on policy
this year, has been among the most vocal internal Fed critics,
dissenting last year twice against moves to push down long-term
rates and to keep the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero
until at least mid-2013. He voted five times in 2008 in favor of
tighter policy.  “The greatest impediments to investing in and creating
jobs in the U.S. are the current  tax code  and regulatory burden
and uncertainty, as well as lagging workforce skills,” Fisher
said in a speech to the Texas Manufacturers Summit 2012. Fisher
cited a recent Harvard Business School survey of businesses that
“more than 70 percent of respondents expect U.S.
competitiveness to decline” over the next few years.  ‘Run-Away Deficits’  “No one -― business operator, worker or consumer -― can
plan for the long term with confidence until the federal
government removes the angst that is associated with run-away
deficits and unfunded liabilities that threaten to drown our
economy in debt,” Fisher said.  The Dallas Fed president reiterated to reporters after his
speech that he sees no need for a new round of asset purchases
by the Fed, or so-called quantitative easing. Such a move may
provoke renewed lawmaker opposition, he said.  “The enormous firestorm that we’ve created on  Capitol
Hill ” after the purchases of bonds would again be a risk,
Fisher said. “We took a lot of blowback” in response to the
second round of quantitative easing, he said. “We have rebuilt
a lot of goodwill.”  The idea of a third round of asset purchases is “a fantasy
of  Wall Street ,” Fisher said. “It’s not necessary and there’s
no need for additional monetary accommodation unless we slip
into deflation, which doesn’t seem to be the case,” or some
“extreme crisis.”  Too Big a Share  Fed purchases of securities could take too big a share of
the market, he said.  “We’re beginning to crowd things out” on certain points
of the yield curve, Fisher said.  U.S. stocks were little changed amid concern that European
officials will delay  Greece ’s second bailout. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,352.88 at 11:24 a.m.  New
York  time. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.92 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference
after the Jan. 25 Federal Open Market Committee meeting that the
Fed is keeping the option open of buying more bonds. The Fed
pushed down the rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy and reduce the jobless rate of more than 8
percent.  In his brief description of the  U.S. economy , Fisher said,
“the national  unemployment rate  is beginning to ebb. But too
many Americans remain out of work and for too long.”  Most of Speech  Fisher devoted most of his speech to describing  Texas ’s
economy. He said Texas has been one of three states to reach
peak employment again following the past recession in part
because of tax and regulatory policies that favor job creation.
A restaurant operator may spend as much as two years to get a
permit for expansion in  California  that takes six weeks in
Texas, Fisher said.  “If you examine the differences among New York and
California and Texas, you will note that these former power
states have less flexible labor rules,” Fisher said.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes Texas, northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  