-- Forint Rises to Five-Month High as Hungary Economic Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-15T16:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/forint-rises-to-five-month-high-as-hungary-economic-growth-beats-estimates.html
The forint rose to the strongest in
a week as data showed  Hungary ’s economy expanded more than
economists forecast and the country’s central bank pledged to
take steps to help boost lending.  Hungary’s currency appreciated as much as 1.4 percent and
traded 0.4 percent higher at 290.67 per euro by 5 p.m. in
Budapest, the highest closing level since Feb. 8. The jump
extended the forint’s rally this year to 8.3 percent, the most
among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark BUX
 Index (BUX)  rallied 0.5 percent to 19,132.49, as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,
Hungary’s largest lender, rose 2.4 percent.  Gross domestic product increased 1.4 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics office in Budapest said today in a
preliminary estimate. The median forecast of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.9 percent rise. The central bank
announced a two-year collateralized credit facility, a universal
mortgage bond purchase plan and the expansion of the range of
eligible collateral to help commercial banks boost lending.  “The announcement is positive for Hungarian markets,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi and Orsolya Nyeste, Budapest-based
economists at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in an e-mailed report
on the central bank statement. “The new tools should decrease
the current liquidity constraints in the banking sector.”  China , which holds the world’s largest currency reserves,
may invest in  Europe ’s bailout funds and sustain holdings of
euro assets, said People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  Bonds Rally  China’s announcement “certainly” had a positive impact on
Hungarian markets, Felix Herrmann, a Frankfurt-based economist
at DZ Bank AG, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Better-than-expected GDP figures in Hungary might also be a
trigger” for the rally in the forint, he said.  The government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rallied, cutting
yields 25 basis points to 8.448 percent.  Hungarian markets pared gains as concern that European
officials will delay  Greece ’s second bailout tempered optimism
the euro area debt crisis will be resolved.  “The strong GDP data is positive, but doesn’t answer the
challenges still facing the Hungarian economy,” Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based equities analyst at Concorde
Securities, said by telephone.  Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted eastern member,
wants to reduce government debt yields to a sustainable level by
striking a deal on an International Monetary Fund bailout,
clearing the way to sell Eurobonds, Economy Ministry State
Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said yesterday in an interview in
Budapest. The government’s “primary target” is to reduce
yields to less than 7 percent, Csefalvay said.  “The previous mortgage bond purchase program established
during 2010 was not able to substantially change the picture of
contraction in mortgage lending by banks,”  Janos Samu , another
analyst at Concorde wrote in a report. “We do not think this
one would be a game-changer either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  