-- Frankfurt Airport Says Walkout to Hamper One-Third of Flights
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-15T16:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/frankfurt-airport-runway-area-controllers-plan-walkout-tomorrow.html
Fraport AG (FRA)  said as many as one-third
of flights at  Frankfurt  airport,  Europe ’s third-busiest, may be
delayed or canceled during a strike tomorrow by runway-area
controllers.  Fraport, which owns the German airport, will work to ensure
that two-thirds of the approximately 650 flights scheduled
tomorrow can operate normally, Chief Operations Officer Peter Schmitz said at a press conference in Frankfurt. The company may
seek a court injunction to stop the strike, he said.  The controllers will halt work from 3 p.m. until 10 p.m.
after contract talks broke down, Matthias Maas, a spokesman for
the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union, told reporters today
in Berlin. Frankfurt airport is the main hub for  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline, and ranks after
 London Heathrow  and Paris Charles de Gaulle in terms of yearly
passenger numbers.  “We assume that we will bring Fraport into massive
difficulties,” said Markus Siebers, a GdF board member.  The GdF said it has accepted the recommendation of mediator
Ole von Beust, who was appointed by Fraport, for a two-step
increase in monthly wages ranging from 200 euros ($260) to 1,600
euros, depending on age and experience, Siebers said. Fraport
said in a statement that the GdF needs to make compromises in a
dispute over reducing benefits.  Seeking New Talks  “We stand by the offer we have made and are prepared to
return to the negotiating table as long as the GdF is willing to
negotiate reasonably,” Fraport Labor Relations Director Herbert Mai said in the statement.  The union, which has reached agreements with the operators
of Munich and Berlin airports, represents about 90 percent of
the controllers who oversee the ground movements and parking of
planes at Frankfurt airport. The GdF union is planning
additional strikes for Fraport employees, and will announce them
with 24 hours’ notice, Siebers said.  Fraport wants to contract out the apron-control operations
to multiple companies, while the union will accept only a single
spinoff, Siebers said. The total sum of the proposed pay
increase for the 200 controllers at Frankfurt is a low two-digit
million-euro sum, he said.  Andreas Bartels , a spokesman for  Lufthansa (LHA) , said it’s too
early to tell how the carrier’s flights will be affected.  Four flights operated by  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest airline, would be affected by the strike, said Alexandra
Bakir, a spokeswoman, adding that the carrier hasn’t decided
whether the flights may be canceled or postponed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  