-- Geithner Says Republicans Walked Away From U.S. Tax Overhaul
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-15T17:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/geithner-says-republican-lawmakers-walked-away-from-u-s-tax-code-overhaul.html
The Obama administration isn’t
proposing a comprehensive rewrite of the U.S. tax code because
Republicans in Congress aren’t ready to discuss it, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  A necessary, inevitable tax overhaul can’t be achieved
because discussions with Republicans last year on  deficit 
reduction proved “impossible,” Geithner said today in an
exchange with Republican Representative  Dave Camp , the chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, at a panel hearing.  “Your side walked away from the table three separate
times,” Geithner said. “You guys were not ready.”  Camp, of  Michigan , disputed Geithner’s characterization,
saying it was unfair to compare private meetings to
consideration of a public tax overhaul proposal.  “Why isn’t there a comprehensive reform plan coming from
this administration?” Camp asked. “What we’re asking is for
some sort of public leadership stand on this issue.”  Camp has released a discussion draft on parts of a  tax-code 
rewrite, and he said to Geithner that Republican proposals on
the deficit-reduction supercommittee last year included some
higher revenue.  In later comments, Geithner said he would speak
“carefully” to avoid provoking Camp.  ‘Too Far Apart’  “We found, frankly, that we were too far apart,” Geithner
said. “We’re just so far apart on these core priorities.”  Camp criticized President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget
plan because it includes  tax increases  that he said would put
U.S. companies at a “competitive disadvantage” around the
world.  “The budget is replete with proposals that will take more
money away from employers, investors and savers,” Camp said.  In Obama’s budget plan, released Feb. 13, the top tax rate
on ordinary income would increase to 39.6 percent from 35
percent while the top rate on  capital gains  would rise to 20
percent from 15 percent. Dividends would be taxed as ordinary
income instead of at a 15 percent preferential tax rate.  The hearing demonstrated the gaps between Republicans and
Democrats on  tax policy  and on whether tax increases should be
used to reduce the  budget deficit .  ‘Top 2 Percent’  “Focusing these revenue proposals on the top 2 percent,
those who have fared the best in the last decade of financial
excess, is far better for the economy and more fair for the
American people than cuts of equivalent magnitude” to Medicare
and other programs, Geithner said.  The Treasury secretary said the administration will release
a framework for changing the  corporate tax  code this month. That
framework will suggest a lower  tax rate  and fewer tax breaks
while retaining some incentives, he said, citing what he called
the test he is using.  “Are we making it more likely that that next factory by a
U.S. company or a foreign company is built here?” Geithner
said.  Republican Representatives  Jim Gerlach  of  Pennsylvania  and
Erik Paulsen of  Minnesota  questioned whether a 2.3 percent
medical-device excise tax scheduled to take effect in 2013 would
cause job losses.  “It’s a time bomb out there,” said Paulsen, citing
concerns from device companies in his district.  Geithner said he disagreed, because the expansion of access
to health insurance would create more opportunities for device
companies.  “On balance, it is a good package for people in the health
care business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  