-- Seward & Kissel Founding Partner George Seward Dies at 101
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-16T00:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/george-seward-founding-partner-of-seward-kissel-law-firm-dies-at-101.html
George Seward, the founding partner
of law firm  Seward & Kissel LLP  and the honorary life president
of the International Bar Association, has died. He was 101.  Seward died today at his home in Scarsdale,  New York , the
firm said in a statement.  “We are deeply saddened by the passing of our mentor and
friend George Seward,” John Tavss, the firm’s managing partner,
said in the statement.  Seward was a business lawyer who served in leadership
positions in the  American Bar Association , according to the
statement. He led the committee to develop a model corporation
act, was chairman of the ABA’s section on business law and was a
14-year member of its governing body, the House of Delegates,
the firm said. In the 1960s, on behalf of the ABA, he became
involved with the London-based International Bar Association,
helping to develop the individual member side of the
organization, according to the firm.  In 1953, Seward became a partner at Meyer, Kidder, Matz &
Kissel, the firm that would become Seward & Kissel. He was an
active partner until December 1983 and had been senior counsel
since then. He worked at the firm several days a week through
the end of 2011, the firm said.  Unusual Education  George Chester Seward was born Aug. 4, 1910, in Omaha,
 Nebraska . He wrote of his unusual elementary education in his
1987 book “Seward and Related Families,” noting that he
transferred frequently among schools in Nebraska,  Oklahoma ,
 Illinois  and  Indiana  because of his father’s business, the  firm 
said.  He graduated from the  University of Virginia , where he
received undergraduate and law degrees, according to the firm.
He was a Phi Beta Kappa, Order of the Coif and a member of the
university’s Raven Society, the firm said.  Seward was a distant relative of William H. Seward,
President Abraham Lincoln’s secretary of state, according to the
firm.  Seward is survived by his two sons, Gordon and James, and
two daughters, Patricia and Deborah, according to the statement.
His wife of 54 years, Carroll, died in 1991, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 