-- Germany Beats Fourth-Quarter Forecast, French Economy Grows
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-02-15T10:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/german-economy-shrank-in-q4-on-trade.html
Germany  and France performed better
than economists forecast in the fourth quarter even as the
sovereign debt crisis ravaged the economies of their smaller
euro-area partners.  Gross domestic product  in Germany,  Europe ’s largest
economy, fell 0.2 percent from the third quarter, beating
economists’ median prediction for a 0.3 percent decline. The
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden also revised third-
quarter growth to 0.6 percent from 0.5 percent. The French
economy, Europe’s second largest, grew 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, confounding the median forecast for a 0.2 percent
contraction.  The debt crisis has damped growth across Europe’s currency
bloc and pushed Greece, Portugal, Belgium,  Italy  and the
Netherlands into recession, defined as two consecutive quarters
of declining GDP. Today’s data add to signs that Germany and
 France  may avoid that fate. German investor confidence surged to
a 10-month high in February, the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research said yesterday.  “We expect the German economy to move roughly sideways in
the first half of this year before gaining momentum from around
the middle of the year, when European policy makers should have
implemented the final measures to contain the sovereign debt
crisis,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam.  The euro rose after the French and German GDP reports
before declining to trade little changed at $1.3153 at noon in
Frankfurt.  Euro-Area GDP  The Italian and Dutch economies both contracted 0.7 percent
in the fourth quarter from the third. Austria and  Spain  also
reported GDP declines. The 17-nation euro economy shrank 0.3
percent in the period, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said, less than the 0.4 percent drop forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  “The fourth quarter of 2011 was very weak, but we have
seen a stream of both survey and hard data that seem to point to
a stabilization in economic activity at a low level,” European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week.  European services and factory output increased in January
for the first time in five months, according to a composite
index of both industries.  In December, the ECB forecast economic growth of 0.3
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2013. It will publish new
projections in March.  Borrowing Costs  The debt crisis escalated in the fourth quarter, sending
Italian and Spanish bond yields soaring. Those borrowing costs
have fallen since the ECB injected a record 489 billion euros
($647 billion) into the banking system in December and
governments agreed to greater budget discipline.  Greece , whose economy shrank 6.8 percent last year, has
agreed to austerity measures needed to secure a second bailout
package that will help it stave off default. Euro-area finance
ministers nevertheless canceled a Brussels meeting slated for
today, citing a lack of political assurances from Greek leaders
to stick to the austerity pledges.  Ministers will instead hold a teleconference to prod Greece
to do more to clinch the 130 billion-euro package along with
about 100 billion euros of debt relief from private bondholders.
Greece needs the aid to make a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on
March 20.  Recovery ‘Expected’  German truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN) , controlled by car manufacturer
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said yesterday that sales and operating profit
will decline in 2012 as the debt crisis discourages companies
from investing.  “Although a recovery is expected in the second half of the
year, we must work hard to achieve our goals,”  Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said on Jan. 24 after the
company reported earnings that missed estimates.  From a year earlier, German  GDP (GRGDPPGY)  increased 1.5 percent in
the fourth quarter. The statistics office said trade and
household spending had negative impacts on growth, while
investment, particularly construction, boosted GDP. A detailed
breakdown for the quarter will be published on Feb. 24.  The German economy grew 3 percent last year while France’s
expanded 1.7 percent.  French corporate investment and exports drove fourth-
quarter growth, a boost for President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as he
prepares to declare his bid for a second term later today.  Sarkozy’s economic credentials have been damaged in recent
months as France was stripped of its AAA credit rating and
jobless claims jumped to their highest in 12 years.  Investment is “rebounding, notably in the car industry,”
Paris-based national statistics office Insee said. “Exports
remained dynamic in the fourth quarter, helped mainly by the
sale of transport products, while imports fell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  