-- German Stocks Rise as Economy Contracts Less Than Expected
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-15T17:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/german-stocks-advance-as-economy-beats-forecasts-correct-.html
German stocks gained as the economy
shrank less than forecast, adding to signs it may avoid a
recession.  TUI AG (TUI1)  rose 3.5 percent to its highest since July after
selling a stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG. Puma AG, Europe’s second-
largest sporting goods maker, gained after saying net income in
2011 jumped, helping rival  Adidas AG (ADS)  climb to a record.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  gained 3.5 percent.  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.4 percent to 6,757.94
at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . Twenty-two stocks climbed
and eight fell. The wider HDAX benchmark index rose 0.5 percent.
European stocks pared gains after Reuters reported that policy
makers are pondering ways to delay a second bailout for Greece.  “Investors are taking courage from better-than-expected
economic data,” said Luis Benguerel, trader at Interbrokers in
Barcelona. “While growth is what may offset the ongoing
sovereign-debt crisis, let’s not forget that the problems remain
and seem louder every day.”  The German economy shrank less than economists forecast in
the fourth quarter. Gross domestic product in  Europe ’s largest
economy, adjusted for seasonal effects, fell 0.2 percent from
the third quarter, when it increased 0.6 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
0.3 percent decline, according to the median of 43 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Euro Economy  The euro-area economy contracted 0.3 percent from the prior
three months, the first drop since the second quarter of 2009,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists forecast a drop of 0.4 percent, the median of 42
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, the
euro-area economy grew 0.7 percent.  Finance ministers may delay a second aid package for  Greece 
until after the country’s elections in April to gain stronger
political support for budget cuts, Reuters reported, citing
several EU sources it didn’t identify.  TUI rose 3.5 percent to 6.43 euros. The Hannover, Germany-
based company agreed to sell a 17.4 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd
to Albert Ballin for 475 million euros ($624 million), leaving
it with 22 percent of the shipping unit, it said in a statement
late yesterday.  The owner of Europe’s largest travel company posted today a
wider operating loss in the first quarter because of unrest in
North Africa. The underlying operating loss widened to 147.3
million euros in the three months through December from 119.6
million euros in the year-earlier period.  Adidas Record  Puma added 3.1 percent to 247.25 euros after it reported
today that its fourth-quarter net income more than doubled to
33.1 million euros. Adidas gained 2.6 percent to 59.26 euros.  Infineon gained 3.5 percent to 7.35 euros after it was
raised to “add” from “buy” at Commerzbank AG by analyst
Thomas Becker. Commerzbank doesn’t see “any substantial risk
for Infineon’s operational business or the ability to return
cash” from pending claims of Qimonda AG’s insolvency
administrator, the bank said in a report distributed today.  Infineon fell 4.3 percent yesterday after saying the
insolvency administrator of its former unit wants a payment of
at least 1.71 billion euros plus interest.  ThyssenKrupp AG fell 2.4 percent to 20.56 euros. Germany’s
largest steelmaker said it’s hiring Reinhold Achatz of Siemens
AG as head of corporate center, innovation and quality.
ThyssenKrupp hired  Heinrich Hiesinger , who has sat on Siemens’s
management board, as chief executive officer in January 2011,
fuelling speculation the two companies may move closer together.  K+S AG (SDF)  gained 1.8 percent to 40.19 euros. Europe’s largest
potash maker rose 1.1 percent yesterday after it was added to
WestLB AG’s large cap conviction list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 