-- Gingrich Name-Drops Business Idea Touted by Supporter
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-02-15T17:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/gingrich-name-drops-business-theory-touted-by-wealthy-super-pac-supporter.html
As he seeks the Republican
presidential nomination,  Newt Gingrich  has become a de facto
spokesman for Lean Six Sigma, a business management concept
pioneered by a Dallas entrepreneur who has spent more than
$200,000 of his own money to promote the former U.S. House
speaker’s candidacy.  Gingrich has uttered the term “Lean Six Sigma” at least
28 times since August in campaign appearances, debates and media
interviews, a review of transcripts and news accounts shows. At
the same time, Mike George, the investor who has written six
books on Lean Six Sigma, paid for mailings, handouts and
automated phone calls backing Gingrich in the Iowa caucuses and
 South Carolina  primary last month.  George’s financial support comes through a political action
committee, Strong America Now, which he created and solely
funds. The dynamic illustrates a new way for wealthy individuals
to leverage the high visibility of a presidential election as a
public-relations tool for a specific company, product or
message.  “This goes beyond the concern about coordination, and
smack dab into the concern of having a mutually profitable
business relationship between a super-PAC and a presidential
candidate,” said  Craig Holman , a lobbyist with Public Citizen
in  Washington , a group that advocates for tighter regulation of
political donations. “There’s Gingrich out there selling Mike
George’s book while Mike George helps to promote Gingrich’s
candidacy. That’s kind of amazing.”  Super-PAC Spending  Super-PACs can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money,
including corporate cash, on campaign activity. The committees
can’t coordinate with candidates.  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, said he isn’t concerned
about the perception that George’s spending is influencing
Gingrich’s speech content.  “I don’t worry about that any more than I worry about
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  giving to  Mitt Romney ,” he said, referring to one
of Gingrich’s rivals in the Republican race. “Gingrich is the
only candidate who can communicate the message” of using Lean
Six Sigma to reduce government waste, he said. “He’s the only
candidate with independent thought.”  George, 72, said he’s not profiting from Gingrich’s
promotion of his philosophy. “I’ve got enough money. I don’t
need anything. I’m involved because I have wonderful experience
that I’d like to share with the nation,” he said in an
interview.  George said he intends to spend more money supporting
Gingrich.  Lean Six Sigma  The Lean Six Sigma program is intended to train managers to
identify and eliminate inefficiencies. The  U.S. Army (NDCEEGML)  used the
system and wound up saving millions of dollars by consolidating
contracts for wireless handheld devices, computer hardware and
software licensing, according to a Nov. 5, 2007, Federal Times
article.  Gingrich, 68, has talked about using Lean Six Sigma to
reduce government waste in at least six debates. He included the
principle in his “New Contract with America,” unveiled Sept.
29 in Des Moines, where he recognized George, who was present,
as “terrific” and “an example of why America is a unique
country.”  Two days later, George filed paperwork with the  Federal
Election Commission  to create the pro-Gingrich super-PAC to work
in tandem with a nonprofit group also named Strong American Now
that draws attention to the  national deficit .  Asset to Campaign  “Strong America Now obviously is an asset to the Gingrich
campaign, and it’s a mutually beneficial relationship,” said
 Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics based in Washington, which tracks political giving.  Strong America Now made its first independent expenditure
on Dec. 21, spending about $40,552 for a mailer supporting
Gingrich, according to FEC disclosure reports. On newsstands
that week was a Newsweek cover story on Gingrich in which he
discussed Lean Six Sigma.  “Mike George has been very heroic as a citizen,” Gingrich
told a group gathered Dec. 27 at a golf club in Dubuque,  Iowa .
“He took his own money, which he made as a  management
consultant , and he helped create Strong America Now, and I’m a
big fan of that model.”  Gingrich didn’t mention that Strong America Now had created
its super-PAC supporting him -- and that it had financed on that
same day $38,967 worth of pro-Gingrich mailers, FEC reports
show.  “Behind Gingrich’s leadership America will usher in an era
of economic renewal and restore the American Dream,” one direct
mail piece said.  CPAC Speech Pitch  The George management philosophy peppered Gingrich’s Feb.
10 speech to the Conservative Political Action Conference in
Washington.  “We should replace the 130-year-old civil service system
and regulation with a new model of modern management, using
systems like Lean Six Sigma,” Gingrich said.  According to Hammond, Gingrich learned of the management
theory while serving in Congress in the 1990s. “What Gingrich
is arguing is that if you retrain the bureaucracy and managers
in that bureaucracy to streamline and make more efficient their
processes, you spend less money,” he said.  Shawn J. Parry-Giles, director of the Center for Political
Communication and Civic Leadership at the University of
 Maryland , said she doubts Gingrich is attracting voters by
talking about Lean Six Sigma.  Not Voter Messaging  “Most people don’t have a clue what that means,” she said
in an interview. “That kind of jargon doesn’t have any utility
in helping someone decide how to vote.”  She said the issue of government waste also is
“abstract,” and “seems impersonal at a time when people want
a candidate who will make the economy better so that we have
jobs.”  When Strong America Now was operating only as a nonprofit
organization, its main mission was to secure pledges from all of
the presidential candidates that they would use Lean Six Sigma
principles to reduce the  deficit . “Pledged” candidates commit
to attending a two-day Lean Six Sigma training seminar before
inauguration day and ending the deficit by 2017.  Gingrich was the first candidate to sign, June 8 at an
event in  New Hampshire . Others, including former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas ,
followed.  Romney Snubs Pledge  Romney, who as co-founder of Bain Capital LLC and head of
the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City has the most business
experience of the candidates, didn’t sign the pledge. George
said that Romney’s refusal prompted him to put his money behind
Gingrich, who last fall was running higher in public opinion
polls than Santorum or Paul.  One of Strong America Now’s direct mail pieces criticized
Romney for not signing the pledge, and said the former
Massachusetts governor’s proposals come “nowhere close to
eliminating the federal deficit -- at any point.”  If Romney “would sign, I’d kill the super-PAC tomorrow,”
George said.  Democratic President  Barack Obama  also hasn’t signed the
pledge, though George said he’s asked a mutual friend to put the
request to the re-election campaign.  Romney supporter Ron Pearson, the former chief executive
officer for the Hy-Vee grocery store chain based in  West Des
Moines , Iowa, said the candidate already has the experience
needed to trim  government spending . “Governor Romney knows more
about how to root out waste and inefficiency than probably any
candidate for president in the modern era,” Pearson told the
Des Moines Register on Dec. 14.  George Investments  George applies the Lean Six Sigma principles when his
investment firm, Filoli Capital LLC, buys companies. In 2007, he
sold his consulting company -- which popularized Lean Six Sigma
-- to  Accenture Plc (ACN) , where his son is vice-president. Under the
terms of that deal, George may not form another consulting firm
to promote Lean Six Sigma until August 2013, he said.  Also under the terms of the deal, royalties from the six
books George has written -- which have sold more than 1 million
copies in nine languages -- go to Accenture, George said in an
e-mail today.  He said he “can see why” it might appear that he could
benefit financially from Gingrich’s touting of the principle on
the campaign trail.  “I am applying all of my energy to private investments,
and Newt can’t help me with those at all,” he said. “If I went
ahead and started a consulting business, maybe I could benefit,
but I have no intention of doing that.”  Holman of  Public Citizen  said the mere appearance of a
“business enterprise” within a presidential campaign is
“troubling.”  “This is the first time I’ve seen anything like this,” he
said. “I could easily see it catching on: You tout my book, and
I’ll provide you with a portion of my proceeds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  