-- MGM Resorts, Ameristar Form Marketing Alliance to Draw Visitors
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-02-15T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/mgm-resorts-ameristar-form-marketing-alliance-to-draw-visitors.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and
 Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  agreed to a marketing alliance to draw
more visitors to their casinos across the U.S. and Las Vegas.  MGM Resorts, the biggest owner of casinos on the Las Vegas
Strip, and Ameristar, the operator of eight U.S. casinos in
Missouri, Colorado, Mississippi, Indiana, Iowa and Nevada,
agreed to offer reciprocal rewards to some customers in their
loyalty programs, the companies said in an e-mailed statement.  Ameristar, which doesn’t have a Strip casino, and MGM,
which has 10 including the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay and
CityCenter, negotiated a deal that lets some big spenders within
MGM’s M life program benefit from Ameristar privileges.
Ameristar’s Star Awards customers will get offers from MGM’s
Strip properties. The partnership will begin in mid-March.  Las Vegas  casinos are pursuing alliances to draw more
visitors from parts of the U.S. where they don’t have customer
databases and reducing marketing costs by targeting offers to
established players.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (HET) , which has the
most casinos across the U.S., uses its Total Rewards program to
draw gamblers to Las Vegas from its resorts elsewhere.  MGM Resorts has already announced alliances with rental-car
company Avis Budget Group Inc., Delaware casino owner Dover
Downs Gaming & Entertainment Inc., Rank Group Plc, the U.K.
operator of casinos and bingo clubs, Foxwoods Resort Casino in
Connecticut, which is owned by the Mashantucket Western Pequot
Tribal Nation, and with  SBE Entertainment , a Los Angeles
nightclub and restaurant group.  Pinnacle, Wynn  The MGM-Ameristar alliance follows an agreement last year
between  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  that
lets customers at Pinnacle’s seven casinos in Louisiana,
Missouri, Indiana and Nevada use their loyalty points at the
Wynn and Encore resorts on the Las Vegas Strip.  In October, MGM Resorts said it was investing in Creative
Casinos LLC, owned by former Pinnacle CEO Daniel Lee. The deal
included MGM managing Lee’s planned Mojito Pointe casino resort
in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  said in October 2010 its Venetian and
Palazzo casino resorts in Las Vegas would join  InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ’s database and loyalty program, gaining access
to travelers who can help fill the properties’ 7,000 suites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  