-- Goldman, Macquarie Sell Apollo’s ‘American Idol’ Loan at Highest Discount
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-02-15T18:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/goldman-macquarie-sell-apollo-s-american-idol-loan-at-highest-discount.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  sold a $200 million loan backing Apollo
Global Management LLC’s 2011 buyout of  CKX Inc. (CKXE) , the owner of
the television show “ American Idol ”, at the steepest discount
on record.  The first-lien credit was sold for 78 cents on the dollar,
according to three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because the deal is private. That’s
the biggest so-called original issue discount for U.S. bank
debt, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary &
Data.  The loan sale allows the banks to reduce their exposure to
CKX after the company failed to sell $360 million in bonds in
July to pay for the $509 million buyout by  Leon Black ’s Apollo
after credit markets weakened due to  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
discount on New York-based CKX’s term loan follows a decline in
viewership of the company’s “American Idol”, according to
Michael Altberg, a credit analyst with S&P in New York.  “They’re heavily reliant on ‘American Idol’,” Altberg
said in a telephone interview. “While the show might have more
near-term visibility, in five, six years from now there’s a lot
more risk around where that show will be.”  The original issue discount on CKX’s first-lien loan is
about 20 cents below the average in January of 98.14 cents on
the dollar for loans rated B+/B, data from S&P’s LCD show. The
OID reduces proceeds for borrowers and can cut underwriting
profits for banks while boosting yield for investors.  Fewer Viewers  “ American Idol ,” the most-watched series on U.S.
television, drew 17 percent fewer viewers for the debut of its
11th season last month than for its 2011 premiere. This year’s
show attracted 21.9 million viewers,  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox network
said in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 19, citing Nielsen data.  A “high concentration” of CKX’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization come from “American Idol”
and related revenue, according to a Jan. 18 report from Moody’s
Investors Service.  Moody’s lowered CKX’s ranking to B3, six levels below
investment grade, from B2 when CKX was taken private by Apollo
in June. Junk debt is rated less than Baa3 by Moody’s and below
BBB- by S&P.  CKX, which owns rights to the name, image and likeness of
 Elvis Presley  and  Muhammad Ali , had about $258 million of
revenue in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, according to Moody’s.  “Results have been a little weaker than we had
anticipated, and their show  Viva Elvis  in  Las Vegas  is expected
to be canceled,” Scott Van den Bosch, senior analyst at
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “Those events have been
weighing on the company.”  Bridge Loan  CKX’s bridge financing was replaced by a $200 million
first-lien loan due in 2017 and a $160 million second-lien
portion maturing in 2018.  “The term loans do not amortize, which means there’s no
requirement to pay down these term loans over time,” said S&P’s
Altberg. “So there is the risk of these bullet maturities 5 to
6 years from now.” A so-called bullet maturity means the entire
principal amount is due in a lump sum payment when the debt
expires.  The company’s first-lien loan will pay interest at 9
percent, according to a fourth person with knowledge of the
matter, who also declined to be identified because the
transaction is private. The debt has 15 percent yield-to-
maturity, said three people.  Thomas Benson, chief financial officer at  CKX , Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and Paula Chirhart, a
spokeswoman for Macquarie, declined to comment.  Bondlike  “It’s a loan but it’s structured like a bond,” Moody’s
Van den Bosch said. “It’s fixed rate, there’s no amortization
payment, it’s covenant-lite and the incurrence test is the only
limitation that restricts additional debt from being issued.”  Incurrence tests require the borrower to be in compliance
with certain financial ratios only when it is seeking a specific
action such as a dividend or acquisition. First-lien debt is
repaid first in a bankruptcy or liquidation.  CKX’s leverage is “moderately high” with debt to Ebitda
of 4.9 times, according to Moody’s, including lease expenses and
preferred shares treated as debt. The ratings company gave a B1
grade to CKX’s $200 million first-lien loan and Caa2 to its $160
million second-lien loan.  “We think ‘American Idol’s’ performance will be relatively
stable over the next few seasons,” said S&P’s Altberg. “It’s
the longer term outlook that has less certainty. They have to
basically find new shows that are going to work that will help
to replenish their portfolio down the line.”  -- With assistance from Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles . Editor:
Chapin Wright, Faris Khan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  