-- Gold Rises as China Pledges to Aid Europe
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-15T19:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/gold-rises-as-china-s-pledge-to-aid-europe-boosts-commodities.html
Gold futures rose, ending the
longest slump this year, as  China ’s pledge to help resolve
 Europe ’s debt crisis boosted demand for commodities.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose to a six-month high.  Zhou Xiaochuan , China’s central bank
governor, indicated the nation will invest in Europe’s bailout
funds. Paulson & Co., the $23 billion hedge fund run by  John Paulson , said that “now is the time” to buy gold as an
inflation hedge. Paulson is the biggest holder in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the largest exchange-traded fund backed by the metal.  The signal from China “is definitely helping all
commodities, including gold,” Miguel Perez-Santalla, a vice
president at Oklahoma City-based Apmex Inc., an online metal
dealer, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “Also,
some investors are buying because they are not sure whether
Greece will finally be able to get out of the mess.”  Gold futures for April delivery rose 0.6 percent to settle
at $1,728.10 an ounce at 1:53 p.m. on the Comex in New York, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since Feb. 7.  The metal dropped 1.3 percent in the previous three
sessions, the longest slump since late December. Gold has gained
10 percent this year.  Evangelos Venizelos, Greece’s finance minster, said today
that Europe’s wealthier countries are “playing with fire” by
indicating that the country may be expelled from the 17-nation
euro bloc.  Greek Concerns  Paulson said  Greece  may default by the end of March,
triggering the breakup of the euro. His comments were in a year-
end letter sent to clients this month. A copy was obtained by
Bloomberg.  In the fourth quarter, Paulson cuts his stake in the SPDR
gold ETF by 15 percent.  Hedge funds  including Vinik Asset
Management LP, Tudor Investment Corp. and SAC Capital Advisors
LP also sold shares. Soros Fund Management LLC and Lone Pine
Capital LLC increased their holdings.  Silver futures for March delivery advanced 0.2 percent to
$33.408 an ounce. The price has gained 20 percent this year.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
March delivery fell 0.5 percent to $683.65 an ounce. The price
fell for the fifth straight session, the longest slump since
early October. The metal has gained 4.2 percent this year.  Platinum futures for April delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$1,638.20 an ounce, ending a four-session slide.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  