-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Say Volcker Rule on Trading May Raise Risks
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-say-volcker-rule-could-raise-risks.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the two Wall Street banks most reliant on trading,
warned U.S. regulators that a proposed ban on proprietary
trading could make the financial system more risky and curtail
services for clients.  The New York-based banks, along with competitors  Bank of
America Corp .,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., are
pushing to limit the reach of the Volcker rule, a ban on
proprietary trading included in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. A draft
of the rule, which takes effect in July, was released by U.S.
regulators in October.  “Without substantial revisions, the proposed rule will
define permitted market making-related, underwriting and hedging
activities so narrowly that it will significantly limit our
ability to help our clients,” John F.W. Rogers, Goldman Sach’s
chief of staff, said in a comment letter.  “Although one of the key aims of Dodd-Frank was to promote
greater stability in financial markets, we are concerned that
the proposed rule could inadvertently increase systemic risk,”
he added. If the rule makes hedging more expensive, “banking
entities’ clients and customers will be forced to hold more risk
on their own books.”  The Federal Reserve, Securities and Exchange Commission and
other financial regulators received thousands of comments
letters by the Feb. 13 deadline. A number of the world’s largest
banks questioned whether regulators took into account how they
conduct business.  ‘Real Misconception’  “There appears to be a real misconception about how
principal market makers generate revenues,”  Colm Kelleher , who
runs Morgan Stanley’s trading business, and Chief Operating
Officer  Jim Rosenthal , wrote in the firm’s comment letter. “The
proposal should be revised to reflect the realities.”  Morgan Stanley generated about 44 percent of its revenue
last year from trading. In the letter, the bank officers argued
that the proposed rule fails to adequately distinguish between
permitted market making and prohibited proprietary trading, and
they objected to a provision requiring market makers to generate
most of their revenue from commissions, fees and bid-ask
spreads.  The proposed rule has a “narrow view” of market-making,
underwriting and hedging activities that is based on liquid
exchange-traded U.S. markets, Goldman Sachs’s Rogers said. The
rule doesn’t account for trading that is currently conducted in
less liquid or over-the-counter markets.  ‘Rigid Application’  “The proposed rule’s rigid application of an agency-based,
exchange-traded equities paradigm threatens to reduce liquidity
in these markets,” Rogers said.  The rule may hurt banks’ ability to underwrite corporate
bonds by restricting their ability to hold bonds as inventory
during a bond issuance, which could then increase costs for
issuers, according to the letter.  The two men responsible for the provision’s inclusion in
the Dodd-Frank Act -- Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan 
and  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  -- urged regulators to be more
forceful in implementing the rule.  “The Volcker rule demands Wall Street change its
culture,” Merkley and Levin wrote in their own comment letter.  The two senators insisted that the rule is not as
complicated as the banks maintain.  “If a firm is holding onto a position in a way that
principally profits from price changes in the instrument and it
is being held for a period that indicates the holding was not a
long-term investment or the extension of credit, then that
should be considered prohibited proprietary trading,” the
senators wrote.  Conflicts of Interest  Levin and Merkley also pushed for a more detailed account
of bank activities that may be banned by regulators as well as
an explicit ban on conflicts of interest. Levin has cited the
ban as a response to a Senate investigation he oversaw into the
financial crisis that faulted Goldman Sachs’ trading practices.  Goldman Sachs, which accounted for 60 percent of its
revenue through trading in 2011, has already shuttered its
standalone proprietary trading desk. No matter how the final
version of the Volcker rule comes out, Rogers said Goldman Sachs
recognizes that  Wall Street  is in a time of change.  “We are not arguing that the line between permitted
activities and prohibited proprietary trading be drawn in such a
way as to permit all activities in which we have historically
engaged,” Rogers wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  