-- Google as Benevolent Dictator Yanks Apps With Kill Switch: Tech
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/google-as-benevolent-dictator-yanks-smartphone-apps-with-kill-switch-tech.html
Finnish developer Janne Kytomaki
said he knew something was amiss last year when he noticed
dozens of best-selling applications on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Android
Market  listing the same incorrect author.  Kytomaki ran tests, identified the mislabeled software as a
fast-moving attack and published the findings online.  Google responded swiftly. It yanked the apps from the
marketplace and, using a little-known tactic to keep the malware
from spreading, flipped a kill switch that reached into more
than 250,000 infected Android smartphones and removed all
vestiges of the software.  “I was positively surprised by how fast Google got the
apps removed from the market and how fast they were able to roll
out a tool for removing the malware,” Kytomaki said.  Google,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have with little
fanfare embraced technology that lets technicians instantly and
remotely purge unauthorized content from users’ machines. So-
called kill switches are standard on Android handsets and
iPhones, the smartphone leaders. The capability will soon become
more widespread with the release of Microsoft’s Windows 8
software for tablets and computers.  While their stated use is for the removal of harmful
content, there’s no standard definition of what that means, and
companies aren’t required to disclose when and how the tools are
employed. The technology could be harnessed by a hacker to
unleash a virus, a company to pry into a user’s private
information or a government body to repress free speech, said
 Eric Goldman , director of the  High Tech Law Institute  at Santa
Clara University’s law school.  ‘Dictator-Philosopher-King’  “We have the benevolent dictator, philosopher-king type of
model,” Goldman said. “You have someone who has absolute
control over my hard drive in ways I may have never anticipated
or consented to. If they use that power wisely, they actually
make my life better. We don’t know if they use the power wisely.
In fact, we may never know when they use their power at all.”  Kill switches are technologically unsophisticated
administrative programs that run silently in the background.
They have long existed in controlled networks, like at work,
where technical staff has power over every machine. They haven’t
been widely used on personal computers, whose users are online
sporadically and inconsistently update security patches -- a
failure that has fostered the spread of malware such as the
Conficker worm, which has infected millions of Windows machines.  Smartphone users, on the other hand, are online all the
time and must download applications from tightly controlled
stores. By design, mobile software gives computer companies a
second chance on security, said  Kevin Mahaffey , co-founder of
Lookout Inc., a San Francisco security firm for smartphones.  ‘Overcorrection’  “The remote-removal tools are very much a response to the
mistakes of the PC era,” Mahaffey said. “Whether or not it’s
an overcorrection, I think history will tell us. It can be done
right, but we as an industry need to tread carefully. It’s easy
to imagine several dystopian futures that can arise from this.”  One concern is that Google, Microsoft and others could face
external pressure to engage kill switches.  Governments are getting increasingly aggressive in
demanding help from technology companies in censoring e-mail and
the Internet, as BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
learned in 2010 when  India ,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  pressured it to open customer communications to
inspection.  “If you build a control into a device that the
manufacturer and carrier can control, it will be used by
governments,” said  Chris Wysopal , co-founder of Veracode Inc.,
a security firm in Burlington,  Massachusetts .  Benefits, Drawbacks  Hackers are also getting more sophisticated at infiltrating
protected networks, and privacy breaches are more common as
personal data becomes the coin of the Internet realm. A kill
switch feature carries clear benefits, and potentially dangerous
drawbacks, Wysopal said.  “It can really be used to add security, but it can also be
used to deny people their rights to communicate,” he said.
“This is a place where there’s no clear doctrine. We haven’t
heard anything clearly come out from an Apple or a Google
saying, ‘Here’s when we’ll use our kill switch and when we
won’t.’”  Representatives of  Mountain View , California-based Google
and Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said they have used
kill switches a handful of times, though they declined to
provide specifics.  Tricking ‘Twilight’ Fans  The kill switch is reserved for “really egregious, really
obvious cases” of harmful content, said  Hiroshi Lockheimer ,
Google’s vice president of Android engineering.  “We’ve always viewed remote removal as the final option,”
he said. “It’s not something we want to use.”  One instance came after  Jon Oberheide , a 28-year-old
security researcher from  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , duped fans of the
“ Twilight ” teen vampire movies. Oberheide uploaded a fake app
on the Android Market and billed it as a preview of the latest
film in the series. The software was empty, except for a single
screen shot.  Still, the app, which had been downloaded 200 times,
provided an entrée that might have let Oberheide introduce
malware onto devices. It also helped Oberheide goad Google into
using its kill-switch option.  “It finally happened,” Oberheide said.  Google, taking a lesson from PC industry bouts with
malware, has built in more aggressive protections since the
first versions of Android, which began appearing in phones in
2008. Google’s partners have sold more than 250 million Android
devices, while Apple has sold more than 180 million iPhones.  Hacking Risk  Security experts said users would be at risk if hackers
were able to hijack the mechanism Google uses to push software
to the devices. Lockheimer said Google takes security of the
mechanism seriously and has built-in protections.  Microsoft, which enabled the feature in Windows smartphones
several years ago, said its takedowns have not involved malware.
The violations concerned “technical issues and content
issues,” said Todd Biggs, a director of  product management  at
Microsoft.  “Revocation is a last resort, and it’s uncommon,” Biggs
said. “We take that as a signpost that we’re on target toward
our goal, which is safe, reliable apps for consumers.”  Microsoft disclosed last year that it was adding a kill
switch to desktop and laptop software. It did so by posting the
 terms of use  for an application store, a new feature for Windows
8.  Amazon’s ‘1984’ Moment  RIM’s  licensing documents  for vendors say that RIM reserves
the right to remove applications from users’ devices “for any
reason whatsoever.” Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM, declined to comment.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, also declined to comment.  Steve Jobs , Apple’s deceased
co-founder, confirmed the existence of a kill switch in a 2008
 interview  with the Wall Street Journal. Jobs said it would be
“irresponsible” for Apple not to have a way to protect users
from malicious applications. The comment appeared at the bottom
of a story about iPhone app sales, in response to research that
uncovered clues that such a feature existed on Apple devices.  The incident that encapsulates the danger of using a kill
switch is  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s use of the feature to delete some
copies of  George Orwell ’s “1984” and “Animal Farm” novels
from Kindle devices in 2009 after discovering a publisher had
sold them without the necessary rights.  ‘Stupid, Thoughtless, Out of Line’  Customers were infuriated, and CEO  Jeff Bezos  called it
“ stupid , thoughtless and painfully out of line with our
principles.” The company vowed it would never delete books from
Kindles again.  Amazon representatives didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  While the emergence of kill switches shows the growing
control that technology companies have assumed over users’
devices, it also exposes the shortcomings of other methods of
keeping users’ computers clean.  Stephanie Stambaugh, a 47-year-old freelance writer from
Denver, has been battling a so-called botnet infection on her
home PCs since December. Her Internet provider,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
alerted her to the infection, a type of program where a machine
is controlled without the user’s consent that is becoming more
common. She said that while she has run a dozen different
antivirus and other cleanup programs, she is still getting
alerts that her machine is infected.  Giving Up Privacy  Stambaugh said she can’t afford the $130 virus cleanup
service that Comcast offers, and is considering reinstalling her
operating software, the nuclear option of virus cleanups.  Cable-network operators such as Comcast have insight into
which computers are compromised, since they can see when
machines are silently reaching out to malicious sites. Yet they
don’t have the same capabilities as companies such as Google,
Microsoft and Apple. Aside from alerting customers, they are
limited to quarantining poisoned computers, or restricting the
amount of bandwidth they consume.  Cathy Avgiris, a senior vice president for Philadelphia-
based Comcast, said fully cleaning an infection is tedious,
imprecise work, since the most harmful programs are good at
hiding themselves. She said Comcast would be leery of adopting a
kill-switch function for that reason.  Even some security experts who see the value of a kill
switch say its advantages don’t outweigh the potential risks.  “For most users, the ability to remotely remove apps is a
good thing,” said Charlie Miller, a hacker of Apple products
and a researcher at the security firm Accuvant Inc. However, “I
don’t really like Google or anybody else with the ability to
tell me what apps I can run or can’t run and to remotely manage
my devices. For me, the added payoff of security doesn’t make up
for the control and privacy you give up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  