-- Graff Diamonds Said to Plan Hong Kong IPO for Second Quarter
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-02-16T03:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/graff-diamonds-said-to-plan-hong-kong-ipo-for-second-quarter.html
(Corrects story first published Feb. 15 to remove
reference to IPO application filing yesterday.)  Graff Diamonds Ltd. , the London-
based retailer whose founder twice set records buying gems at
auction, may conduct an initial public offering to raise as much
as $1 billion in  Hong Kong  in the second quarter of this year,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley will manage the offering, the
people said, declining to be identified because the information
is private. Graff, which produces and sells diamonds, runs a
store in the Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong.  An employee at Graff’s  London  office, who asked not to be
to be named, said company officials were not immediately
available to comment on the IPO plan.  Graff Diamonds is following brands such as  Prada SpA (1913)  to the
southern Chinese city, seeking to raise money in a region where
demand for  luxury goods  is accelerating as the European and U.S.
economies stall.  Founder and London jewelry dealer  Laurence Graff  bought a
diamond in a 2010 Swiss sale for a record auction price of 45.4
million Swiss francs ($49.6 million). Graff previously paid 16.4
million pounds ($25.7 million) for the 35.56-carat grayish-blue
Wittelsbach Diamond at Christie’s International in London in
December 2008, then the highest price for a gem at auction.  Prada raised $2.5 billion in a Hong Kong IPO in June, while
 Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury leather goods maker, listed
depositary receipts in the city late last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  