-- Green Mountain Introduces Nestle-Rival Keurig Latte Brewer
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-02-15T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/green-mountain-introduces-nespresso-rival-keurig-latte-brewer.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
the maker of Keurig single-serve brewers and capsules, will
begin selling a higher-priced coffee machine in a bid to compete
with  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s latte and cappuccino makers.  The new brewer can make cafe beverages with separate dairy
frother capsules, the Waterbury, Vermont-based company said in a
statement today. Green Mountain will sell so-called Vue packs to
use with the brewer in brands including Folgers Gourmet
Selections and Millstone and will have 50 varieties by the end
of June.  The new machine may help Keurig stay competitive after its
main patents on K-Cups, the coffee pods that helped make it the
biggest company in the U.S. single-serve coffee market, expire
in September. The Vue also lets users choose different strengths
of coffee to brew and make larger, up to 18 ounces (532
milliliters), amounts at one time.  “The challenge will be execution in terms of customer
friendliness and minimizing consumer confusion” with the Vue
brewer, Nick Lazaris, former president of Keurig, said during a
a telephone interview yesterday. “Those are the things that the
management team has presumably thought through.”  The idea for the Vue dates back to 2006 when  Green Mountain 
 bought  Keurig and answered questions about “what happens when
the patents run out,” Lazaris said.  The Vue machine will be sold at  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc . and
on the Green Mountain and Keurig websites “in the coming
weeks,” the company said. The machine costs $250 and a 16-pack
of Green Mountain breakfast blend coffee Vue capsules costs $12
on the Keurig website.  Nestle’s CitiZ  Nestle’s CitiZ machine, which makes milk-based coffee
drinks, costs $349, while its Lattissima is $399, according to
the Nespresso  website . Tassimo, owned by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , also
makes lattes and cappuccinos with single-serve Gevalia and
Maxwell House brand capsules. The machines are priced between
$100 and $170 on the Tassimo website.  Green Mountain has sought to boost single-serve sales by
partnering with brands such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc.’s  Dunkin’ Donuts (DNKN)  -- these two brands aren’t
available in Vue packs. The company earlier this month reported
that K-Cup sales more than doubled while brewer sales in the
three months ended Dec. 24 rose 76 percent from a year earlier.  Green Mountain also is working with Luigi Lavazza SpA to
develop an espresso machine. Lavazza, based in  Italy ,  owned  5.5
percent of Green Mountain as of May 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Green Mountain fell 2.3 percent to $65.75 at the close in
 New York . The  shares  gained 36 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  