-- Greek Talks Hit Snag as EU Seeks Assurances
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-02-15T16:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/greece-warns-euro-partners-on-threat-of-expulsion-after-bailout-hits-snag.html
Greece said that  Europe ’s wealthier
countries are “playing with fire” by toying with the idea of
expelling it from the 17-nation euro area as talks over a second
aid program ran into new obstacles.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos leveled the accusation
after a decision slated for tonight on aid totaling 130 billion
euros ($171 billion) was postponed until at least Feb. 20 and
possibly until after a full-time Greek government emerges from
elections later in the year.  “We are continually faced with new terms,” Venizelos told
reporters in Athens today. “In the euro area, there are plenty
who don’t want us anymore. There are some playing with fire,
domestically and abroad. Some are playing with torches and some
are playing with matches. But the risk is equally great.”  Two years after pledging to pull  Greece  back from the
brink, European leaders are torn between pouring more aid into
the struggling economy or risking an unprecedented national
bankruptcy that might force the country out of the euro and
prompt renewed market tumult.  Euro finance ministers started a conference call at 5 p.m.
Brussels time after scrapping plans for a physical meeting due
to doubts about Greece’s readiness. Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of the euro panel, now targets a
Greek aid decision at the previously scheduled Feb. 20 meeting.  ‘Very Strict’  “Ultimately the question is whether Greece has political
will to sort out their economy and fulfill the conditions,”
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen told reporters in
Helsinki. She spoke of “very strict” attitudes in creditor
countries.  The official loans, supplemented by about 100 billion euros
of debt relief from private bondholders, have been in the works
since July. Each day lost brings Greece closer to a March 20
bond redemption when the government must come up with 14.5
billion euros or become the first country in the euro’s 13-year
history to default.  The postponement is “very worrying” and “reflects a
growing concern among some euro-area countries that Greece will
not abide by the conditions of the second bailout package,”
said Nicola Mai, an economist at  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  Bank in  London .
“It appears that some euro-area countries are willing to let
Greece default.”  Euro’s Guardians  Tensions over Greece pushed the euro down 0.6 percent to
$1.3060 at 5:05 p.m. in Brussels. Meantime, evidence mounted
that the euro’s guardians have made progress ring-fencing
Greece’s woes.  Portugal  raised 3 billion euros today, selling
debt maturing in up to 12 months after increasing the amount to
meet investor demand.  Greece’s caretaker Cabinet, led by Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , yesterday met Europe’s demand for 325 million euros
in savings by making cuts to defense, public investment and
local authorities, two government officials said.  The head of Greece’s second-biggest political party,  New
Democracy ’s Antonis Samaras, sought to meet a second demand
today by providing a signed pledge to back the “objectives,
targets and key policies” of the austerity program.  Samaras, seeking early April elections, left open the
possibility of “modifications” to Greek policies to promote
growth. The head of the rival socialist party, former Prime
Minister  George Papandreou , dispatched his own written pledge,
NET TV reported.  ‘Horror Movie’  Greece has depleted its credibility by missing targets for
 deficit reduction , economic reforms and asset sales that were
set when it obtained a 110 billion-euro aid package in May 2010.
As a result, the once-taboo notion of a departure or expulsion
from the euro has crept into the mainstream political debate.  “We cannot give anyone a pretext or motive to apply such a
scenario that would prove to be a horror movie not just for
Greece but for the world economy,” said Venizelos.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  intervened in the north-
south debate, blaming the collapse of budget discipline in
Europe on moves by previous German and French governments to
shred the anti-deficit “stability pact” in 2003.  “There are no good guys and bad guys: we all need to feel
jointly responsible,” Monti, himself a caretaker leader picked
to restore  Italy ’s finances, said at the European Parliament in
Strasbourg,  France .  Also unclear was whether the  European Central Bank , buyer
of 219.5 billion euros of weaker countries’ bonds in the past
two years, would contribute to debt relief in the new package.  Potential Profits  Euro statutes bar the central bank from financing
governments. One workaround would be for the ECB to funnel
profits from its Greek holdings back through its national
branches to euro governments.  The central bank probably spent about 47 billion euros to
buy Greek bonds with a face value of 60 billion euros, yielding
potential profits of 13 billion euros, according to Juergen Michels, chief European economist at Citigroup in London.  Central bankers have agreed “that we don’t wish to make a
profit on Greece,” ECB council member  Luc Coene  of  Belgium  said
Feb. 13 in remarks that were embargoed until today. “So when we
distribute profit from a given year to the Belgian state, we
will provide a breakdown of what’s due to Greece and it’s then
up to the government to decide how to use it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in  Athens  at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  