-- Greek President Papoulias Slams German ‘Insults’ as Aid Discussions Stall
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-02-15T19:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/greek-president-to-forfeit-his-salary-in-solidarity-move-1-.html
Greek President Karolos Papoulias
slammed  Germany ’s finance minister for recent comments about his
country as stalled  bailout talks  stoked tensions between Greece
and the northern European countries funding its rescue.  “I don’t accept insults to my country by Mr. Schaeuble,”
Papoulias, who fought in the resistance against the Nazis during
World War II, said in a speech today. “I don’t accept it as a
Greek. Who is Mr. Schaeuble to ridicule Greece? Who are the
Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not
just our own freedom, not just our own country, but the freedom
of all of  Europe .”  Papoulias’s comments came as  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and other
European officials pushed  Greece  to gouge more cuts out of its
budget to qualify for a new bailout that would stave off an
economic collapse. Schaeuble today blamed Greece’s New Democracy
party, the second largest, for holding up agreement on a new
rescue package and his deputy, Steffen Kampeter, compared Greece
to a “bottomless pit.”  Greek politicians are expressing their frustration after
European finance ministers last week rejected a Greek austerity
package worth 7 percent of gross domestic product. That prompted
New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras to complain that a gun was
being held to the country’s head. George Karatzaferis, head of
 Laos , the third party in the governing coalition, said the
country “could do without the German boot.”  Playing With Fire  “We are continually faced with new terms,” Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in  Athens  today. “In the euro
area, there are plenty who don’t want us anymore. There are some
playing with fire, domestically and abroad. Some are playing
with torches and some are playing with matches. But the risk is
equally great.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  later said
after a conference call with euro region finance ministers that
he’s confident a decision on Greece will be made on Feb. 20.  Papoulias, 82, asked today to have his public salary
stopped as a gesture of solidarity with Greeks amid the
country’s economic crisis, Venizelos told reporters.  Papoulias receives about 300,000 euros ($392,400) a year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on government
documents. The press office of the president couldn’t confirm
the data. U.S. President  Barack Obama  received a total of
$395,188 in 2010, according to his  tax return  published on the
White House  website .  Papoulias has decided to forfeit his annual compensation
“as a symbolic gesture at a moment when the Greek people are
called upon to undergo such sacrifices,” Venizelos said.  Demonstrators in Athens tore up marble in front of
parliament, clashed with police and set 45 buildings on fire on
Feb. 12, protesting against the government’s new package of
spending cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  