-- Greek Unrest Adds Urgency to Need for Real Debt Relief: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/greek-civil-unrest-adds-new-urgency-to-need-for-real-economic-relief-view.html
Greece ’s extraordinary efforts to
push through harsh austerity measures may soon win it a second
bailout package from euro-area governments. But the victory is
going to be Pyrrhic if it fails to slow and eventually stop the
country’s downward economic spiral.  As European finance ministers confer Wednesday and push for
more concessions from Greece, they have to recognize the depth
of the country’s upheaval. Even taking into account the history
of rioting in Greece, last weekend’s violence -- in which hooded
youths torched as many as 45 buildings in  Athens  -- marked a
dark turn.  Consider the depression into which Greece has fallen.
Government data released Tuesday show that the economy
 contracted  7 percent in the final quarter of last year, compared
with a year earlier, when the country was already deep into
recession. The latest official figures for  unemployment  show a
rise to 20.9 percent of the workforce in November, close to
three times the pre-crisis figure. Forty-eight percent of Greeks
below the age of 25 are out of work. Many people who nominally
still have jobs have not been paid in months.  Homelessness, traditionally a minor problem in Greece, has
risen sharply since the crisis started. Just less than half of
all homeowners say they won’t be able to make their mortgage
payments this year, according to a recent survey by the Hellenic
Property Federation. That, according to the organization’s
president, Stratos Paradias, is mainly due to property taxes
introduced as austerity measures. Suicides, personal
bankruptcies and company closures are all up.  Perhaps surprisingly, ordinary Greeks remain loyal to the
euro. An opinion poll by the Greek agency Public Issue last week
put support for keeping the common currency at 70 percent,
largely unchanged from previous surveys. Greeks appear to trust
their government’s warnings that as bad as the situation is now,
leaving the euro would make it worse.  Indeed, it is the rest of the euro area that is beginning
to hint at divorce. Since Friday, a parade of euro-zone
politicians has emerged to say that, if necessary, a Greek exit
from the euro would be acceptable because the country can now be
firewalled from other weak economies.  Maybe, but this is a game of chicken aimed at pressuring
Greece to accept painful cuts in spending that it probably would
not otherwise apply. It ignores the fundamental question of
whether Greece can be rescued by austerity alone, and by a
limited default that spares German and other euro-area taxpayers
additional pain.  As we have  said  before, Greece needs a much deeper default
if a bailout is to work, and the currency union needs a larger
commitment of money from its members to remain whole. The German
plan is not working and urgently needs to be expanded.  Instead of warning Greeks that they aren’t needed, euro-
area leaders should do a better job of explaining to them why
painful measures are needed and how their own economies are
sharing the burden of fixing what is, in the end, a misdesigned
currency.  Should European leaders fail in this endeavor, the danger
is that they will be blamed if the austerity medicine fails,
regardless of whether many of Greece’s troubles are self-
inflicted. Already, hyperbolic analogies between Nazi and
current  Germany  are creeping into public discussion. The
politics of anger can quickly overtake rational economic debate.
How that would unfold is impossible to predict, but it is unwise
to assume that Greeks would never decide to roll the dice on a
euro exit, putting to the test assurances that contagion won’t
follow.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 