-- BA Parent IAG Says Taking Stake in AMR Is ‘Not on the Table’
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   M a r t a   M a r i n o
-- 2012-02-16T15:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/iag-chairman-says-no-plans-to-take-stake-in-solid-partner-amr.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  said there are no plans to take a stake in ally  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) , parent of  American Airlines , after the U.S. company’s
bankruptcy filing made it a potential takeover target.  “For the time being it’s not on the table,” IAG Chairman
Antonio Vazquez said in an interview. “I don’t think a minority
stake right now makes sense because the company is going through
a totally different process. It’s not a question of equity.”  AMR must move quickly to secure $2 billion in cost cuts and
fend off potential suitors, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton 
said this month. Vazquez said yesterday that while there has
been “a lot of noise” about IAG taking a stake in the third-
largest U.S. carrier, that’s not an issue.  “The management of American Airlines is leading this
process and they know very well what they have to do,” Vazquez
said in  London . “I don’t think there’s a question from our side
of disrupting any process, and they are doing very well.”  AMR, which filed for Chapter 11 protection on Nov. 29, is
right to opt for restructuring under bankruptcy and will emerge
stronger, the executive said.  “It’s a way of refurbishing,” Vazquez said. “It’s the
right thing. We hope that they’ll get through the process and
they’ll get what they want and I think that we’re going to get a
very solid partner the day after the process finishes.”  Stand-Alone Future  AMR, which plans 13,000 job cuts, has said it wants to exit
Chapter 11 in 2012 and expects to do so independently. That
would mean dodging potential bids from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  David Bonderman’s TPG Capital, which like
AMR is based in Fort Worth,  Texas , also has studied whether to
invest, people familiar with the matter have said.  “We are laser focused on continuing to deliver for our
customers and proceeding through the well-defined Chapter 11
process,” an AMR spokesman,  Sean Collins , said in a statement
in response to Vazquez’s comments. “It is clear that we have
the ability to create significant value and strengthen our
foundation for long-term success.”  IAG, formed last year from a merger of British Airways with
 Spain ’s Iberia, is “very supportive” of AMR’s turnaround plan
and “very optimistic” about the outcome, Vazquez said. He
declined to say whether London-based IAG had been approached by
TPG about forming a bid group.  Oneworld Members  AMR is a founding member of the Oneworld alliance that
includes British Airways and Iberia. American and BA coordinate
flights between  London Heathrow  and  New York ’s Kennedy airport,
with trips so frequent at some times of day that AMR’s Horton
has likened the venture to a trans-Atlantic shuttle service.  “I wouldn’t say buying a minority stake is going out of
fashion but, it’s the kind of move that airlines are more
reluctant to make with oil at $100 a barrel,” said  Douglas McNeill , a transport analyst at Charles Stanley in London, who
recommends buying IAG stock. “They have got to think very
carefully about how you keep your cash.”  British Airways has invested in the U.S. before, having
acquired a 21 percent stake in  US Airways  in 1993 before selling
the holding in 1997 to pursue the alliance with AMR.  BMI, TAP  IAG is optimistic about prospects for its own bid for
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s U.K.-based BMI unit, Vazquez said.
European Union regulators will rule on the takeover by March 16,
according to a filing on Feb. 13.  “We do believe that we have a good business case and it
makes a lot of sense,” Vazquez said, adding that IAG doesn’t
expect to have to offer concessions to regulators over the
improved position the deal would deliver at Heathrow, given the
dominance of rival carriers in their own hubs.  There is no sale process as yet for  Portugal ’s state-owned
TAP SGPS SA, in which IAG has declared an interest, he said.  IAG fell as much as 2.8 pence today and was trading 2.4
percent lower at 169 pence as of 3 p.m. in London, paring gains
this year to 15 percent and valuing the company at 3.14 billion
pounds ($4.9 billion). AMR, which no longer trades on the stock
exchange, was priced 1.8 percent lower at 53 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Marino in London at 
 mmarino4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  