-- Libor Probe Said to Expose Collusion, Lack of Internal Controls
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/libor-investigation-said-to-expose-collusion-lack-of-internal-controls.html
Global regulators have exposed flaws
in banks’ internal controls that may have allowed traders to
manipulate  interest rates  around the world, two people with
knowledge of the probe said.  Investigators also have received e-mail evidence of
potential collusion between firms setting the London interbank
offered rate, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Regulators
are focusing on a lack of so-called Chinese walls between
traders and employees making interest-rate submissions on behalf
of their banks, the people said. In some cases, the two groups
may have sat close to each other, one person said.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is probing whether
banks’ proprietary-trading desks exploited information they had
about the direction of Libor to trade interest-rate derivatives,
potentially defrauding their firms’ counterparties, the people
said. The investigation may lead to civil fines for the banks
and criminal charges for the traders involved, the people said.
No penalties are likely from the FSA before year-end, and the
case hasn’t moved toward criminal charges, one person said.  “The entire story is very embarrassing for the banks,”
said Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow in the financial-markets group at
the  London  School of Economics. “I don’t know how they will
eradicate this. The regulators have to rethink the way they set
Libor.”  The rate, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
daily on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London.  Manipulating Rates  The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission,  U.S. Department of Justice , and  Japan ’s
Financial Supervisory Agency are all involved. The probes are
being led separately, with individual regulators sharing some
information among themselves, one of the people said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and HSBC Holdings
Plc are among at least seven firms facing a Canadian probe into
whether they participated in a conspiracy to manipulate prices
on interest-rate derivatives. The nation’s Competition Bureau is
investigating the firms’ conduct between 2007 and 2010,
according to documents it filed with the Ontario Superior Court
in May.  Barclays, UBS  HSBC,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are
among banks that have said they’ve received requests for
information from global regulators in recent months.  UBS AG (UBSN)  said
on Feb. 7 it had been given conditional immunity from the Swiss
Competition Commission as part of an investigation into
manipulation of the Yen Libor, Tibor, and Swiss franc Libor
rates. The Zurich-based lender was last year granted similar
immunity by the U.S. Department of Justice as part of its probes
of Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor rates.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, sued Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
other banks in August claiming they manipulated Libor from 2007
in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  Spokesmen for Schwab, HSBC, Barclays and Bank of America
declined to comment. An official at RBS couldn’t immediately
comment. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
said in August the Schwab suit is “without merit.” She
declined to comment further yesterday.  Price-Fixing  Antitrust authorities are focusing on whether banks might
have helped a competitor manipulate one rate in exchange for
help moving borrowing costs in a different currency, said
another person with knowledge of the investigation. Regulators
may view the conduct as a form of price-fixing because it could
affect the price of the derivative products, the person said.  The FSA is investigating whether banks’ Libor submissions
reflected their actual cost of borrowing and is scrutinizing
market data for potential anomalies, another person familiar
with the investigation said. The watchdog is scanning e-mails
between bankers for code words that could be used to manipulate
Libor, said the person, who declined to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Officials at the FSA in London declined to comment.  Competition Watchdog  Switzerland ’s competition watchdog said Feb. 3 it had
opened an investigation into 12 banks, saying derivative traders
might have coordinated the submissions that determine Libor and
Tibor. Traders might have colluded to manipulate the difference
between the ask price and the bid price, or spread, of
derivatives based on Libor and Tibor “to the detriment of their
clients,” the regulator said.  European Union antitrust regulators are also investigating
whether banks formed a cartel to manipulate borrowing rates,
said two people with knowledge of the probe who declined to be
identified because the inquiry isn’t public. Barclays, HSBC and
RBS have said the European Commission quizzed them last year.  RBS, the U.K.’s largest government-owned lender, has
dismissed at least four employees in connection with the probes,
two people briefed on the move said last week. New York-based
Citigroup and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank also have dismissed,
put on leave or suspended traders as part of the investigations,
according to two more people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  