-- Iceland Court Says Banks Can’t Use Local Rates on Foreign Loans
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-02-15T16:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/iceland-court-says-banks-can-t-use-local-rates-on-foreign-loans.html
Iceland’s Supreme Court ruled that
lenders can’t adjust  interest rates  higher on foreign currency-
linked loans that it found illegal in 2010, overruling a
government law from 2010.  Lenders must abide by the contractual interest rates on
the loan agreements, according to ruling issued today by the
Reykjavik-based court.  Iceland’s largest banks were taken over by the government
in 2008 after defaulting on about $85 billion in debt and now
operate under the names of Landsbankinn hf, Islandsbanki hf, and
Arion Banki hf. The banking collapse plunged the island’s
economy into a crisis that sent unemployment surging nine-fold
and triggered a recession that lasted through half of 2010.  Today’s ruling came as no surprise, Economy Minister
Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said by phone, adding that he needs to
meet “with specialists and read over the ruling” before he
comments. Margret Tryggvadottir, lawmaker for the opposition
group “The Movement” demanded in parliament today that the
economy and business committee be convened immediately to
discuss the ruling.  The  Supreme Court  ruled in June 2010, that loans indexed to
foreign-currency rates were illegal. The decision meant that
borrowers with such loans were only obliged to repay the
principal in kronur. Lenders have written off about 108 billion
kronur ($875 million) of currency-indexed loans since the end of
2008, the Icelandic Financial Services Association said last
week.  After the collapse of Iceland’s economy in October 2008,
the central bank estimated that households had outstanding debt
in foreign currencies ranging from 300 billion kronur to 350
billion kronur. Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis was exacerbated
by banks borrowing in yen and francs to take advantage of lower
interest rates, and then repackaging the loans in krona before
passing them on to clients.  Capital Controls  The country imposed  capital controls  at the end of 2008,
which it’s now easing through currency auctions. The central
bank in November presented the next stage in its capital
liberalization program, designed to absorb the exchange rate
shock of foreigners offloading their kronur by channeling the
currency into long-term investments.  Iceland's benchmark rate is at 4.75 percent, compared with 1 
percent for the  European Central Bank .     To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  