-- Life Technology Told to Pay $52 Million in Promega Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-15T22:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/life-technology-told-by-jury-to-pay-52-million-in-patent-case.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  was told by
a U.S. jury to pay $52 million for infringing patents owned by
Promega Corp. related to genetic testing.  The federal jury in Madison,  Wisconsin , also found that
Life’s infringement of the patents was intentional, closely held
Promega said in a statement. That means U.S. District Judge
Barbara Crabb could increase the award by as much as three times
the verdict.  The dispute was over tests that are used to compare DNA
samples for use in forensics and paternity tests. The patents
cover a way to amplify certain regions on a DNA strand, called
short tandem repeat, to perform the analysis.  The judge in November upheld the validity of Promega’s
short tandem repeat patents, and found infringement by Carlsbad,
California-based Life, Promega said.  “The court’s ruling and the jury award confirm the value
of Promega STR technology and its contributions to genetic
analysis in the fields of research and molecular diagnostics,”
Bill Linton, chief executive officer of Madison-based Promega,
said in a statement.  Life said it is considering its options, including asking
the judge to overturn the verdict and challenging it before an
appeals court that specializes in  patent law .  “Sales of Life Technologies STR products for the core
forensics and paternity fields are not affected by the jury’s
decision, and Life Technologies remains committed to serving the
needs of our forensics and paternity customers,” said Suzanne
Clancy, a spokeswoman for Life.  Promega said its technology also can be used in genetic
research, bone marrow transplant monitoring and cancer analysis.  The case is Promega Corp. v. Life Technologies Corp.,
10cv281, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  