-- Falcone, LightSquared Say Interference With GPS Can Be Solved
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-16T00:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/lightsquared-says-it-s-committed-to-solution-and-criticizes-fcc.html
Hedge fund billionaire  Philip Falcone  said his LightSquared Inc. venture remains committed to
finding a solution to interference problems that led U.S.
regulators to reject the proposed nationwide wireless service.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission yesterday vowed
to block LightSquared after the Obama administration found the
wireless service’s signals would disrupt navigation gear that
depends on the global-positioning system. The FCC said it plans
to withdraw the preliminary approval it granted to the Reston,
Virginia-based company last year.  “This was not a decision based on science or technology
but was a politically motivated decision fueled by special
interest groups in the GPS and telecom industry,” Falcone said
in an e-mailed statement today. “There are solutions to this
problem that can and will address the needs of the GPS
community.”  In an earlier statement, LightSquared Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  said the FCC “changed its mind” after
granting approvals to LightSquared.  “There can be no more devastating blow to private industry
and confidence in the consistency of the FCC’s decision-making
process,” Ahuja said.  The FCC didn’t change its stance, Tammy Sun, an FCC
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  “The commission has clearly stated from the outset that
harmful interference would not be permitted,” Sun said.
“That’s why the conditional waiver issued by the commission’s
international bureau prohibited LightSquared from beginning
commercial operation unless harmful interference issues were
resolved.”  The FCC’s action marks a blow to LightSquared and a setback
for Falcone’s  Harbinger Capital Partners (SKYT)  hedge fund, which has
invested $3 billion in the venture. It follows a yearlong
lobbying fight between LightSquared and opposing GPS companies
that featured a series of government tests denounced by
LightSquared as flawed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  