-- Hillary Clinton Is Said to Rival Summers as Contender to Lead World Bank
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-15T22:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/hillary-clinton-summers-said-to-be-leading-contenders-to-head-world-bank.html
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and former White House economic adviser Lawrence Summers are two
leading candidates to succeed  World Bank  President Robert Zoellick when he leaves at the end of June, according to two
people familiar with Obama administration discussions.  While Summers has expressed interest in the position and
has supporters inside the administration, the position would be
Clinton’s if she sought it, according to the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity about the private conversations.  Clinton, who said previously she doesn’t plan to remain in
her post if President Barack Obama wins a second term,
repeatedly has denied having an interest in the World Bank job.
State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  repeated those
denials today.  “The secretary has addressed this issue many times since
last year,” Nuland said at a briefing in  Washington . “She has
said this is not happening. Her view has not changed.”  Summers was traveling and unavailable for comment, his
assistant, Julie Shample, said.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , refused to comment on
possible successors to Zoellick, who was nominated for the
position by then-President George W. Bush in 2007.  “There’s been a lot of speculation in the press,” Carney
told reporters traveling with the president to an event in
Wisconsin. “I’m not going to confirm any of it.”  U.S. Nomination  By tradition, the U.S. president chooses the leader of the
World Bank while the head of the  International Monetary Fund  is
selected by European leaders. The nomination is subject to
approval by the World Bank’s executive board.  While Clinton, 64, told State Department employees at a
town hall last month that she’s tired after 20 years in public
life, many of her associates say she might be willing to take
the World Bank presidency. It requires fewer hours and less
travel than being secretary of state, the people said.  Summers, 57, was Obama’s first director of the National
Economic Council and served as Treasury secretary in former
President Bill Clinton’s administration. He left the Obama
administration at the end of 2010 and returned to  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where he’s a professor
at the John F. Kennedy School of Government.  Zoellick’s five-year term expires June 30. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a statement today that the
U.S. will put forward a candidate for the job “in the coming
weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  