-- Lin Scores Last-Second 3-Pointer as New York Knicks Defeat Raptors 90-87
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-02-15T05:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/lin-scores-last-second-3-pointer-as-new-york-knicks-defeat-raptors-90-87.html
Jeremy Lin did it again, hitting a
3-pointer in the final second to give the  New York  Knicks their
sixth straight victory and export “Linsanity” to  Canada .  Lin began and ended a 13-1 scoring run over the final three
minutes, 57 seconds last night as the Knicks rallied for a 90-87
win against the Raptors at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto. He
scored the final six points of the game, finishing with 27
points and a career-high 11 assists.  “You just watch and you’re in awe,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  told reporters. “He held it until five tenths of a
second left. He was pretty confident that it was going in, no
rebounds, no nothing. That ball was being buried.”  The Knicks (14-15) trailed by five points with 1:31
remaining. Iman Shumpert’s steal and dunk pulled them within
three and Lin’s three-point play with 1:05 remaining tied the
game at 87-87.  Each team missed a shot before Lin hit a 3-pointer with the
clock winding down to give the Knicks their first lead since
midway through the first quarter.  “I’m thankful that my coach and teammates trust me with
the ball at the end of the game,” Lin said in a news conference.
“I like having it at the end of the game.”  Amar’e Stoudemire had 21 points and nine rebounds in his
return after missing four games -- Lin’s first four career
starts -- while mourning the death of his older brother in a car
crash.  Undrafted From Harvard  Lin, 23, wasn’t drafted after graduation from  Harvard
University  and then was cut by the  Golden State Warriors  and
 Houston Rockets  before being signed by the Knicks on Dec. 27.  He was a bench player for New York until this month and has
averaged 26.8 points per game while leading the Knicks to their
longest winning streak since a seven-game run through April 10
last season.  His exploits in the absence of Stoudemire and leading
scorer  Carmelo Anthony , who has a groin strain, have helped
drive shares in Knicks owner  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  to a
record while making his jersey the league’s No. 1 seller online.  Lin is the NBA’s first American-born player of Chinese or
Taiwanese descent and last night’s game drew a season-best
20,092 fans for the Raptors.  Statistics Canada ’s 2006 profile
found that about one-third of Toronto’s estimated 2.5 million
residents were of Asian ethnicity.  The Toronto crowd went wild when the Knicks’ point guard
hit the decisive shot, the latest example of what has been
dubbed by the team as ``Linsanity.''  ‘Continues to Impress’  “He continues to impress every night,” New York’s Jared Jeffries told reporters. “Every game he plays better, he does
more and more to help us win basketball games. You can’t ask any
more of a kid coming into this situation.”  Lin finished 9-for-20 from the field, hitting both of his
3-point attempts. He tied a career high with eight turnovers.
Point guard Jose Calderon had 25 points, nine assists and seven
rebounds for Toronto (9-21).  Calderon had two 3-pointers during a 10-0 run that put
Toronto up 22-13 in the first quarter. Stoudemire left the game
at that point and Lin, who had been held scoreless, responded
with two quick layups.  Lin, the reigning Eastern Conference player of the week,
committed turnovers on three straight possessions as Toronto
pulled ahead 34-21 in the second quarter.  Lin had nine points, six assists and five turnovers at the
half and the Knicks trailed 47-36.  The Knicks never got closer than seven points in the third
quarter and trailed 78-66 with 11 minutes left before drawing
within two points on a 10-0 run.  Stoudemire’s Return  Lin said it was great to have Stoudemire back in the lineup.  “It’s going to take a little bit of adjustment, but he’s
unbelievable,” Lin said. “We’ll go through bumps, but I think
we made improvements throughout the game.”  The Knicks, who will try to get back to a .500 record when
they host the Sacramento Kings tonight at Madison Square Garden,
will have to adjust again when Anthony returns this week.  “He’s breathed life back into that franchise where Carmelo
Anthony couldn’t, and now all of a sudden you have this great
story of can Carmelo submit to this undrafted free agent from
Harvard,”  Steve Kerr , an NBA analyst for Time Warner Inc.’s TNT
network, said yesterday on a conference call with reporters.
“It’s a crazy story, but it’s fantastic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  