-- Lin-Fueled Win Streak Has Las Vegas Bookmakers Cutting Knicks’ Title Odds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/lin-win-streak-has-vegas-cutting-knicks-odds.html
Jeremy Lin’s revival of New York’s
season has prompted sports books to slash the Knicks’ odds of
winning the National Basketball Association championship by more
than 50 percent.  The  Las Vegas  Hotel and Casino lowered the Knicks’ chances
of collecting their first NBA title since 1973 to 25-1. The
Knicks’ future odds had been 50-1 before Lin was inserted into
the starting lineup six games ago.  The former Harvard University point guard has since become
the only player to score more than 20 points and win each of his
first five starts since the NBA merged with the American
Basketball Association in 1976. The Knicks have won seven
straight games overall to improve their record to 15-15.  “They’ve been supported in the last week pretty heavily so
the liability adds up,”  Jeff Sherman , the LVH assistant sports
book manager, said in a telephone interview. “Between the Lin
phenomenon, the Knicks on a winning streak, bettering their
position and the money we’ve seen coming across the window, it’s
a combination that causes them to go down.”  Although the Knicks are in eighth place in the Eastern
Conference, their championship odds at LVH are now eighth among
the league’s 30 teams.  Lin has been the impetus, revitalizing a team that’s been
without All-Star forwards  Carmelo Anthony  and Amar’e Stoudemire
for much of the winning streak. Anthony has totaled six minutes
in the past five games because of a groin strain, while
Stoudemire returned to the Knicks two days ago after a four-game
absence following his brother’s death.  ‘Missing Part’  John Avello, director of race and sports operations at the
Wynn Las Vegas, said he lowered the Knicks’ odds of taking the
NBA title to 20-1 from 30-1 because Lin may be “the missing
part” of the offense. The Knicks had lost 11 of 13 games before
Lin started seeing extensive playing time with 25 points off the
bench in a Feb. 4 win over the  New Jersey Nets .  “Now the question is how is Lin and Carmelo and Stoudemire
going to mix together,” Avello said by phone from his Las Vegas
office. “What’s going to happen when we get all three of them?
Is Lin going to get less shots, are they going to go back to the
way the Knicks had been playing?”  Lin, 23, wasn’t drafted after graduation from Harvard and
then was cut by two NBA teams before being signed by the Knicks
on Dec. 27. During their 8-15 start, the Knicks used  Toney Douglas , Iman Shumpert and  Mike Bibby  at point guard before
turning to the 6-foot-3 Lin, who was a unanimous first-team all
Ivy League selection during his senior year at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard in 2010.  Lin’s Run  Lin scored 28 points in his first career start against the
 Utah Jazz  on Feb. 6, and then had 23 points and 10 assists in a
win over  Washington  two days later. He scored 38 points against
the  Los Angeles Lakers  on Feb. 10, had 20 points against
Minnesota the following day, and two nights ago totaled 27
points and 11 assists in Toronto while hitting the winning
three-pointer in the final second.  Against the  Sacramento Kings  at Madison Square Garden last
night, Lin had a career-high 13 assists in a 100-85 win.  “There is a new energy,” Lin said during a Feb. 14 news
conference. “Everyone is excited. It’s not because of me. It’s
because we’re coming together as a team.”  Online sports book Bovada.lv has lowered its odds on the
Knicks to win the championship to 18-1 from 40-1. Now, Bovada’s
oddsmakers are instead listing Lin’s odds of winning the NBA’s
Most Valuable Player award at 40-1.  Sports books are also listing proposition bets to take
advantage of the attention on Lin, whose play has boosted the
Knicks’ ticket and apparel sales. At Lucky’s Race and Sports
Book in Las Vegas, bettors could wager whether Lin would surpass
or fall short of his projected total of 22.5 points and eight
assists at home against the Kings. He finished with 10 points
after sitting out the fourth quarter.  “Whatever creates interest is worthwhile,” Jimmy Vaccaro,
director of sports operations at Lucky’s, said by phone. “In
the world we live in, in the five-week stretch after the  Super
Bowl  and before the NCAA tournament heating up in March, we
welcome anything that brings any attention to the books.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  