-- Indocement, Bakrie, Bumi: Indonesia Equity Preview
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-02-15T02:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/indocement-bakrie-brothers-bumi-indonesia-equity-preview.html
(Corrects to say unit of Bakrie & Brothers in Bakrie item.)  Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Indonesian trading . Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index  fell 0.2 percent to 3,952.82.  Cement companies:  Indonesia ’s cement sales gained to 4.05
million tons from 3.52 million tons a year earlier, Investor
Daily Indonesia reported, citing data from the country’s cement
association.  PT Semen Gresik (SMGR)  , Indonesia’s largest cement
producer, rose 0.4 percent to 11,550 rupiah.  PT Indocement
Tunggal Prakarsa (INTP)  , Indonesia’s second-largest cement
producer, rose 1.7 percent to 17,800 rupiah.  PT Holcim Indonesia (SMCB) 
, the nation’s third-largest cement producer fell 1
percent to 2,350 rupiah.  PT Bakrie & Brothers (BNBR IJ): PT Bakrie Power, a unit of
PT Bakrie & Brothers, plans to build a 200 megawatt coal-fired
powerplant in Sangata, East Kalimantan province, Kontan reported,
citing President Director Ali Herman Ibrahim. The company may
get 1 million tons of coal supply per year from Kaltim Prima
Coal, the newspaper said. Bakrie & Brothers was unchanged at 50
rupiah.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  : The biggest shareholders in
Bumi Plc have dropped a proposal for an extraordinary general
meeting to depose board members including billionaire co-founder
 Nathaniel Rothschild . Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Pte. Ltd.,
which has voting rights over 29.9 percent of London-listed Bumi,
withdrew the plan following “very constructive” talks with two
independent directors of Bumi, according to a statement from
Borneo Bumi director Ken Allan yesterday. The proposal will now
be considered at the next Bumi board meeting on March 26th, it
said. The stock was unchanged at 2,475 rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  