-- Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Increased in January
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-15T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-january.html
Industrial production  accelerated in
January, indicating manufacturing will remain at the forefront
of the U.S. economic expansion.  Output (IPMGCHNG)  at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.7 percent,
the biggest gain in six months, according to the median estimate
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Manufacturing in
the  New York  region picked up this month and homebuilder
confidence climbed to the highest level since mid-2007.  Business investment in new equipment and the need to
rebuild inventories will probably keep factory assembly lines
rolling at the start in 2012. Nonetheless,  Europe ’s financial
crisis and slowing growth in emerging economies like  China 
threaten to temper orders for U.S. goods.  “Manufacturing is growing at a fairly solid pace amid
improvements in consumer and business demand,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit . “One risk is if exports to Europe were to slow
further.”  The Federal Reserve will release the production data at
9:15 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 1.2 percent.  Capacity utilization , which measures the amount of a plant
in use, rose to 78.6 percent last month, the highest since July
2008, from 78.1 percent in December, according to economists’
forecasts.  Less Utility Use  The gain in output will probably be tempered by a drop in
utility use because January was relatively mild. Last month was
the fourth-warmest January on record for the contiguous U.S.
states, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  A rebounding auto industry is contributing to the gains in
manufacturing.  Purchases (SAARTOT)  of cars and light trucks climbed to an
annualized rate of 14.1 million last month, the highest since
the so-called cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009 and the
second-strongest since May 2008, according to Autodata Corp.
Sales averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the last
recession began in December 2007.  With the average age of cars and trucks rising to a record
10.8 years, analysts see pent-up demand boosting U.S. sales to a
third-straight annual gain in 2012, the longest streak since
sales peaked in 2000.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, reported
its 11th consecutive profitable quarter as sales rose and it
boosted North American production by 14 percent. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company’s U.S. sales rose 11 percent last year.
Ford said it sees its European market worsening while Asia-
Pacific keeps growing.  Equipment Demand  Manufacturers and exporters of heavy equipment such as
Caterpillar Inc. continue to see growth. Caterpillar, the
largest construction and mining-equipment maker, last month
posted fourth-quarter earnings and forecast full-year profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as demand rose for earth-moving
machinery and trucks. The Peoria, Illinois-based manufacturer
said it had a record $29.8 billion backlog of orders at the end
of 2011.  “For many products demand has been above our ability to
produce,” Caterpillar spokesman Michael DeWalt told a
conference call on Jan. 26. “We have invested in Caterpillar
factories in the  United States  and around the world to increase
production.”  Shares of machinery and equipment makers are outpacing the
broader market so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has climbed 19 percent since the
end of 2011, compared with a 7.4 percent increase for the  S&P
500 Index .  Manufacturing Accelerates  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s national  factory
index  rose in January to the highest level in seven months, led
by gains in new orders and exports, the group said on Feb. 1.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s  regional 
manufacturing index rose to 15 this month from 13.5 in January,
economist project another report at 8:30 a.m. will show.  As factories keep expanding, homebuilding is showing signs
of stabilizing.  The National Association of  Home Builders/Wells Fargo (USHBMIDX) 
sentiment gauge increased to 26 this month from 25 in January,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed before
the 10 a.m. report. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents
still said conditions were poor.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  