-- Inside-Trading ‘Club,’ Citigroup, Total in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-18T18:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/inside-trading-club-citigroup-total-glaxo-in-court-news.html
Four men arrested last month for
allegedly participating in a “criminal club” that made almost
$62 million using illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  stock
pleaded not guilty.  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson;  Todd
Newman , a portfolio manager formerly at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC; Jon Horvath, an analyst at hedge fund Sigma
Capital Management LLC; and Danny Kuo, a  fund manager  for
Whittier Trust Co., entered not guilty pleas to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  Prosecutors from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said the ring, which allegedly involved five  hedge
funds  and investment firms, is the largest identified by the U.S.
to date tied to a single stock. One trade earned a $53 million
illegal windfall for Chiasson and Level Global, prosecutors
allege.  All four men are charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud. Newman is charged with three counts of
securities fraud and Chiasson with four counts of securities
fraud. Horvath and Kuo are additionally charged with one count
of securities fraud. All four were arrested Jan. 18. They
entered their pleas in a hearing before U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan.  Prosecutors have recordings of conversations between
Chiasson and John Kinnucan, founder of an expert networking firm
whose mobile phone was wiretapped by federal investigators,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told the judge.  “Mr. Chiasson fired me after only three months, much to my
surprise at the time, but after seeing the kind of information
he was evidently getting elsewhere, now I understand why he
didn’t have any need for the types of channel checks I could
provide,” Kinnucan said in an e-mail yesterday.  Kinnucan said he’s “highly confident Mr. Chiasson will not
be convicted of any insider trading charges based on any of our
conversations, since everything we talked about was industry-
standard research, as practiced by all the investment banks,
large and small, and which practices have been blessed by the
SEC for many years now,” a reference to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors also have recordings of Newman, Horvath and Kuo
speaking with cooperating witnesses, Apps said. She didn’t name
the witnesses.  Three other men charged in the scheme pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the U.S. -- Jesse Tortora, formerly of
Diamondback; Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level Global analyst;
and Sandeep Goyal, a former employee at Round Rock, Texas-based
Dell, the third-largest maker of personal computers.  Sullivan scheduled a hearing in the case for April 13. He
didn’t set a trial date.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Citigroup Executive Denies Wrongdoing in Tibor-Fixing Case  A former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executive accused by Japanese
regulators in a probe of suspected interest-rate manipulation
denied wrongdoing and said authorities never questioned him
before they issued findings.  Christopher Cecere, who worked for Citigroup in  Tokyo  as
head of G10 trading and sales for  Asia  until 2010, was
identified as “Director A” in a Dec. 16  administrative  case by
 Japan ’s Financial Services Agency, according to two people with
knowledge of the inquiry. The agency said Director A and another
Citigroup trader engaged in “seriously unjust and malicious”
conduct by asking bankers to alter data they submitted in the
process of setting a benchmark Japanese lending rate. Japan’s
FSA penalized the firm and took no action against the employees.  During Citigroup’s internal investigation, the New York-
based bank didn’t question Cecere about his conduct or indicate
to him that it suspected he had acted improperly, he said in a
Feb. 10 phone interview. Regulators also didn’t seek his version
of events, he said. He left the firm in good standing, he said.
He later joined Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, a London-
based hedge fund that manages about $33 billion.  Japan’s regulators were the first to announce findings as
authorities in Asia,  Europe  and the U.S. conduct widening
inquiries into whether employees at some of the world’s biggest
banks sought to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor, respectively.
The rates were used by investors to gauge the ability of firms
to borrow money at the height of the 2008 credit crisis and can
play a key role in derivatives trades.  While Cecere asserted his innocence, he declined to comment
on the FSA’s description of events, including whether he pressed
someone to change rates for Tibor, saying he has no insight into
the watchdog’s investigation or findings.  Citigroup was forced to write off $50 million as it exited
trades made by Tokyo-based employees, a person familiar with the
matter said last week. Thomas Hayes, a Tokyo-based trader for
Citigroup, was dismissed last year for suspected involvement in
the rate manipulation, according to two people familiar with the
case. Contact information for Hayes couldn’t be found.  Cecere said the holdings that Citigroup recorded losses on
were one of many businesses that reported to him in his role
overseeing sales and trading units in Asia.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on Cecere’s remarks.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Total SA’s SunPower Sues SolarCity Over Trade-Secret Pacts  Total SA (FP) ’s  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  sued SolarCity Corp. for unfair
business practices, claiming five former SunPower employees
illegally used trade secrets.  SunPower said a forensic investigation after the five left
the company showed they had copied “tens of thousands of
files” and moved information to SolarCity computers, according
to a complaint filed Feb. 13 in federal court in San Jose,
 California .  “Defendants have willfully interfered with SunPower’s
ownership and possessory rights to such property without lawful
justification,” SunPower said in the complaint. The company is
seeking unspecified damages.  SunPower, based in San Jose, makes solar panels, and San
Mateo, California-based SolarCity is a distributor of such
panels and related equipment, SunPower said.  Jonathan Bass, a SolarCity spokesman, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is SunPower v. SolarCity, 12-cv-694, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Lost $711 Million on Side Ventures, FBI Agent Says  R. Allen Stanford lost $711 million on companies in which
he’d invested $2 billion of investor funds secretly borrowed
from his offshore bank in Antigua, a federal agent testified.  Stanford’s borrowings contributed to a $7.05 billion
“hole” investigators said existed between the $8.59 billion in
reported assets and $1.54 billion in actual assets at Stanford
International Bank Ltd. at year-end 2008, FBI Special Agent
Robert Martin told jurors yesterday.  Stanford’s attorneys have told jurors in the financier’s
criminal fraud trial that he was in the process of
recapitalizing his offshore bank, by transferring 130 private
ventures onto the bank’s balance sheet, when U.S. regulators
seized his operations on suspicion of fraud in February 2009. If
regulators hadn’t blocked the consolidation, his lawyers claim,
none of Stanford’s investors would have lost money.  “Practically none of Mr. Stanford’s companies were
profitable,” Martin testified in federal court in Houston.
While some of Stanford’s investments showed earnings from time
to time, Martin said that only the tiny commercial bank Stanford
ran for Antiguan islanders consistently earned a yearly profit.  Stanford, 61, is fighting charges he defrauded investors of
more than $7 billion through what prosecutors say was a Ponzi
scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at Stanford
International Bank. The financier, who has been jailed as a
flight risk since his indictment in June 2009, faces as long as
20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious charges
against him.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  J&J Defends Synthes Bid at European Union Antitrust Hearing  Johnson & Johnson defended its planned  acquisition  of
orthopedics maker  Synthes (SYST)  Inc. at a meeting with European Union
antitrust regulators Feb. 13.  “There was an oral hearing,” said Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the European Commission in Brussels. He declined
to comment further. A hearing usually follows a formal antitrust
complaint listing regulators’ concerns that a deal may harm
competition.  The commission opened an expanded probe in November into
the deal. It said at the time that the transaction may trigger
an increase in prices for orthopedic medical devices.  The world’s second-largest seller of health products agreed
in April to buy Synthes, a maker of medical tools to treat
damaged bones, in a deal valued at the time at $21.3 billion,
the biggest purchase in the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
company’s history. It would make J&J the leader in the $5.5
billion market for devices used to treat trauma victims.  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  spokesman, William Price, declined to
comment in an e-mail. Synthes didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment. The commission has a deadline of April 2
to rule on the deal.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Wachovia Settles Normandy Hill’s Le-Nature’s Suit Over Loan  Wells Fargo & Co.’s (WFC)  Wachovia Capital Markets LLC settled
investor claims that it failed to disclose signs of fraud at Le-
Nature’s Inc. as it arranged a $285 million loan before the
drink maker’s bankruptcy.  Normandy Hill Master Fund LP sued Wachovia Capital Markets
in New York state Supreme Court in June 2010, saying it relied
on false financial statements when it arranged the loan two
months before Le Nature’s went bankrupt in 2006. Terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed in a court filing made public
yesterday.  “The parties are pleased to be able to resolve their
differences through a negotiated settlement given the
complicated nature of the claims involved,” Aaron A. Mitchell,
an attorney representing Normandy Hill, said in a phone
interview.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , made bottled
water, tea and other flavored drinks. Gregory J. Podlucky, the
company’s founder, and others were indicted in September 2009 on
charges they duped creditors out of more than $800 million by
overstating company revenue. Podlucky pleaded guilty in May 2011
and was sentenced to 20 years in prison in October.  There was no dismissal or settlement with the suit’s
remaining parties, which include Podlucky, Le-Nature’s former
executive vice president Robert Lynn and BDO Seidman LLP,
Mitchell said. Lynn was found guilty by a jury in July and
sentenced to 15 years in prison last month.  Elise Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, didn’t respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is Normandy Hill Master Fund LP v. Wachovia
Capital Markets, 650548/2010, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Lehman’s $699 Million Deal With JPMorgan Is Uncontested  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s $699 million settlement
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was unopposed by creditors as it heads
for a court hearing today, according to a court filing.  Under the agreement yesterday, JPMorgan will pay bankrupt
Lehman the money, which the bank’s investment fund affiliates
had claimed as compensation for losses on Lehman investments.
Lehman and its creditors had said the claims weren’t
“plausible.”  The judge usually approves such uncontested agreements put
before him. The $699 million was part of an $8.6 billion fight
between Lehman and JPMorgan. Lehman has been trying to recover
the funds, consisting of collateral deposited with the bank
about the time of Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy.  The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, 10-03266,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Glaxo Settles Almost 25,000 Avandia Cases Under Mediation  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  settled almost 25,000 cases over its
Avandia diabetes drug in mediation as multidistrict litigation
begins to wind down, lawyers told a federal judge in
Philadelphia.  In November, U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe appointed a
mediator to preside over settlement negotiations. She also set a
75-day deadline to resolve 85 percent of the remaining cases.
While it was unclear in a court hearing yesterday whether
lawyers met the threshold, Rufe called the effort “a major
success.”  “Mediation will no longer be the focus of this court’s
effort,” Rufe said. “We will resolve the remaining cases
through litigation.”  The settlements are part of London-based Glaxo’s efforts to
resolve legal issues stretching back more than a decade. The
drugmaker announced in November that it would pay $3 billion to
settle U.S. criminal and civil probes into whether Glaxo
illegally marketed Avandia and other medications.  More than 2,500 Avandia cases are consolidated before Rufe
in Philadelphia. Other cases are pending in state courts around
the U.S. So far, as many as 50,000 cases have been resolved,
including claims filed in both state and federal court, Diane
Nast, a plaintiffs’ attorney who serves on a group helping to
oversee cases, told Rufe yesterday.  Glaxo said in 2010 that it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after studies linked the drug to increased risks of
heart attacks. The company already agreed to pay at least $700
million to settle more than 15,000 patients’ claims that the
drug caused heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the
accords said last year.  “The majority of the cases in total have been settled,”
Bernadette King, a U.S.-based Glaxo spokeswoman, said yesterday
in a phone interview. “The cases have to be reviewed and the
precise numbers determined at some point to see which cases
qualify under the settlements.”      The consolidated case is
In re Avandia Marketing, Sales Practices and Products Liability
Litigation, 07-01871, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Raymond James U.K. Unit Wins Court Battle Over Client Poaching  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) ’s U.K. unit won a lawsuit in
which financial advisory firm Towry Holdings Ltd. accused the
company and seven employees of taking its clients.  A U.K. judge dismissed Towry’s claim, which sought as much
as 6 million pounds ($9.4 million), Faegre Baker Daniels LLP, a
law firm representing Raymond James, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Towry sued for breach of contract after seven of its
financial advisers joined Raymond James’s U.K. unit and were
followed by some of their clients, the firm said. The case
highlights the importance of knowing which restrictions apply to
new recruits, and “taking time to ensure they are not
breached,” Faegre Baker Daniels partner Alex Denny said.  The seven employees had worked for a company taken over by
Towry in 2009 and were employed under different contracts to its
other staff, Andrew Fisher, Towry’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “We did not undertake this action lightly but to protect
our legitimate business interests for our clients and
shareholders,” Fisher said.  Siemens, Toshiba Lose EU Court Appeal Over Czech Antitrust Fines  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  are among
electric-equipment makers that lost a European Court challenge
to overturn more than 900 million koruna ($47 million) in Czech
antitrust fines.  The  EU Court of Justice  ruled that the Czech antitrust
regulator was right to fine at least 10 companies a record 979
million koruna in 2007, a month after the EU authority had
levied a 750.7 million-euro penalty ($988 million) on them for
colluding on prices of electric equipment. The companies, also
including  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , challenged the legality of the
Czech fine, which was later cut to 942 million koruna.  A Czech regional court in 2008 overturned the national
penalty, ruling that the companies couldn’t be fined twice, once
by the European Commission and once by Czech regulator. On
appeal by the Czech antitrust watchdog, a high court in 2009
annulled that ruling and said the regional court had to re-
examine the case.  The regional court referred the case to the EU tribunal
questioning whether EU or Czech law applied for the period
during which the cartel took place in the Czech Republic before
the country became part of the 27-nation bloc in May 2004.  The case is: C-17/10, Toshiba Corporation, Areva,
 Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , Alstom, Fuji Electric, VA TECH
Transmission & Distribution GmbH & Co. KEG,  Siemens AG (SIE) , Hitachi
Ltd, Japan AE Power Systems Corp., Nuova Magrini Galileo SpA v.
Urad pro ochranu hospodarske souteze.  Grupo Mexico Wins $83 Million in Sterlite Case Over Asarco  Grupo  Mexico  SAB’s Asarco LLC won $82.8 million in a
lawsuit against copper producer Sterlite Industries ( India ) Ltd.
over a failed deal to buy Asarco out of bankruptcy, or less than
4 percent of what it was seeking.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard Schmidt in Corpus Christi,
Texas, awarded the damages to Asarco in a ruling Feb. 13. The
amount was less than the about $2.28 billion the copper miner
wanted following Sterlite’s decision in 2008 to walk away from
an agreement to buy the company.  Sterlite, which blamed a drop in copper prices for failing
to complete the deal, harmed Tucson, Arizona-based Asarco by
delaying its exit from bankruptcy, Schmidt said. The judge
reduced the damages because Grupo Mexico and Sterlite waged a
2009 bidding war for Asarco, which Grupo Mexico won.  “Damages must be reduced to reflect a subsequent
mitigating transaction even if such transaction differs
structurally from the initial transaction,” Schmidt said.
“Here, the mitigation effort started immediately after the
alleged breach and continued until the bankruptcy process
resulted in the parent being declared the winner.”  Jorge Pulido, head of investor relations for Mexico City-
based Grupo Mexico, declined to comment on the ruling. Schmidt
awarded Asarco $132.8 million in damages less a $50 million
letter of credit that Asarco was authorized in 2009 to draw down.  Sterlite, based in India, is a unit of  Vedanta Resources
Plc. (VED)  A Sterlite spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment after
business hours.  The case is Asarco LLC v. Sterlite (USA) Inc., 10-02010,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Texas (Corpus
Christi).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Facebook Awarded $75,777 in Legal Fees From Claimant Ceglia  Facebook Inc. was awarded $75,777 in legal fees after a
judge ruled that  Paul Ceglia  ignored a pretrial discovery order
to turn over e-mail accounts in his ownership claim against the
social network.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio yesterday gave
Facebook most of the $84,196 it claimed as reimbursement for the
177 hours spent by its lawyers in filing motions to force Ceglia
to comply with the order. Ceglia has already paid a $5,000 fine
imposed by Foschio in federal court in Buffalo, New York.  Ceglia claims he has a 2003 contract signed by Facebook co-
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  that gave him half-ownership of the
company, now worth an estimated $82.3 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies. Facebook,
based in Menlo Park, California, operates the most popular
social-networking site in the world.  Foschio rejected arguments by Ceglia that the fees claimed
by Facebook were “stratospheric” and not justified by the
“garden-variety” issues presented by the case.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland of Lakewood, Ohio, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  Singapore to Allow Foreign Firms Invest in Local Law Firms  Singapore  passed legislation to allow foreign law firms to
own stakes in local legal practices or share in their profits,
under legislative changes proposed by Law Minister K. Shanmugam
yesterday.  The Southeast Asian city will also relax the rules for the
admission of experienced foreign trial lawyers, he told
Parliament. Shanmugam has said Singapore won’t “turn back”
after licensing six foreign firms in December 2008 to practice
local corporate law.  The decision to allow foreign law firms to own stakes in
local practices may help proposed tie-ups such as one between
London-based  Allen & Overy LLP (323556L)  and Singapore’s Allen & Gledhill.
The two firms said in November they were in preliminary talks on
proposals to combine, subject to any necessary regulatory
approvals in Singapore.  Allen & Overy, Clifford Chance LLP, Norton Rose LLP,  White
& Case LLP (1116L) , Herbert Smith LLP and  Latham & Watkins LLP (1115L)  were
awarded the six qualifying foreign law practice licenses in 2008.
The firms made commitments to double their revenue, staffing and
profits in Singapore in five years.  Lawmakers including Hri Kumar and Christopher De Souza,
both lawyers and from the ruling party, raised concerns about
the further opening of Singapore’s legal industry.  “In a firm where the final decision lies abroad, the
bottom line becomes paramount,” said Kumar, a lawyer with Drew
& Napier LLC in Singapore.  “Does the minister foresee our legal industry heading the
direction of  Hong Kong  where international law firms dominate
nearly every area of law and is that a consequence the
government favors or is prepared to accept?” he asked.  The decision to allow foreign law firms to take stakes lies
with local law practices, Shanmugam said in response. The
proposed change isn’t a “mandate” that domestic law firms are
required to followed, he said. The changes will take effect in
the second quarter.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 