-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Cooled in December on Europe Optimism
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-15T14:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-cooled-in-december-on-europe-optimism.html
International demand for U.S.
 financial assets  cooled in December amid optimism  Europe  would
resolve its debt crisis.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.9 billion during the month compared with net purchases of
$61.3 billion the previous month, the Treasury Department said
today in Washington. Including  short-term securities  such as
stock swaps, foreigners bought a net $87.1 billion in December
compared with net buying of $42.9 billion the previous month.  The December decline in foreign demand for U.S. assets
reflects “in large part the improvement in the global economic
outlook and risk sentiments during that period,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York ,
said before the report. “Notwithstanding this, with concerns
about a disorderly Greek default continuing to linger. We expect
the flight to quality to continue to play a big role in
maintaining a healthy appetite for U.S. Treasuries among global
investors.”  U.S. Treasuries finished 2011 with the biggest annual
return since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008 as
Europe’s debt turmoil spurred investor demand for refuge even as
 Standard & Poor’s  cut America’s credit rating. U.S. 10-year note
yields ended 2011 within a quarter-percentage point of a record
low while data showed the  U.S. economy  was strengthening.  European leaders are torn between pouring more aid into
 Greece ’s struggling economy or risking an unprecedented national
bankruptcy that might force the country out of the euro. A euro
area finance ministers meeting was canceled late yesterday and
replaced with a conference call at 5 p.m. Brussels time. On
March 20 Greece must come up with 14.5 billion euros for a bond
redemption or possibly become the first country in the euro’s
13-year history to default.  Corporate Debt  The Treasury Department data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and other securities.  Five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated
net buying of $45 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate. Their estimates before the report ranged from
net buying of $20 billion in long-term assets to $72 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  