-- International Demand for U.S. Long-Term Financial Assets Eased in December
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-15T15:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/international-demand-for-u-s-long-term-financial-assets-eased-in-decembrt.html
International demand for U.S.
 financial assets  cooled in December as optimism  Europe  would
resolve its debt crisis reduced the appeal of Treasuries as a
safe haven.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.9 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$61.3 billion the previous month, the Treasury Department said
today in  Washington . Including  short-term securities  such as
stock swaps, foreigners bought a net $87.1 billion in December,
compared with net buying of $42.9 billion the previous month.  “Foreign purchases of U.S. assets were less than
impressive in December, which appears to be an effect of easing
European tensions, particularly later in the month,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia.  Net foreign sales of Treasury notes and bonds were $16.6
billion in December compared with purchases of $54 billion in
November.  U.S. Treasuries finished 2011 with the biggest annual
return since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008 as
Europe’s debt turmoil spurred investor demand for refuge, even
as  Standard & Poor’s  cut America’s credit rating. U.S. 10-year
note yields ended 2011 within a quarter-percentage point of a
record low while data showed the  U.S. economy  was strengthening.  Leaders Torn  European leaders are torn between pouring more aid into
 Greece ’s struggling economy or risking an unprecedented national
bankruptcy that might force the country out of the euro. A euro-
area finance ministers meeting was canceled late yesterday and
replaced with a conference call at 5 p.m. Brussels time today.
On March 20 Greece must come up with 14.5 billion euros ($19
billion) for a bond redemption or possibly become the first
country in the euro’s 13-year history to default.  The Treasury Department data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and other securities.  Five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated
net buying of $45 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate. Their estimates before the report ranged from
net buying of $20 billion in long-term assets to $72 billion.  China  remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries in December after its holdings fell by $32 billion to
$1.1 trillion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China,
increased holdings by $6.7 billion to $112 billion.  Japan ’s rose
by $3.5 billion to $1.04 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  