-- Iran Says EU Oil Embargo Is Political Tool Hurting Buyers
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-02-15T15:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/iran-says-eu-oil-embargo-is-political-tool-hurting-buyers-1-.html
The European Union’s embargo on
importing oil from  Iran (OPCRIRAN)  is a political tool that doesn’t help
producers or consumers and increases the final cost to users,
the Islamic republic’s OPEC governor said.  “The consumers have placed embargoes on shipping, selling,
and investment in our country, they use embargo as a tool,”
Mohammad Ali Khatibi said in a phone interview from Tehran
today. “When there is tension, the reaction of the market is
clear, it is normal, prices go up.”  Oil rose to its highest in a month after  Iran ’s state-run
Press TV reported today that the country had cut crude exports
to six European countries. Khatibi was unable to confirm the
report. Oil for March delivery advanced as much as $1.80 to
$102.54 a barrel, the highest since Jan. 12, in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.74
at 2:29 p.m. London time.  The EU decided last month to halt purchases from Iran from
July 1 in an attempt to halt the nation’s nuclear program. The
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, had “no
information at all” that Iran has acted unilaterally,  Michael Mann , an EU spokesman, told reporters in Brussels today.  A suspension of Iranian exports would come amid rising
tension in the Gulf. Iran said Dec. 14 it was planning military
maneuvers in the  Strait of Hormuz , the 34-kilometer-wide (21-
mile) chokepoint through which about 20 percent of global crude
supplies flow. The EU announced its ban on Iran’s oil imports
even after the nation’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi
threatened to close the strait should the 27-nation bloc go
ahead with the embargo.  “Of course everybody is worried about the escalation in
tension,” Khatibi said. “Everybody prefers a friendly
situation. But who changed the situation: the politicians from
the consumers’ side.”  Most members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are producing at full capacity and can’t add more oil
to replace Iranian volumes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  