-- Iran Says It Loaded Locally Made Fuel to Tehran Nuclear Reactor
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-15T17:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/iran-says-it-s-loaded-locally-made-fuel-plates-into-tehran-nuclear-reactor.html
Iran  loaded locally built fuel
plates into its nuclear research reactor in Tehran, state-run
Press TV reported today, showing images of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  inside the facility.  Only a handful of countries, including  France  and the U.S.,
have the technology to build the 20-percent enriched fuel plates
needed for the reactor, according to Iranian officials.
Ahmadinejad described the step as a “major” nuclear feat.  Iranian scientists achieved the breakthrough in line with a
policy of “nuclear energy for all and nuclear weapons for
none,” the  Islamic Republic News Agency  said. It shows that
Iran won’t be intimidated and will pursue its technological
advancement, the  Iranian Students News Agency  said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. was
aware of the announcement and “we expect to learn more” from
 International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors working in Iran.  Carney, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One, said
the U.S. has never objected to peaceful, civilian nuclear
activities by Iran and wants to see Iran abide by international
obligations and renounce its interest in nuclear weapons.  Carney said reports of the nuclear announcement and threats
of cutoff of oil exports reflect “provocative acts” that are
“designed to distract attention from the demonstrated impact”
of international sanctions against Iran.  Iranian Letter  The European Union said it has received a letter from Iran
in response to EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton ’s
October letter regarding talks on the nation’s nuclear program.  The EU is studying the letter from Iran’s top nuclear
negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , and is consulting with its so-called
E3+3 partners over the communication, the EU said today in a
statement on its website. The EU didn’t release the letter.  The announcement from Iran comes at a time of increased
tension between Iran and western powers over its nuclear
activities, with tighter sanctions imposed by the U.S. and
European Union that restrict trade and financial transactions.  Israel, which Iran does not recognize, has said time is
running out for sanctions to work as a deterrent to nuclear
weapons development in the Islamic republic, and Israeli leaders
have said a military strike may be needed.  Israel accused Iran of involvement in car-bomb attacks this
week that targeted Israeli diplomats in India and  Georgia . Iran
rejected the claims as baseless. Iran says  Israel  is behind a
series of killings of Iranian nuclear scientists, and accuses
the Jewish state of being the first Middle Eastern country to
develop nuclear weapons, which Israel neither confirms nor
denies.  Fuel Swap  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty,
says its nuclear program is purely civilian and aimed at
producing electricity for its growing population.  The Tehran Research Reactor produces medical isotopes for
cancer treatment and operates using metal plates constructed
with 20 percent enriched uranium. Iran sought to swap raw
uranium fuel for the reactor plates in 2009 as part of a
confidence-building deal proposed by the IAEA.  UN officials estimated in 2010 that the reactor would run
out of its current stock of fuel, made by  Argentina  and supplied
to Iran in 1992, by this year. It’s unclear based on pictures
broadcast today from Tehran whether Iran inserted plates into
the reactor or tested uranium stocks inside fuel rods.  Ahmadinejad, who was first elected in 2005, has repeatedly
dangled the prospect of nuclear leaps to invigorate his
followers and intimidate countries that he says threaten Iran.
The president said in April 2006 that Iran had joined the
“nuclear club” of countries with nuclear technology. In
January 2010, he promised to announce nuclear news “so sweet”
it would “please all the Iranian people.”  During Ahmadinejad two four-year terms, the Iranian
government has sought to turn the country’s nuclear program into
a source of pride for the population and a symbol of
independence and resistance in the face of pressure from abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  