-- Israel Inflation Probably Slowed in January as Growth Weakens
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-02-15T07:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/israel-inflation-probably-slowed-in-january-as-growth-weakens.html
Israeli  inflation  probably eased in
January to its slowest pace in almost a year and a half as
global and domestic growth weakened.  The inflation rate declined to an annual 1.9 percent from
2.2 percent the previous month, according to the median estimate
of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Prices probably fell 0.2
percent in the month after remaining unchanged in December,
according to the survey. The Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of
Statistics will release the data at 6:30 p.m. local time today.  “We’re seeing a softening of inflationary pressure,”
 Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in a telephone interview. “Growth is a little bit
weaker, consumers are more cautious, so there is less demand
pressure.”  Growth (ISGSANYY)  is expected to slow to “a little less” than 3
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 13,
lowering its forecast from a September prediction of 3.6
percent. In 2011, the economy expanded 4.8 percent. The  Bank of
Israel  lowered its benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point
last month to 2.5 percent, the third cut in five months, saying
that the European debt crisis remains a threat to growth.  The central bank has “plenty of room” to reduce  interest
rates  if necessary, Governor  Stanley Fischer  said on Feb. 1.  “Inflation is on track to fall toward and even beyond the
mid-point of the inflation target range -- with commodity
prices, domestic demand and the housing market all softening,”
the IMF said in a Feb. 13 report on the Israeli economy.  The government’s target is 1 percent to 3 percent.
Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  were unchanged at
2.3 percent for a second month, the central bank said Jan. 17.  Protests against the high cost of living that spread
through the country last year have helped moderate several
components of the CPI, including food and housing prices, the
Bank of  Israel  said in a report this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 