-- Israel Inflation Drops to Lowest in Over a Year as Growth Eases
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-02-15T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/israel-inflation-drops-to-lowest-in-over-a-year-as-growth-eases.html
Israeli  inflation  eased in January
to its slowest pace in more than a year as growth weakened and
protests against the cost of living helped keep prices in check.  Consumer prices rose an annual 2 percent compared with a
2.2 percent gain in December, the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 12
economists was 1.9 percent. Prices were unchanged in the month.  “During the past six months, inflation has been zero,”
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities & Investments
in  Tel Aviv , said in a telephone interview before the
announcement. “The social protests had a significant effect. In
addition, the slowdown in the economy brought about a decline in
consumer demand and this affects prices.”  Growth (ISGSANYY)  is expected to slow to “a little less” than 3
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 13,
lowering its forecast from 3.6 percent in September. In 2011,
the economy expanded 4.8 percent. Protests against the high cost
of living that spread through the country last year have helped
moderate several components of the consumer-price index,
including food and housing, the  Bank of Israel  said this week.  The central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter-point last month to 2.5 percent, the third cut in five
months, saying that the European debt crisis remains a threat to
growth.  “Inflation is on track to fall toward and even beyond the
mid-point of the inflation target range -- with commodity
prices, domestic demand and the housing market all softening,”
the IMF said in a Feb. 13 report on the Israeli economy.  Israel ’s  Purchasing Managers Index (ISPMISA)  fell to its lowest in
almost three years in January, indicating a “sharp
contraction” in industrial activity.  The government’s target is 1 percent to 3 percent.
Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  were unchanged at
2.3 percent for a second month, the central bank said Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 