-- Italy Slashes Lockheed Martin F-35 Order in Defense Shakeup
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-02-15T11:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/italy-to-cut-f-35-fighter-jet-orders-as-part-of-defense-revamp.html
Italy will reduce its planned order
for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 fighter jets by about 40 and trim
the size of the military as part of a program to reduce defense
spending, Defense Minister Giampaolo Di Paola said today.  Italy will purchase 90 F-35s rather than the planned 131,
Di Paola said in  Rome  before a joint defense committee of both
houses of parliament. The nation will also slash military
manpower by about 30,000 soldiers and 10,000 civilians, he said.  The cuts come amid a drive by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to
tame Italy’s public finances after contagion from the sovereign
debt crisis drove borrowing costs to record highs, and are a
blow for the F-35, the world’s costliest defense project. The
Pentagon will cut $1.6 billion from the program, canceling 13
jets next year, under proposals sent to Congress Feb. 13, while
customers including  Australia  are reviewing their requirements.  “Italy’s decision won’t have a huge impact on the program,
but it’s probably symptomatic of lower F-35 sales overall,” said
Paul Brant, a defense analyst at  Collins Stewart  in  London , who
predicts that production may drop by 15 percent. “I imagine most
nations will bring down their numbers. The U.S. will probably
cut the total it orders by about 500 from the original 2,400.”  Delays  The Pentagon is the largest customer for the F-35, which is
five years late and will cost an estimated $382 billion for
development and purchases. Three variants are being built: a
conventional fighter, one to operate from aircraft carriers, and
another capable of short takeoffs and vertical landings.  Before today, Lockheed also had about 700 orders from eight
partner nations, the U.K., Australia, Italy, the Netherlands,
Turkey, Norway, Denmark and  Canada . Israel and  Singapore  also
have a lower-level involvement in the plane. The plane won its
first competitive tender, from  Japan , in December, overcoming
the  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-18 Super Hornet and Eurofighter GmbH Typhoon.  Australia is reviewing deliveries following the U.S.
review, the Associated Press reported Jan. 30, citing Defense
Minister  Stephen Smith , while Canada has convened a meeting to
discuss the program, Ottawa’s Globe and Mail said Feb. 13. Even
orders from the U.K., the biggest partner with an investment of
$2 billion, are in flux, with no final total yet stipulated.  ‘Key Role’  Di Paola said today that Italy had spent 2.5 billion euros
($3.3 billion) on the F-35, and that a review had indicated one-
third fewer planes would suffice. Lockheed, the world’s biggest
defense contractor, said it understood the financial challenges
facing global defense budgets and appreciated  Italy ’s continued
commitment to the jet, also known as the Joint Strike Fighter.  “Italy plays a key role as a partner in the program,”
Lockheed said in e-mailed comments. George Standridge, the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company vice president of business
development, said separately at the Singapore Airshow that
government spending cuts will have a minor impact on costs and
that there are “budget pressures everywhere, not just on F35.”  The reduction in Italy’s military headcount can be achieved
over the next decade by curbing recruitment and transferring
personnel, the minister said, with a 30 percent cut in “defense
structures” planned over the next five years. He said yesterday
that 70 percent of the Italian defense budget goes on staff.  Finmeccanica Impact  Prime Minister Monti pushed through 20 billion euros in
austerity cuts in December and the  European Central Bank  loaned
banks unlimited funds for three years. That’s prompted a fall in
Italian bond yields that suggests improved confidence in the
country’s ability to repay its debts.  The cut in orders is “not good news” for  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
Italy’s top defense contractor, which, though a Eurofighter
partner, contributes F-35 parts and is expected to undertake
final assembly in Cameri, near Milan, according to Christophe Menard, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  Still, the “rebalancing of spending toward equipment is a
positive for Finmeccanica,” though will take time to impact
orders at the Rome-based company, Menard said in a note.  Finmeccanica traded 1.2 percent higher at 3.45 euros as of
11:26 a.m. in Milan, taking gains this year to 21 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  