-- Liverpool Won’t Sell Luis Suarez After Dispute, Echo Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-15T10:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/liverpool-won-t-sell-luis-suarez-after-dispute-echo-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Suarez Stays  Liverpool won’t sell striker  Luis Suarez  after his refusal
to shake hands with Patrice Evra, the Manchester United
defender, the  Liverpool Echo  reported.  The Uruguayan was suspended 8 games for racially abusing
Evra in a league game in October, and didn’t greet him before
the match in Manchester. U.K. newspapers reported that Liverpool
may sell the striker after he was criticized by team officials
and media commentators.  Liverpool said after last weekend’s match at Old Trafford
that Suarez had told team officials and manager  Kenny Dalglish 
that he’d shake hands with Evra before refusing the Frenchman’s
hand when the two teams met.  Hiddink Risk  Chelsea’s plan to consider Guus Hiddink as a replacement
for under-pressure manager Andre Villas-Boas may be ruined by
Russian team Anzhi Makhachkala, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Villas-Boas is under threat after Chelsea slipped out of
the Champions League qualification places following a 2-0 loss
to Everton in its last match, the Mail said.  Khedira for United?  Manchester United  is tracking Real  Madrid ’s German
midfielder Sami Khedira and Benfica pair Javi Garcia and Nicolas
Gaitan, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Khedira has been in and out of the Real team and United is
weighing up its options, the newspaper said.  Bentley’s U.S. Option  Tottenham midfielder  David Bentley  wants to “kickstart”
his career by quitting the U.K. for Major League Soccer in the
U.S., the  Sun  said.  Bentley returned to Spurs after his loan to West Ham was
cut short by a knee problem and is in the north  London  team’s
squad for the second-half of the season, the Sun said.  Bentley would prefer to move the U.S. on loan immediately
to improve his fitness, the Sun said, quoting the player’s agent
Rob Segal.  Scholes Contract  Manchester United midfielder  Paul Scholes  will sign on for
another season, the  Sun  reported.  The 37-year-old, who’s never played for another club, came
out of retirement earlier this season after telling manager  Alex Ferguson  he may have made a mistake in retiring last year.  Ferguson has confirmed the team’s board has drafted a one-
year deal and wants Scholes to play on, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  