-- Japan Air Orders 10 More Boeing 787 Dreamliners
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-02-15T09:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/japan-air-to-buy-10-new-boeing-787s-raising-total-order-to-45.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9205)  will order 10
more  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, boosting a backlog to 45, as it expands
international operations following a state-backed turnaround.  The airline will also convert 10 existing 787 orders to the
larger -9 version from the smaller -8, according to a statement
today.  JAL will add more orders even after delivery delays forced
it to postpone the start of 787 services by a month to the end
of April, President Yoshiharu Ueki told reporters today in
 Tokyo . The carrier has waited more than three years longer than
planned for its first Dreamliner after Boeing delayed deliveries
because of struggles with new materials and production methods.  The new fuel-efficient planes will help JAL achieve a goal
of finding 50 billion yen ($637 million) in cost savings in the
five years starting April 1. The airline will spend 478 billion
yen upgrading its fleet in the period.  Net income will also probably drop to 113 billion yen next
fiscal year from a forecast 160 billion yen in the year ending
March 31, the carrier said today. Profit was 146 billion yen in
the nine months to Dec. 31 on sales of 909.1 billion yen, it
said earlier this month.  Flight Plans  The airline is considering an initial public offering as
early as September after a reorganization that included cutting
a third of its workers, grounding planes and receiving funding
from the country’s largest banks.  JAL added Helsinki and  San Diego  to its list of planned 787
destinations, which already includes  Boston , Beijing,  Singapore ,
Delhi and Moscow. The carrier intends to fly Tokyo-Helsinki four
times a week starting in March 2013. JAL will also expand a
code-sharing agreement with Finnair Oyj, according to the
Finnish carrier.  Japan  Air may also form a venture with Finnair after saying
earlier this month it had applied for one with British Airways.  “We’re optimistic about considering a joint-venture” with
Finnair, Ueki said.  Japan Air and British Airways applied to form a venture on
Japan-Europe routes that would let them share revenue,
coordinate schedules and potentially add new services, the
Japanese airline said Feb. 8 in a statement.  JAL is seeking antitrust immunity for the plan from Japan’s
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, it
said.  All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier, is
so far the only carrier operating the 787. It began flying the
plane domestically in November and added flights to  Frankfurt 
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  