-- Alabama’s Jefferson County Will Pay $5.5 Million a Month on Sewer Bonds
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/jefferson-county-will-pay-5-5-million-a-month-on-sewer-debt-1-.html
Alabama (STOAL1) ’s Jefferson County, which
filed the biggest municipal U.S. bankruptcy last year, agreed to
pay sewer bondholders $5.5 million a month through May while the
two sides fight over a final amount, a lawyer said.  David Lemke, an attorney for the bondholders’ trustee,  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , said in court yesterday that the deal
will expire at the end of May, or sooner should a judge decide
before then what the county must pay every month to service
about $3 billion in sewer debt.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham,
Alabama, will hold a hearing in April on how much of the sewer
revenue collected from residents and businesses in the county
must be set aside to operate the system. Under the bond
contract, any money left over after operations and maintenance
must be turned over to the trustee, who then pays bondholders.  The two sides disagree about what should go into operations
and maintenance costs.  “We worked out what the county believes is an interim
agreement,” county attorney Patrick Darby said in court
yesterday.  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy in November.  The county, state officials, the receiver and bondholders
failed to implement a tentative agreement that would have
required the sewer debt to be cut by about $1 billion, rates to
increase and the  Alabama  Legislature to enact new laws to
benefit the county’s finances.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  