-- JPMorgan, HSBC Among Firms Accused by Informant Bank in Canada Libor Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-15T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/jpmorgan-hsbc-implicated-by-informant-bank-in-canada-libor-case.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among at least seven firms accused
by another bank of participating in a conspiracy to manipulate 
the price of derivatives worldwide for more than three years.  The unnamed bank, seeking immunity, told  Canada ’s
 Competition Bureau  that traders and cash brokers conspired to
influence the Yen  London  interbank offered rate from 2007 to
2010 to profit on interest-rate derivative positions linked to
the benchmark. The bureau spelled out the probe in documents it
filed with the Ontario Superior Court in May.  The documents, shown yesterday to Bloomberg News by court
clerks, offer one of the most detailed accounts yet as watchdogs
in  Europe ,  Asia  and the U.S. look into concerns that firms
conspired to manipulate  interest rates  serving as benchmarks for
trillions of dollars of financial products. Canada also is
investigating  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
 ICAP Plc (IAP)  and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., the court documents show.  “There is no conclusion of wrongdoing at this time and no
charges have been laid,” Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the
Competition Bureau, said in an e-mailed statement.  Libor rates are generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to
borrow from one another for 15 different periods, from overnight
to one year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and
Swiss francs.  Communications Among Firms  Canadian officials, who were seeking records from the
companies, said the cooperator claimed that the banks’ employees
agreed to make artificially high or low submissions for Yen
Libor to improve the outcomes of trades tied to the rate.
According to the documents, banks communicated with one another
and with cash brokers to form agreements. In some cases,
derivatives traders allegedly asked cash brokers to help
influence submissions for Yen Libor.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup,
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , Edinburgh-based RBS and London-
based ICAP declined to comment.  Diane Soucy Bergan, a spokeswoman for London-based HSBC in
 Chicago , didn’t respond to requests for comment. A call after
normal business hours to a U.K. phone number listed on RP
Martin’s website for media inquiries wasn’t answered, nor was a
call to a number listed for the broker’s New York office.  Documents Sought  An ICAP broker was accused of telling a derivatives trader
that he would try to get London-based brokers to influence banks
participating in setting Yen Libor, according to the bureau. A
trader at HSBC also allegedly communicated with cash brokers,
instructing them to influence the benchmark rate, the bureau
said. Not all attempts to manipulate the rate were successful,
according to an affidavit filed by the bureau.  ICAP is the world’s largest broker of transactions between
banks.  The Canadian officials said they were seeking lists of
people responsible for making Yen Libor submissions, internal
communications and records describing so-called Chinese walls
separating workers within the banks.  They sought a list of interest-rate derivative trades,
including records showing whether the banks made a profit or
loss on them. They also requested records showing the process
banks used to price interest-rate derivatives and how traders
were compensated.  The bureau said it became aware of the case when it was
approached by the bank seeking to take advantage of an immunity
program. A lawyer for the company told the bureau that by
manipulating the rate, participating banks affected all
interest-rate derivatives that use Yen Libor as a basis for
their price, according to the court filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  