-- Juniper Rises on Speculation of AT&T Orders: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-02-15T21:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/juniper-rises-on-speculation-of-at-t-orders-san-francisco-mover.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
largest maker of networking equipment, jumped 7 percent on
speculation that  AT&T Inc. (T)  may step up orders.  Juniper shares rose to $24.16 at the close in New York, the
biggest gain since Dec. 20. The stock has climbed 18 percent
this year.  AT&T released its internal capital-expenditure budget, and
its orders to equipment suppliers appear “reasonably healthy,”
according to a report today from Jefferies & Co. Networking
companies have been suffering from sluggish spending by
telecommunications-service providers -- a slump that caused
Juniper’s first-quarter forecast to miss estimates last month.
AT&T, based in Dallas, is the largest phone company in the U.S.  The release of AT&T’s budget will be “an important
catalyst” for Juniper and other equipment vendors because
they’ll be able to ship products to meet the phone company’s
orders, George Notter, an analyst at Jefferies in  San Francisco ,
said in the report. The uptick in orders should spread to other
carriers, such as Verizon Communications Inc. and Sprint Nextel
Corp., he said.  “Looking at the bigger picture, we expect that CapEx
spending will accelerate shortly among carriers,” Notter said.  Juniper, which ranks second to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in the
networking-equipment industry, gets more than 60 percent of its
revenue from phone and cable companies and other  Internet
service providers .  Profit before certain items will be 11 cents to 14 cents a
share this quarter, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said
last month in a statement. Sales will be $960 million to $990
million. Analysts had  estimated  27 cents in profit and sales of
$1.1 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  