-- Kellogg to Buy Procter & Gamble’s Pringles for $2.7 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-02-15T22:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/kellogg-to-buy-pringles-from-procter-gamble-for-2-7-billion.html
Kellogg Co. (K)  agreed to acquire
 Procter & Gamble Co .’s Pringles potato chip business for about
$2.7 billion in cash to triple its global snacks sales after a
deal with  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  fell through.  The transaction will reduce Kellogg’s earnings this year by
as much as 16 cents a share, the  Battle Creek , Michigan-based
company said today in a statement. Procter & Gamble earlier
today terminated a previous plan to sell Pringles to Diamond
Foods, according to a separate statement.  The purchase gives Kellogg a brand with more than $1.5
billion in sales in 140 countries and a platform to grow in
 emerging markets . Kellogg Chief Executive Officer John Bryant
said on a conference call that the company is working to boost
its global snacks business, which includes Cheez-It, Townhouse
crackers and Keebler.  “This is a great business that helps us create an even
better global snacks business,” Bryant said in a phone
interview today. “This is an irresistible asset at a good
price. So we moved very quickly.”  Kellogg  rose  5.1 percent to $52.87 at the close in New
York. P&G, based in Cincinnati, increased 0.1 percent to $64.55.
Diamond gained 5.2 percent to $23.46.  The purchase would be the largest in the U.S. diversified
foods industry since Nestle SA acquired  Kraft Foods Inc.’s (KFT)  North
American pizza business for $3.7 billion two years ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Snack Sales  Snack sales total $48 billion a year in developed markets
and $15 billion in emerging markets, Kellogg said. Global snack
sales have grown 4.3 percent a year from 2005 to 2010 in
developed markets and 9.6 percent a year in emerging markets.  Kellogg expects to incur one-time costs of $160 million to
$180 million from the acquisition. The company expects to
generate $10 million in savings this year, more next year and
then as much as $75 million annually thereafter.  The deal makes strategic sense for Kellogg,  Alexia Howard ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in a
research note today. While Kellogg said savings will equal 3
percent to 5 percent of sales, Howard estimates savings from
large acquisitions average 8.3 percent of sales, so Kellogg
could end up finding more benefits.  “When Kellogg bought Keebler a decade ago, it was an
entirely domestic business,” Howard said. “As a result,
Kellogg’s snacking business is relatively underdeveloped
overseas.”  Deal Collapsed  Diamond Foods had previously agreed to buy Pringles for
$1.5 billion in stock and the assumption of $850 million in
debt. The deal collapsed after Diamond Foods last week replaced
its chief executive officer and restated earnings for the past
two years after the board found payments to walnut growers had
been booked in the wrong periods.  P&G told Kellogg and other interested parties, some of
which were private-equity firms, several weeks ago to prepare
bids, according to a person familiar with the process. The
consumer-products company was seeking a deal that could close
quickly and that employees would support to help make up for the
uncertainty that had clouded the Diamond Foods tie-up, said the
person, who declined to be identified as the negotiations
weren’t public.  Kellogg didn’t participate in the previous bidding process
that led to that deal, Bryant said. The Diamond deal was hard to
compete with and Kellogg didn’t have as much focus on the global
snacks business at the time, he said.  Kellogg Moved Quickly  The deal would value Pringles at about 11 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In 66
comparable deals globally since 2007, the median paid by buyers
was about 7.6 times Ebitda, Bloomberg data show. There have been
almost 1,000 transactions in diversified foods in the past five
years, led by Kraft’s 2010 purchase of Cadbury Plc for more than
$20 billion, including debt, according to Bloomberg data.  Kraft paid 14.5 times Ebitda for Cadbury, according to
Bloomberg data.  Once it appeared that the Diamond deal could fall apart
following the conclusion of an internal investigation last week,
Kellogg moved quickly, Bryant said.  “We are always looking for acquisitions,” Bryant said.  Bryant said Kellogg will issue new debt for the
acquisition.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised Kellogg, while Morgan Stanley
advised P&G.  Core Business  The purchase is expected to be completed later this year,
the companies said. P&G said it expects an after-tax gain of
$1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, or 47 cents a share to 50 cents a
share.  P&G was able to divest a brand that the company wanted to
sell as it focuses on its core business lines, said  Jack Russo ,
an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  Des Peres ,  Missouri .  “The good news here is that it’s over, it’s done and it
gets them more focused on their core,” Russo said in a phone
interview.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  is the world’s largest snack-food maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  at   dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  