-- Kingfisher Posts Wider Loss on Fuel Costs, Flight Cuts
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-15T19:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/kingfisher-posts-wider-loss-on-fuel-costs-flight-cuts.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier controlled by billionaire  Vijay Mallya , posted a wider
third-quarter loss as fuel costs surged and the company cut
flights amid a cash shortage.  The  net loss  was 4.44 billion rupees ($89.3 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with 2.54 billion rupees a
year earlier, Bangalore-based Kingfisher said in a statement.
Operating revenue fell 19 percent to 13.4 billion rupees, the
airline said.  Kingfisher joins  Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) 
in extending losses as they fail to turn rising travel demand
into profits because of fuel expenses and a price war. India may
soon allow foreign airlines to buy stakes in local carriers as
they struggle for financing to expand in a market where domestic
traffic is forecast to surge fourfold by 2020.  “Mallya’s losing money hand over fist,” said  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services
Pvt. in Mumbai. “The situation is not going to improve
quickly,” as fuel prices remain high.  Kingfisher’s market share slipped to fifth in December from
second in October as it cut flights and scrapped low-cost
services as part of a turnaround plan. It has also grounded 12
of its existing 27 Avions de Transport Regional planes and
delayed Airbus SAS A380 deliveries beyond 2016.  Kingfisher  rose  2.3 percent to 26.85 rupees at the close
yesterday in Mumbai. The stock slumped 68 percent last year.  Talks With Investors  The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against a  debt  of about $1.3 billion. Kingfisher
said Jan. 19 it’s in talks with potential investors including SC
Lowy Financial Services.  Jet Airways,  India ’s biggest carrier, reported a  fourth
straight  quarterly loss last month after jet-fuel costs rose 60
percent, eroding gains from carrying more passengers. SpiceJet,
India’s only listed discount carrier, also attributed its third-
quarter loss to higher fuel costs. Fuel expenses rose to 50
percent of revenue in the quarter, from 37 percent a year
earlier, it said.  ATR, a maker of turboprop aircraft, said last month it
canceled a 38-plane order from Kingfisher after the carrier
missed payments.  State Bank  of India, the nation’s largest, will
lend to Kingfisher only after the company pays dues on existing
loans, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said Jan. 17.  Preferred Shares  The bank and other lenders last year converted 13 billion
rupees of existing Kingfisher debt into preferred  shares . They
also granted as much as 12.1 billion rupees of new loans to the
carrier.  In November, chiefs of Indian carriers met Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  as they sought the government’s assistance to
stem industry losses. The nation’s airlines will probably lose
$2.5 billion in the year ending March, according to CAPA Centre
for Aviation, an industry consultant.  India’s aviation and finance ministries recommended
allowing overseas airlines to buy as much as 49 percent stake in
local carriers last month. The proposal is pending final
approval from cabinet. Non-airline investors from overseas are
already allowed to hold as much as 49 percent.  Indian carriers’ debt may reach close to $20 billion in the
year ending March 31, the aviation ministry said in a December
report to the  Planning Commission , an agency that designs five-
year economic and social programs. Working capital loans and
dues to airport operators and fuel companies account for half of
this amount, according to the report.  Kingfisher had a fleet of 66 planes ranging from ATR
turboprops to Airbus A330s as of March 31, according to its
annual report for the year ended in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  