-- King Says Moody’s Warning a Reminder on Need to Cut Deficit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-15T13:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/king-says-moody-s-warning-a-reminder-on-need-to-cut-deficit-1-.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said Moody’s Investors Service’s warning this week that it may
strip the U.K. of its top Aaa credit rating shows the government
must continue with its deficit-reduction plan.  “It’s a reminder that we are facing a very challenging
path to reduce the scale of our deficit so that, at some point,
the ratio of national debt to gross domestic product can start
to fall back again, which has to be the objective,” King said
at a press conference in London today. The government has a
“long-term plan” for the budget and “it’s very important that
we keep to that.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  fended off
opposition accusations that he’s cutting spending too quickly
after Moody’s put the U.K. rating on “negative outlook” on
Feb. 13. Osborne says his approach has helped to maintain the
rating, pushed gilt yields lower and given room for the central
bank to loosen monetary policy.  Moody’s warning, which cited a “weaker macroeconomic
environment,” carries a one-in-three chance of an outright
downgrade and was part of a larger action which saw the company
cut the debt ratings of six European countries including Italy,
Spain and  Portugal .  Still, recent rating reductions have done little to deter
investors, who poured money into the government bonds of nations
such as France and Austria even after the countries lost their
top ratings at  Standard & Poor’s  last month.  “I don’t see any reason to ignore or get overly concerned
about it just because it’s a rating agency,” King said today of
the warning by Moody’s. “What we’ve been saying is that
everyone involved in financial markets should try to rely less
mechanically on what rating agencies say. But I don’t see any
reason to dismiss this just because in the past rating agencies
got things wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  