-- Kinky Brothel Games Intrigue in ENO’s ‘Hoffmann’: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/kinky-brothel-games-intrigue-in-eno-s-quirky-hoffmann-warwick-thompson.html
It’s an odd sort of brothel. There’s
a gigantic shaving mirror on the wall, a schoolboy on the make
and a pet gorilla on the loose.  I wasn’t the only one scratching my head after seeing
 Richard Jones ’s new production of Offenbach’s “The Tales of
Hoffmann” at  English National Opera . Fortunately, it’s as
intriguing and enjoyable as it is puzzling.  Jones begins the story in a drab 1950s attic garret. This
is the home of Hoffmann (Barry Banks), a drunken author with
writer’s block. Hoffmann’s Muse (Christine Rice) appears to him
in the guise of a cheeky 10-year-old schoolboy, and suggests
that he recall some of his love affairs to cure himself of his
current passion.  The hero then re-enacts his early affair with a life-size
doll called Olympia, and the garret is transformed into a creepy
nursery: odd wallpaper, garish colors, children in weird masks,
that sort of thing.  When he remembers his love for Antonia, a singer on the
verge of death, the garret becomes a gothic boudoir. Dr. Miracle
(Clive Bayley), the evil physician in charge of Antonia, looks
amusingly like Herman Munster.  Hoffmann’s affair with the prostitute Giulietta is set in
yet another version of the same room. This time, it’s
transformed into a clinical-looking brothel, complete with huge
mirror and gorilla.  Surreal Puzzle  Watching so many surreal, metaphor-heavy images is like
doing a join-the-dots puzzle. If the different locations remain
fundamentally the same, then that means they’re just
hallucinations of Hoffmann’s drink-befuddled brain, right? So
the schoolboy who appears to him must be his younger and more
innocent self?  Younger self or no, it still looks odd when a 10-year-old
boy asks Hoffmann to love him. Is he being a Muse at that point,
or a schoolboy? That’s the trouble with stagings that rely on
“it’s all in his head” as the chief MacGuffin. The relationships
become diluted, the conflicts enfeebled. The other characters
lose focus.  That said, lots of it works beautifully. Antonia’s morbid
love of singing is presented as a form of addiction, and when
she needs her fix she scrabbles at locked drawers and cupboards
to find forbidden scores. When the evil Dr. Miracle appears and
urges her to sing, he causes just the comedy-horror frisson that
he should.  Strong Singers  There’s some fine singing. Georgia Jarman tackles the
almost impossible trittico of all three heroines and acquits
herself with style. She has a spit-spot coloratura as Olympia
and a melting legato as Antonia, and her stage guises are as
varied as can be.  Rice (Muse/Schoolboy) has a rich mezzo voice, and Banks has
top notes that shimmer like icicles. They’re supported by Antony
Walker’s conducting, which is able rather than exciting.  Rating: ***.  A similar comment can be made about Alan Ayckbourn’s 1974
comedy “Absent Friends” in a new production at the  Harold Pinter
Theatre . The play charts familiar Ayckbourn territory, looking
at the fears lying just below the self-delusions of middle-class
life. Sometimes, it’s so accurate that it makes you wince while
you laugh. At other moments, it feels like Ayckbourn forgot to
put all his sharp observations into a proper plot.  Nerdy Colin  It takes place in a 1970s suburban living room. A group of
friends are preparing a tea party to meet nerdy Colin (Reece
Shearsmith), whom they haven’t seen in three years. During that
time, Colin’s fiancee has died.  John and Paul are frightened that Colin will want to talk
about death. Diana and Marge don’t quite know what to do when he
does. Slowly, their own relationships begin to unravel. Paul’s
affair with married Evelyn (Kara Tointon) threatens to explode
the fake bonhomie.  The cast is great, the timing perfect. If only there were
something new after the intermission, instead of more of the
same terror-filled chit-chat, it would be a masterpiece.
Instead, the play trundles along the same set of rails until it
eventually runs out of steam, and then Colin says goodbye.  Never mind. There’s lots of enjoyment to be had along the
way.  Rating: **.  Star Countess  David McVicar ’s solid production of Mozart’s “Le nozze di
Figaro” has been doing good business at the  Royal Opera House 
for more than five years. It’s had a number of revivals, some
more successful than others.  The latest version is pleasingly lively, and has two
remarkable elements that give it a real boost. Antonio Pappano’s
conducting invests the score with freshly pointed details -- who
knew that the horns could add such a note of menace to the
overture? -- and young American soprano Rachel Willis-Sorensen
proves a name to watch as the Countess. After a shaky start, she
came into her own during “Dove sono,” and hurled out her juicy
top A’s with electrifying force. A big voice, and maybe a big
star in the making.  Rating: ***.  “The Tales of Hoffmann” is in repertoire at the Coliseum
through March 10. Information:  http://www.eno.org  or
+44-871-911-0200.  “Absent Friends” is at the Harold Pinter Theatre.
Information:  http://www.atgtickets.com  or +44-844-871-7627.  “Le nozze di Figaro” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera
through March 2. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or
+44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 