-- Knicks’ ‘Linsanity’ Has Stats Geeks Saying Told You So as Streak Hits Six
-- B y   D r a k e   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-15T18:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/knicks-linsanity-has-stats-geeks-saying-told-you-so-as-streak-hits-six.html
What makes New York Knicks guard
Jeremy Lin so exciting -- aside from the weaving drives to the
basket, the perfect passes, the dead-eye jump shots -- is that
no one saw it coming.  The best basketball talent evaluators in the world looked
at Lin, 23, and didn’t see much at all. The statistics geeks did,
Bloomberg Businessweek reported on its  website .  Lin was a high school star in Palo Alto,  California , who
went unrecruited by big-time college programs. At  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, he was All-Ivy League
twice, then went undrafted by the  National Basketball
Association . He latched on with the  Golden State Warriors  last
season and appeared in 29 games. He was cut in December, signed
with the  Houston Rockets , released again and picked up by the
Knicks. He didn’t play much until last week, and New York has
won six straight games with him in the lineup.  Before his rise from obscurity, a few argued that Lin might
be something special. They weren’t the NBA scouts or general
managers who make player decisions, though. They were statistics
geeks, sports junkies with day jobs. Now they are enjoying a
good, long told-you-so moment.  Arturo Galletti, a  General Electric Co. (GE)  engineer and
blogger who follows the NBA draft, has a metric he developed
with sports economist David Berri of Southern Utah University to
judge the value of prospects. Running it in 2010, Galletti says
he found Lin to be the 12th-best player in that year’s draft.  Ed Weiland, another blogger, in May 2010 for the website
Hoops Analyst, surveyed the draft and found it notably thin in
the point guard department after the University of Kentucky’s
John Wall.  “That doesn’t mean there won’t be a player or two who
surprise the experts though,” he wrote. “The best candidate to
pull off such a surprise might be Harvard’s Jeremy Lin.”  Basketball Math  Weiland based his calculation on two numbers in particular:
Lin’s 2-point shooting percentage and his “RSB40,” a combined
score of rebounds, steals, and blocks per 40 minutes -- a
particularly good measure, basketball statisticians argue, of
dominance at both ends of the court. Lin’s scores on those two
stats during his college career at Harvard put him in the
company of Steve Francis, Gary Payton,  Jason Kidd  and Rajon
Rondo.  Lin put up some of his best numbers when Harvard played its
toughest teams: the University of  Connecticut , Boston College
and Georgetown University.  Weiland concluded in the spring of 2010 that Lin “is a
good enough player to start in the NBA and possibly star.”  After excelling in the NBA’s summer league in 2010, the
Mavericks, Lakers, and Warriors all pursued him. But after the
Warriors signed him, they played him rarely, then cut him after
a season.  First Chance  For the Knicks, he got his first real chance on Feb. 4 when
he had 25 points and seven assists off the bench against the  New
Jersey Nets . Two days later, he had 28 points and eight assists
against the  Utah Jazz . Then he had 23 points and 10 assists
against Wall and the  Washington Wizards  and 38 points and seven
assists against the  Los Angeles Lakers .  Last night he hit a 3-pointer in the final second to give
the Knicks a 90-87 win over the  Toronto Raptors ,  New York ’s
sixth straight victory. The team is marketing “Linsanity” T-
shirts, and replicas of his jersey are the NBA’s best-seller
online since Feb. 4. The Knicks host the Sacramento Kings
tonight.  So what’s the lesson of Lin? Even the most fanatical
basketball empiricists wouldn’t argue that their predictions are
airtight. Berri, the economist (and co-author of “The Wages of
Wins”) is a critic of NBA general managers. To him, the lesson
isn’t that NBA general managers ignore data and go with their
guts. NBA teams do look at numbers. The problem, Berri argues,
is they’re focusing on the wrong numbers.  “They’re looking at how well [players] can bench press,
and I’m not really sure that’s relevant,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drake Bennett in New York at 
 dbennett35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  