-- Kodak Can Reject Agreement for Oscar Theater Naming Rights, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-15T19:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/kodak-wins-approval-for-950-million-bankruptcy-financing-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography
pioneer that filed for bankruptcy, can reject a deal for naming
rights to the theater in  Los Angeles  that hosts the annual
Academy Awards show, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  approved a
request today by the company to end the Kodak Theatre
sponsorship agreement to save money as it restructures. The
approval comes less than two weeks before the film industry’s
Oscar awards show, set for Feb. 26.  “They have due regard for the interest of their creditor
body, and they just don’t want to pay this money for the next
nine years,” Gropper said at a court hearing.  Kodak also today won approval to borrow the full amount of
a $950 million financing commitment as it restructures. Gropper
approved the financing after Kodak reached an agreement with
noteholders that initially opposed the debt package. The judge
earlier approved $650 million in borrowing when Kodak filed for
bankruptcy.  “A great deal of effort has been expended on very tough
negotiations,” the judge said.  The Kodak Theatre agreement required Kodak to pay
$72 million in annual installments over 20 years, according to a
court filing. Kodak pays $3.6 million a year and has $38 million
in payments left on the contract, Pauline Morgan, a Kodak
lawyer, said in court.  Kodak said in a court filing that the costs of the
agreement outweigh any benefits from the naming rights and that
rejecting it was in the best interest of the company and its
creditors.  “It’s tantamount to handing the keys over to the
landlord,” Morgan said about the rejection.  Thomas Leanse, an attorney for the theater’s owner, said in
an e-mail after the hearing that he didn’t know whether the
Kodak name would stay on the theater for the Academy Awards
show.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  