-- Nanos Poll Shows Canada Consumer Confidence Weakens to Lowest Since 2009
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/nanos-poll-shows-canada-consumer-confidence-weakens-to-lowest-since-2009.html
Canadian  consumer confidence 
weakened in February to its lowest since 2009, according to a
Nanos Research poll, amid concerns about the impact of
government cuts in spending as a weak job market curbs incomes.  The Nanos Economic Mood Index fell to 104.6 according to
the survey, down from 107.4 in the last survey in December, as
readings on personal finances and job security worsened. That
was partly offset by growing expectations the economy will
improve.  Canada’s  unemployment rate  rose to a nine-month high in
January as the trend of sluggish  job creation  that began in the
second half of last year continued, curbing income gains for
households as they face record debt levels. Confidence has
waned, particularly among older Canadians concerned about  job
security  and government cuts, said  Nik Nanos , president of the
Ottawa-based polling company.  “Demographics may become the new dividing line in terms of
consumer confidence with Canadians over 50 years of age feeling
worse off and pessimistic about the future,” Nanos said in an
interview.  The Nanos Pocketbook Index, based on questions related to
personal finances and job security, fell to 94.6 in February
from 102.8. The Expectations Index rose to 116.7 from 113. The
Economic Mood index is a composite of the Pocketbook and
Expectations indexes. Since 2008, the Nanos Economic Mood Index
has been calculated quarterly. Nanos said he will be releasing
it on a monthly basis beginning this month.  Record Consumer Debts  The difference between those who say their personal
finances improved over the past year and those who have say they
worsened fell to negative 15.5 percentage points, down from
negative 10.8 in December, amid higher unemployment and rising
consumer debt levels. Consumer borrowing was a record 153
percent of disposable income in the third quarter,  Statistics
Canada  said Dec. 13.  The negative balance of opinion for Canadians aged 50 and
over is more than three times that of Canadians in their
forties, according to the survey.  Concerns about pensions may help explain the age gap in
confidence, Nanos said. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , in a Jan.
26 speech in Davos,  Switzerland , said the government will take
steps to ensure the country’s fiscal position will be
sustainable “over the next generation.” Harper has also said
any changes wouldn’t affect individuals already receiving
pensions or approaching retirement.  “Speculation related to changes to pensions may be
tempering consumer confidence, especially among Canadians 50
years of age and older,” Nanos said.  Job Security Falls  The balance of opinion on job security fell to 45.5
percentage points, the lowest since 2008, from 54.6 in December.
 Canada ’s unemployment rate rose to 7.6 percent in January,
Statistics Canada said Feb. 3, with employers cutting a  net
34,200 jobs  over the past four months.  Pocketbook worries were tempered by growing optimism over
the economic outlook and real estate prices, Nanos said. The
difference between Canadians who say the economy will improve
over the next six months and those who say it will deteriorate
narrowed to negative 8.4 percentage points in February, from
negative 12.4 percentage points in December.  The balance of opinion on expectations for real estate
price gains rose to 27.1 percentage points, the highest since
the second quarter of 2010.  The Nanos online poll of 1,001 Canadians was taken between
Feb. 7 and Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  