-- Netanyahu Visit to Cyprus May Stoke Mediterranean Gas Dispute
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-02-15T14:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/netanyahu-visit-to-cyprus-may-stoke-mediterranean-gas-dispute.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  visits the divided island of Cyprus tomorrow in a trip
that will thrust him directly into a dispute over Mediterranean
gas drilling rights.  Both  Turkey  and Lebanon are demanding pieces of the natural
gas bonanza that a group led by  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  discovered off
the coasts of Israel and Cyprus, estimated to be worth billions
of dollars in exports. Israel’s energy minister has said his
nation is willing to use force to protect its  gas field  from
outside claims.  Netanyahu’s trip is the first by an Israeli prime minister
to Cyprus, which it has treated gingerly for years out of
concern it could rock Israel’s military alliance with Turkey.
The growing antipathy of Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  as well as the recent gas discoveries have led Netanyahu
to cultivate ties with Cyprus, which long focused on tourism and
covert intelligence sharing, says Emanuel Gutmann, an emeritus
professor of political science at Hebrew University in
 Jerusalem .  “It really wasn’t important enough for us and there were
good reasons not to offend Turkey,” Gutmann, who has studied
Cyprus since the 1940s, said in a phone interview. “Now
everything has changed.”  Netanyahu leaves tomorrow morning on the 40-minute flight
to Nicosia, where he will meet with Cypriot President Demetris Christofias, Foreign Minister Erato Kozakou-Markoulli and other
officials.  ‘Energize’ Ties  “We’re hopeful that the visit will serve to energize
bilateral cooperation,” Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  said in
a phone interview.  Christofias plans to sign a search and rescue agreement
with Israel, while discussing joint interests in natural gas and
efforts to reunite with the Turkish side of Cyprus, Marios
Ieronymides, director of Christofias’s diplomatic office, said
in a telephone interview. Netanyahu’s trip follows the Cypriot
leader’s visit to Israel in March and Israeli President  Shimon Peres ’s tour of Cyprus in November.  “All state visits are important, especially this one in
the context of recent hydrocarbon findings,” Ieronymides said.  Cyprus has been split since 1974 when Turkey invaded the
island in response to a coup by supporters of union with  Greece .
The European Union, which only recognizes the Greek Cypriot
south of Cyprus, has called on Turkey to recognize Cyprus and
help resolve the ethnic division on the island, suspending parts
of Turkish entry talks with the 27-nation bloc.  Leviathan Field  Houston, Texas-based Noble Energy, which holds the license
to explore and exploit gas in Block 12 of the island’s offshore
territory, said on Dec. 28 that it discovered as much as 8
trillion cubic feet of gas off the island’s southern coast,
Cyprus’s first discovery. Israel’s Leviathan field may hold as
much as 20 trillion cubic feet of gas, Noble said in a Dec. 19
statement.  The U.S. Geological survey estimates that the Levant Basin,
a triangular slice of the Mediterranean lying between Cyprus and
Israel, may hold 122 trillion cubic feet of gas.  Noble Energy 
discovered the Tamar field in 2009 and the Leviathan field in
2010, both off the coast of Israel.  “Strategic cooperation in the energy area makes
cooperation in the area of security necessary given the changes
which are in progress in the area, such as the Arab Spring and
Turkey’s reorientation to the Muslim world,” Christos Iakovou,
director of the Cyprus Research Center, a Nicosia-based research
group, said. “These force Israel to regard Cyprus in a
different way than it did in the past.”  ‘Sabotage’  Erdogan said Sept. 28 that the Cypriot government’s
decision to explore for oil and gas in the Mediterranean was
“sabotage” of efforts to peacefully resolve the division of
Cyprus.  Turkish government officials said they would wait to
comment until they hear what develops between Netanyahu and
Christofias.  Lebanon has asked the UN to adopt measures to prevent a
conflict with  Israel  over energy exploration in areas that may
fall within Lebanese territorial waters. Lebanon, which signed
an agreement with Cyprus demarcating their respective offshore
territories in January 2007, has failed so far to ratify it.  Israeli Energy Minister Uzi Landau said in June 2010 that
his government was willing “to use our force and strength” to
protect its undersea gas finds.  Lebanon’s militant group Hezbollah, which fought a war with
Israel in 2006, has repeatedly pledged to protect the country’s
offshore resources. Erdogan sent fighter jets and frigates to
escort a Turkish seismic research ship planning east
Mediterranean exploration last year.  “We’re seeing a redrawing of the strategic terrain in the
eastern Mediterranean at the moment,” James Ker-Lindsay, a
United Nations adviser and author of “The Cyprus Problem,”
said in a telephone interview from  London .  The off-shore energy discoveries, said Ker-Lindsay, a
lecturer at the  London School  of Economics, are “a game
changer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  