-- New Zealand Dollar Advances to Six-Month High Against Yen on Retail Sales
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-15T03:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/new-zealand-dollar-advances-to-six-month-high-against-yen-on-retail-sales.html
The  New Zealand  dollar rose to a
six-month high against the yen after the nation’s retail sales
rose more than economists estimated in the fourth quarter.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars gained against most
of their 16 major peers after People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said his nation will participate in resolving
 Europe ’s debt crisis, spurring investor appetite for higher-
yielding assets. The so-called Aussie advanced after a private
survey showed Australian  consumer confidence  rose by the most in
three months as two interest-rate reductions late last year
improved the financial outlook for households.  “Retail numbers are undoubtedly kiwi supportive,” said
 Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of New Zealand
in Wellington, using the nickname for the nation’s currency.
“We’ll see markets beginning to bring forward the timing of
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand interest-rate hikes.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to 65.78 yen at 2:41
p.m. in Sydney, after earlier touching 65.79, the most since
Aug. 8. The kiwi advanced 0.4 percent to 83.74 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.0728. The
Aussie earlier touched 84.27 yen, the highest level since Aug.
4, before trading at 84.27, 0.5 percent above yesterday’s close
in  New York .  Retail sales in New Zealand adjusted for inflation rose 2.2
percent in the three months through December from the previous
quarter, when they gained a revised 2.4 percent, a report showed
today. Sales were forecast to climb 1.2 percent, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Reserve Bank Policy  Traders are betting New Zealand’s central bank will raise
rates by 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, over the
next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index 
based on swaps. On Feb. 6, bets went from a cut to an increase.  New Zealand’s two-year swap  rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose 5 1/2 basis points to 2.92 percent.  RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard has kept the official cash rate
at a record-low 2.5 percent since March.  The Aussie and kiwi gained after  China ’s Zhou said his
nation is ready to be more involved in resolving the euro crisis
through the European Financial Stability Facility and European
Stability Mechanism, echoing comments made yesterday by Premier
Wen Jiabao at a joint press conference with European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy .  In Australia, the consumer sentiment index for February
advanced 4.2 percent to 101.1, the highest since November, a
Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey taken Feb.
6-10 of 1,200 consumers showed today in Sydney.  Australia’s government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the
10-year security up two basis points to 4.02 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  