-- New Global Bond Body Would Boost Climate Funds, Citi Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-15T16:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/new-global-bond-body-would-boost-climate-funds-citigroup-says.html
A global financial institution
similar to the U.S.’s  Overseas Private Investment Corp . may help
create a new type of bond, boosting funds for climate protection
as it cuts costs and risks for investors, said a  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
executive.  A global, climate-focused version of the U.S. government-
owned development finance organization would evaluate risks such
as the theft of solar equipment or a lack of wind to power
turbines, Michael Eckhart, global head of environment finance
and sustainability at the bank, said today at an Environmental
Finance conference in London. “We have to put a global team on
doing that job.”  OPIC in  Washington  helps mobilize private capital and
insure against political risk in developing nations, according
to its website. The “global OPIC” would serve developed and
developing nations, excluding no one, Eckhart said.  The institution would rate renewable energy and other
climate-protection projects and undertake due diligence,
potentially bundling projects together in a similar way to
mortgage markets, Eckhart said in an interview.  “This is not a fund, it’s a new bond category,” he said.
Better oversight could help ensure the funding system avoids the
bad debt in mortgage markets, he said.  Should a project miss a loan repayment, for instance, the
global OPIC may make the payment and take control of the asset,
providing a first-loss guarantee, he said.  New York-based Eckhart is in  London  seeking support for the
idea from other banks. Depending on levels of support, a
detailed plan could be presented at the United Nations-overseen
Rio earth summit in June, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  