-- News Corp. Hires Ad Executive McLennan to Assist Brand Marketing
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-15T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/news-corp-hires-ad-executive-mclennan-to-assist-brand-marketing.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company under
investigation by U.K. authorities for telephone hacking, hired
former  Young & Rubicam Inc.  executive Hamish McLennan for the
new position of executive vice president in charge of helping
better market its brands.  McLennan will report to Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch  and Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey ,
and will oversee “global brand partnerships,” the New York-
based company said in a statement today. News Corp. owns the Fox
television network, Twentieth Century Fox film studio and
newspapers, including the Wall Street Journal.  “Hamish’s considerable industry experience, coupled with a
unique and wide-ranging strategic vision, make him the right
executive to deliver the insights we need to maximize our global
media investments,” Murdoch said in the statement.  The News Corp. hacking scandal has led to more than 30
arrests and prompted the company to shut its News of the World
newspaper in July. The company faces claims by more than 800
alleged victims identified by police. The scandal has spread to
News Corp.’s Sun newspaper, Britain’s best-selling daily, where
nine journalists have been arrested since Jan. 29 in a probe of
bribery of public officials.  McLennan recently served as chairman and CEO of advertising
agency Young & Rubicam, a unit of  WPP Plc. (WPP)  Some of the agency’s
clients include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Ford Motor Co. and
Colgate-Palmolive Co., according to the release.  News Corp. fell less than 1 percent to $19.09 at 11:29 a.m.
in  New York . The shares rose 7.3 percent this year before today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  