-- News Corp. Hacking Report Delayed Amid Debate Over James Murdoch
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-15T12:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/news-corp-hacking-report-delayed-amid-lawmakers-debate-on-james-murdoch.html
U.K. lawmakers probing whether News
Corp. covered up phone hacking at the News of the World tabloid
are at least two months behind schedule with their report, as
they debate how critical they can be of Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch .  Members of Parliament’s  Culture Committee  have not agreed
on the wording of the report and are unlikely to publish it
before the end of February, according to two people with
knowledge of the panel’s discussions, who declined to be
identified because the meetings are confidential. Chairman  John Whittingdale  said in November he hoped to issue the report
before Christmas 2011.  There is no question of Murdoch escaping criticism
completely, according to the people. They said panel members are
unimpressed by his statements that he was ignorant about what
was going on at News Corp.’s London-based U.K. publishing unit,
News International, which he ran from the end of 2007. The
committee is likely to find fault with former News of the World
editors Rebekah Brooks and  Colin Myler  and the newspaper’s
former lawyer, Tom Crone, the people said.  The 11-member panel began its inquiry in July after Murdoch
said lawmakers had been misled about the extent of phone hacking
by the now defunct News of the World during a previous probe in
2009. It has questioned him twice for the new report, once
alongside his father Rupert, the News Corp. chief executive
officer. The panel held its final public hearing on Nov. 10.  Whittingdale said in a statement yesterday that committee
members had a policy of not commenting on the panel’s internal
workings. A News International spokeswoman declined to comment
on the committee’s forthcoming report.  Rogue Reporter  Crone and Myler had told lawmakers in 2009 that an
investigation by News Corp. found no evidence that hacking went
beyond a single rogue reporter. Recalled to give evidence last
year, they said they had told James in 2008 about an e-mail that
showed more people were involved.  Murdoch, 39, denied being informed about wider involvement
when giving testimony in July. He repeated the denial when he
was recalled in November, saying Myler and Crone had given him
“a narrower set of facts than I would have liked,” and that
“they did not discuss allegations of widespread phone hacking
or criminality or the like.”  While opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker  Tom Watson  accused
Murdoch during the November hearing of “running a criminal
enterprise,” others on the committee are reluctant to be so
critical, according to the people familiar with the panel’s
discussions.  ‘Ethical Review’  Louise Mensch, a member of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives, closed her questioning of Murdoch the same day by
wishing him “luck in pursuing your ethical review of the
company.”  “Which do you think is worse, knowing what was going on,
but being willfully blind to it, or not knowing what was going
on, when you should have known what was going on?” Liberal
Democrat lawmaker Adrian Sanders asked Murdoch at that session.  One of the people familiar with the committee’s discussions
said their report had been delayed partly because fresh evidence
kept emerging.  One such piece of evidence was a letter Murdoch wrote to
Whittingdale on Dec. 12 that increased the pressure on the  News
Corp. (NWSA)  executive. In it, Murdoch said News Corp. investigators
had found a 2008 e-mail sent to him by Myler that described a
“nightmare scenario,” with hacking going beyond a single
reporter. Murdoch wrote that while he had replied to Myler’s
request for a meeting, he had received the message on a Saturday
and not read all of it. He also said he didn’t recall any
conversation with the editor that weekend.  Milly Dowler  Another document released by the committee last month
concerned the 2002 hacking of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler ’s
phone by the News of the World, when Brooks was editor. It was
the disclosure of that incident that sparked a public storm that
led News Corp. to close the newspaper.  The new evidence was a  letter from Surrey Police  describing
how an unnamed person from the News of the World told officers
that reporters had listened to Dowler’s voice mails. After the
panel published the police statement, Conservative committee
member  Damian Collins  wrote on the  Huffington Post website  that
he thought it “incredible that that could have happened without
the knowledge of senior people on the paper.”  Brooks has denied she was aware Dowler’s phone had been
hacked. She was arrested in July and hasn’t been charged.  According to one of the people, the panel is taking legal
advice on what Parliament’s powers are if lawmakers conclude
they were misled by witnesses. Parliament historically had the
power to fine or imprison offenders, but this has fallen into
abeyance.  The last non-lawmaker to be censured, according to
 Parliament’s website , was John Junor in 1957, for an article
published in the Sunday Express “casting doubt on the honor and
integrity of members.” He was called to appear before the House
of Commons and apologize.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at   hharris5@bloomberg.net  