-- Nice Rises to 2007 High as Web Attacks Aid Sales: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-02-15T13:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/nice-rises-to-2007-high-as-web-attacks-aid-sales-tel-aviv-mover.html
Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE)  headed for its
highest close in more than four years after the Israeli maker of
analytical telecommunications software reported “record” sales
as demand for Internet security applications rose.  Shares of the Ra’anana, Israel-based company advanced 2.4
percent to 139.50 shekels at 2 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , set for the
strongest close since November 2007.  Companies from Sony Corp. to Citigroup Inc. have been
targeted in web attacks in the past year, with about $37 billion
lost to online fraud or theft in 2010, according to Javelin
Strategy & Research. Sales of computer applications used to
recover fraudulent payments will rise 9 percent annually through
2015,  Interactive Data Corp (IDC) . estimates show.  “Nice is strongly placed in the field of fraud detection
and video surveillance activity,” Ori Licht, head of research
at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said by phone
today.  Nice said fourth-quarter  sales  rose 15 percent to $214
million and net income fell to $15 million from $17 million a
year earlier as operating expenses grew. The company forecast
2012 adjusted revenue to be in the range of $930 million and
$950 million.  “We ended the fourth quarter with very strong bookings, a
record backlog, and a healthy pipeline,” Zeevi Bregman,
president and chief executive officer of Nice, said in a PR
Newswire statement.  Hacker Attacks  Nice spent a record amount on acquisitions last year,
following the $150 million purchase of Merced Systems Inc.,
whose fraud-detection technology is used by companies including
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   “They’re at the right place at the right time in terms of
market dynamics,”  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets & Co., said by telephone from  New York  yesterday. Demand
from customers such as Citigroup and  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s
largest fixed-line phone company, will have supported Nice’s
profit, he said.  Sony, the world’s second-largest maker of video-game
machines, saw its worst hacker attacks in April, when intruders
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts in the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. Sony
suspended those services until July and budgeted 14 billion yen
($178 million) in costs last year.  Citigroup said about 3,400 customers lost about $2.7
million when their credit-card information was accessed by
computer hackers last year.  Increased demand for customer-service software from
companies such as BT Group has also shored up Nice’s profit,
according to  Daniel Meron , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Tel Aviv, who rates the stock “outperform.”  “Nice continues to benefit from ongoing investments in
customer interaction to improve service and contact-center
efficiencies,” Meron wrote in an e-mailed report sent
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  