-- Nigeria’s Naira Advances to Three-Month High on Dollar Inflows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-15T15:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/nigeria-s-naira-heads-for-three-month-high-on-dollar-inflows.html
Nigeria ’s naira appreciated to the
highest level in three months on central bank dollar sales and
speculation of foreign-exchange inflows from the state oil
company.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer strengthened
1 percent to 158.40 per dollar as of 4:02 p.m. on the  interbank
market  in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, the strongest closing price since Nov. 9.  Nigeria sold $350 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, with dollars sold for between 156.40 naira and 156.77
naira each, the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in an
e-mailed statement. The marginal rate, which is also used as the
prevailing exchange rate, strengthened 0.1 percent to 156.40
naira, compared with 156.50 naira, at the previous sale on Feb.
13, it said.  “The sale of $350 million by the central bank, which
brings this week’s sales to $600 million against $450 million
sold last week, has raised support for the naira,” Sewa Wusa, a
currency analyst at Lagos-based Sterling Capital Ltd., said by
phone today.  The central bank offers dollars to lenders at twice-weekly
auctions as it tries to keep the  exchange rate  around a midpoint
of 155 naira to a dollar.  “The Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. foreign-exchange
sales this week have contributed to the naira appreciation,”
 Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by e-mail. “The stronger naira
in the interbank market means the Central Bank of Nigeria has
the opportunity to revalue the official foreign exchange rate”
stronger at auction, he said.  Dollar Supply  The oil industry is the next major source of dollar supply
to lenders after the central bank.  Levi Ajuonuma , an NNPC
spokesman, said by phone he couldn’t confirm whether the Abuja-
based company had sold foreign exchange.  “The market expects some offshore inflows at next week’s
T-bill auction, with the potential to strengthen the unit,”
said Gadio. “The currency is certainly well supported and could
break the 158 level.”  The central bank would like to keep the exchange rate
stable while boosting foreign-currency reserves, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31. The nation’s reserves reached $35 billion
as of Feb. 13, the highest level since Sept. 12, according to
central bank data.  Ghana ’s cedi was little changed at 1.7054 per dollar as of
4:05 a.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  