-- No More Valentines for Xi as China’s Heir Apparent Faces Bad Cop Congress
-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-15T21:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/no-more-valentines-for-xi-as-china-s-heir-apparent-faces-bad-cop-congress.html
Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping,
in line to become the country’s top leader next year, met
congressional leaders amid criticism of  China ’s record on human
rights, trade and currency issues.  Xi’s third day in Washington included sessions with Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and his Republican counterpart  Mitch McConnell , and with House Speaker  John Boehner  and House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , who raised questions on human
rights and religious freedom and criticized intellectual
property protections.  “The rhetoric out of the Congress on China is much more
muscular and confrontational because they know they’re not
running China policy; the White House is running China policy,”
Robert Kapp, a business consultant focused on China and former
president of the U.S.-China Business Council, said in a phone
interview. “It’s a bad cop, good cop situation.”  With official pomp and ceremony out of the way, including a
19-gun salute at the Pentagon and a Valentine’s Day luncheon
with red roses at the State Department yesterday, ambivalence
reasserted itself. Congress and U.S. trade officials have
criticized China for unfairly promoting domestic enterprises and
failing to control intellectual-property theft, and the
country’s economic practices have become a campaign issue ahead
of the November U.S. presidential election.  Prevent Politicization  At the meeting with Boehner and Cantor, the U.S. side
delivered a letter about the plight of Gao Zhisheng, a human
rights lawyer imprisoned in China, according to a summary of the
meeting released by the speaker’s office. Boehner told Xi that
China’s enforcement of intellectual property laws was deficient,
and Cantor expressed disappointment over China’s veto last week
of a United Nations Security Council resolution on  Syria ,
according to the summary.  Xi, in a speech to a packed ballroom at the Marriott hotel
where he stayed in Washington, called on the U.S. to respect
China’s interests in international relations, and work to adjust
its own economic policies to accommodate China’s priorities,
including  import  of technology products.  Xi also said that China hoped the U.S. would “truly honor
its commitment” to oppose Tibetan independence.  Near the hotel, members of the dissident Falun Gong
spiritual sect, which is banned in China, staged a sit-in next
to a Chipotle Mexican Grill, and supporters of the Chinese vice
president waved Chinese flags.  Avoid ‘Undue Interference’  Xi yesterday told a roundtable with business executives at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in  Washington  that the two sides
must make an effort to more “effectively prevent politicizing
economic issues and avoid various kinds of undue interference.”
When President  Hu Jintao  visited the U.S. in 2011, Reid called
him a “dictator” and some members of Congress, including
Boehner, stayed away from his state dinner.  More criticism emerged today as some lawmakers spoke before
the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a panel
of attorneys, business leaders and former congressional staffers
that submits an annual report to Congress on security
implications of the U.S. economic relationship with China and
makes policy recommendations.  “China has consistently demonstrated that they are not
adhering to fair trading rules, that they are providing illegal
subsidies to their industries, and that they are dumping their
products on our shores,” Indiana Democratic Representative
Peter Visclosky told the panel. “They have repeatedly shown
their neglect in enforcing environmental and labor standards.”  Foreign ‘Leg Up’  Obama also called attention to trade practices, citing
China specifically, a day after meeting Xi.  “It’s not fair when foreign manufacturers have a leg up on
ours only because they’re heavily subsidized,” the president
said in remarks in  Milwaukee  on his way to the West Coast for
campaign fundraisers. “That’s why I directed my administration
to create a Trade Enforcement Unit with one job: investigating
unfair trade practices in countries like China. American workers
are the most productive on Earth, and if the playing field is
level, I promise you -- America will always win.”  Obama on Feb. 13 asked Congress in his next budget for $26
million and at least 50 people for a new panel to investigate
unfair trade practices by China and other countries.  The comments echoed a running theme in Vice President  Joe Biden ’s speeches yesterday as he squired Xi around Washington.  Rules of Game  “Competition can only be mutually beneficial if the rules
of the game are understood, agreed upon and followed,” Biden
told the business roundtable.  Obama filed five World Trade Organization complaints
against China since taking office three years ago. The U.S. and
China have clashed over access to each others’ markets for
products including steel pipes, poultry, tires and music.  The U.S.-China trade deficit was $295 billion last year.
The imbalance is a main source of friction between the two
countries.  Obama administration officials and foreign policy experts
say the trip may be most important for developing relationships
between Xi and Washington’s military and political leaders. He
is expected to become president in a leadership transition that
ends early next year.  ‘Open to Dialogue’  “ Xi Jinping  has to demonstrate to the U.S. that he is open
to a dialogue about some of the crucial economic and financial
issues,” said Andrew Collier, an independent China analyst and
former president of the Bank of China International USA. “This
is particularly important to a Congress that in the past has
been hostile toward China’s exchange rate and trade policies,
and the dialogue becomes more heated in the face of a change of
leadership that is occurring in both countries.”  At a briefing last night, Vice Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng announced a Chinese plan to purchase $27 billion in U.S.
goods, including chips, machinery and electronic materials.  Xi’s next stop is  Iowa (BEESIA) , a state he first visited 27 years
ago, where his message of an economic relationship based on
mutual benefit may receive less interference from the human
rights and global security issues raised in Washington.  The White House released a joint statement on economic
issues yesterday saying China will allow foreign-invested
insurance companies to sell third-party liability insurance for
motor vehicles, and the two countries announced plans to develop
global guidelines for export financing, with the goal of
reaching an agreement by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  