-- No-Snow Winter Sends Skiers Golfing
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-15T17:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/no-snow-u-s-northeast-winter-makes-skiers-golf-as-smith-recalls-merrill.html
The golf course is getting plenty of
use this month at the private  Woodmere Club  on New York’s  Long
Island , which has had to adjust to the unseasonably warm and dry
winter on the U.S. East Coast.  “I’m a bit of a skier, and I have a place in Vermont that
I usually rent out, so I’m now caddying when I’m not managing
the club,” General Manager Don Mollitor, 52, said with a laugh.
“I need to supplement that rental income.”  Only 29 percent of New York State is covered in snow,
compared to 99 percent a year ago, according to the U.S.
National Operational Hydrologic Remote Sensing Center in
Chanhassen,  Minnesota . That’s the least amount of snow cover
since the center began keeping records in 2004, and an example
of the uncommonly dry, warm weather that has made people forget
skiing and grab their  golf clubs .  Winthrop Smith Jr., a former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive
whose company,  Summit Ventures (PEF1756) , owns the  Sugarbush Resort  in
Warren, Vermont, said his ski area has had 15 percent fewer
visitors this winter than last.  “It’s very much like my old world,” Smith, 62, who ran
Merrill’s international brokerage unit before leaving the firm
in 2001, said in a telephone interview. “You can’t control the
market; you can’t control the weather. So you just have to learn
how to manage the different environments.”  Smart Snowmaking  Most ski areas are managing well, according to Michael
Krongel, a director at Mirus Resort Capital, an adviser to
resort companies. Eastern ski areas have faced year-over-year
revenue declines averaging about 3 percent, Krongel said, citing
a small sample of areas whose financial figures he’s seen. One
 New York  ski area Krongel wouldn’t identify has had 30,000 fewer
visitors this season, with revenue down 6 percent. Smart,
cautious snowmaking is helping some ski areas during the
downturn, as the resorts trim expenses while maintaining their
reputations as providers of good skiing surfaces during tough
times, Krongel said.  The $6 billion U.S. ski industry had 60.3 million visits
last year, according to the  National Ski Areas Association . Golf
is a $76 billion U.S. industry, according to a 2005 report by
Golf 20/20, an industry group.  “Some of these guys just aren’t getting any weather breaks
whatsoever,” Krongel said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
so much that they aren’t smart, it’s a question of what are the
gods doing to them?”  Since Oct. 1, 7.4 inches of snow has fallen in New York
City’s Central Park, compared with 57.7 inches through Feb. 10 a
year ago, according to the  National Weather Service  in Upton,
New York. January was the 13th warmest in  Massachusetts  since
1895, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Yearly Change  “We went from an incredible snow year last year, which we
hadn’t seen before, to this,” said Krongel, who’s worked at ski
areas since 1968. “I just don’t remember anything like this.”  All of Sugarbush’s trails are open, Smith said. The skiing
was very good last weekend at Hunter Mountain and Windham
Mountain in New York, Krongel said. Both said if people don’t
see snow in the valleys, they have trouble envisioning it in the
mountains.  “It’s the biggest issue we have,” Smith said. “If
there’s no snow in the backyards in the greater metropolitan
areas of New York and  Boston , the perception is we don’t have
snow up here.”  The Olympic Regional Development Authority, which oversees
the slopes in Lake Placid, and the Ski Areas of New York
combined to truck in snow to  New York City ’s Union Square last
week.  ‘Snow Up North’  “We were reminding people that there’s still snow up
north,” Ted Blazer, 56, the authority’s president, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s perfect mid-winter conditions.”  It isn’t an East Coast phenomenon, though some relief has
come to the  Rocky Mountains . On Jan. 6, Vail Resorts Inc. said
visits were down 15 percent compared with a year earlier, making
the Broomfield, Colorado-based company unable to open some
trails at Vail for the first time in 30 years.  Plenty of snow has fallen since the announcement and Vail
Resorts’ mountains are now at or near full operation, Kelly
Ladyga, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Without snow in metropolitan areas, Northeast golf courses
have capitalized, drawing players throughout the winter and
doing maintenance and renovation months earlier than normal.  The  Mattawang Golf Club , a semi-private course in Belle
Mead,  New Jersey , hosted almost 1,000 rounds in January,
including one 60-degree Saturday on which the course drew 190
golfers, said Mahlon Dow, the club’s head professional and
manager.  “That’s a good number in June,” Dow said in a telephone
interview. “It looks like October out there.”  Snow-Free Fairways  Putnam National Golf Club , a 53-year-old public course in
Mahopac, New York, that’s usually under more than a foot of snow
at this time of year, stayed open in January and February for
the first time, doing about 1,100 rounds since late November,
said John Napier, its general manager.  “Last year we hit snow the third week of November and we
didn’t see grass again until April,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Winter play has been a financial help to golf courses,
though minimally, because private club members pay by the year
and public or semi-private clubs charge deeply discounted winter
rates. The weather has helped in other ways.  Shackamaxon Country Club , a private club in Scotch Plains,
New Jersey, is undergoing a total bunker renovation. That has
created jobs, kept suppliers happy and elated club members who
won’t be inconvenienced later in the year, said Matthew Galvin,
the executive vice president at RDC Golf Group Inc., which
operates the course and Putnam National.  Additional Revenue  “The weather’s been a godsend as far as additional
revenue, but perhaps in a larger economic way, it’s allowed golf
courses and country clubs to do a lot of work over the winter
that usually falls to the spring or summer,” Galvin, a director
of the National Golf Course Owners Association, said in a
telephone interview.  Woodmere has been averaging about 30-35 golfers a day on
weekends. The greens usually close for the winter in December.  “It’s difficult to think about skiing when it’s 50
degrees, and you can be out there playing golf,” said Mollitor,
Woodmere’s general manager for 13 years whose ski house on
 Vermont ’s Okemo Mountain sits vacant. “People aren’t getting
into the groove.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  