-- Norway’s Eksportfinans Cut to Junk at S&P
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-02-15T10:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/norway-s-eksportfinans-cut-to-junk-at-s-p.html
Eksportfinans ASA (6120B) , which is being
wound down after breaching capital rules, was cut to junk after
the Norwegian government indicated it probably won’t provide
further support to the unit, Standard and Poor’s said.  The Oslo-based lender was cut to BB+, the highest non-
investment rating, from BBB+ and was placed on negative outlook,
S&P said. It was removed from credit watch.  “After discussions with the Norwegian authorities, we are
of the view that there is little current government willingness
to provide additional extraordinary government support,” S&P
said. “We now view Eksportfinans as having a limited public
policy role with a limited link to the Norwegian government.”  Norway shocked credit markets around the globe with its
Nov. 18 decision to wind down partly state-owned Eksportfinans.
Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 22 cut the unit’s debt to junk
while  Standard & Poor’s  days later cut its rating five levels to
BBB+. The downgrades sent tremors through bond markets as far as
Japan, where investors hold more than 1 trillion yen ($12.7
billion) of Eksportfinans debt, including its Samurai and
Uridashi notes, according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The government said it decided to dismantle Eksportfinans,
created in 1962 to aid exporters, after rejecting the lender’s
pleas to sidestep European capital rules limiting loans to
single industries. Under the new regulations, the company would
have had to increase capital levels fivefold, according to
Standard & Poor’s.  S&P in November said the government’s decision to wind down
the unit meant its euro medium-term note program may already be
in default. The rating company didn’t provide any update on that
in today’s statement.  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the Norwegian
government. DNB ASA holds 40 percent, while 23.21 percent is
held by Nordea Bank AB, the largest Nordic lender. Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  