-- Nvidia Falls as Forecast Trails Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-16T14:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/nvidia-sales-forecast-misses-estimates-as-pc-production-slips-shares-fall.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
processors, fell the most in more than three months after its
first-quarter sales forecast missed estimates, providing more
evidence that hard-disk shortages are cutting into personal-
computer production.  Revenue for the period ending April 30 will be $900 million
to $930 million, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts had estimated $940.4 million
on average, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  Nvidia also abandoned its fiscal 2013 projection because
turmoil in the PC market has made it harder to predict sales.
The company had already cut its forecast for the fourth quarter,
saying last month that a lack of disk drives from flood-ravaged
 Thailand  hurt production of PCs. Nvidia gets most of its revenue
from its GeForce chips, which are used to create high-end
graphics in desktop and notebook computers.  “Their guidance for the first quarter is significantly
below what the Street was looking for,” said  Patrick Wang , an
Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York . He has an underweight  rating 
on the stock.  Nvidia shares  fell  4.4 percent to $15.46 at 9:43 a.m. in
New York after touching $15 for the biggest intraday decline
since Oct. 20. The stock had the third-biggest drop on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today. It had risen 17 percent this
year through yesterday.  Thailand Flooding  Last year’s flooding in Thailand shut down production of
disk drives and increased prices of the components. That delayed
manufacturing of PCs and prompted some computer makers to
exclude graphics cards from their systems -- an effort to keep
their prices down.  The company scrapped its full-year earnings predictions
without giving a new forecast. Nvidia had projected sales of
$4.7 billion to $5.7 billion for the fiscal year ending in
January 2013.  The shortage of disk drives will probably wipe out PC
shipment growth in calendar 2012, Chief Executive Officer Jen- Hsun Huang said in an interview. The company also is struggling
to get enough chips made with the latest production technique
from supplier  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (TSM)   “The yield is below our expectations for the moment,” he
said. “We’re expecting disk-drive shortages to continue.”  Nvidia’s fourth-quarter  net income  fell 32 percent to $116
million, or 19 cents a share, from $171.7 million, or 29 cents,
a year earlier. Sales climbed 7.5 percent to $953.2 million in
the period, which ended Jan. 29.  First-quarter  gross margin , or the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the cost of production, will be 49.2
percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point, according to the
statement. Analysts had estimated a gross margin of 52 percent.  The company is trying to branch out into microprocessors
for phones, lessening its reliance on PCs. Nvidia’s Tegra
processor is designed to challenge products from Texas
Instruments Inc. and Qualcomm Inc. Nvidia said last month that
orders for those chips have been slow because customers are
waiting for an updated Tegra, due this quarter.  Customers will begin announcing phones featuring Tegra 3
soon, Huang said. He expects revenue from that product to
increase by 50 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  