-- Obama Says Tax Code Should Encourage U.S. Manufacturing Jobs
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-15T19:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/obama-says-tax-code-should-encourage-u-s-manufacturing-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  took aim at
China and companies that move jobs overseas as he called for
changes in the  tax code  to encourage U.S. manufacturing.  Obama highlighted his message following a tour of a
Milwaukee factory of Master Lock Co., which has restored about
100 jobs from offshore.  “Right now, companies get tax breaks for moving jobs and
profits overseas,” Obama said in the text of his remarks to
factory workers and local officials. “Meanwhile, companies that
choose to stay in America get hit with one of the highest tax
rates in the world.”  He urged Congress to revamp the tax code to lower rates for
companies that hire U.S. workers. Obama, who met yesterday with
Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping , also vowed that his
administration will investigate “unfair trade practices in
countries like China” to help domestic industries.  Obama is running for re-election with the economy still
struggling to replace the 8.8 million jobs lost due to the
recession. Manufacturing has been at the forefront of economic
growth.  Production (IPMGCHNG)  at U.S. factories rose 0.7 percent after a
revised 1.5 percent gain in December that was the largest in
five years, figures from the  Federal Reserve  in  Washington 
showed today.  Manufacturing payrolls increased 50,000 last month,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey and capping the largest two-year gain since 1985, Labor
Department figures showed.  Auto Industry  Obama said the recovery of the nation’s auto industry
following the government bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC proves that U.S. manufacturing can lead the
recovery.  “What’s happening in  Detroit  can happen in other
industries” Obama said. “It can happen in  Cleveland  and
Pittsburgh and Raleigh. And today, it’s happening right here at
Master Lock.”  The president is at the start of a three-day trip that also
will take him to California and Washington for fundraising
events that his campaign expects will raise more than $8
million. He also plans to stop at a  Boeing Co. (BA)  plant in Everett,
Washington to talk about manufacturing and exports.  While Obama won Wisconsin by 14 percentage points in 2008,
Republicans swept most statewide offices the 2010 midterm
elections. The state since has become a focal point of a
partisan fight over worker rights. Republican Governor  Scott Walker  championed a law restricting collective bargaining for
public employees, triggering a recall drive spearheaded by
Democrats and their allies in organized labor. Walker greeted
Obama at the airport.  Wisconsin Jobs  Wisconsin  had a 7.1  unemployment rate  in December, lower
than the national average. The state has struggled to regain the
54,000 manufacturing jobs lost since the start of the recession
in December 2007. Over the past year, manufacturers have added
about 9,000 positions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wisconsin’s economic health since Obama took office ranked
16th among U.S. States, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States Index, which uses data on employment, real
estate, taxes and local stocks to track the direction of state
economies.  “Americans are flatly worse off than they were when this
president took office,” Republican National Committee Chairman
Reince Priebus, who is the former chairman of Wisconsin’s
Republican party, said on a conference call yesterday.  “Is Master Lock doing well because of Obama’s policies, or
is it in spite of his policies?” Priebus said. “I think, and
most Wisconsinites would tell you, that it’s the latter.”  Company Example  John Heppner, chief executive officer of Master Lock, who
participated in the White House event last month on returning
jobs to the U.S., said in an interview that “we really haven’t
had the White House impact on our job growth yet.”  “Certainly all the attention we are getting is nice, but
we started this initiative back in 2010 to bring back jobs,”
Heppner said. “I think the White House took notice and said,
‘OK, what are they doing?’”  The Master Lock Milwaukee plant has 412 employees of 1,650
globally. In 1997, there were 1,500 Milwaukee employees. The
facility has added 100 jobs since 2010 and 150 since the low
point in about 2000. The company has indicated it expects to
restore more jobs in 2012 or 2013.  The president’s 2013 fiscal year budget presented to
Congress on Feb. 13 set aside almost $121 billion over a decade
to bolster manufacturing, including tax credits for clean-energy
vehicles, tax breaks for bringing jobs back from overseas and
credits for companies locating in hard-hit communities. The
administration plans to give an outline of its priorities for
overhauling corporate taxes by the end of the month.  Obama also highlighted part of his 2013 budget proposal
submitted to Congress this week that contains funds for an
Interagency Trade Enforcement Center that would monitor and
enforce trade agreements and laws, including  China ’s trade
practices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Milwaukee at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  