-- Obama Pushes $5 Billion in Grants to Revamp Teacher Tenure, Pay
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-02-15T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/obama-pushes-5-billion-in-grants-to-revamp-teacher-tenure-pay.html
The Obama administration began a
push to tie teacher pay to performance instead of seniority,
dangling a proposed $5 billion in incentives for U.S. states and
districts that embrace the president’s approach.  The grant program, part of Obama’s $69.8 billion education-
budget proposal for fiscal 2013, seeks to revamp tenure
practices at elementary and secondary schools to make it easier
to weed out underperformers and raise pay to attract top college
graduates to the teaching profession. Education Secretary Arne Duncan is meeting with teachers today in  Washington .  The grants will require President  Barack Obama  to win
support from unions, which have fought to keep tenure and
seniority-based pay plans. Tenure, which gives  job security  to
teachers after several years, needs “reform” to “raise the
bar,” Duncan said in prepared remarks to the educators.  “Instead of a lifetime guarantee, tenure needs to be a
recognized honor that signifies professional accomplishment and
success,” Duncan said. “And we need a system of due process to
deal fairly with those who are not up to the challenge.”  The new program builds on the approach of Race to the Top,
which offered $5 billion in competitive grants to states that
signed onto Obama’s educational policies, which included tying
teacher evaluations to student performance. Republicans,
including House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman
 John Kline  of  Minnesota , have said Obama’s agenda dictates
educational practices that should be handled at a local level.  ‘Larger Goal’  The administration’s program is called Recognizing
Educational Success Professional Excellence and Collaborative
Teaching, or Respect.  “Our larger goal is to make teaching not only America’s
most important profession -- but America’s most respected
profession,” Duncan said.  Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education
Association, said in a statement that Duncan’s plan is “a
critical first step” toward ensuring that teachers have
preparation and support in schools and that students have access
to “qualified and licensed teachers.” The union represents
more than 3 million elementary and secondary school teachers,
college faculty members and others in the profession.  Teacher salaries are too low to attract top college
graduates to the field and let instructors “raise a family and
maintain a middle-class lifestyle,” Duncan said. At the same
time, “teacher earnings should be tied more closely to
performance -- rather than simply to longevity or credentials,”
he said.  Echoing Gates  In making that argument, Duncan is echoing the remarks of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates , who in November 2010 called
on top U.S. public school officials to overhaul teacher pay. In
a speech, Gates said compensation plans that reward teachers
based on seniority and the awarding of master’s degrees cost
taxpayers $59 billion a year and don’t improve student
achievement.  The grant program also seeks to increase the selectivity of
teachers’ colleges, many of which Duncan described as “mediocre
at best.”  The education budget  proposal  needs congressional approval
and would take effect in the year beginning in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  