-- Obama Looks to Hollywood to Raise Millions for Re-Election
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-15T18:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/obama-looks-to-hollywood-to-raise-millions-for-re-election-bid.html
President  Barack Obama  will be
tapping into Hollywood money in his first  California  fundraising
trip since anti-piracy legislation backed by the  film industry 
was scuttled in Congress.  Over the next three days Obama is seeking to raise more
than $8 million for his re-election, the bulk of it coming from
six fundraisers in Los Angeles,  San Francisco  and Corona Del
Mar, California, including one event co-hosted by comedian Will Ferrell. He also plans to raise money in Washington state.  Californians have given more to the president’s campaign
than donors from any other state, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks
political money. The state also is home to two of Obama’s top
donor groups, the entertainment industry and Silicon Valley,
which were at odds over the legislation to curb pirated content
on the Internet.  Andrew Schwartzman, senior vice president of the
Washington-based advocacy group Media Access Project, said Obama
probably should expect questions from entertainment industry
executives about future attempts to revive the anti-piracy
measure.  Movie executives will have to “lick their wounds and
accept that, if legislation is going to be enacted, it is going
to require a very substantial revision,” said Schwartzman,
whose group promotes freedom of expression and universal access
to communications.  Legislation Shelved  Leaders in the House and Senate on Jan. 20 shelved anti-
piracy legislation backed by the movie and music industries days
after a global online protest led by  Mountain View , California-
based Google Inc. and Wikipedia eroded congressional support.
Internet companies objected, saying the measures would promote
online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture and harm their
ability to innovate.  The Obama administration, without taking a direct stand on
the legislation before Congress, said it wouldn’t support
measures that encourage censorship or disrupt the structure of
the Internet.  Former Democratic Senator  Chris Dodd , chairman of the
Washington-based  Motion Picture Association  of America, said he
hopes Obama will use the trip as an opportunity to make the case
that the Internet and entertainment industries must find a
consensus on stopping content theft.  Common Approach  “Now is the time to come together to find meaningful
solutions to protect American intellectual property from foreign
criminals,” Dodd said in an e-mail. “We strongly believe that
the content and tech industries need each other in order to
succeed and grow.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with the president today that the administration is
committed to finding a solution that will protect copyrights and
intellectual property without impinging on the free flow of
information.  “We believe its a ’both and,’ not an ’either or’
proposition,” Carney said.  Some of Obama’s top bundlers are entertainment industry
giants, including Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg , the co-founder of Miramax Film
Corp.,  Harvey Weinstein , and Katzenberg’s political consultant,
Andy Spahn. Weinstein, through his publicist, declined to be
interviewed. Katzenberg and Spahn didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Political Committee  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC backing Obama, got one
of its first checks from Katzenberg, who contributed $2 million
a July Federal Election Commission filing shows.  Steven Spielberg , the movie director, contributed $100,000 in July.  Still, there was a decline in contributions from employees
and their families associated with the television, movie and
music industries to Obama in the last three quarters of 2011
compared with the same period in 2007, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics. In the last three quarters of 2011, the
entertainment industry gave Obama $1.2 million compared with
$1.8 million during the same period in 2007, according to the
center.  The opposite was true for the computer and Internet
industry, which gave to Obama’s re-election more in the last
three quarters of 2011 than they did during the same period in
2007, according to the center. In 2011, the employees of
computer and Internet companies gave Obama $1.7 million compared
with $1.1 million during the same period in 2007, according to
the center. Employees of Google, the world’s most popular search
engine, were the third-biggest corporate source of Obama’s
campaign cash.  Support From Both  Carney said Obama “enjoys support from people in both
industries.”  Fred Wilson a managing partner at New York-based Union
Square Ventures who has helped fund Web-based technology
companies, said Obama “has been pro-innovation and technology
and he should enjoy strong support from the tech community.”  Harold Feld , legal director of  Public Knowledge , a
Washington-based digital advocacy group, said that, while
entertainment executives may be upset with Obama for not
pressing on anti-piracy, they won’t hold a grudge for long.  Tough Questions  “I think Obama’s going to face tough questions, but after
they’ve had a little time to think about how much they rely on
the administration, to enforce trade agreements in particular,
they are not going to want to jeopardize that relationship,”
Feld said.  The president is seeking to raise more than $3 million
today at the  Los Angeles  home of television producer Bradley
Bell and his wife, Colleen, co-hosted by Ferrell and his wife,
Viveca Paulin, according to a campaign official. The rock band
 Foo Fighters  will perform for approximately 1,000 people, with
tickets costing $250 and $500 each. A dinner will be held later
at the home for approximately 80 people who paid $35,800, the
legal limit.  Tomorrow, approximately 125 people are expected to pay at
least $2,500 per person to attend a luncheon at the Corona del
Mar home of Jeff and Nancy Stack. He is the managing director of
Irvine-based developer Sares-Regis Group. The president will
then travel to San Francisco where he will attend three more
fundraisers. The next day Obama will attend a fundraising lunch
with 65 people at a private residence in Medina,  Washington , and
a reception later in Bellevue, Washington.  The president will bookend the trip with remarks on the
economy and about moving jobs back to the U.S. during a visit to
a Master Lock Co. factory in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin , today and at
a Feb. 17 stop at a Boeing Co. factory in Everett, Washington,
outside of  Seattle . Obama is seeking re-election with an
 unemployment rate  that been at or above 8 percent for three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Milwaukee at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  