-- Ohio Churches Become Battlefields in Contraception Debate
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-15T15:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ohio-churches-become-battlefields-in-contraception-debate.html
After Masses last weekend at St.
Thomas More Catholic Parish in suburban Cleveland, the Reverend
William Bouhall collected signatures opposing President  Barack Obama ’s requirement that health insurers provide contraceptives.  “As they were signing the petition, people were saying,
‘That doesn’t sound right, father,” Bouhall, pastor at the
church, said in a telephone interview. The church also plans to
collect signatures after Masses this weekend, he said.  The response in  Ohio (STOOH1)  churches to Obama’s action has
included a letter from Cleveland Bishop Richard Lennon that
priests read to their flocks, a blast of e-mails that St.
Ambrose Catholic Church in Brunswick sent to parishioners and
members of Queen of Heaven Catholic Church in suburban Akron
mailing postcards to lawmakers, pastors said.  With the nation’s seventh-most-populous state poised to
help decide the presidency this fall, the ecclesiastic outreach
is forcing the faithful to decide whether the president’s
contraceptive policy is a women’s-health issue or an intrusion
on religion.  Ohio  is a microcosm of the nation, and the issue
may shift enough votes to swing the Buckeye State, said  John Green , a University of Akron professor who specializes in
religion and politics.  ‘Assault on Religion’  “To the extent that this is seen as a religious-liberty
issue, it could present some problems for President Obama and
the Democrats in Ohio because they would be on the wrong side of
Catholic identity,” Green said in a telephone interview. As a
public-policy issue, it may “on balance favor President
Obama.”  On Jan. 20, the administration said it would enforce a
requirement of the 2010 health-care overhaul that employers
offer contraceptives as part of their health insurance,
including hospitals and universities with religious
affiliations. After complaints from some church leaders that
they would have to violate their tenets, Obama said Feb. 10 that
insurance companies must offer birth control directly and pay
for it, removing the institutions from the equation.  Republicans, including presidential candidates  Mitt Romney ,
 Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich , have all criticized the rule.
Romney has said Obama was waging “an assault on religion,” and
House of Representatives Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, has said the House would pass legislation to
overturn it.  ‘Common-Sense Issue’  In Boehner’s state, Obama’s policy angered many members of
the Catholic church, which opposes contraception and abortion.
Some, however, said that decision would have little effect,
because so many of the faithful use birth control. About 98
percent of Catholic women with sexual experience use
contraceptives at some point in their lives, according to the
Guttmacher Institute, a New York research organization that
compiles reproductive health data.  “The typical woman spends five years pregnant or trying to
get pregnant and 30 years trying not to get pregnant, so it’s a
common-sense issue for women,” Beth Zaworski, a Catholic nurse
from Lorain, said in a Feb. 13 conference call with reporters
hosted by groups including NARAL Pro-Choice Ohio.  The issue may be more telling in the Midwest, which has
more traditional Catholics than other parts of the U.S. because
ethnic groups from Eastern and  Central Europe  settled there,
Green said. Catholics composed 18 percent of Ohio’s population
in 2010, according to the state’s Catholic Conference.  Losing the Flock  While Obama won the state in 2008 with 51.5 percent of the
vote, according to the secretary of state, exit polls showed he
lost among Catholics by 47 percent to 52 percent.  A national  poll  by the Pew Research Center conducted Feb.
8-12 among 1,501 adults found that 48 percent support an
exemption to the rule for religious-affiliated institutions and
44 percent said they should be required to cover contraceptives.
Among Catholics who have heard at least a little about the
issue, 55 percent favor giving an exemption and 39 percent
oppose it, the survey found.  “It’s a basic attack on our rights for freedom of
religion,” said Trish Shaw, 48, a member of St. Ambrose Church
in Brunswick. It’s the Catholic Diocese of  Cleveland ’s largest
parish, with 14,000 members.  The Reverend Bob Stec, Shaw’s pastor, said he shares  the
view  of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops that Congress
should reject the compromise. Somebody has to pay for the
coverage, and those costs eventually would be passed to
religious institutions, Stec said in an interview.  Health and Disease  The University of Dayton in Ohio, a Catholic-affiliated
institution with more than 7,000 undergraduates, has provided
coverage for contraceptives in its health-insurance plan for at
least 20 years and doesn’t plan to change it, Teri Rizvi, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “Our Catholic identity is at the heart of our
institution’s mission, but, in light of the importance of the
health of our employees and the prevention of disease, we
entered into these plans,” Rizvi said.  The university is aligned with the Association of Catholic
Colleges and Universities, “which supports a balance between
health care and religious freedom,” Rizvi said.  None Since Ike  Other Catholics are ready to make changes. Clem Belter, 77,
a retired electrician and Democrat from Brunswick, said he
hasn’t voted for a Republican presidential candidate since
 Dwight D. Eisenhower . This year, he may.  “When they step on religion, everybody’s affected,”
Belter said in an interview yesterday after morning Mass at St.
Ambrose.  Opposition to the policy may backfire, said Chris Redfern,
chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party and a Catholic himself.
Democrats will reach out to suburban women to argue that
Republicans are intruding into their private lives and their
health-care choices, Redfern said.  “This issue resonates far beyond the reach of a Catholic
bishop,” Redfern said in an interview.  Jane Reilly, 66, a retired public-affairs consultant and
Catholic from Fairview Park in suburban Cleveland, said she’s
“ashamed of my church.” She said she is grateful Obama “had
the courage” to stand up to the bishops and for women’s right
to follow their conscience.  We Are Grown-Ups  “It’s about time the bishops realize women are adult,
moral-decision makers,” Reilly said in a telephone interview.
“People who feel like they can railroad women to do whatever
they demand are living in some age that went by and by a long
time ago.”  Whether Catholics use  birth control  is immaterial, said the
Reverend David Durkee, pastor of Queen of Heaven Catholic Church
in suburban Akron.  “Whether you agree with that teaching or not, the fact is
our church does teach it,” Durkee said in a telephone
interview. “It’s gone too far.”  Green, the Akron professor, said the issue is thorny for
many people, not just Catholics.  “I don’t know anybody that’s against religious liberty; I
don’t know anybody that’s against providing people with good
health care,” he said. “So how do you fit those things
together?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  