-- Oil Advances to One-Month High After Report Iran Cut Exports to Europe
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-15T21:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/oil-futures-advance-to-one-month-high-on-report-of-iranian-export-cut.html
Oil rose to a one-month high
following reports that  Iran  halted shipments to Europe and that
U.S. inventories declined for the first time in four weeks.  Futures climbed 1.1 percent after Iran stopped crude
exports to France and the Netherlands and threatened to end
shipments to four other European countries, state-run Mehr news
agency reported, citing an unidentified official at the National
Iranian Oil Co. U.S. oil supplies unexpectedly decreased in the
week ended Feb. 10, an Energy Department report showed.  “The numbers today are bullish, but the primary reason we
are higher is the Iran fear premium,” said Todd Horwitz, chief
strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New York.  Oil for March delivery rose $1.06 to $101.80 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement since
Jan. 10. Prices have increased 21 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement increased $1.58, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $118.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The European Union agreed in January to halt oil purchases
from Iran as of July 1. The foreign ministry in Tehran summoned
the six nations’ ambassadors to protest EU sanctions on the
country’s nuclear program, Fars reported.  Iran loaded locally built fuel plates into its nuclear
research reactor in Tehran, Press TV reported, showing images of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad inside the facility.  Jay Carney ,
the White House press secretary, said the U.S. expects to learn
more about the matter from International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors working in Iran.  $10 a Barrel  “Crude is holding on because the tensions seem to be more
pronounced in Iran,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  The tension between the Persian Gulf producer and Western
nations has added $10 a barrel to the price of crude, according
to analysts at  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank.  “There’s an inflationary impact from the tension in the
 Middle East ,” said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of
McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado . “If oil were to
advance above $105, these nascent economic recovery stories
would be squashed.”  Oil has climbed 3 percent this year amid signs that
economic growth in the U.S., the world’s leading user of crude,
is accelerating. Production at U.S. factories rose 0.7 percent
in January after a revised 1.5 percent increase the prior month
that was the largest in five years, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed today in  Washington .  Inventories Slip  U.S.  inventories of crude oil  declined 171,000 barrels to
339.1 million last week, the Energy Department report showed.
Supplies were forecast to increase 1.5 million barrels,
according to the median of 13 analyst responses in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Stockpiles of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 2.87 million barrels to 143.7
million. It was the biggest decrease since Nov. 4. Supplies were
forecast to fall 1.1 million barrels.  Total  fuel demand  increased 5.9 percent to 18.7 million
barrels a day last week, the report showed.  Gasoline consumption 
increased 1.6 percent to 8.17 million barrels a day, the highest
level since the first week of the year. Use of the motor fuel
was down 7.3 percent from a year earlier.  Chinese Pledge  Crude also rose when Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
said  China  will help resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis. Zhou’s pledge
to invest in Europe’s bailout funds and sustain its holdings of
euro assets echoed comments by Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday and
sparked optimism Europe will overcome a debt crisis that
threatens renewed market turmoil.  “The Chinese moves to aid Europe will only add to the
liquidity” that is bolstering crude, said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said he’s
confident euro-area finance minister will make a decision on a
bailout for  Greece  at their next meeting on Feb. 20. Juncker,
chairman of the group, issued a statement after the ministers
held a conference call today on the Greek package.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 708,507
contracts as of 4:15 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 876,138
yesterday, the most since Feb. 8. Open interest was 1.49 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  