-- Oil Rises to One-Month High on Iran Export Cut, China Debt Help
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-15T13:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/oil-rises-from-two-day-low-as-china-pledge-on-europe-counters-u-s-demand.html
Oil rose to its highest in a month
as  Iran  said it had cut oil exports to six European countries
and after  China  pledged to help resolve Europe’s debt crisis.  Crude futures in New York increased as much as 1.8 percent.
Iran summoned the ambassadors of  Italy ,  Spain ,  France ,  Greece ,
 Portugal  and the Netherlands to protest against the EU sanctions
on the country’s nuclear program, state-run Fars news agency
reported. China will invest in Europe’s bailout funds, the
nation’s Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing.
EU finance ministers will today prod Greece to deliver budget
cuts in exchange for a second aid package.  “The market is all about fears of supply disruption, as we
have these tensions in the  Middle East  and especially the
conflict with Iran,” said Sintje Boie, an analyst at  HSH
Nordbank  in Hamburg, who predicts Brent crude will surpass $120
a barrel in coming weeks. “We have seen some signs of stability
in the debt crisis.”  Oil for March delivery rose as much as $1.80 to $102.54 a
barrel, the highest since Jan. 12, in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.42 at 1:49 p.m.
London time. Prices have risen 20 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement gained $1.23 to $118.58 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate for the same month was at $16.80, compared with
$17.42 yesterday.  Iran Sanctions  Iran’s state-run news agency said talks between EU
diplomats and the Iranian officials were under way at the
foreign ministry in Tehran. Iran has cut oil exports to six EU
countries, state-run Press TV reported earlier, without citing
anyone or providing more details.  The EU ban on imports of Iranian oil will take effect in
July. Concern that a confrontation between the Persian Gulf
producer and Western nations may block shipments through the
gulf has already added about $10 to the price of crude,
according to analysts at UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank.  The world’s oil market is increasingly vulnerable to rising
prices as spare production capacity declines, Goldman Sachs said
in a report dated yesterday. Unused crude-output capacity at the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is down 26 percent
since March to 4.685 million barrels a day in January, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since
November 2008.  “OPEC spare capacity is approaching dangerously low
levels, just as world economic growth is beginning to
strengthen,”  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman
Sachs in  New York , said in the report. Measures by the  European
Central Bank  and Greece “have substantially reduced the risk of
a systemic financial event in Europe,” he said.  Stockpiles  Global stockpiles are increasing more slowly than the five-
year average, Greely said. Inventories held by the 34 nations in
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development climbed
by 11.4 million barrels in January, less than the five-year
average increase of 43.2 million, according to preliminary data
in the International Energy Agency’s monthly oil market report.  Zhou’s remarks in China echoed comments by Premier Wen
Jiabao yesterday and sparked optimism Europe will overcome a
debt crisis that threatens renewed market turmoil. EU finance
ministers will hold a teleconference today to urge Greece to do
more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion euros ($171
billion) and about 100 billion euros of debt relief from private
bondholders. The nation’s two biggest political parties will
provide written commitments to austerity pledges, a government
official in  Athens  said.  Oil ‘Well Bid’  Oil “remains relatively well bid as if the market is
optimistic that something will occur in  Europe ,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
markets newsletter in Sydney, who forecasts New York crude may
rise to $104 a barrel if it breaks through technical resistance
at $102.50.  New York prices fluctuated earlier after reports showed a
rise in stockpiles and a slump in gasoline demand in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest oil user.  Crude stockpiles climbed  2.9 million barrels  last week, the
American Petroleum Institute said. An Energy Department report
today is forecast to show a gain of 1.5 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Gasoline demand slid to the lowest level since MasterCard
Inc.’s SpendingPulse report started in July 2004. U.S. drivers
bought 8.01 million barrels of the fuel a day in the seven days
ended Feb. 10, down 3.1 percent from a week earlier, the report
showed. Gasoline use over the previous four weeks was 5.3
percent below the 2011 period, the 47th consecutive decline in
that measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  