-- Oil Trades Near 5-Week High After Mehr Says Iran to Cut Exports to Europe
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-16T07:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/oil-trades-near-highest-in-five-weeks-on-report-of-iran-crude-export-cut.html
Oil traded near a five-week high in
 New York  after the Mehr news agency said  Iran  halted shipments
to Europe and U.S. crude inventories fell for the first time in
four weeks.  Futures were little changed after climbing 1.1 percent
yesterday. Iran stopped crude exports to  France  and the
Netherlands and threatened to end shipments to four other
European countries, state-run Mehr reported, citing an
unidentified official at the National Iranian Oil Co. U.S.
stockpiles fell 171,000 barrels last week, data from the Energy
Information Administration showed. They were projected to rise
1.5 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The market is certainly watching what’s happening in Iran
but I don’t think it’s willing to build in that escalation
premium yet,”  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in
Sydney, said by telephone today. “The U.S. inventory decline
has a fairly short-term impact on prices.”  Oil for March delivery was at $101.56 a barrel, down 24
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:51 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday increased
$1.06 to $101.80, the highest close since Jan. 10. Prices are 20
percent higher than a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement rose 10 cents to $119.03 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate for the same month was at $17.16, compared with
$16.79 yesterday. It reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Conflicting Reports  The state-run Fars news agency gave a conflicting account
to the Mehr report, saying Iran warned the six European Union
nations without cutting exports to any of them. An Iranian oil
ministry official, declining to be identified, said yesterday he
was unable to confirm a decision to suspend shipments. The EU
also said it wasn’t immediately able to confirm a halt.  “If any military action against Iran is taken, it poses a
huge risk to oil supplies and should raise the fear premium in
 oil prices  even further,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Melbourne , said in a note today. Data from the U.S. Energy
Department“ was surprisingly supportive, with crude stocks
showing an unexpected decline.”  Gasoline stockpiles rose 400,000 barrels last week, figures
from the EIA showed. They were projected to climb 700,000
barrels, according to the median of 13 analyst estimates in the
Bloomberg News  survey . Distillate supplies, a category that
includes diesel and heating oil, fell 2.9 million barrels
compared with an estimate for a 1.1 million barrel drop.  Oil in New York has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band, near where futures halted yesterday’s advance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at
about $102.66 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to be clustered
close to chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  