-- Oil Rises From Two-Day Low as China Pledges Help on Europe Debt
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-15T08:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-gain-in-u-s-stockpiles-greek-aid-delay.html
Oil rose after China pledged to help
resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis, easing concern that economic
growth will slow and curb fuel demand.  Brent crude  may advance
to $120 a barrel, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Crude futures in  New York  increased as much as 1 percent,
rebounding from a two-day low. China will invest in Europe’s
bailout funds, the nation’s central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
said in Beijing. European Union finance ministers will today
prod  Greece  to deliver budget cuts in exchange for a second aid
package. The world’s oil market is increasingly vulnerable to
rising prices as spare production capacity declines, Goldman
Sachs said.  “OPEC spare capacity is approaching dangerously low
levels, just as world economic growth is beginning to
strengthen,”  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman
Sachs in New York, said in the report dated yesterday. Measures
by the  European Central Bank  and Greece “have substantially
reduced the risk of a systemic financial event in Europe,” he
said.  Oil for March delivery rose as much as $1.02 to $101.76 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $101.53 at 4:13 p.m. Singapore time. It fell 17 cents
to $100.74 yesterday, the lowest close since Feb. 10. Prices are
20 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement gained 61 cents to $117.96 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate for the same month was at $16.14, compared with
$17.42 yesterday.  Global Crude Stockpiles  Spare crude-output capacity at the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries is down 26 percent since March to
4.685 million barrels a day in January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since November
2008.  Global stockpiles are increasing more slowly than the five-
year average, Greely said. Inventories held by the 34 nations in
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development climbed
by 11.4 million barrels in January, less than the five-year
average increase of 43.2 million, according to preliminary data
in the International Energy Agency’s Monthly Oil Market report.  Zhou’s remarks in  China  echoed comments by Premier Wen
Jiabao yesterday and sparked optimism Europe will overcome a
debt crisis that threatens renewed market turmoil. EU finance
ministers will hold a teleconference today to urge Greece to do
more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion euros ($171
billion) and about 100 billion euros of debt relief from private
bondholders. The nation’s two biggest political parties will
provide written commitments to austerity pledges, a government
official in  Athens  said.  Oil ‘Well Bid’  Oil “remains relatively well bid as if the market is
optimistic that something will occur in Europe,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
markets newsletter in Sydney, who forecasts New York crude may
rise to $104 a barrel if it breaks through technical resistance
at $102.50.  New York prices fluctuated earlier after reports showed a
rise in stockpiles and a slump in gasoline demand in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest oil user.  Crude stockpiles climbed  2.9 million barrels  last week, the
 American Petroleum Institute  said. An Energy Department report
today is forecast to show a gain of 1.5 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Gasoline Demand  Motor fuel demand slid to the lowest level since MasterCard
Inc.’s SpendingPulse report started in July 2004. U.S. drivers
bought 8.01 million barrels of gasoline a day in the seven days
ended Feb. 10, down 3.1 percent from a week earlier, the report
showed. Gasoline use over the previous four weeks was 5.3
percent below the 2011 period, the 47th consecutive decline in
that measure.  The U.S. accounts for about 21 percent of the world’s oil
use and the EU consumes about 16 percent of the world’s oil
demand, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  