-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Increased to the Highest Level Since 2007
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-15T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-increased-to-the-highest-level-since-2007.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
climbed more than anticipated in February to the highest level
since May 2007, pointing to an improving outlook for
construction.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo  index 
of builder confidence rose for a fifth straight month, to 29 in
February from 25 in January, figures from the Washington-based
group showed today. The  median  forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a rise to 26. Readings below 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  is among builders reporting a pickup in
demand as borrowing costs hover near a record low and hiring
accelerates. Efforts by the Obama administration and the  Federal
Reserve  to shore up the real estate market and help distressed
homeowners may limit the supply of foreclosed houses, lifting
prospects for the industry.  “The housing market is moving toward more sustainable
growth,” Barry Rutenberg, chairman of the National Association
of Home Builders and a builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said
in a statement. At the same time, the housing sector remains
fragile, he said.  The last time the builder confidence index increased five
straight months or more was April through October 1995. February
estimates of 51 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
23 to 28.  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
averaged 54 in the five years leading to the recession in
December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of current single-family  home
sales  rose to 30 this month, the highest since May 2007, from 25
in the prior month, today’s report showed.  Sales Expectations  A measure of  sales expectations  for the next six months
advanced to 34, the best reading since July 2007, from 29. The
gauge of buyer traffic rose to 22, the highest since June 2007,
from 21.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Builders in the West led the increase, with the index
jumping to 44, the highest since July 2006, from 21. Confidence
rose to 30 in the  Midwest (USHBMWMK) , the highest since April 2006.
Sentiment decreased in the Northeast and South.  D.R. Horton , the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume,
reported net home orders rose to 3,794 in final three months of
2011, from 3,363 a year earlier.  “Simply put, our business feels more positive,” Donald Tomnitz, chief executive officer of the Fort Worth, Texas-based
company, said in a Jan. 27 conference call. At the same time,
“macroeconomic and housing conditions remain soft,” and “we
are cautiously optimistic for the remainder for 2012,” he said.  Foreclosure Practices  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and three other
U.S. banks reached a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and
the U.S. government to end a probe of abusive foreclosure
practices prompted by the collapse of the housing price bubble.
President  Barack Obama  said the agreement, announced on Feb. 9,
is a “major step” in reviving the housing market.  Housing  starts  also are improving. Builders broke ground on
new homes at a 675,000 annual pace in January, up from a 657,000
rate the previous month, according to the Bloomberg survey
median ahead of a Commerce Department report due tomorrow.  Work on apartment projects has climbed as the foreclosure
crisis turned more Americans into renters, helping to reenergize
the industry that’s struggled since triggering the last
recession.  Construction of multifamily units will lead homebuilding
again this year, allowing housing to contribute to growth for
the first time in seven years, according to forecasts from
economists Michelle Meyer of Bank of America Corp. and Celia
Chen of Moody’s Analytics Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 