-- London Developers Double Apartment Density as Less Land Is Made Available
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-02-15T15:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/london-developers-double-apartment-density-as-less-land-is-made-available.html
Homebuilders are adding more than
twice as many properties into new developments in London,
increasing density in the U.K.’s most populous city, according
to  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The 101,870 homes completed in the five years through March
2011 were built at a density of 100 residences per hectare of
land, according  Jones Lang . That compares with 50 dwellings per
hectare for the 68,870 built in the previous decade.  The amount of land approved for development in the U.K.
capital fell in the past decade even as demand for residential
real estate and tight supply helped boost prices, said Jon
Neale, a residential research director for the Chicago-based
broker.  “Land will become a constraining factor,” Neale said by
e-mail. “The increase in density is partly driven by broader
economic and social trends, namely the greater desire for
central London property. The only way this can be accommodated
is by increasing height and density.”  London’s Shard skyscraper, the highest in Western Europe,
will have apartments, hotels, offices and restaurants when it
opens next year.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG)  plans 11-story and
12-story residential towers in London’s Westminster district and
is constructing apartment blocks in Kensington. Heron
International Inc. is building a 36-story residential tower in
the  City of London  financial district.  Financial District  The Heron is one of two new projects under way in the City
of London, according to Savills Plc. The other is a 158-
apartment building by Tower Bridge, which is being developed by
Cheval Residences Ltd. From 2007 to 2011, landlords began
turning 19 commercial buildings in the district into homes.  About 830 hectares of land were released for residential
development by planning authorities in the four years through
2009, a drop of 10 percent from the same period through 2004.
That may add pressure to change protections for the green belt,
land bordering  London  where building is banned, Neale said.  “London’s size has been fixed by policy and it cannot grow
outward,” he said. “We’ve been resistant for generations to
the idea that cities could expand into precious green fields.
Ultimately, though, that is the only way to increase land
supply.”  The U.K. government is trying to simplify planning approval
by whittling down more than 1,000 pages of regulations to 52
while trying to balance an area’s economic, social and
environmental needs. Opponents including the National Trust say
the reforms may expose the countryside to urban sprawl.  Apartment prices in London rise 1.5 percent for each floor
of height, according to research last week by Los Angeles-based
broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  The city’s residential tower developments
have a 36 percent price premium over other new build
developments, CBRE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 