-- Ontario Should Overhaul Health to Curb Deficit, Drummond Commission Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-15T21:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ontario-should-overhaul-health-to-curb-deficit-drummond-commission-says.html
Ontario should overhaul its public
health-care system and scrap electricity subsidies to help
eliminate a C$16 billion ($16 billion) budget gap by 2018,
according to a commission asked to find ways to reduce
 government spending .  The suggestions are among more than 350 recommendations in
the 560-page report released today by the Commission on the
Reform of Ontario’s Public Services, headed by former Toronto-
Dominion Bank chief economist Don Drummond. The report calls for
an end to a mining tax credit and says the government shouldn’t
sell assets for a quick cash gain.  Ontario’s deficit could soar to C$30.2 billion by 2017 and
the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio may soar to 51 percent
from 35 percent if changes aren’t made, according to the report.
The Commission’s “preferred scenario” says annual program
spending growth should be held to 0.8 percent, from 1.4 percent
under the current fiscal plan.  “It’s tough, but it’s doable,” Drummond told reporters in
Toronto. “Wait another year or two and it won’t be doable. So
the window’s there, but it’s not going to be open forever.”  The Commission said the government shouldn’t sell companies
such as Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corp., Liquor Control Board
of Ontario,  Ontario Power Generation Inc . and Hydro One Inc.
“unless the net, long-term benefit” is considerable.  Boosting Productivity  Subsidies and tax breaks for companies should have a
mandate of boosting productivity instead of creating jobs, the
report recommends.  “The government will need to implement all the reforms we
recommend,”  the report  said. “This is not a smorgasbord from
which the government can choose only the tastiest morsels and
ignore the less palatable.”  Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said he will consult with
opposition lawmakers about the report and respond when he
presents his next budget, probably in March.  “We will listen” to the opposition, said Duncan, whose
Liberals hold a minority of seats in the provincial legislature.
“We will decide through the budget process” which
recommendations to accept.  Programs introduced in recent budgets should be cut or
pared back, according to the report. The year-old Ontario Clean
Energy Benefit, which gave Ontarians a 10 percent rebate on
electricity bills, should be eliminated “as quickly as
possible”, the Commission advised. The program, the province’s
largest electricity-rate subsidy, is projected to cost C$1.1
billion this fiscal year.  Parking Charge  The Commission also said the government should scrap a
proposed increase in the Ontario Child Benefit to C$1,310 a year
per child from C$1,100, to save C$245 million. Other proposals
include implementing full-cost pricing for water and wastewater
services, charging for parking at GO Transit railway commuter
parking lots, and imposing “zero-budget” wage increases for
government departments.  “It’s all good and well to give a long laundry list of
suggestions,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with
Bank of Montreal’s capital markets unit it Toronto.
“Ultimately, what matters is how much does the government
actually adopt. And we may get a pretty early answer on that in
this year’s budget.”  The tax credit for miners operating in Ontario, such as
Vancouver-based  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , are no longer necessary since the
province already has reduced its corporate  tax rate  to a
competitive level, Drummond said.  Spending Increases  Total program spending should increase for health care,
education and social programs, with C$11.2 billion of increases
between 2010-11 to 2017-18. All other programs should face cost
cuts to save C$4 billion over the seven-year period, the report
said. Drummond said his commission was instructed to recommend
ways of balancing the budget without raising taxes.  “We’re pleased that it appears he has focused on keeping
the tax reductions in place,” said Len Crispino, adviser to the
Ontario Chamber of Commerce. “It will be dire if we don’t
act,” Crispino added. “It’s painful but we have to do it.”  The most recommendations are for the public health-care
system, which consumed 40 percent of total program spending in
2010-2011. The Commission recommends a reorganization to shift
focus from acute care to chronic care, divert patients from
hospitals to family clinics and home care as much as possible,
and increasing reliance on less costly workers such as nurse
practitioners.  ‘Disjointed Services’  “The health-care system is not really a system,” the
report said. “What we have is a series of disjointed services
in many silos. Ontario needs to integrate these silos and reduce
administrative red tape that impedes efficient and effective
service.”  Growth in the health budget should be capped at 2.5 percent
or less annually through 2017-18 and no more than 5 percent
after that to keep the budget balanced without relying on tax
increases or squeezing out other public services.  Pharmacists should be allowed to administer routine
injections and inhalations, including immunization, and
emergency medical technicians should be able to provide home
care when not on emergency calls. The report also recommends
Ontario work with other provinces to set up common prices for
drugs, and with the federal government to make sure Ontario’s
expanding use of generic drugs is not undermined by the Canada-
European Union Free Trade Agreement.  Full-Day Kindergarten  The government should cancel its move to full-day
kindergarten, or at least delay its implementation, the report
recommends, and fees for student busing should be considered.  Other recommendations call for expanding the province’s
liquor stores, extending  slot machines  beyond horse-racing
tracks, and closing one of two government-owned casinos in
Niagara Falls.  Ontario identified public service reform in the 2011 budget
as a way to find cost-savings and reduce its deficit. Finance
Minister Duncan tapped Drummond to head the commission that
could identify savings that could be included in the 2012
budget.  Ontario will also look to save money by strengthening its
public-private partnership with ServiceOntario, which delivers
routine government services such as driver’s licenses and birth
certificates, and studying whether to end a subsidy of horse
racing in the province, Duncan said.  Meeting Target  Ontario will meet its goal of eliminating the shortfall by
the fiscal year that begins April 2017, Duncan reiterated Feb.
13. His next fiscal plan will include more details about
potential asset sales, he said.  The provincial government said in a Nov. 23  fiscal review 
that Ontario’s deficit would reach C$16 billion in the year that
ends March 31, down from a March 2011 forecast of C$16.3
billion. The government projected the shortfall would drop to
C$15.2 billion for fiscal 2012-13 and to C$13.3 billion by 2013-
14, unchanged from March forecasts.  Ontario needs to balance its books and reduce its debt to
avoid a rating downgrade, Moody’s said in a December report in
which it cut the province’s outlook to negative. Moody’s rates
C$190 billion of Ontario debt Aa1, its second-highest level.  Minority Government  Ontario forecast economic growth of 1.8 percent for 2011
and 2012 before rebounding to 2.5 percent in 2013, the
government said in a Nov. 23  fiscal update . That’s down from
forecasts in the annual budget released March 29, which
projected growth of 2.4 percent in 2011 and 2.7 percent in 2012
and 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  