-- Look, Ma, No Wires for Apple-Friendly Speaker: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-02-15T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/look-ma-no-wires-for-pricey-b-o-apple-speaker-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Danish audio-video manufacturer  Bang
& Olufsen (BO)  is known for its strikingly designed, pricey
electronics gear. Hmm, sound like any smartphone-tablet-computer
maker you can think of?  So it’s no coincidence that B&O is bringing its high-style
ethos to the market for peripherals designed to work with
 Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhones, iPads and Macs. The result is the  Beolit 12 , a
portable speaker that uses Apple’s AirPlay technology to
wirelessly stream music throughout your home.  The Beolit 12 introduces B&O Play, a new line that in the
B&O world will pass for budget-priced -- in this case, $799.  Now, in the world of most mortals, $799 is a lot of money
for a speaker. Even high-end manufacturers like  Klipsch ,  Bowers
& Wilkins  and  Bose  sell similar products for hundreds less.
Still, if you’ve got the coin and want the cachet, B&O offers
very good sound in a striking package.  The Beolit 12 resembles a compact, aluminum-clad picnic
basket. It measures about nine inches by five inches, and stands
about seven inches tall, with a rubberized top that provides
easy access to the power, volume controls and wireless-network
indicator. At about six pounds, it’s easily transportable
without being featherweight; a leather shoulder strap completes
the basket metaphor.  Plays Well With Apple  At the back are USB and line-in ports, should you want to
directly connect an iPad, iPhone or iPod touch (or a non-Apple
phone or MP3 player). But the Beolit works and plays best with
the Apple ecosystem, specifically  AirPlay , its proprietary
system for media sharing across devices.  Airplay is what allows you to, for example, beam photos or
a movie from your iPad onto a big-screen television equipped
with the company’s $99 Apple TV gadget. Once the Beolit is
introduced to your network, it appears as an output option on a
pop-up menu when you play music from any iDevice, Mac or
 Microsoft (MSFT)  Windows PC running Apple’s iTunes software. Choose it,
and the music begins to play. That’s it.  Unfortunately, it takes a good deal of effort to get to
that effortless point. Setting up the Beolit is a pain.  Awkward Set-Up  You start by opening a door on the speaker’s back,
revealing a large empty compartment and exposing two ports: one
for the power cable and the other for an included Ethernet
cable. Plugging in the cables can be awkward, but it’s nothing
compared to the hoops you have to jump through to get the
speaker onto your wireless network.  You’ll need a computer, which can’t be connected to the
Internet during set-up. Plug the other end of the Ethernet cable
into the computer, type an address into a Web browser that opens
the Beolit’s set-up page. Enter information about your Wi-Fi
network, disconnect the computer and wait for the speaker to
restart, amid much blinking of orange and white lights.  Once done, you’re rewarded with sound that’s surprisingly
rich coming from such a compact package, thanks to the 120-watt
amplifier driving a pair of two-inch tweeters and a four inch-
woofer that provides solid bass.  The sound is by no means audiophile-quality. As with the
one-box solutions from B&O’s competitors, there’s no real stereo
separation to speak of, and squeezing everything into such a
small package inevitably imposes compromises. Still, for what it
is, you’re likely to be happy.  Time Out  B&O says the Beolit will play for eight hours with a device
directly plugged in, but only four hours if you’re using
Airplay. That would be pretty disappointing if it were true.  During my test, the estimate proved much too conservative.
With the volume loud enough to fill a large, fully furnished
room, I got more than 6-1/2 hours of continuous listening
between charges.  Is the Beolit 12 worth the money? Only if you understand
the premium you’re paying to buy into the B&O lifestyle. If so,
you’ll get some very nice sound along with it.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 