-- Opel Squandering GM’s U.S. Profit Rankles Stock Investors: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-15T15:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/opel-squandering-gm-s-u-s-profit-rankles-stock-investors-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson, having decided to keep the company’s German
Opel unit, will come under greater pressure to cut production
and employees in Europe as losses continue to pile up.  GM has been rolling in good news now for more than a year,
and that will probably continue with fourth-quarter earnings
tomorrow. Through three quarters, Detroit-based GM made more
money than in any year since at least 1987, excluding
extraordinary gains related to its bankruptcy. It added market
share in the U.S. while cutting discounts and took back the
title of world’s largest automaker from  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp.  That good news has become more tempered now. The quarterly
profit may be GM’s lowest since it emerged from bankruptcy in
2009. In its report, GM will reveal the depth of pension
shortages and may see continued deterioration in  South America ,
where low-cost imports have put pressure on market leaders. The
darkest cloud on GM’s horizon is Opel, the biggest contributor
to GM’s $14.7 billion in European operating losses since 1999.  “What investors are afraid of is that the more Opel is in
the news under a negative light, it only makes the restructuring
more difficult; it potentially even harms the brand to some
extent in terms of market share and sales,” said  Itay Michaeli ,
a New York-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., in a telephone
interview Feb. 13. “Patience is slowly wearing thin to at least
achieve a credible plan to get back to break even.”  Profit Tomorrow  GM may say tomorrow that profit excluding some items fell
to 41 cents a share, the average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, from 52 cents a year earlier. While North
American operations may have delivered $1.1 billion in earnings
before interest and taxes, the average of three analysts’
estimates, losses in  Europe  probably rose from the third quarter
to $358 million, undermining the company’s progress.  Manager Magazin reported today that Opel may have lost
slightly more than $1 billion last year.  GM said in November that it couldn’t break even in Europe,
and Akerson has since dispatched several top lieutenants to
Opel, including Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, who took over as
chairman of the Ruesselsheim, Germany-based unit. The drama is
weighing down GM shares, Michaeli said.  GM Europe lost $292 million in the third quarter and $582
million through the first nine months of 2011. In 2010, it lost
$568 million in the fourth quarter and $1.76 billion for the
year, including restructuring charges. The analysts’ estimates
for the final three months last year don’t include any one-time
items. Since 1999, the unit has lost $14.7 billion.  Depressing Stock  While GM shares have risen 25 percent  this year  before
today, they remained 24 percent below the $33 level of the
automaker’s 2010 initial public offering. With a market
capitalization of $39.6 billion, GM is trading at 6.24 times
earnings, less than half the 14 times earnings that investors
pay for the  S&P 500 Index . GM fell 0.9 percent to $25.17 at 9:59
a.m. New York time.  “Whenever you have a company that’s got a major division
losing money without any tangible end in sight to those losses,
it does tend to depress the overall multiple,” Michaeli said.  GM will give an update to the status of its underfunded
pension plans, which were $22.2 billion short at the end of
2010.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM in the
IPO, and it still holds  32 percent  of the Detroit automaker’s
shares, acquired as part of the Obama administration’s $50
billion bailout. The U.S. wants to sell for at least the IPO
price, people familiar with the matter have said.  The U.S. should sell its GM shares now, Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said yesterday in an opinion
piece in the  Detroit News . The city would have been better off
without the bailout, he said, criticizing the administration’s
restructuring as “crony capitalism on a grand scale.”  U.S. Strength  GM boosted U.S. sales last year by 13 percent while
reducing incentive spending per vehicle by 5.1 percent to
$3,223, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  It was an improving U.S. business in 2010 that produced
$813 million in earnings before interest and taxes in last
year’s fourth quarter and propelled GM to a $1.41 billion net
income. The full-year profit of $6.17 billion was GM’s largest
annual income since its  predecessor  earned $6.7 billion in 1997,
excluding profit in 2009 to account for GM’s post-bankruptcy
recapitalization.  Akerson has been pushing managers to reduce costs to
improve GM’s EBIT margin, which lags behind that of  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Hyundai Motor Co.  International Operations  GM’s international operations, which include  China , may
have stayed little changed with a $336 million EBIT in the
fourth quarter last year, the average estimate of three
analysts, compared with $334 million a year earlier.  In South America, GM’s operating profit fell to $103
million during the first three quarters of the year from $623
million during the same period in 2010.  Sales globally rose 7.6 percent last year to 9.03 million
to overtake Toyota as the world’s top-selling automaker. GM had
surrendered the global-sales lead in 2008 to Toyota, which then
lost production last year after the March tsunami in  Japan .  While Opel CEO Karl-Friedrich Stracke has told employees
that the automaker hasn’t made any decisions on shutting
factories, reducing headcount or shifting production, he said
“there are issues that need to be addressed.”  GM is looking to find greater cost savings between Opel and
Chevrolet operations in Europe, Tim Lee, president of GM’s
international operations, said last month. Lee was appointed to
Opel’s supervisory board last year. GM may move some work from
 Korea  to Europe to boost revenue and use assets there, three
people familiar with the matter have said.  Job Cuts  GM, which has already trimmed its European workforce by
5,800, may look to close plants in Ellesmere Port,  England , and
Bochum,  Germany , said  Brian Johnson , an industry analyst at
 Barclays Capital . GM’s plant utilization rate in Europe is 78
percent and is expected to fall to 69 percent this year and more
after that, Johnson said.  Over the next 12 to 18 months, Adam Jonas, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, said he expects GM to push cutting 3,000 to
5,000 jobs.  “The conditions are ripe for capacity to exit, not just at
GM but also Renault, Peugeot and Nissan,” Jonas said in a
telephone interview. “We’re a bit skeptical. We’re not entirely
convinced that this will be a smooth process.”  Rainer Einenkel, head of the Bochum factory’s works
council, said he’s determined to keep it open.  “We have binding contracts with Opel and General Motors,
which protect us from plant closures and layoffs,” Einenkel
said yesterday in an e-mail, adding that closure had been
threatened on numerous occasions in the past. “It’s as simple
as this: We will not let our factory be shut down.”  Jonas, who figures  GM stock  is should be trading at $45 a
share within a year, estimates the value of GM’s European
operations at a negative $8 billion. The automaker’s China
business would be worth $10 billion, he said.  “The negative value of  GM Europe  is almost as big as the
positive value of GM China,” Jonas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  