-- Morgan Stanley Left With Almost Half of TDC Shares From Sale
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-02-15T17:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/morgan-stanley-left-with-nearly-half-of-tdc-shares-from-sale-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  was left with almost
half the $982 million in  TDC A/S (TDC)  shares it tried to sell on
behalf of the Danish phone company’s private equity owners this
week, two people with direct knowledge of the transaction said.  Morgan Stanley holds about 59 million shares, or 7.2
percent of the company’s stock, TDC said in an announcement
today. Almost all of the bank’s stake was from shares left over
from the block sale after a 4 percent discount failed to lure
enough investors, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the deal was private.  In a block sale, the underwriter typically buys shares from
the selling shareholders before distributing them to investors,
rather than simply acting as a broker matching buyers and
sellers. Investment banks aim to profit by charging investors
more than what they paid for the shares.  “Morgan Stanley will clearly need to shift this off the
books, and the decision they’ll have to make is how long to tie
up capital for, or whether to sell it and take a loss,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  with a
“neutral” rating on the stock. “There’s pressure to get
revenue, particularly in  equity capital markets .”  Brian Buckley, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment.  Second-Largest Shareholder  Morgan Stanley is now TDC’s second-largest shareholder,
surpassing Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte
Ltd., which had 5 percent of the shares at the end of 2011,
according to TDC’s annual report. The company’s largest
shareholder is still NTC Holding GP & Cie. SCA, the consortium
of TDC’s private equity owners, which controls about 43 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We will treat Morgan Stanley the same way that we treat
all our shareholders,” Dennis Callesen, a spokesman for TDC,
said by phone, declining to comment further on the sale.  NTC sold about 128 million shares at 43.40 kroner each in a
block sale that began Feb. 13, at the low end of the range,
people with knowledge of the transaction said yesterday. Morgan
Stanley was the sole bookrunner for the sale, according to terms
for the transaction obtained by Bloomberg News.  TDC shares fell 0.9 percent today to 42.90 kroner apiece,
after a 4.3 percent drop yesterday. The shares have fallen 6.9
percent this year, compared with an 8 percent increase for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Morgan Stanley’s stake, valued at about
$455 million at the offer price, had fallen to about $445
million today.  “The overhang will continue,” David Aubert, analyst at
DNB Bank ASA in Oslo, said in a phone interview. “Now that
Morgan Stanley has a large amount of shares, it adds to what NTC
holds. The overhang and the discount is something that is not
out of the shares just yet.”  Aubert has a “hold” recommendation on TDC with a price
estimate of 47 kroner per share.  “Risk-taking is still ingrained in the culture of
 investment banking ,” said Giorgio Questa, a finance professor
at Cass Business School in  London . Banks typically seek to sell
the shares they’re left with gradually on the markets to reduce
their exposure, said Questa, a former banker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  