-- OSG Awaits U.S. Loan-Guarantee Decision as Tankers End Iran Oil Shipments
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-15T21:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/overseas-shipholding-awaits-u-s-loan-decision-as-tankers-end-iran-visits.html
The  U.S. Maritime Administration  has
a Feb. 18 deadline to decide on a $241.8 million loan guarantee
application from the New York-based owner of a supertanker that
called at Iran’s biggest crude-export terminal last month.  Overseas Shipping Group is seeking the federal loan
guarantee through a subsidiary to help pay for two tankers built
at U.S. shipyards. The application comes at a time when the
Obama administration is working to tighten sanctions against
Iran.  OSG’s application, under review for two years, is part of a
backlog that three U.S. senators cited in a Jan. 30 letter to
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood complaining about delays at
the Maritime Administration. The agency, a unit of the
Transportation Department, has a statutory obligation to make a
decision by Feb. 18, Maritime Administration spokeswoman Kim Riddle said in an e-mailed statement.  OSG’s Overseas Rosalyn, which can carry about 2 million
barrels of oil, arrived at Kharg Island on Jan. 27 and departed
the next day, satellite tracking data shows. The supertanker
left about 16 feet deeper in the water, according to information
filed by the ship’s captain, an indication it loaded cargo.  Three other OSG-owned ships, operated as part of a pool
managed by Limassol, Cyprus-based Tankers International LLC,
have called at Kharg Island in  Iran  in the past year, according
to shipping data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Union Ban  The Overseas Rosalyn’s docking came four days after the
European Union agreed to ban the purchase, transport, financing
and insurance of Iranian  oil . With about 95 percent of the
tanker fleet insured under rules governed by European law, fewer
vessels are able to load in Iran.  The Maritime Administration didn’t respond to questions
about whether it was aware of OSG vessels’ contacts with Iran
and whether those contacts would be considered in the evaluation
of the company’s application under the so-called Title XI loan
guarantee program.  Riddle, the agency spokeswoman, said that she couldn’t
discuss a pending application.  OSG Chief Executive Officer Morten Arntzen said in a Feb.
10 e-mailed statement that the company “complies with all
applicable laws and regulations” governing its vessels. “As
these laws and regulations change, OSG will comply with the
changes,” Arntzen wrote. Tankers International told ship owners
that its vessels will no longer sail to Iran, he said.  Tankers Chairman  Arntzen serves as chairman of Tankers International,
Charles Burgess, a spokesman for OSG in  New York , said in an e-
mail yesterday. Arntzen holds “a non-executive position” at
Tankers International, Burgess said. “He plays no role in the
day-to-day activities” of the company.  “All operational decisions and commercial management of
the fleet is handled by the Tankers International management
team,” Burgess said.  OSG disclosed in an  SEC filing  that its ships call on ports
in countries “identified by the U.S. government as state
sponsors of terrorism, such as Iran. Although these sanctions
and embargoes do not prevent OSG’s vessels from making calls to
ports in these countries, potential investors could view such
port calls negatively.”  The company “will not comment on the separate issue of our
pending Title XI application,” Arntzen said in an e-mail
yesterday.  OSG will report a loss of $178.6 million this year, down
from $204.4 million in 2011, according to the median of five
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company announced a
suspension of a quarterly dividend “to preserve liquidity and
maintain financial flexibility,” according to a Feb. 9
statement.  The company’s shares fell 70 cents, or 6.2 percent, to
close at $10.54 in New York trading.  Tighter Restrictions  President  Barack Obama  is working with the EU to tighten
restrictions on companies doing business with Iran after the
UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency said in November it had
evidence that the country has studied how to make an atomic
bomb.  The government in Tehran says its nuclear program is for
civilian purposes and that documents held by the IAEA purporting
to show designs and tests of weapon components are fakes.  With certain narrow exceptions, American companies are
 prohibited  from doing business, directly or indirectly, with
Iran, according to the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control. Restrictions on commerce have been tightened or
expanded repeatedly since 1987, when President  Ronald Reagan 
imposed an embargo on Iranian imports in response to Iran’s
support for international terrorism and aggressive actions
toward Persian Gulf shipping.  Senate Pressure  The applicability of those sanctions is less clear when
U.S. ships or other assets are managed by offshore
intermediaries, according to Joshua Zive, a Washington-based
regulatory compliance attorney at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  “It will turn on interpretations of fact that could lead
enforcement officials to believe or not believe that the U.S.
company had knowledge of how the assets would be used at the
time they were turned over to the foreign entity,” Zive said.  John Sullivan , a spokesman for OFAC, which administers Iran
sanctions, declined to comment on OSG-owned ship activity in
Iran.  The Maritime Administration has been criticized by
lawmakers for delays in evaluating applications under the loan
guarantee program, which is intended to assist domestic
shipbuilding.  The Jan. 30 letter, signed by Senators Daniel Inouye, a
Democrat from  Hawaii ,  Patty Murray , a Democrat from Washington,
and Thad Cochran, a Republican from  Mississippi , didn’t mention
any applications by name.  The senators said that “in recent years, the program has
become less ‘user friendly.’”  Pending Applications  It pointed out that “two applications currently pending
are well into their second year of consideration, with one in
its twenty-third month.” That latter reference applies to the
OSG application.  The letter focused on the timeliness of the maritime
agency’s review process, Inouye spokesman Peter Boylan said in
an e-mail yesterday. “We did not write in support of any Title
XI application,” he said. LaHood “cannot comment on a loan
application that is still under review,” said Riddle.  In its pending application, OSG is seeking mortgage
financing for two shuttle tankers. The Overseas Cascade and the
Overseas Chinook were built in Philadelphia, according to OSG’s
website.  Previous Approval  Another OSG subsidiary received approval of a $210.9
million loan guarantee on May 17, 2011, for construction of two
articulated tug barge units in Alabama, Florida and Mississippi.
That transaction “has not closed” maritime agency spokeswoman
Riddle said in her statement.  OSG’s current application is among four pending requests in
the loan guarantee program totaling $904.7 million, according to
the Maritime Administration website.  The Title XI program enables U.S. companies to qualify for
fixed rate financing over a longer term than is possible without
the federal guarantee, said John Graykowski, maritime agency
deputy and acting director from 1994 through 2000.  Applications are reviewed by the Maritime Administration, a
Department of Transportation credit council, an independent
financial analyst named by DOT and the White House Office of
Management and Budget, according to the Senators’ letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 