-- Billionaire Paulson Sold Citigroup, Bank of America in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-15T00:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/paulson-sold-citigroup-bank-of-america-in-fourth-quarter-1-.html
John Paulson, the billionaire hedge
fund manager who had his worst year on record in 2011, sold his
entire stakes in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp. in the
fourth quarter before the shares rallied.  Paulson & Co., which owned $643 million worth of Citigroup
at the end of the third quarter, had sold its entire 25.1
million shares as of Dec. 31, the firm said today in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Paulson also
sold $394 million worth of Bank of America, or 64.3 million
shares. It also sold its 998,900 shares of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  valued
at $146 million.  Citigroup and Bank of America, stakes that Paulson had
started aggressively building in 2009 as part of his bet that
the U.S. economy would recover by the end of this year, were
among Paulson’s biggest U.S. stock holdings in 2011. Paulson,
which is based in New York and manages about $24 billion, saw
its weighting in financial services companies decline by 6.7
percent, the most of any industry group during the quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I can’t believe what he has done,” said Vidak Radonjic,
managing partner at Beryl Consulting Group LLC in Jersey City,
New Jersey, which advises clients on investing in hedge funds.
“This is not quite  John Paulson , who normally sticks to his
strongest convictions. It seems that he’s been under immense
pressure from investors to reduce his exposures.”  ‘Primary Drag’  The firm’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, lost 51 percent in 2011. Shares of
financial service companies were the “primary drag” on the
fund’s performance, the firm said in a third-quarter letter to
investors in October, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Shares of financial services companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index have rallied  20 percent  this year. Paulson &
Co.’s exits mean the firm missed Citigroup’s 22 percent gain and
Bank of America’s 44 percent surge year to date.  Armel Leslie, a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the firm’s filing.  Paulson & Co. cut its stake in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) 
exchange-traded fund, which is backed by the precious metal, to
17.3 million shares in the fourth quarter from 20.3 million
shares at the end of the third quarter. Paulson uses the SPDR
Gold Trust, his largest holding, for the fund’s gold-
denominated share classes. The firm also trades bullion and gold
derivatives, which aren’t included in its regulatory filings.  Gold Miners  As Paulson trimmed its second-largest position in  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  by 2.4 million American depositary receipts,
leaving him with a 34.3 million stake, he added to other
holdings in gold miners, including NovaGold Resources
Inc.,  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) 
and  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM)   The firm also sold out of its 15 million shares of  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , valued at $341 million, in the quarter.  Paulson controls one of the largest stakes in  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and cut 1.4 million shares,
leaving him with a 37.5 million stake. Paulson filed a document
today with regulators so he can approach other investors about
his plan to break up the insurer.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  