-- John Paulson Says Greece May Default, Spurring Euro Breakup
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-15T20:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/paulson-says-euro-will-probably-unravel.html
Paulson & Co., the $23 billion hedge
fund whose founder John Paulson is seeking to recover from
record losses last year, said  Greece  may default by the end of
March, triggering the breakup of the euro.  Greece may need an unprecedented 90 billion euros ($117
billion) to meet funding requirements under the anticipated
agreement on private sector involvement, the recapitalization of
the banks and other funding needs, Paulson estimated in a year-
end letter sent to clients this month.  “We believe a Greek payment default could be a greater
shock to the system than Lehman’s failure, immediately causing
global economies to contract and markets to decline,” the hedge
fund said in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The euro is “structurally flawed and will
likely eventually unravel,” it said.  Two years after pledging to pull Greece back from the
brink, European leaders are torn between pouring more aid into
the country or risking an unprecedented national bankruptcy that
might force the nation out of the euro and spur renewed market
turmoil.  “It seems likely that the pressure to keep the euro
together becomes too great and it ultimately falls apart,”
Paulson said in the 100-page letter. The firm said its biggest
concern are European banks, which have borrowed more than their
U.S. counterparts and don’t have enough equity to withstand a
credit crisis.  ‘Biggest Disappointment’  Paulson, who became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, lost 51 percent in
one of his largest funds last year as his wagers on a U.S.
economic recovery went awry. He sold his entire stakes in
Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America Corp . last quarter before the
shares rallied this year.  “Bank of America has been the biggest disappointment in
our banking portfolio,” Paulson said.  The holdings, which he began aggressively building in 2009,
were among his largest last year.  “While we have seen a reasonable recovery in the U.S. with
leading indicators in early 2012 trending positive and equity
valuations well below historical norms, the European sovereign
debt crisis remains the overriding risk in the markets,” the
hedge fund said.  As a result, Paulson said it cut its so-called net exposure
in its Advantage funds, which are among the firm’s largest, to
32 percent as of Jan. 31 from 82 percent at the start of last
year. Those funds seek to profit from corporate events such as
takeovers and bankruptcies.  Demand for Gold  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson,
declined to comment on the letter.  The hedge fund reiterated its view that  government spending 
around the world will fan inflation, supporting demand for gold
and that now is the time to invest in the metal.  “By the time inflation becomes evident, gold will probably
have moved, which implies that now is the time to build a
position in gold,” the hedge fund said, adding that it expects
the price differences between bullion and gold miners to narrow
this year.  Paulson said it expects continued market volatility and the
European debt crisis to affect merger activity in 2012. The firm
said it still sees opportunities for investment gains in
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which Google Inc. is planning
to acquire, as well as AMC Networks Inc.,  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) 
and Delphi Automotive Plc.  M&A Outlook  Paulson started 2011 expecting an increase in mergers and
acquisitions, a position that cost the Paulson Partners Enhanced
Fund, which invests in shares of merging companies and lost 19
percent last year. Heightened price swings affected the firm’s
positions in takeover targets, Paulson said.  Paulson partners’ capital in the firm’s credit funds
climbed to 69 percent at the end of last year from 57 percent at
the end of 2010, while the portion of outside investor money
dwindled after the Credit Opportunities Fund fell 18 percent in
2011. Paulson reduced its credit exposure, which includes
investment-grade corporate bonds, high-yield and distressed
securities, because risks related to the European debt crisis
remain, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  