-- PAVE Shuts as Spanish Trading System Blames ‘Harsh’ Environment
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-15T14:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pave-shuts-as-spanish-trading-system-blames-harsh-environment.html
Plataforma Alternativa de Valores
Espanoles, or PAVE, which sought to create an alternative
trading system in Iberian markets, said it’s temporarily halting
operations due to the difficult financial environment in  Europe .  PAVE, based in Barcelona with planned operations in Madrid
and  London , in August 2010 announced its intention to compete
with  Bolsas y Mercados Espanoles SA , operator of the biggest
securities exchange on the Iberian peninsula. The new Spanish
system, led by Javier Tordable, had said it would draw on
“private capital” and initially planned to start trading
securities in the first quarter of 2011.  Multilateral trading facilities such as Chi-X Europe Ltd.
and Bats Europe emerged after new rules in 2007 opened the door
to competition with traditional exchanges such as BME,  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX) 
While Chi-X Europe and Bats Europe took business away from
exchanges, others such as  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s Neuro unit
closed after failing to gain market share. Bats Europe
eventually bought Chi-X Europe.  “The very challenging market and harsh financial
environment in Europe, especially in  Spain , have highlighted the
need for greater patience, resources and a broader, more
decisive support from both international and domestic
partners,” PAVE said in an e-mailed statement today.  “With the Spanish banks and brokers hit particularly hard
under the current economic conditions, this needed support is
currently both difficult and unrealistic to achieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  