-- Venezuela Pays Exxon $250 Million to Settle Arbitration Case
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-02-16T16:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pdvsa-says-it-paid-exxon-compensation-for-seized-assets.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state
oil company, said it paid  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  $250.9 million for
assets seized in the country in 2007.  The payment settles a $750 million net judgement issued by
the New York-based International Chamber of Commerce last year,
PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, said yesterday.  “With this we put an end to the legal situation that has
been taken against PDVSA abroad,” oil minister  Rafael Ramirez 
said yesterday on state television.  Exxon, the world’s largest oil company by market value,
originally sought to freeze $12 billion of PDVSA assets as
compensation for the nationalization of the Cerro Negro heavy-
crude project in the Orinoco belt. The ICC, as the arbitration
court is known, said PDVSA could pay the remainder of the award
with $300 million in frozen funds and $191 million of Exxon debt
that PDVSA said it would cancel.  Exxon rose 83 cents, or 1 percent, to $84.95 as of 11:26
a.m. in  New York .  The World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes is also expected to rule on the case.  “PDVSA honors reasonable compensations in its
nationalization of strategic assets for the principal industry
of the Venezuelan people,” the company said in the statement.  Venezuela  in January requested to leave the ICSID, as the
Work Bank arbitration court is known, and Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez  said on Jan. 9 that the South American country would
not accept any of its rulings. The Washington-based agency is
considering about 20 cases against Venezuela.  Chavez Threats  Chavez threatened to withdraw from ICSID as early as 2007.
If he follows through this time, it’s unlikely to affect
arbitrations already under way, said  Michael Nolan , a partner in
the Washington office of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.  “Chavez is not going to solve Venezuela’s very serious
international legal problems with either speeches or even a
formal denunciation of the ICSID convention,” Nolan, who has
represented clients in arbitration with Venezuela, said on Jan.
9 in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  