-- Pekingese Malachy Wins Best in Show at Westminster Dog Pageant
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-15T09:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pekingese-malachy-wins-best-in-show-at-westminster-dog-pageant.html
An irresistible ball of fur named
Malachy became the fourth Pekingese since 1960 to win best of
show at  New York ’s  Westminster Kennel Club  dog pageant.  “He’s a charismatic little guy,” Lisa Croft-Elliott, a
veteran dog-show photographer, said last night at a post-
competition party at  Madison Square Garden. (MSG)  “He’s like your
favorite pair of bedroom slippers.”  Malachy bested six others in the finals, including a
Dalmatian and a Wirehaired Dachshund, both of which would’ve
been the first of their breeds to win the 135-year-old event.
Malachy was chosen by judge  Cindy Vogels , a 60-year-old breeder
who owns two Pekingese herself at her home in  Greenwood Village ,
 Colorado . He’s the first winning Pekingese since 1990.  “He’s a super dog who had a stupendous night,” Vogels
told reporters as Malachy lay quietly on a table before them.  His handler and part-owner, David Fitzpatrick, was asked
whether the 11-pound (5 kilograms) champ has feline traits,
given that he loosely resembles a Persian cat.  “He’s not like a cat at all,” he said. “He’s like a
Pekingese.”  Pekes, as dog fanciers call them, are of Chinese origin,
dating back to the eighth century. The name’s derived from
Peking, the city now known as Beijing. They aren’t supposed to
be delicate or dainty, according to the American Kennel Club,
which publishes standards by which purebreds are measured.  Lion-Like  “Their image is lion-like, implying courage, dignity,
boldness and self-esteem,” said the AKC’s  website .  Fleet of foot they aren’t. While Malachy’s competitors
raced around the ring at the Garden, he and Fitzpatrick ambled
glacially in an eclipsed semi-circle.  “Their gait should be slower,” Fitzpatrick told
reporters. “Their gait should be dignified.”  Malachy was the No. 2-ranked show dog in American Kennel
Club competition last year and a Westminster finalist. He bowed
at the 2011 Westminster to a Scottish deerhound named Hickory.
In an upset early yesterday, last year’s No. 1-ranked dog, a
Black Cocker Spaniel named Beckham, lost in the first round to
another Black Cocker Spaniel.  “It was a shock to everyone,” Croft-Elliott said of
Beckham’s early exit.  The other finalists were a German Shepherd, Irish Setter,
Doberman Pinscher and Kerry Blue Terrier. The Irish Setter,
named Emily, was attempting a Kim Clijsters-like comeback. As
the 2009 U.S. Open tennis champion had earlier given birth to a
daughter, Emily had had a litter of 15 and a year’s layoff.  Top Chow  The two-day event began with 2,077 purebreds in 185 breeds
and varieties, including G.K., owned by  Martha Stewart  and
selected top Chow Chow.  In an interview last week, Vogels said she’s often tougher
in the ring on breeds she knows well. To avoid the perception of
a conflict of interest, she said she curtailed dog breeding when
she began judging in the mid-1990s.  Malachy, a four-year-old grandfather, will retire to
Fitzpatrick’s home in  Pennsylvania  and play with his favorite
toy, a squeaky rat. Commercials are not enticing for the champ
with 115 best in shows nationwide.  “He’s worked hard enough over the past two years,”
Fitzpatrick said.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 