-- Pennsylvania Lawmakers Vow to Fight Closing of Refineries
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-02-15T22:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pennsylvania-lawmakers-vow-to-fight-closing-of-three-refineries.html
Pennsylvania lawmakers joined
members of the United Steelworkers union at a rally today in
 Washington  to oppose the planned closing of three refineries in
the state.  “There’s no issue that’s more important to me than this,”
said Senator  Pat Toomey , a Republican.  ConocoPhillips idled a refinery in Trainer last year.
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  has idled its refinery in Marcus Hook, and said it
would also close a plant in Philadelphia. The companies have
said they have sought buyers for the facilities.  Refiners in the northeastern U.S. are struggling to turn a
profit because of the narrow margin between the cost of imported
crude and fuel prices.  No clear legislative response to the planned shutdowns
emerged at the Washington meeting. Union members and U.S.
lawmakers said the closings would cost jobs and raise gasoline
prices in the U.S. Northeast.  About 110 workers, or one-third of the hourly workers at
Marcus Hook, were told this week not to return to work next
week, Thomas Golembeski, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based
Sunoco, said in a telephone interview today. Those workers will
be paid through the end of February and then will receive a
severance, he said. Sunoco has helped to organize outplacement
workshops and a job fair for employees, he said.  Hearings Planned  Representative Pat Meehan, a Republican, said the House
Homeland Security Committee would hold hearings on the planned
shutdowns. Representative Chaka Fattah, a Democrat, said he was
exploring tax proposals that would make the refineries more
attractive to prospective buyers without detailing the plan.  Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat, said the
companies needed to be “more transparent” about their efforts
to sell the facilities.  The companies should “make every effort” to find buyers,
he said. Casey, who has requested the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee hold hearings on the shutdowns, said he
wasn’t aware of any possible legislative fix.  The steelworkers union, based in Pittsburgh, said the
plants have more than 2,000 workers.  “We understand our decision to idle and seek a buyer for
the Trainer refinery has had a significant impact on our
employees, their families and local communities,”  Rich Johnson ,
a spokesman for Houston-based ConocoPhillips, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We are making every effort possible to
find a buyer for the refinery.”  Trainer Closing  ConocoPhillips (COP)  plans to spin off its refining business this
year, and said in October that Trainer was idled and would
permanently close by the end of the first quarter if a buyer had
not emerged. Johnson said in a telephone interview today that
ConocoPhillips hasn’t decided what would happen to the Trainer
facility if it closes.  Sunoco is working to exit refining after more than a
century of processing oil into fuel so it can focus on its more
profitable pipeline and retail sales businesses. On Feb. 2,
Sunoco said it had received some interest from potential buyers
for its Philadelphia refinery, while not “a single proposal”
for the purchase of  Marcus Hook  as an operating refinery.  If no agreement is reached, Sunoco said it plans to idle by
July the main processing units at Philadelphia. Sunoco said it’s
pursuing alternatives for Marcus Hook and doesn’t believe it
will be bought and restarted as an operating refinery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  