-- Peugeot Plans Asset Disposals of $1.98 Billion After 2011 Earnings Decline
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-15T13:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/peugeot-plans-2b-of-asset-disposals.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, plans to sell property and a stake in
its Gefco trucking unit as a contraction in the region’s vehicle
market hampers the company’s ability to limit debt growth.  The asset-disposal program will total 1.5 billion euros
($1.98 billion), including the sale of a car-rental business
completed this month, Paris-based Peugeot said in a statement
today. Net debt widened to 3.4 billion euros at the end of 2011
from 1.6 billion euros on June 30.  The manufacturer’s carmaking division missed a target of
breaking even in 2011, in contrast to earnings growth of 13
percent at Gefco. Peugeot estimates that the European car market
may shrink 5 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin told journalists in Paris. That would mark the fifth
consecutive annual sales drop for the region’s industry.  The French company “is trying to stop the cash burn via
asset disposals, which ultimately means selling higher-yielding
assets to fund a loss-making business,”  David Arnold , a London-
based Credit Suisse analyst, said in a note to clients. Peugeot
is the first European carmaker to take such a step “to
stabilize its balance sheet going into a very tough operating
environment in 2012,” which is “not a great strategy.”  Peugeot  fell  as much as 5 percent to 14.37 euros, the
biggest intraday drop since Dec. 8, and was trading down
4.95 percent at 2:48 p.m. in Paris. The shares have fallen
52 percent in the last 12 months, valuing Peugeot at
3.36 billion euros, in the the worst performance on the 14-
company  Euro Stoxx Automobiles & Parts Index .  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service placed Peugeot’s Baa3 long-term
and Prime 3 short-term  debt ratings  under review for a possible
cut, the credit-reporting company said in a statement today,
putting the French manufacturer’s debt at risk of junk status.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or
costs, which Peugeot calls recurring operating profit, fell 27
percent in 2011 to 1.32 billion euros as the car-manufacturing
division posted a 92 million loss compared with 621 million euro
profit a year earlier. Gefco’s recurring operating profit rose
to 223 million euros.  Asset sales will include about 500 million euros in
property and a holding in Gefco of at least that amount, Varin
said. Peugeot sold the Citer vehicle-rental division to
Enterprise Holdings Inc. on Feb. 1 for 440 million euros.  Gefco Strategy  Peugeot has “made no decision on the size of our
continuing stake in Gefco,” though it intends to remain a
“long-term strategic partner,” Chief Financial Officer Jean- Baptiste de Chatillon said today said on a conference call with
journalists, declining to rule out the manufacturer becoming a
minority shareholder.  The divestment of these “non-strategic assets” will allow
Peugeot to focus on the long-term priority of increasing its
sales outside  Europe , Varin said at a Paris press conference.  Peugeot’s deliveries fell 1.5 percent to 3.5 million
vehicles in 2011. The decline was led by a drop in Europe, where
industrywide sales fell for a fourth consecutive year.  “We expect market conditions to remain difficult in Europe
in 2012,” Varin said today.  Cost Reductions  The French company laid out a program in October to
eliminate as many as 3,500 jobs in Europe in 2012 to help reduce
costs by 800 million euros. Peugeot said today that it increased
the savings to 1 billion euros, with reductions in investments
and marketing costs contributing. Chatillon told journalists
that no jobs were affected by the additional cuts.  “Net debt increased more than expected, so it definitely
makes sense to focus on improving liquidity,”  Marc-Rene Tonn , a
Hamburg-based analyst at Warburg Research with a “hold”
 recommendation  on Peugeot stock, said by phone. “The cost-
savings program is also certainly important, but Peugeot tends
to jump from program to program, and so far that has not been
successful.”  Full-year revenue rose 6.9 percent to 59.9 billion euros.
Earnings as a proportion of sales fell to 2.2 percent from a 3.2
percent operating margin in 2010. Net income dropped 48 percent
to 588 million euros, missing the 711 million-euro average of 19
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Peugeot had predicted in October that its carmaking
division would about break even at the recurring operating
profit level, versus an earlier forecast of positive earnings,
because of growing pressure to cut prices.  Car-Price Cuts  A loss of about 500 million euros in the second half was
attributable to “the major market declines in southern Europe,
where we are very present, the pressure on prices in the small-
vehicles segment and disruption in the logistics chain,”
including the effects of the earthquake and nuclear crisis in
 Japan  earlier in the year, Chatillon said.  Peugeot ranks second in Europe’s car industry to Wolfsburg,
Germany-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) . The region’s auto-manufacturers’
association, which reports figures for European Union countries
plus Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, said Jan. 17 that
Peugeot’s sales in that market fell 8.8 percent in 2011. Peugeot
said in January that its deliveries in Europe declined 6.8
percent, including sales in future EU member  Croatia .  Operating profit at Peugeot’s publicly traded Faurecia car-
parts division rose 43 percent to 651 million euros, the unit
said Feb. 8. The carmaker’s bank division posted a 4.9 percent
increase in operating profit to 532 million euros as revenue
rose 2.7 percent to 1.9 billion euros.  The company is in discussions with the  European Central
Bank  about obtaining three years of refinancing and is offering
collateral “above” 1 billion euros, Chatillon told analysts at
a conference in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Paris via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  