-- Pittsburgh Hospice Physician’s Office Raided by DEA, FBI Agents
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-02-15T03:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pittsburgh-hospice-physician-s-office-raided-by-dea-fbi-agents.html
Federal and state agents raided the
office of a hospice physician in Pittsburgh who is suspected of
prescribing narcotics without a medical reason, according to the
U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency.  Agents of the DEA,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and
 Pennsylvania  attorney general’s office served Oliver W. Herndon
with a suspension order barring him from writing prescriptions
for controlled substances such as vicodin and oxycodone, said
Gary Davis, the assistant special agent in charge of the DEA’s
Pittsburgh office.  Herndon wasn’t arrested or charged. Davis said the agents
executed a search warrant and seized boxes of documents.  “We’re working with the U.S. Attorney in the Western
District of Pennsylvania on an ongoing investigation and will
present the evidence to a grand jury,” Davis said.  Herndon, 40, was featured in a Dec. 30 Bloomberg News story
about hospice admissions and narcotics dispensing practices and
the case of Charles Groomes, who spent almost three years on
hospice under Herndon’s care. Groomes, whose family said he
became addicted to high doses of narcotics, including Oxycontin,
was released from Horizons Hospice LLC after 32 months. He spent
the next 10 months begging other doctors and hospices to feed
his drug habit, his family said. He died last August at 52.  Herndon, a graduate of Stanford Medical School, is an
internist and is board certified in hospice and palliative
medicine, according to his website. He is the corporate medical
director of for-profit Horizons Hospice of Pittsburgh, and the
medical director of four nursing homes.  Herndon can petition the DEA for a hearing to restore his
prescription privileges, Davis said. In the meantime, the doctor
can prescribe non-controlled substances such as antibiotics and
other drugs, he said.  The answering machine at Herndon’s office said the office
was closed. Herndon’s lawyer, Patrick Loughren, didn’t respond
to e-mail or telephone messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  