-- Polish Prices Slowed Last Month, Weakening Case for Higher Interest Rates
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-02-15T18:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/poland-s-inflation-rate-falls-to-lowest-in-six-months-on-zloty.html
Poland’s  inflation  rate fell for a
second month in January, reaching its lowest level since July
2011 as a stronger zloty cut the price of imported goods and
reducing the probability of a central bank rate increase.  Consumer prices grew 4.1 percent from a year earlier after
rising 4.6 percent in December, the  Central Statistics Office  in
Warsaw said today. The median estimate of 28 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 4.3 percent. Prices rose
0.7 percent from the previous month.  Inflation in the European Union’s biggest eastern economy
is slowing as the euro area struggles to resolve its debt
crisis, curbing Polish growth by damping demand for the
country’s exports. The zloty has strengthened 6.3 percent
against the euro this year.  “Slower inflation was to a great extent due to the
stronger zloty, which brought down the price of imported
goods,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in
Warsaw, said by phone after the release. “Today’s data mean
there’s no justification for the central bank to be hiking rates
-- and if economic growth slows, as expected, we’re likely to
see rate cuts in the second half.”  The zloty traded at 4.1963 per euro at 5:12 p.m. in Warsaw,
down from 4.1828 before the release. Six-month forward-rate
agreements, used to speculate on  interest rates , traded at 4.88
percent, down 5 basis points from yesterday.  The inflation rate may rise to 4.2 percent or 4.3 percent
this month from 4.1 percent in January, the  Economy Ministry 
said today in an e-mailed statement. Monthly consumer-price
growth may slow to 0.3 percent in February from 0.7 percent in
January as food-price increases subside and fuel costs stabilize
because of the stronger zloty, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  