-- Priests for Life Group Sues U.S Over Contraception Mandate
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-16T14:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/priests-for-life-group-sues-u-s-over-birth-control-insurance-requirement.html
The Obama administration was sued by
a Christian organization called  Priests for Life , which says the
government mandate that insurance providers cover  birth control 
violates the organization’s religious and free-speech rights.  Priests for Life, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal
court in Brooklyn, New York, also objected to the requirement
that employers provide coverage for sterilization and related
education, and to the penalties for not complying. They said the
mandate violates the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment. The
group wants the court to prohibit enforcement of the rules under
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which President
 Barack Obama  signed into law in 2010.  The mandate “violates the freedom of all people of faith,
and even those of no faith, who have a conscientious objection
to contraception, sterilization or abortion,” the  Staten
Island , New York-based group said in its complaint.  Last week Obama offered a compromise that would force
health insurers, and not religious-affiliated charities, to pay
for contraceptives for employees of those institutions.
Republican lawmakers have vowed to push for a measure in
Congress to repeal the policy, a vote that could come as early
as this week.  Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, declined to comment on the
litigation.  “Priests for Life is the nation’s largest Catholic pro-
life organization dedicated to ending abortion and euthanasia,”
according to a statement by the group.  The case is Priests for Life v. Sebelius, 12-cv-753, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 