-- Princeton Trails Columbia in Welcoming Vets to Ivy League
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-02-15T16:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/princeton-trails-columbia-in-attracting-iraq-vets-to-ivy-league.html
John Around Him left Pine Ridge
Reservation in  South Dakota  for the Army and served in the 2003
invasion of Iraq. He never imagined he’d end up at Dartmouth
College five years later, or that veterans would be such an
unknown commodity at an elite school.  “I sort of came in thinking that the administrators knew
all about me or knew about my situation,” Around Him, a 29-
year-old senior, said in a phone interview. “It was
disconcerting that they had no idea what to do” about
navigating financial aid and other services a veteran might
seek, he said.  Almost three years after the  Post 9/11 GI Bill  took effect,
boosting tuition for veterans and their dependents, many elite
schools have enrolled few of the more than 2 million troops who
have returned from  Iraq  and Afghanistan. As those wars wind
down, the paucity of veterans at top colleges stands in stark
contrast to their prevalence on the same campuses following
World War II.  Princeton University  said it has four veterans enrolled.
 Yale University  has filled 13 of the 50 slots set aside under
the so-called  Yellow Ribbon  program designed to provide federal
financial aid to former soldiers. Around Him is one of 16
undergraduate veterans on Dartmouth’s campus.  “We’re extremely underrepresented” in the Ivy League,
Matt Thompson, a former Army Ranger and graduate of  Harvard
Business School  in Boston, said in a telephone interview.  Some schools have initiatives that make them more
successful. Veteran enrollment at  Columbia University  is up 87
percent to 459 since 2009, and  Harvard University  has about 250.  Reshaping Society  More than 2.2 million World War II veterans went to college
on the original GI Bill, according to Keith Olson, professor
emeritus at the  University of Maryland  in College Park. The
influx reshaped American society and expanded access to private
universities.  Veterans dominated most campuses they were on, including
those in the eight northeastern U.S. schools that make up the
 Ivy League , Olson said in an interview. He recalled a 1946 Time
magazine article that said: “Why go to Podunk College when the
government will send you to Yale?”  Princeton , in Princeton,  New Jersey , had 2,500 veterans
enrolled after World War II, including returning students,
according to a 1947 university report. Princeton paid “close
attention to the academic readjustment of veterans returned to
college,” the report stated. “Since a high proportion of such
veterans presented special problems, individual handling
involving personal interviews and consultation with advisers was
necessary.”  Commitment Lacking  Such a commitment is lacking at many selective colleges
today, even though Iraq and Afghanistan veterans may need more
help than their predecessors in making the transition, veterans
groups say. In some cases, colleges don’t know how many veterans
they have on campus, said Brian Hawthorne, who served in Iraq
and is a board member of the  Student Veterans of America  in
 Washington .  Unlike the World War II draft, which drew from every
segment of society, many veterans who served in the volunteer
military in Iraq and  Afghanistan  come from poor and working-
class families. They may be intimidated by the idea of going to
an elite college and have difficulty qualifying under criteria
such as high-school grades and standardized-test scores.  While these campuses often offer special programs -- summer
preparatory classes and on-campus facilities -- to attract
minorities and under-represented groups, most don’t do the same
for returning soldiers, veterans say. The  Common Application ,
used by more than 400 colleges, including the Ivy League, asks
candidates about their veterans’ status in addition to other
demographics such as race.  ‘No Effort’  Most Ivy League schools also don’t advertise in veteran’s
publications to signal they welcome returning military,
Hawthorne said.  “They’re making no effort to find or prepare” veterans
said Wick Sloane, a professor at Bunker Hill Community College
in  Boston , who tracks veterans’ enrollment at colleges.  Bunker
Hill  has 450 veterans, Sloane said in a phone interview. “These
colleges have such wealth that they can have a student body
composed of whatever they want to have. If all of these schools
decided to have 100 veterans, they could do it.”  Columbia did. The New York-based school started a  General
Studies  program in 1947 to accommodate the influx of WWII
veterans. The program now serves nontraditional students, who
have been out of high school for a decade on average. Columbia
also sent a dean to a California military base to recruit
students.  Harvard, Cornell  Harvard , in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , holds a special
orientation on campus that includes veterans and has filled
almost 250 of its 325 “Yellow Ribbon” spots.  Cornell
University , in Ithaca,  New York , has 93 veterans, more than the
78 slots it set aside. The  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia has 66 veterans in the Yellow Ribbon program and
145 total.  “Veteran students add to the academic experience for all
the students in the classroom,” Curtis Rodgers, dean of
enrollment at Columbia’s School of General Studies, said in a
phone interview. “A 17-year-old from one of the best private
high schools in the world sitting next to a 28-year-old who’s
had three combat tours -- you can imagine how that affects the
conversation in the classroom.”  Harvard has an annual Veterans Day celebration, and Thompson
said that was a key event for him. His classmates asked him to
host a lunch session detailing his service. Thompson obliged,
telling stories and showing video footage of real combat
situations. He said non-veteran students accepted him “more
than I could have ever imagined.”  Yellow Ribbon Program  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  has issued $15.8
billion in GI Bill payments supporting more than 667,500
veterans. Its Yellow Ribbon Program gives tuition supplements
for more expensive private schools or for out-of-state residents
attending state schools. Each of the 2,500 participating
colleges determines how many spaces to set aside for veterans
and what they are willing to offer in excess of the $17,500 the
VA covers annually. The VA will then additionally match the
school’s designated amount.  Most veterans turn to local community colleges and online
schools for their education. Seven of the top 10 schools by
veterans admissions are for-profit colleges, including  Apollo
Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix, Ashford University and DeVry
University.  Florida State College at Jacksonville  and Tidewater
Community College-Virginia Beach are also in the Top 10.  ‘No Prohibition’  Princeton, which says it has four veterans on a campus of
5,249 undergraduates and 2,610 graduate students, has “no
prohibition against veterans and we encourage and consider their
applications like all others,” Martin Mbugua, a university
spokesman, said by e-mail. Princeton, which costs $52,670 a year
to attend, has a needs-blind admissions policy and meets “the
full assessed need of all qualifying students,” he said.  Princeton would need “a very special effort, a very
systematic approach” to bring more veterans to campus, said
 Paul Miles , a retired colonel who served 30 years in the U.S.
Army and is a lecturer of history at the university.  “The environment at Princeton is very welcoming, which is
different from saying Princeton is going out on the streets to
recruit,” Miles said.  Brown, Dartmouth  While  Brown University , which has 12 former military
members on campus, considers veterans’ status “a positive
attribute,” it doesn’t evaluate their applications differently,
Mark Nickel, director of university communications, said in an
e-mail. The school in Providence,  Rhode Island , has created an
office for veterans and ROTC and is reaching out to local
community colleges for potential transfer students, he said.  Dartmouth, which has 20 ex-soldier graduate students, is
seeing “an increased level of interest for veterans who are
considering pursuing undergraduate study here,” Latarsha
Gatlin, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Dartmouth encourages
veterans to come to campus before enrollment to meet other
veterans and work on issues like housing and VA benefits, she
said. The school also has had a designated contact for former
military members.  Yale, in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , has 50 spots for veterans
set aside under the Yellow Ribbon program and 13 are filled,
though officials say an additional two dozen veterans are
enrolled in the university’s college and professional schools.  “We do not extend a special admissions preference to
veterans, but we would consider it a positive feature with
respect to personal accomplishment” and diversity of the
student body, Jeffrey Brenzel, dean of undergraduate admissions,
said in an e-mail.  Yale  has a program that advertises in
military publications and admits five to 10 nontraditional
students for undergraduate degrees, he said.  Culture Clash  Attending an Ivy League campus can be lonely, veterans say.
Around Him, the Dartmouth student, said he keeps to himself on
campus, having little in common with his fellow scholars at the
Hanover,  New Hampshire , school and preferring to concentrate on
his studies.  “It’s harder for non-traditional students to find social
spaces at a school like Dartmouth,” said Around Him, who is
studying education and intends to return to his reservation to
teach. Almost half of veterans who have used their GI benefits
went to a school with a well-defined veterans’ presence of more
than 300, according to  Veterans Affairs  data.  The gap in life experience makes veterans feel older than
their age, when they’re already older than most classmates,
returning soldiers say.  Drinking Beer  Going from “losing friends everyday” in combat to
drinking beers on Thursday with younger classmates is jarring,
Blake Hall, a  Harvard Business School  alumnus and former Army
captain, said in a phone interview.  Yale’s student veterans group is trying to bring more ex-
military members together for camaraderie, Josh Ray, 27, a
former Navy engineer, said in a phone interview.  Yale should look to recruit more, Ray said.  “There’s a lot of talent,” Ray said. “It’s not being
developed, it’s not being utilized. It should be and it will be
helpful to the nation to target these guys and get them back
into school.”  Away from the Ivy League,  Fordham University  in New York is
becoming a magnet for veterans. Less than three years ago, it
had 30 on campus. Now there are 300, according to the school.  Fordham Program  The growth spawned a pilot program last year specifically
designed to help veterans acclimate.  Edge4Vets , formed by
veterans and Tom Murphy, a professor in Fordham’s Education
School and Human Resiliency Institute, gives ex-soldiers the
confidence and skills to use their service to their advantage.  “We find they come into school a fish out of water,”
Murphy said in an interview. Organizers plan to expand the
program to other universities and community colleges in New York
this year.  Daniel Hodd, a 28-year-old  Marine Corps  reservist, came to
Fordham on the recommendation of a captain he served with. The
school’s Reserve Officers’ Training Corps program and a veterans
support network were huge draws, he said in a phone interview.
The program hooked him up with a mentor -- a vice president at
Siemens AG who has been “a well-connected sounding board,”
Hodd said.  “I’ve adapted fairly well,” Hodd said. “It’s a transition
in my mind that never really ends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  