-- Pro-Romney PAC Uses ‘Willie Horton’ Ad Maker to Attack Rivals
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-16T15:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/pro-romney-pac-uses-willie-horton-ad-maker-to-attack-presidential-rivals.html
A group supporting  Mitt Romney  has
spent millions attacking Republican rivals Rick Santorum and
 Newt Gingrich  -- using media firms better known for ambushing
Democratic presidential nominees Michael Dukakis and  John Kerry .  The ads for the political action committee, Restore Our
Future, are created by McCarthy Hennings Media Inc., whose
president, Larry McCarthy, produced an ad during the 1988
presidential campaign linking Dukakis, then governor of
Massachusetts, to Willie Horton, a black inmate from that state
who committed armed robbery and rape after he was granted a
prison furlough.  The ad, which featured a menacing mug shot of Horton,
helped Republican George H.W. Bush win the White House by
portraying Dukakis as soft on crime.  Restore Our Future is placing its ads on television through
the Towson, Maryland-based firm Mentzer Media, which received
more than $18 million from Swift Boat Vets and POWs for Truth to
place ads that questioned the  Vietnam  War record of Kerry, who
received five medals including the Silver Star for his service.  The strategy of Restore Our Future has been “focused on
tearing down the opposition,” Bill Allison, editorial director
at the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based advocacy group,
said in an interview.  “It’s almost like a scorched-earth policy, where they’re
really trying to look for the weakness of a candidate and
exploit it as much as possible,” Allison said.  Bare-Knuckles Fight  The background of Restore Our Future’s vendors underscores
the bare-knuckles role of independent political committees known
as super-PACs, which can raise unlimited funds from any source
to air ads that attack opponents.  All 12 ads that Restore Our Future has spent more than $12
million airing on broadcast television as of Feb. 14 in the
Republican presidential race have been negative in tone,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising.  The PAC’s latest ad attacks Santorum, a former U.S. senator
from  Pennsylvania  who is now Romney’s chief competitor in the
nomination contest, for votes to raise the U.S.  debt ceiling  and
for a transportation bill that included some parochial spending
projects known as earmarks. “Rick Santorum: Big spender,
Washington insider,” the ad concludes.  Most Republicans in Congress at the time, including
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , voted the same way
as he did on the measures.  Pre-Emptive Attack  To defend himself, Santorum’s campaign released on its
website an ad targeting Romney and Restore Our Future. It shows
a Romney impersonator trying to shoot balls of mud at a cutout
of a smiling Santorum.  “Mitt Romney’s negative attack machine is back, on full
throttle. This time Romney’s firing his mud at  Rick Santorum ,”
a narrator says.  The ad was sent to television stations yesterday, Hogan
Gidley, a spokesman for Santorum’s campaign, said in an e-mail.  The negative advertising may be taking a toll on Republican
candidates including Romney, said  Jack Pitney , a political
scientist at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,  California ,
in an interview.  Poll Results  Romney’s unfavorable rating was 49 percent in a Feb. 8-12
 survey  by the Pew Center for the People and the Press, up from
42 percent in a Jan. 11-16 survey. Gingrich’s unfavorable rating
in the February poll was 57 percent, up from 48 percent in
November. Santorum was not part of the Pew Center’s November
survey; in February, his unfavorable rating was 36 percent while
33 percent viewed him favorably.  While the negative ads are doing some damage, Pitney said,
it’s possible they might serve as a “form of inoculation” for
the eventual Republican nominee before the general election,
when attacks may have less effect if President  Barack Obama  and
his allies reprise them.  “It’s kind of like a live-virus vaccine,” Pitney said.
“You don’t know if it’s going to provide protection or create
the illness it’s trying to prevent.”  Republicans attacking one another in ads “is to be
expected” at this stage of the nomination contest, Doug Heye, a
Republican strategist, said in an interview.  “So many people talk about how late we are in the process.
I still think we’re early in the process,” he said.  ‘Pants on Fire’  Restore Our Future is shifting its attention from Gingrich,
who has slipped in polls and become hobbled by tight finances
since he won the Jan. 21 South Carolina primary. Gingrich has
denounced the PAC’s ads, saying on Feb. 4 that Romney and the
commercials were “fundamentally dishonest.”  PolitiFact, a nonpartisan site that truth squads political
discourse,  issued  a “pants on fire” rating yesterday to a
Restore Our Future ad that said Gingrich backed a bill
supporting  China ’s one-child policy limiting population growth.
PolitiFact said the bill, authorizing money for a United Nations
program, barred the use of funds for “involuntary sterilization
or abortion or to coerce any person to accept family planning.”  Gingrich has said he should have responded to Restore Our
Future’s ads sooner. That’s the same lesson Dukakis, the 1988
Democratic nominee, took away after he was targeted by a
McCarthy-made ad.  ‘Worst Decision’  “The worst decision I ever made” in the campaign was not
responding to attacks including the Willie Horton ad, which was
aired by a committee independently promoting  George H.W. Bush ’s
campaign, Dukakis said in an interview.  “As in the case of the Swift Boat ad, I don’t think we
took it very seriously,” Dukakis said. “It was, after all, a
so-called independent group.”  “You cannot remain mute, which is what I did,” he added.  Bush’s campaign also linked Dukakis to Horton. Lee Atwater,
the Republican operative who helped Bush defeat Dukakis, said
before he died of cancer in 1991 that he regretted the attacks,
which were widely condemned as being unfair to Dukakis and
racist in tone.  Eight years ago, the anti-Kerry Swift Boat  ads  generated
enough controversy that “swiftboat” entered the political
vernacular as a verb for airing hard-hitting ads. Those ads
accused Kerry, a  Massachusetts  senator who was awarded a Bronze
Star, a Silver Star and three Purple Hearts while serving in
Vietnam, of exaggerating his war record.  ‘Dishonest’  “I’d like to see us get to a better place in politics
where the word Swiftboating is retired from the political
vocabulary,” Kerry said in 2010.  Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the  Republican Party ’s 2008
presidential nominee and a Vietnam veteran,  told   MSNBC  in August
2004 that the commercials were “dishonest and dishonorable.”  Tad Devine, a Kerry campaign strategist, said in an
interview that “there’s a perception on the Republican side
that the Swift Boat advertising was very destructive for John
Kerry, so I think naturally they would want to hire a firm that
would make those kinds of ads.”  Then-President  George W. Bush  won re-election in the 2004
race, with one state --  Ohio  -- making the difference.  Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman for Restore Our Future,
declined to comment on the PAC’s vendors or strategy.  Financial Windfall  The emergence of super-PACs is a financial windfall for
political professionals, including the media firms that Restore
Our Future employs. It has paid more than $16 million to Mentzer
Media to reserve television time to air ads. Most of the money
goes to the stations, while Mentzer Media keeps a percentage
that it and the campaign don’t disclose.  McCarthy’s company received more than $300,000 to create
ads for the pro-Romney PAC. McCarthy is one of three members of
Restore Our Future’s board and worked on Romney’s losing 2008
presidential campaign.  While McCarthy has drawn criticism for his tough tactics,
Republican political strategist Ed Rollins, in a 1996 book,
included McCarthy on a list of “Guys I Want in the Foxhole with
Me if I’m Ever Stupid Enough to Run Another Presidential
Campaign.”  Red, White and Blue Fund, the main super-PAC helping
Santorum, also has ties to the Swift Boat campaign. It has given
more than $1.6 million to Alexandria, Virginia-based SRCP Media
Inc., to produce and air ads. The group created ads for the
Swift Boat group in 2004.  “The monies being raised and spent by the super-PACs offer
a new revenue stream for media consultants and media buyers,”
 Anthony Corrado , a political scientist at Colby College in
Waterville,  Maine , said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  