-- Factories Churning Out More Goods Buoy U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-15T21:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/production-at-u-s-factories-climbs-on-demand-for-automobiles-machinery.html
Factories in the U.S. boosted
production in January, capping the biggest back-to-back
increases in more than two years, showing manufacturing will
remain at the forefront of the expansion.  Output (IPMGCHNG)  rose 0.7 percent after a revised 1.5 percent gain in
December, the best two-month performance since July and August
2009, when the world’s largest economy was emerging from the
recession, according to figures issued by the Federal Reserve
today in Washington. Other reports showed homebuilders turned
less pessimistic in February and manufacturing in the New York
region grew.  Business investment in new equipment and the need to
rebuild inventories as sales improve will probably keep factory
assembly lines rolling at the start of 2012. Additionally, a
more stable residential real-estate market would remove an
impediment to the recovery after declines in  home construction 
subtracted from economic growth in each of the past six years.  “Factories remain a major supporting element of the
economy as we enter 2012,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief
economist at Parthenon Group LLC in  Boston . “The latest reading
from the homebuilders adds to the steady stream of upbeat news
on the housing sector.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower
for a second day, as concern grew that  Greece  was moving closer
to default and the Fed said policy makers were divided on buying
more assets. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.5 percent to 1,343.23 at the
close in New York.  FOMC Minutes  A few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said the
central bank may have to consider more asset purchases, while
others said the economic outlook would have to deteriorate
first, according to minutes of their Jan. 24-25 meeting released
today.  Total industrial production, which comprises factories,
utilities and mining companies, was little changed last month,
less than the 0.7 percent gain projected by the median forecast
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged
from gains of 0.1 percent to 1.2 percent.  Output at utilities slumped 2.5 percent last month as the
fourth-warmest January on record cut into electricity and
natural gas use. A 1.8 percent drop in mining, which includes
oil drilling, also hindered total industrial output.  ‘Driving Role’  “Manufacturing is doing pretty well,” said Tom Simons, an
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York . “It will
continue to play a driving role in the economy. Global demand is
holding up pretty well, we’re still rebuilding inventories and
autos remain a significant leader in the factory recovery.”  Early indications are that factories continue to expand
this month. The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index
increased to 19.5 from 13.5 in January, the branch of the
central bank reported today. It was the best reading for the so-
called  Empire State (EMPRGBCI)  Index since June 2010.  The gauge, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and
southern  Connecticut , exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Homebuilder confidence improved more than estimated in
February, indicating the industry is stabilizing, data from
 National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo showed. The
group’s  sentiment gauge  climbed to 29, the highest level since
May 2007, from 25 in January. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise to 26. Readings below 50
still mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Housing Fragile  “The housing market is moving toward more sustainable
growth,” Barry Rutenberg, chairman of the National Association
of Home Builders and a builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said
in a statement. At the same time, the industry remains fragile,
he said.  The Fed’s national production report for January showed
output of motor vehicles and parts jumped 6.8 percent, today’s
figures show. Manufacturing excluding autos and parts climbed
0.3 percent following a 1.3 percent December increase.  Production of business equipment increased 1.8 percent,
boosted by more output of computers and transportation gear.  Purchases (SAARTOTL)  of cars and light trucks climbed to an annualized
rate of 14.1 million last month, the highest since the so-called
cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009 and the second-
strongest since May 2008, according to Autodata Corp. Sales
averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the last recession
began in December 2007.  With the average age of cars and trucks rising to a record
10.8 years, analysts see pent-up demand boosting U.S. sales to a
third-straight annual gain in 2012, the longest streak since
sales peaked in 2000.  Ford Profits  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, reported
its 11th consecutive profitable quarter as sales rose and it
boosted North American production by 14 percent. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company U.S. sales rose 11 percent last year.
Ford sees its European market worsening while Asia-Pacific will
remain solid.  “Autos are benefiting from rising replacement demand and
businesses have been more forthcoming with investment as
economic uncertainty has diminished,” Parthenon’s DeKaser said.  Manufacturers and exporters of heavy equipment such as
Caterpillar Inc. continue to see growth. Caterpillar, the
largest construction and mining-equipment maker, last month
posted fourth-quarter earnings and forecast full-year profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as demand rose for earth-moving
machinery and trucks. The Peoria, Illinois-based manufacturer
said it had a record $29.8 billion backlog of orders at the end
of 2011.  Caterpillar Investment  “For many products demand has been above our ability to
produce,” Caterpillar spokesman Michael DeWalt told a
conference call on Jan. 26. “We have invested in Caterpillar
factories in the  United States  and around the world to increase
production.”  Total industrial output last month was tempered by the drop
in utility use because January was relatively mild. The  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  reported the average
temperature was 36.3 degrees Fahrenheit, 5.5 degrees above the
1901-2000 long-term average.  Elsewhere today,  Europe ’s economy shrank less than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as a better-than
predicted performance in Germany and  France  helped mitigate the
region’s first contraction since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  