-- Proview, Sazerac, Mecca Cola: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-16T13:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/proview-sazerac-mecca-cola-chrysler-intellectual-property.html
Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) ,
which claims ownership of the iPad trademark in  China , is asking
that nation’s customs bureau to block imports and exports of
Apple Inc.’s tablet computer.  Proview, a Hong Kong-listed maker of computer displays,
owns the trademark through its Shenzhen unit and has been unable
to reach an agreement with Apple over use of the name, Roger
Xie, a lawyer representing Proview, said by telephone yesterday.  “We are applying to customs to stop any trademark-
infringing products from imports to China and also for
exports,” said Xie, who is based in Shenzhen. “Apple wants to
postpone and continue infringement of the iPad in China.”  Carolyn Wu, Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman, said the
Cupertino, California-based company bought Proview’s worldwide
rights to the iPad trademark in 10 countries, including China.
The iPad is manufactured in China by Foxconn Technology Group.  “Proview refuses to honor their agreement with Apple in
China,” Wu said. “Our case is still pending in mainland
China.”  A halt to exports from China would be “catastrophic” for
Apple because it would mean a global halt to  iPad  sales, said
Stan Abrams, an  intellectual property  lawyer and a law professor
at the Central University of Finance and Economics in Beijing.  “There’s got to be a settlement, and fairly soon,” Abrams
said. “I can’t see how much more incentivized to settle Apple
could be.”  Apple sued Proview’s Shenzhen-based unit in 2010, claiming
ownership of the iPad trademark in China. The Shenzhen
Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s claims on Nov. 17,
Proview said in a Dec. 15 regulatory filing. Apple appealed that
ruling to the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong province on
Jan. 5, Proview said in a Jan. 27 filing.  Proview also filed a trademark-infringement case against
Apple in  Shanghai  trying to halt iPad sales at Apple’s own
stores in China, said Xie, a partner with the Grandall Law Firm.
That case is scheduled to begin Feb. 22.  Separately, Proview filed trademark infringement complaints
seeking enforcement from at least 20 local government agencies,
some of which have started seizing iPads in local markets, Xie
said.  Proview “hasn’t yet decided the final claim amount to
Apple,” Xie said. A December report by China’s official Xinhua
News Agency saying Proview would seek 10 billion yuan ($1.6
billion) was “preliminary,” he said.  Sazerac Sues Maker of ‘SinFire’ for Trademark Infringement  Sazerac Co., the 162-year-old Louisiana distillery, sued an
Oregon company for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Feb. 10 in federal court in Louisville,
 Kentucky , is related to marks used with cinnamon-flavored
alcohol. Sazerac says a variety of names used with  Hood River
Distillers Inc. ’s SinFire Cinnamon Whiskey infringe its
“Fireball” and “Fire Water” trademarks.  Both “ SinFire ” and “Fireball” are used with cinnamon-
flavored whiskey, and Sazerac uses “Fire Water” for its
cinnamon liqueur, according to court papers.  Hood River filed an application to register “SinFire” as
a trademark in Aug. 17, according to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office. On Jan. 18, Sazerac filed what is
known as an opposition with the patent office, attempting to
block registration of the Oregon company’s mark.  Sazerac, based in New Orleans, says it uses a “sin” theme
to promote the  Fireball  product, which is marketed as a
“challenge shot” or an “I dare you to try it” beverage that
is “targeted to the adult demographic who enjoy ordering and
drinking these types of beverages.” It registered the first of
its “Fireball” marks in June 2004.  Distribution of the Hood River product is set to begin this
month, and Sazerac says the public will be confused by the
similarity in names, and that it’s likely to lose control of its
“hard-earned reputation” if Hood River is allowed to produce
and sell a product under the “SinFire” name.  It asked the court to bar Hood River’s use of “SinFire”
and any trade dress, marks or graphics confusingly similar to
what closely held Sazerac uses with its Fireball and Fire Water
products.  Additionally, Sazerac asked that Hood River be barred from
registering its mark, and for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Hood River didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the lawsuit.  Sazerac is represented by  Todd S. Bontemps  of  San
Francisco ’s  Cooley LLP (1160L)  and  Scott P. Zoppoth  of the  Zoppoth Law
Firm of Louisville .  The case is Sazerac Co. Inc., v. Hood River Distillers
Inc., 3:12-cv-00079-CRS, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Kentucky (Louisville).  Emirates  High Court  Says No to ‘Mecca’ as Cola Drink Trademark  The Federal Supreme Court of the  United Arab Emirates 
barred a soft drink company from using the word “Mecca” in the
name of a cola beverage, the National, Abu Dhabi’s English-
language newspaper,  reported .  The court reversed a lower court’s decision, finding it was
unacceptable to use the name of Islam’s holy city as a
trademark, according to the National.  Mecca Cola World Co.  of Dubai, which began producing Mecca
Cola in 2003, argued the marks had already been registered in
the country, and that consumers were used to that name for the
product, the National reported.  The lower court found the use of the mark acceptable
because “Mecca” can also refer to a geographic location,
according to the National.  GM Files Four Applications to Register ‘App Shop’’ Trademarks  General Motors Co. (GM)  filed four trademark applications
containing the word “app” according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The applications, filed Feb. 6, cover “app shop,”
“appshop,” “Chevrolet app shop” and “Chevrolet appshop.”  The marks are to be used with software applications and an
online retail platform where people can acquire such software,
General Motors said in its applications.  Apple Inc. sued Seattle’s  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in March in
attempts to block the online retailer from using the term “App
Store.” Amazon argues that the term is generic and can’t be
protected by trademark law.  In July, U.S. District Judge Phyllis J. Hamilton denied
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s request for an order
temporarily barring Amazon.com’s use of the term.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Amazone.com Inc., 4:11-cv-01327-
PJH, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(Oakland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Boeing Sued for Infringement by McDonnell Family Member  Boeing Co., Chicago-based maker of the 787 Dreamliner
aircraft, was sued for patent infringement by a company led by a
member of the family that founded McDonnell Aircraft Corp.  Advanced Aerospace Technologies, the St. Louis-based
company suing Boeing, is owned by William Randall McDonnell. His
family founded McDonnell Aircraft, which Boeing acquired in the
1997 purchase of McDonnell Douglas.  The lawsuit, filed Feb. 8 in federal court in  St. Louis , is
related to launch and recovery systems for unmanned aircraft.
Money damages being sought are estimated to exceed at least $160
million, according to court papers.  In dispute are patents 6,874,729, issued in April 2005, and
7,097,137, issued in August 2006.  Boeing’s  Insitu  unit is accused of infringing the patents
through the “Skyhook” retrieval system used on at least six
types of Insitu’s unmanned aircraft.  McDonnell’s company said it sent Insitu a copy of a pending
patent application for a hook design for catching the aircraft
in 2000. Advanced Aerospace accuses Insitu of modifying its own
design based on the patent application. Bingen, Washington-based
Insitu’s patent 7,059,564, was issued in June 2006, according to
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Insitu is accused of gamesmanship with the patent office.
In its application, Insitu cited McDonnell’s patent application
“as one of more than one hundred other references to further
obscure its significance,” he said.  More than a month before Boeing acquired Insitu in 2008.
McDonnell said he advised the planemaker in writing that it was
using his patented technology without authorization. Boeing
“should have known that Insitu was building its business on
infringing technology,” according to court papers.  Boeing won’t comment on the specifics of the case because
litigation is pending, John Dern, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday  “However, we believe our products do not infringe the
plaintiff’s patents and that the court will agree with us,”
Dern said.  McDonnell’s company asked the court for money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. He didn’t request a court
order barring use of his patented technology.  Advanced Aerospace is represented by  Lindsay S.C. Brinton ,
 Craig S. King ,  Anthony W. Shaw ,  Richard J. Webber ,  Kevin R.
Pinkney  and  Taniel E. Anderson  of  Washington ’s  Arent Fox LLP (1377L) .  The case is Advanced Aerospace Technologies Inc., v.  Boeing
Co. (BA) , 12-cv-00226, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Australia Names Legal Academic to Head Copyright Inquiry  Professor Jill McKeough, dean of the law faculty at
 Australia ’s University of Technology Sydney, was named to head
the Australian Law Reform Commission’s Inquiry into Copyright
Law, according to a university  statement .  McKeough , a specialist in intellectual property law, will
lead efforts to look at copyright law in the digital
environment. The issues are “complex and challenging for both
creators and users of copyright material,” McKeough said in the
university’s statement.  The commission will review whether Australia’s present
copyright law is “adequate and appropriate” in the digital
environment, according to a commission  statement . Among the
issues to be examined are private copyright when format-
shifting, time-shifting or for special purposes.  Chrysler Ad Pulled From YouTube, Allegedly on NFL Complaint  Chrysler’s Super Bowl advertisement featuring Clint
Eastwood was temporarily taken down from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube
video-sharing service Feb. 13 following an infringement claim
from the  National Football League , the Baltimore Sun  reported .  YouTube told the Sun it removed the video after receiving
an infringement notice from either a copyright owner or a third-
party agency acting for the owner.  The league told the Sun it hadn’t filed the claim and that
it asked Google to put the ad back up again immediately.  The  ad featured Eastwood discussing hard times  in America,
the Sun reported.  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Total’s SunPower Sues SolarCity Over Trade-Secret Pacts  Total SA (FP) ’s  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  sued SolarCity Corp. for unfair
business practices, claiming five former SunPower employees
illegally used trade secrets.  SunPower said an investigation after the five left the
company showed they had copied “tens of thousands of files”
and moved information to SolarCity computers, according to a
lawsuit filed Feb. 13 in federal court in San Jose, California.  “Defendants have willfully interfered with SunPower’s
ownership and possessory rights to such property without lawful
justification,” SunPower said in a complaint. The company is
seeking unspecified damages.  SunPower, based in San Jose, makes solar panels, and San
Mateo, California-based SolarCity is a distributor of such
panels and related equipment, SunPower said.  Jonathan Bass, a SolarCity spokesman, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  In addition to SolarCity, SunPower is suing its five former
employees: a managing director of operations and four project
developers.  The suit alleged the proprietary information -- which
included market analysis, quotes, proposals, business analysis -
- was taken through the connection of USB storage devices to
company computers. The use of such devices was a violation of
company policy, according to court papers.  SunPower seeks a return of its confidential information,
and an order barring its further disclosure and use.
Additionally, it asked for an award of profits SolarCity derived
from its unauthorized use of the proprietary information, money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  The company is represented by  Michael K. Friedland  and
 Boris Zelkind  of  Knobbe Martens Olson & Bear LLP  of Irvine,
Calironia.  The case is SunPower v. SolarCity, 12-cv-694, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 