-- Qantas Climbs Most in Six Months on Cost-Cutting, Sales Gain: Sydney Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-16T05:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/qantas-to-cut-500-jobs-after-earnings-slump-83-.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, climbed the most in almost six months in Sydney
trading after announcing A$700 million ($747 million) in
spending cuts and an increase in first-half sales.  The  airline  surged 6.1 percent to A$1.655 at the close of
trading, the biggest gain since Aug. 23. It was the biggest
percentage gainer on the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index , which fell
1.7 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce announced plans today to
cut 500  jobs  and slow fleet growth through June 2013 as Qantas
contends with competition from Middle East airlines and higher
fuel prices. The airline also posted a 6 percent increase in
first-half sales even after grounding its main fleet for two
days because of labor disputes.  “They are doing their best to manage the business in a
difficult time for airlines,” said Peter Esho, a market analyst
at  City Index  in Sydney. “The underlying  earnings  remain good
for them, especially when you consider all the fuel rises and
other issues.”  Net income  fell 83 percent to A$42 million in the six
months ended December, Qantas said in a statement. That missed
the A$111 million median estimate of four  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Sales totaled A$8 billion.  Fuel expenses jumped by A$444 million in the half, and the
carrier booked A$194 million in costs related to labor disputes
with unions representing pilots, baggage handlers and engineers.  ‘We Must Change’  Qantas, which didn’t provide a full-year forecast, will cut
staff as it restructures maintenance and catering divisions. The
job losses may go higher than 500, with more than 2,000 people
employed at facilities under review. A final decision is
expected before the end of April, Qantas said.  “The highly competitive markets and tough global economy
in which we operate mean that we must change,” Joyce said on a
conference call. The carrier “cannot sustain three heavy
maintenance bases” and will concentrate operations in one or
two facilities, he said.  First-half  earnings  before interest and tax at the Qantas-
branded airline, which includes domestic and international
services, fell 60 percent to A$66 million.  Budget arm Jetstar posted a 3 percent increase in profit to
A$147 million. The unit is set to open a Japan venture later
this year following operations in Vietnam and  Singapore .  Southeast Asia Carrier  Qantas is planning to form a premium carrier based in
Southeast Asia to help bolster international operations that are
losing A$200 million a year. The carrier is still in discussions
about the plan, Joyce said.  “We are looking at ways of doing that without expending
significant amounts of money or aircraft,” he said. He didn’t
say whom the carrier is talking to or when an agreement may be
announced.  Qantas’s market share on international routes has fallen to
about 20 percent as government-backed Emirates Airline and Qatar
Airways Ltd. use hubs in the Persian Gulf to offer connections
between Australia and  Europe .  The Australian carrier last year announced cuts to its
overseas network, including the end of flights to  London  via
Bangkok and  Hong Kong . It will scrap flights from Singapore to
Mumbai and services between Auckland and  Los Angeles , it said
today. It still flies to London and  Frankfurt  via Singapore.  Qantas cut planned  capital spending  this year and next to
A$4.6 billion, A$700 million less than it previously expected.
The reduced outlay follows delays in receiving on-order  Boeing
Co. (BA)  787-800 jets and a scaling back of plans to add seats on
domestic routes. Qantas, including Jetstar, has about 65 percent
of Australia’s domestic market.  Joyce wants  cash flow  to match capital spending to reduce
the risk of losing Qantas’s investment-grade credit rating.
Moody’s Investors Service last month lowered the  carrier  to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade.  Qantas and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the largest discount
carrier in the U.S., are the only two airlines with investment-
grade ratings from both Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  