-- Rand Gains as December Retail Sales Beat Analyst Estimates, Metals Advance
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-15T13:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/rand-strengthens-as-metals-rise-on-china-s-pledge-for-european-debt-crisis.html
The rand advanced for a second day
this week against the dollar after retail sales in  Africa ’s
biggest economy beat analysts’ estimates and as  China ’s pledge
to help resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis boosted commodity prices.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 0.7 percent
and traded 0.5 percent stronger at 7.6840 as of 2:40 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It gained 0.4 percent to 10.1029 against the euro.  Retail sales rose at the fastest pace in eight months in
December as  interest rates  at the lowest level in more than 30
years helped boost spending. Sales climbed 8.7 percent compared
with a revised 7.2 percent a month earlier, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11 economists was 6.5 percent.  “Today’s retail sales data is positive for the local
currency from a gross domestic product differential
perspective,” Thabi Leoka, head of macroeconomic research for
 South Africa  at Standard Bank, said in e-mailed comments.  China will participate in resolving Europe’s debt crisis
and is ready to be more involved in resolving the crisis through
the EFSF and European Stability Mechanism, People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing today. The
 Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index  of raw materials surged to a six-
month high.  Xiaochuan’s “comments have boosted sentiment with Asian
markets up strongly and commodity currencies also benefiting,”
Nomvuyo Guma, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed note today.  Copper for three-month delivery climbed as much as 1.2
percent. Zinc also rose. Commodities, including metals, account
for 64 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 advanced,
driving the yield two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
lower to 7.81 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  