-- Range Resources at 56 Times Profit Cheap in Shale Boom: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-02-15T03:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/range-resources-at-56-times-profit-cheap-in-shale-boom-real-m-a.html
Range Resources Corp. (RRC) ’s drilling
operations in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale natural-gas field
are so coveted that the most expensive exploration and
production company in America is now a takeover target.  While Range is trading at 56 times estimated 2012 earnings,
the highest of any U.S. exploration and production company
valued at more than $5 billion, the company also owns the
second-most leases in the Marcellus Shale, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With that region estimated to hold enough
gas to supply the U.S. for six years, analysts project the  Fort
Worth , Texas-based company’s  profits  will triple over the next
three years, the data show.  As energy companies look to tap unconventional assets after
the average cost for finding and developing oil for the largest
U.S. producers surged sixfold in the past decade, Raymond James
Financial Inc. says Range may now be a logical target for  BP Plc (BP/) 
or  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  The $10.2 billion company may fetch at
least $78 a share in a takeover, according to Morningstar Inc.,
a 23 percent premium to yesterday’s price.  “The rationale for any M&A candidate is do you have access
to top quality resource plays and do you have size in those
plays?” Andrew Coleman, a Houston-based analyst at Raymond
James, said in a telephone interview. “Range definitely checks
both of those boxes. It’s a relatively expensive stock with a
well-defined track record of growth and a very large acreage
position in the Marcellus.”  Marcellus Shale  Range doesn’t comment on speculation, Matt Pitzarella, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  The shale-gas producer owns leases on 1.2 million acres in
the Marcellus Shale, second only to  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s
1.78 million acres, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Range sold most of its acreage in the Barnett Shale field in
 Texas  last year to concentrate on the Marcellus Shale, which is
the second most-profitable unconventional U.S. formation because
of its high proportion of ethane and other petroleum derivatives
sought by chemical makers. Only the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas
yields higher returns, according to Range.  Advances over the past decade in the technology for
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, used to free gas and oil
trapped in dense shale-rock formations, has contributed to
rising prices for shale acreage. The process involves fracturing
the formation by injecting water mixed with sand and chemicals
to keep the cracks open and petroleum flowing.  ‘Attractive Takeover Candidate’  “It’s an attractive takeover candidate because it’s the
largest pure-play opportunity in the Marcellus Shale,” William Featherston, a New York-based energy analyst at UBS AG, said in
a phone interview. “Any large company looking to gain exposure
to the Marcellus at a time when gas prices are weak would be
interested in Range.”  Since the stock reached a three-year  high  of $74.40 in
October, Range has  declined  15 percent as natural-gas prices
fell to a 10-year low of $2.231 per million British thermal
units on Jan. 23. Gas increased 4.2 percent yesterday to $2.532,
the biggest gain since Feb. 2.  While Range has been cited as a possible takeover target
for years after being one of the first companies to explore the
Marcellus Shale, buyers may be more inclined to step in now on a
wager that gas prices will rise,  Raymond James ’ Coleman said. On
Oct. 13, Range gained 8.8 percent on speculation of a takeover
bid. A year earlier, Range call trading jumped to a two-month
high on similar speculation.  Not ‘Awful Forever’  With Range, “there’s great access to resources and there’s
an undercurrent that gas is not going to be awful forever, so
that might make some folks interested in making a bigger bet on
gas,” Coleman said.  Even with the pullback in its shares, Range still trades at
 56 times estimated earnings  of $1.13 a share for this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost three
times the industry average and more expensive than 22 other U.S.
exploration and production companies with market values of more
than $5 billion.  Any acquirer would need to finance one of the largest deals
for an exploration and production company on record. With no
premium, a takeover of Range would still be valued at $11.9
billion including  net debt , making it the industry’s sixth-
biggest takeover ever, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even some of the largest companies may find it “pretty
hard” to acquire a company of Range’s size, and management is
unlikely to sell until gas prices rebound,  Leo Mariani , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Austin, Texas, said in a
phone interview.  Exxon, BP  Range may choose to wait out the depressed gas prices this
year and further appraise its acreage reserves before selling,
said UBS’s Featherston.  Range’s “resource potential,” including unproven reserves
in the Marcellus and other fields, may be as much as 60 trillion
cubic feet of oil and gas, according to a Feb. 7 investor
 presentation . The figure doesn’t include the potential for gas
and liquids in the Utica Shale, an oil-and-gas formation that
lies beneath the Marcellus Shale in parts of  Pennsylvania .  Still, projections for a surge in sales and profits over
the next three years make Range look cheaper for potential
suitors. By 2014, the company’s  sales  will double to $2.3
billion from $1.15 billion last year, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit will triple to about $3
a share from $1, bringing Range’s price-to-earnings ratio down
to about 21, the data show.  Major energy companies such as Exxon and BP may look to
acquire Range to increase their stakes in U.S. shale plays, said
Raymond James’ Coleman.  BHP’s Couch Cushions  Exxon, the world’s largest energy company by market value,
bought XTO Energy Inc. for $35 billion in 2010, which gave it
drilling operations in the gas-bearing Marcellus Shale formation.
London-based BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil producer, acquired
$1.75 billion worth of natural-gas properties in  Oklahoma ’s
Woodford Shale from Chesapeake Energy in 2008.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, may
also be interested in a takeover of Range, according to  Mark Hanson , a Chicago-based analyst at Morningstar. The Melbourne-
based company, which spent about $17 billion on shale gas deals
last year, is planning to make more acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television Feb. 12, without specifying targets.  “Range’s economics are some of the best in  North America 
and they’ve got the runway for growth,” Hanson said. “They could
take them out at a price that BHP could find in the couch
cushions. The premium would have to be there just like with any
darling stock like this.”  Fair Value  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon,
BP’s Daren Beaudo and Ruban Yogarajah for BHP declined to
comment on speculation.  A fair value for Range would be at least $78 a share in a
takeover, a 23 percent premium to yesterday’s close of $63.25
and 4.8 percent more than its highest closing price last year,
Hanson said. Raymond James’ Coleman said it would take between
$75 and $80 a share to convince management to sell.  “There’s a lot to like about Range, and what you see is
what you get,” said Morningstar’s Hanson. “The economics are
generally better for first movers and Range certainly has that
in the southwest part of the Marcellus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in  Dallas  at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 