-- RBA’s Lowe Sees Wage Restraint, Productivity Easing Australian Inflation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-15T22:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/rba-s-lowe-sees-wage-restraint-productivity-easing-australia-s-inflation.html
Australia ’s central bank is relying
on slower wage growth and better productivity to contain
inflation pressures as the damping effects of a four-decade high
currency begin to wane, Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  Prices (AUCPIYOY)  of globally traded goods “are unlikely to continue
to fall over the medium term, particularly as the effects of the
exchange-rate appreciation dissipate,” Lowe said in the text of
a speech today in Sydney. “As a result, some slowing in the
rate of increase in the prices of non-tradables is likely to be
required at some point for overall inflation to remain
consistent with the mid-point of the target range.”  Australia’s currency has risen 4.8 percent this year and
reached a six-month high of $1.0845 last week after the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia unexpectedly kept its benchmark borrowing cost
at 4.25 percent. In the past month, the local units of General
Motors Co.’s and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said 450 people will be
fired as the strong local dollar erodes overseas demand.  Lowe, who didn’t directly address monetary policy in his
prepared remarks to the Committee for  Economic Development  of
Australia, said the nation’s exchange rate is currently around
its highest level since the early 1970s, when adjusted for
inflation. As a result, he said, the prices Australians are
paying for manufactured goods are similar to a decade ago even
as household incomes have increased more than 60 percent over
the same period.  Currency’s Effects  The extended period of a strong currency is having a
contractionary effect on parts of the economy, hurting the
nation’s manufacturing, tourism and education industries as well
as some parts of agriculture and some business services.  “In some cases, this is prompting renewed investment to
improve firms’ international competitiveness,” Lowe said in the
speech, his first as deputy governor. “But in other cases,
businesses are scaling back their operations in Australia and
some are closing down. These changes are obviously very
difficult for the firms and individuals involved.”  The flipside of these difficulties is an expected “double-
digit” increase in business investment over the next couple of
years as the nation’s mining boom intensifies. The windfall
would boost investment as a share of the economy to a “record
level by a considerable margin,” Lowe said.  Lowe said the resource bonanza and high local dollar were
“historically very unusual” and complicated the process of
assessing the economy. “It seems, however, that over the past
year these forces have balanced out reasonably evenly,” Lowe
said.  Inflation Outlook  The RBA expects  core inflation  will remain within its 2
percent to 3 percent target range for the next couple of years
and the economy to expand at around trend, Lowe said.  He contrasted Australia’s economy starting the year “in
relatively good shape” with Europe and the U.S. having to cut
budget deficits simultaneously to cope with their debt. He
reiterated the RBA’s view that “progress has been made” in
Europe’s efforts to stabilize its sovereign-debt crisis.  “Late last year there was a palpable sense that something
might go badly wrong over our summer,” Lowe said. “Clearly,
that has not happened.”  The RBA cut its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter
percentage point at back-to-back meetings last quarter as
 Europe ’s fiscal problems deepened. It unexpectedly kept
borrowing costs unchanged last week as the euro area showed
signs of improvement.  Lowe also noted that the U.S. has emerged from a soft patch
in the middle of last year with some momentum, citing the better
than expected labor market and “tentative signs” of
improvement in the housing market of the world’s biggest
economy.  In Australia, “growth has been around trend and inflation
is consistent with the target, and there are reasonable
prospects for this to continue,” Lowe said. “We also have much
more flexibility to deal with unfolding events than almost any
other developed economy.”  Traders are betting there is a 50-50 chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point next month,
interbank cash-rate futures showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  