-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Below 2% as Europe Leaders Work on Greek Debt Plan
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-15T22:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/treasury-10-year-yield-below-2-as-europe-leaders-work-on-greek-debt-plan.html
Treasury (USGG10YR)  10-year note yields traded
below 2 percent for a fourth day as European officials prepared
to issue a statement on progress toward a Greek aid package amid
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  U.S. debt   pared  earlier gains after Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said he’s confident euro-area
finance ministers will make a decision on a bailout for Greece
at their next meeting on Feb. 20. Foreign investors held 47.6
percent of outstanding public Treasury debt as of December, the
smallest proportion since October 2006, Treasury data show. A
few members of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting said
the central bank may soon have to consider more asset purchases,
according to meeting minutes released today.  “It’s further progress in the debt talks,” saidThomas Roth, senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “We were under the impression that this was
falling apart so you’d better be long Treasuries.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 rose 2/32, or $0.63 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32. The yield touched 1.90
percent, the least since Feb. 7.  Fed Stance  The central bank unexpectedly said on Jan. 25 that
benchmark  interest rates  will stay low until at least late 2014.
The yield on the 10-year note dropped seven basis points that
day as the Fed said growth in U.S. gross domestic product
centered around 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from 2.5
percent to 2.9 percent in November.  Most policy makers expect inflation measured by the
personal consumption expenditures index between 1.4 percent and
1.8 percent, down from 1.4 percent to 2 percent in November.  Bernanke, speaking at a news conference after the
statements in January, said that the option of further large-
scale bond purchases is still “on the table.”  “If inflation is going to remain below target for an
extended period and employment progress” is very slow, then
“there is a case” for additional monetary stimulus, he said.  A few FOMC members said economic conditions “could warrant
the initiation of additional securities purchases before long,”
according to minutes of their Jan. 24-25 meeting released today
in Washington. “Other members indicated that such policy action
could become necessary if the economy lost momentum or if
inflation seemed likely to remain” below 2 percent in the
medium run.  Yield Difference  The difference between the yield on the two-year note and
the 10-year security, the so-called yield curve, dropped to the
least since Feb. 2 before trading at 1.67 percentage points.  “People may have been expecting a more formal committal to
another round of quantitative easing; since that’s not the case,
we’ve seen the curve steepen out,” said Dan Mulholland, a
Treasury trader in  New York  at Royal Bank of Canada, one of the
21 primary dealers required to bid at government debt auctions.  The biggest bond dealers in the U.S. last November
forecast the Fed is poised to start a new round of stimulus in
the first quarter, injecting more money into the economy by
purchasing mortgage securities instead of Treasuries, according
to 16 of the 21 primary dealers in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Fed may buy about $545 billion in home-loan debt, based on the
median of the firms that provided estimates.  Inflation Measure  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a reflection of traders’ outlook
known as the break-even rate, was at 2.21 percentage points
today. It touched 2.25 percentage points on Feb. 13, the highest
since August.  TIPs have returned 2 percent this year, compared with a
loss of 0.1 percent for the U.S. Treasury market, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The securities returned
14.1 percent last year, compared with 9.8 percent for the
broader Treasury market.  A Labor Department report tomorrow is forecast to show the
 producer price index  rose by 0.4 percent in January, after a 0.1
percent drop the previous month. A separate report by the Labor
Department on Feb. 17 is forecast to show the  consumer price
index  rose by 0.3 percent after being unchanged the previous
month.  TIPS Sale  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $9 billion of 30-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities tomorrow and is also due
to announce the size of two-, five- and seven-year auctions for
next week.  European finance ministers canceled a Brussels meeting
slated for today and held a teleconference instead to prod
Greece to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion
euros ($170 billion) along with about 100 billion euros of debt
relief from private bondholders.  Greece  needs the money to make
a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Greece said that  Europe ’s wealthier countries are “playing
with fire” by toying with the idea of expelling it from the 17-
nation euro area as talks over a second aid program ran into new
obstacles. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos leveled the
accusation after a decision slated for tonight was postponed
until Feb. 20 at the earliest.  “There’s been a lot of chatter out of Europe that the
Greek bailout may be delayed,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “That uncertainty has added to the bid for
Treasuries.”  Overseas Demand  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.9 billion during the month compared with net purchases of
$61.3 billion the previous month, the Treasury Department said
today in  Washington . Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners bought a net $87.1 billion in December
compared with net buying of $42.9 billion the previous month.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., decreased
its holdings of  Treasury securities  $31.9 billion, or 2.8
percent, to $1.1 trillion, the lowest since June 2010. Its
position in longer-term notes and bonds also fell by 2.8 percent
or $32.5 billion to $1.1 trillion, the least since June 2010.
China increased its position in shorter-term bills by $600
million to $2.9 billion.  The Fed sold $8.6 billion in Treasuries maturing from
December 2013 to March 2014 today under its plan to replace $400
billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries to reduce borrowing costs further and counter risks
of a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  