-- Treasuries Maintain Three-Day Advance Amid Concern Over Greece Bailout
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-02-15T01:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/treasuries-maintain-three-day-advance-amid-concern-over-greece-bailout.html
Treasuries (YCGT0025)  maintained a three-day
advance as concern that Greece is struggling to secure a second
bailout package supported demand for the relative safety of  U.S.
government debt .  Ten-year  yields  were two basis points away from the lowest
level in a week before the Federal Reserve today releases
minutes of its last meeting when policy makers decided to extend
the central bank’s pledge to keep borrowing costs low until at
least late 2014. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said the
slow pace of improvement in the labor market warrants low
 interest rates  even as the economy shows signs of strengthening.  “Treasuries are getting a safety bid because there’s still
uncertainty in  Europe ,” said Hajime Nagata, an investor in
 Tokyo  at Diam Co., which manages the equivalent of $128.8
billion and is a unit of Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Company Ltd.,
 Japan ’s second-biggest life insurer. “The Fed’s stance also
doesn’t allow yields to rise easily.”  The yield on the 10-year note was little changed from
yesterday at 1.94 percent as of 10:15 a.m. in Tokyo, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent security due
February 2022 changed hands at 100 17/32.  The 10-year rate fell as low as 1.92 percent yesterday, the
least since Feb. 7, having dropped from this month’s high of
2.07 percent on Feb. 9.  Euro-area finance ministers canceled a meeting scheduled
for today in Brussels and will hold a teleconference instead to
prod Greece to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130
billion euros ($171 billion) along with about 100 billion euros
of debt relief from private bondholders.  Greece  needs the aid to
make a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Fed’s Pledge  Lockhart, who votes on monetary policy this year, supported
the Federal Open Market Committee’s pledge on Jan. 25 to keep
the  target interest rate  exceptionally low at least through late
2014. The Fed also for the first time released policy makers’
forecasts for the timing of an increase in the benchmark
interest rate.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference after
the FOMC meeting that the Fed is considering buying more bonds.
The central bank has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion to stimulate the economy. It also cut the
main interest rate close to zero in December 2008.  “The recent economic news has been encouraging, but in my
view we haven’t seen enough sustained improvement to be sure it
will last,” Lockhart said yesterday in a speech in Sarasota,
 Florida . “The current policy stance is appropriate for an
outlook of steady, moderate growth with gradual employment
gains.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year  yield  slid one basis point to
0.95 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 