-- Senators Propose Tying Strategic Oil Reserve Withdrawals With Keystone XL
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-15T23:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/republicans-bill-ties-u-s-oil-reserve-use-to-keystone-pipeline-approval.html
Senate Republicans introduced
legislation that would bar the Obama administration from using
the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve unless  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL pipeline is approved.  The bill, preventing President Barack Obama from releasing
oil from the reserve when oil supplies are disrupted, is aimed
at advancing Calgary-based TransCanada’s plan to build the $7
billion project to carry oil from filed in Alberta, Canada, to
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries.  The State Department, which must approve the project
because it crosses an international border, said in November it
would delay a decision until 2013 to evaluate a route avoiding a
sensitive aquifer in Nebraska. Republicans offered bills to
advance the pipeline, saying construction will add jobs and
diversify fuel sources. Obama last month denied a permit for the
project after Congress set a Feb. 21 deadline.  “The Keystone XL pipeline is yet another example of the
president putting a political agenda in front of common-sense
 energy policy ,” Senator  David Vitter  of Louisiana, a sponsor of
the legislation, said today in a statement. “It’s as if this
administration had never heard of the economics of supply and
demand, unless it becomes politically expedient to release from
our strategic reserves to influence gas prices when there is a
looming election.”  Asked whether the U.S. might release oil from the reserve
to limit a recent jump in  oil prices , White House press
secretary Jay Carney said yesterday the administration never
takes “options off the table,” although he had nothing to
announce.  The bill is S. 2100, sponsored by Vitter and Senators
 Richard Lugar  of Indiana and John Hoeven of North Dakota.  The House of Representatives separately debated a bill
today that would strip Obama’s power to approve Keystone XL and
require the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to approve the
project within 30 days, provided it’s deemed safe. Vote on that
bill is scheduled for tomorrow.  The House bill is H.R. 3408.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  