-- Fed Tri-Party Repo Task Force Said to Take Diminished Role in Risk Reform
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-15T13:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/tri-party-repo-task-force-said-to-take-a-diminished-role-in-reform-effort.html
A Federal Reserve-sponsored group
working to improve efficiency in the market for borrowing and
lending securities will take a diminished role in efforts to cut
systemic risk in the market for dealer financing.  The Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform  Task Force  formed
in 2009 to spearhead the efforts will no longer hold scheduled
meetings, according to people familiar with the matter. The
industry’s two clearing banks,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp.,  as well as the Fixed Income Clearing
Corp., will continue to seek changes, said the people, who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak on the record. The task force will release a progress
report today.  The group failed to meet a 2011 objective of the
“practical elimination” of the extension of intraday credit to
dealers from JPMorgan and Bank of New York Mellon. While many
prerequisite operational changes were made last year, the final
goal wasn’t accomplished in a market that is the biggest single
source of financing for U.S. primary dealers, the 21 firms that
act as counterparties for the central bank.  “The Task Force has made some progress; I wouldn’t call it
good progress, I’d call it slow progress,”  Darrell Duffie , a
finance professor at  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of
Business in Stanford,  California , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “There is a lot they need to do in the near term to
improve what they have, particularly more automation and also
something more systematic in terms of broker-dealer default
management.”  Short-Term Funding  Duffie co-authored a  paper  in July with New York Fed
researchers Adam Copeland, Antoine Martin, and Susan McLaughlin
titled “Policy Issues in the Design of the Tri-Party Repo
Markets.”  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment on the task force.  Repos are transactions used by the bond dealers for short-
term funding, typically involving the sale of U.S. government
securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date. In a tri-party arrangement, a third
party, one of two clearing banks, functions as the agent for the
transaction and holds the security as collateral. U.S. money
market mutual funds are among the primary investors, lenders of
cash, in the repo market.  Overnight general collateral Treasury repo rates opened
today at 0.23 percent, after closing yesterday at 0.28 percent,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. Tri-party repo opened at 0.26 percent.  Dudley’s View  The Fed is seeking to strengthen the tri-party repurchase
agreement market, which almost collapsed in 2008 amid the demise
of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., both of
which served as primary dealers.  In September, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
 William Dudley , in a  speech  at the Bretton Woods Committee’s
International Council Meeting in  Washington , expressed concern
about the task force’s ability to achieve the goals.  “If the private sector falls short in this instance,
public authorities may need to intervene and impose more
forceful regulatory solutions,” Dudley said.  “We are really down to doing the re-engineering and client
contract adjustments that will be needed to reduce reliance on
the two clearing banks for intraday credit,” Kelly Mathieson,
custody and clearance business executive at J.P. Morgan
Worldwide Securities Services, said in an interview last month.
“We all are very clear that this goal needs to get done. It is
just a matter of getting down to executing something that is
just a bit complex.”  Value Declines  Over $2.8 trillion in securities were being financed through
tri-party repo on average daily during a peak in 2008, with the
value falling to an average of $1.7 trillion in the first
quarter of 2010, according to New York Fed calculations of Bank
of New York Mellon and JPMorgan data as presented in a May 2010
Fed paper. In 2008, the largest dealer borrowing position
exceeded $400 billion, and remains at more than $200 billion,
Fed researches noted in the paper.  Clearing banks’ extension of intraday credit to dealers
stems from the market’s convention that all repos, even those
not maturing, were ”unwound” each morning, with clearing banks
sending cash back to lenders and placing dealer securities back
in their accounts. Later in the afternoon, the clearing banks
”rewound” all transactions given borrowers and lenders’
arrangements, and transferred cash back to dealers. During the
time gap between those two events, clearing banks extend secured
credit to the dealers so desired intraday trades could be done.  Transaction Rewind  Last year the task force, to narrow the gap of time when
intraday credit may be extended, moved the daily unwind time to
3:30 p.m., cutting to just a few hours the delay until all final
settlements and “rewinding” of transactions take place.  Also to improve efficiency and the clearing process, the
task force implemented a morning three-way trade confirmation
between borrower, lender and the clearing bank. It enabled all
dealers to use “automated collateral substitution,” which
allows them to easily swap one type of eligible debt collateral
for another in a repo transactions during a given day.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in March 2009 called for an
overhaul of U.S. financial regulations, including “enhancing
the resilience of the tri-party repurchase agreement market.”
He added during the address to the  Council on Foreign Relations 
in Washington that “it may be worthwhile considering the costs
and benefits of a central clearing system for this market, given
the magnitude of exposures generated and the vital importance of
the market for dealers and investors.”  Among other emergency lending programs, the Fed in 2008
began the Primary Dealer Credit Facility to buttress dealer
financing in wake of the fall of Bear Stearns, and expanded it
after the failure of Lehman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  