-- Robocop Mayor on Austerity Front Line as U.K. Tackles Debt
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-02-15T13:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/robocop-mayor-leads-front-line-of-austerity-as-u-k-tackles-debt.html
In northeast  England , where the
landscape is dotted with shuttered factories and long-dead coal
mines from its industrial past, former policeman Ray Mallon is
on the front line of austerity.  The mayor of Middlesbrough, a town of about 140,000 with
 Britain’s highest  unemployment rate, is trying to save more than
52 million pounds ($82 million) in four years by cutting the
cost of everything from mobile libraries to maintenance of
public buildings and programs in schools. He says it may be
asking too much, too soon as the U.K. flirts with a second
recession in three years.  “The government is doing the right thing in focusing on
the deficit, but it’s a little bit too intense,” Mallon, 56,
said the day after  delivering  more than 90 budget revisions to
the town’s council. “They’d be better off just taking their
foot off the gas a little bit. It’s too intense, too quick.”  European towns like Middlesbrough are at the sharp end of
the drive to lower debt with the biggest spending cuts and tax
increases in a generation. The program places them at the
forefront of the debate over whether the speed of the austerity
risks pushing economies into recession.  Britain represents the largest government  budget-reduction
package  in monetary terms of any of the European Union’s 27
members, based on figures from finance ministries compiled by
Bloomberg. The country accounts for about a third of the budget
cuts taking place in the 10 largest EU countries between 2010
and 2015, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  ‘Troubling’  Countries like Greece and Ireland, euro members ravaged by
the debt crisis and recipients of international aid along with
 Portugal , are cutting more severely relative to the size of
their economies, the data show.  “One of the things that is troubling is that austerity is
raising fears of double-dip recession,” said Bill Dinning, head
of strategy at fund company Kames Capital in Edinburgh. “The
government wouldn’t suffer too much if it tried to boost
economic activity. You can’t do it with austerity alone.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s deficit-shrinking plan
amounts to 107 billion pounds by April 2015 when adjusted for
inflation. The cuts include road projects, caps to welfare
payments, pensions and as many as 700,000 jobs. It also helped
the U.K. retain its top, triple-A investment grade at rating
companies, though Moody’s Investors Service said this week it
may downgrade the country because of concern about the economy.  Trillion Pounds  Britain’s government debt climbed above 1 trillion pounds
for the first time last year.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter, according to the  Office for
National Statistics . Bond markets meanwhile show investors are
unconcerned, said Dinning. Borrowing costs, at 2.11 percent
based on 10-year bond yields, are lower than oil-rich  Norway .  Mallon joined the police in 1974 on his 19th birthday and
rose to the rank of detective superintendent in 1996, pledging
to decrease crime by 20 percent with a zero-tolerance policy
that earned him the nickname “ Robocop ” and an invitation to
 New York City  during the tenure of Mayor  Rudy Giuliani .  Now Middlesbrough and the way Mallon deploys taxpayers’
money is a laboratory for the austerity debate.  The council’s cuts range from spending less on closed-
circuit TV analysis to eliminating funds to deal with mental
health issues in schools as well as savings on arts, the
environment and drivers for the elderly.  Deprivation Factor  Middlesbrough ranks among the worst 10 English
municipalities for the proportion of people claiming social
security payments, at 23.6 percent of the working-age
population, and for those defined as economically inactive, at
33.2 percent,  figures from the Office for National Statistics 
show. The  unemployment rate  was 15.1 percent, almost double the
U.K. average. In January, 8 percent of the town’s 16-64-year-
olds received jobless benefits, compared with 4.1 percent in the
U.K. nationally, unadjusted  figures published today  show.  “Dealing with social deprivation is the prerequisite to
economic vitality,” Mallon, who’s in his third term after first
winning election in 2002 as an independent candidate, said in
his office on Feb. 2. He had addressed councilors the evening
before. “The prerequisite to dealing with the deficit is to get
growth. Now clearly the government is finding that hard and
that’s where the argument is.”  At the  Joe Walton Community & Youth Club  in the Berwick
Hills area in east Middlesbrough, where there are the most
deprived council wards in town, chats over 50 pence cups of tea
are all about the threat of spending reductions.  Where Now?  The center, whose origins go back to 1906, runs clubs
ranging from Zumba fitness dancing and boxing to cardiac
rehabilitation and sexual health projects. The café is under
threat, along with its five jobs, and the center is under review
as to what it will be used for in future.  “It’s purely and simply down to budget cuts,” said  Sven
McLean , 59, who has been volunteering at the center for about 40
years and is a member of its management committee. “If it was
to go, then my biggest concern is what happens to young people.
Where do they go? There would be nothing.”  Helen Usher, 37, has been the receptionist at the center
for the past 13 years. She also does the administration after
the previous person in charge took voluntary redundancy last
year, and now reckons everyone employed by the  community center 
will be gone by the end of March.  “I’m absolutely gutted,” said Usher, perched behind her
desk in the building above the Neptune swimming baths. “Even
though the building is still going to be here, you’d walk past
and say Joe Walton’s used to be there. I’ll need to look for
another job, but like this I can’t make arrangements.”  State Dependency  Middlesbrough ranked least resilient to U.K. austerity cuts
in a  survey commissioned  for the British Broadcasting Corp. when
the spending review was announced in 2010 after Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition replaced the  Labour Party  in power.  While Usher is employed by the Joe Walton management board,
the center gets money from the council, said Mallon, who wants
to look at how it can generate more money of its own as he
analyzes the changes in the local economy.  The northeast is the most dependent region on public-sector
employment in England. Four of the seven council areas with the
biggest proportion of employment in public administration,
health and education are in the region, including Middlesbrough.
It had 42.8 percent of  employees in that sector .  Earlier this year, Mallon visited 11 Middlesbrough
companies in two days, including car dealers and clothing stores
employing people not dependent on the state.  No Confidence  “They were all saying the same thing: People have got the
money, but they won’t part with the money because they haven’t
got the confidence,” Mallon said. “They might not have the
money in six months time.”  Lack of confidence in the economy is the biggest issue,
said Rachel Anderson, head of member relations at the  North East
Chamber of Commerce  in Middlesbrough.  Middlesbrough grew into a town after the  Darlington to
Stockton railway , the world’s oldest public passenger line, was
extended in the early 1830s as mining boomed. A decade later, an
ironworks opened to make rails for Britain’s burgeoning network.
By the latter half of the 19th century, the town was producing
steel later used to make the  Sydney Harbour Bridge .  After World War II, Middlesbrough and surrounding areas on
the Tees River became a hub for chemicals production before the
demise of heavy industry and the town’s fortunes in the 1970s
and 1980s. Chimney stacks still puff out white plumes across the
skyline. Companies with plants in the region include  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp.  and  Dow Chemical Co .  ‘Too Deep’  “Up until now, we very much supported the government’s
efforts to cut the deficit,” Anderson said over tea in her
office at the chamber of commerce. “Where it becomes a little
bit too deep is where it starts to damage the ability of the
economy to recover.”  While the austerity measures won praise from the IMF, the
National Institute for Economic and Social Research said in a
Feb. 3 report the government should consider a stimulus.
Jonathan Portes, director of the institute, said it should spend
at least 15 billion pounds on infrastructure programs.  Anderson cited the cancellation of an upgrade to a stretch
of the A1 road linking with the A66 just south. It was scrapped
by the government following the spending review, the  Highways
Agency  said on its website.  It’s not all doom and gloom, she said.  “A lot of companies, particularly the exporters, will tell
you they’re having record years and doing very well,” Anderson
said. “The issue we have is around confidence. It’s about
perception rather than the reality.”  Different View  The regenerated central square in the town is home to the
14.2 million-pound, glass-fronted  Middlesbrough Institute of
Modern Art , opened in January 2007, and fountains that light up
at night. Opposite are the neo-gothic town hall and its clock
tower, along with the civic center and law courts.  At his office in the municipal complex, Mallon said the
improvements in Middlesbrough have made people look differently
at the town. They include the shuttering of dilapidated housing
and investment in Middlehaven, a former dockyard area of the
town along the Tees river where a new college and apartments
were built over the past three years.  Middlehaven had the lowest life expectancy of any council
ward in England and  Wales , based on 2007 statistics, the most
recent available. Men can expect to live until 64 or 65, at
least 13 years less than the U.K. average, according to  research
published on the council’s website .  Now Mallon, with neat, combed back light grey hair and
precise articulation of a man used to grilling criminals, is
examining Middlesbrough’s future.  “The austerity cuts and the government intervention have
made me look differently and more efficiently,” the former
captain of the British water polo team said before heading to
another meeting. “I could live with the government cutting us,
but I just think it’s a bit too far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Middlesbrough, England, at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  