-- Roche Says Counterfeit Cancer Drug Avastin Being Investigated by U.S. FDA
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-15T21:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/roche-says-fda-is-investigating-counterfeit-cancer-drug-avastin.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is working with
U.S. authorities to determine the source of counterfeit Avastin,
purchased by at least 19 medical practices in the U.S.  Roche and the Food and Drug Administration are seeking to
prevent the fake cancer drug, which doesn’t include the active
ingredient bevacizumab, from being distributed further, the
company’s Genentech unit said in an e-mail late yesterday. The
FDA notified the company about the issue in December, said
Edward Lang, a spokesman for Roche’s South  San Francisco ,
California-based unit.  “We’re working with the FDA, as well as with law
enforcement authorities to aid in their investigation,” Lang
said today in an interview. “We’ve analyzed some of the vials,
we found no therapeutic protein there. So there’s no Avastin,
there’s no generic form of Avastin.”  The labels on the counterfeit medicines aren’t all in
English, and list Basel, Switzerland-based Roche as the
manufacturer, unlike the real version of Avastin sold in the
U.S. which lists  Genentech , the FDA said in a  statement .  The medical practices bought “unapproved cancer
medicines” from Quality Specialty Products, a supplier based
outside the U.S. whose products are distributed by Gainesboro,
Tennessee-based Volunteer Distribution, the FDA said. No one
answered at the telephone number listed for Volunteer
Distribution in a local directory.  Clinic Locations  Most of the medical doctors and clinics that bought the
fake medicines are in  California , with two in  Texas  and one in
 Chicago , according to a  list  from the FDA.  The  Beverly Hills Cancer Center  was one of the practices
that purchased drugs from Quality Specialty Products, which is
also known as Montana Health Care Solutions, the FDA said. The
center is checking its records to see if Avastin was included in
its purchase from the supplier, Tracey Butler, the center’s
director of operations, said in an e-mail.  “We believed that the drugs were legal and approved and
only recently learned from the FDA that some of the drugs may
have been counterfeit or unapproved,” Butler said. “To date,
the center has identified no adverse effects for any of its
patients who may have received drugs purchased from MHS.”  Avastin is approved for colon, lung, kidney and brain
cancer in the U.S., as well as for breast cancer in  Europe .
Sales of the drug fell 18 percent last year to 5.29 billion
Swiss francs ($5.73 billion) from 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The agency said last month it was probing the sale of
unapproved versions of Roche’s cancer drugs Rituxan and
Herceptin, London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Faslodex for breast
cancer and Thousand Oaks, California-based  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s
Neupogen, a drug used to reduce the risk of infection in
chemotherapy patients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  