-- Romney Boosts Michigan Bid Facing Tough Fight in Native State
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/romney-allies-hit-santorum-in-michigan-ads-for-spending-votes.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , seeking to avoid an embarrassing defeat in
Michigan’s Feb. 28 primary, is racing to woo party voters by
taking on two of his home state’s icons: unions and cars.  Romney, the son of an auto company executive-turned-
Michigan governor, has bashed labor bosses at almost every
campaign stop in the state this week, vowing to pass laws making
it harder for workers to organize -- particularly the powerful
United Auto Workers union.  “I’ve taken on union bosses before, and I’m happy to take
them on again,” he told a crowd at an office furniture
warehouse on Feb. 15 in  Grand Rapids , Michigan. “I sure won’t
give into the UAW.”  Romney also has been citing unions as a major reason for
his opposition to the federal bailouts of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC -- a position he spelled out in a widely
publicized Feb. 14  column  in the  Detroit News .  Romney’s message is designed to undermine Santorum’s
support among Tea Party-oriented voters who dislike government
involvement in business -- even when popular with other segments
of the public. Romney, 64, is also trying to rebrand himself as
a committed fiscal conservative and refute criticism that he
changes positions for political gain.  In Michigan, though, it’s a strategy that carries risk.  ‘Desperate in Michigan’  “He has little to gain from a frontal assault on the UAW
and something to lose,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor
at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “Romney appears
desperate in Michigan.”  Union membership in the state is on the rise, bucking the
national trend. Last year, 18.3 percent of the Michigan
workforce was represented by a union, up from 17.3 percent in
2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .
Nationwide, union membership was 11.8 percent, down from 11.9
percent in 2010.  More than a quarter of Michigan Republican primary
participants in 2008 were from households that included a union
member, exit polling showed. Romney, the former governor of
Massachusetts, won that primary in his failed bid four years ago
for the presidential nomination.  In his current race, he stresses his support for right-to-
work legislation that would bar agreements making union
membership and payment of dues a job requirement.  “We’re to make it a level playing field,” he told a
roundtable discussion of self-described Tea Party activists in
Monroe, Michigan, yesterday. “We’re going to have right to
work.”  Governor Demurs  Yet even  Rick Snyder , the fiscally conservative Republican
governor of  Michigan  who endorsed Romney yesterday, has made
clear he won’t take up right-to-work legislation in the state
anytime soon, saying he considers other issues more pressing.  Other Romney backers similarly shy away from the issue.  “I can’t go there,” said Jack Kirksey, mayor of Livonia,
Michigan, when asked about right-to-work legislation.  Snyder last night also said he would rather the auto
bailout not be an issue in the campaign.  “I don’t view it as a good discussion to have, but it’s
going to happen,” he told reporters after addressing a party
dinner in Novi, Michigan. “You’re armchair quarterbacking.”  Santorum, whose wins in three states last week made him the
main alternative to Romney in the nomination race, is taking a
softer line on unions as he casts himself as the Republican
candidate best able to appeal to blue-collar Rust Belt voters.  Private-Sector Unions  Speaking in  Detroit  yesterday, the former U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania  voiced his support for private-sector unions,
citing a grandfather who was treasurer of his coal mining union.  “The fact that his grandson is running as a conservative
Republican is probably causing quite a few flips in the grave
for him,” Santorum said.  Michigan, where Romney was born and raised, should have
been a slam-dunk for him. Instead, polls show Santorum, 53,
gaining support, buoyed by backing from Tea Partiers and
evangelical Christians following his victories in the Feb. 7
contests in Colorado, Missouri and Minnesota.  A Detroit News-WDIV  poll  released yesterday put Santorum
ahead in the state, 34 percent to 30.4 percent. The telephone
poll of 500 likely Republican primary voters was conducted Feb.
11-13 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage
points.  Romney supporters see attacking Santorum’s record on labor
issues as a way to regain ground.  Big Labor’s Favorite  His campaign has tagged Santorum as “big labor’s favorite
senator,” citing his 1996 Senate vote against a national right
to work law.  The attack “will resonate very strongly in the Republican
primary,” said Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, the
state chairman of Romney’s campaign. “That appeals to
conservative Republicans.”  Romney pressed his case last night in  Ohio , one of the 11
states conducting nomination contests on March 6.  In a speech at a Republican Party dinner in Mayfield
Heights, Ohio, Romney accused President Barack Obama of
“stacking” the  National Labor Relations Board  with “union
stooges.”  “Unions have an important role to play,” he said. “But
some of the union bosses get things wrong, and I’m concerned
when I watch a president kowtow to the union bosses.”  While joining Romney in opposing the auto bailout, Santorum
is trying to use the issue to his advantage. In his speech
yesterday to the Detroit Economic Club, he sought to draw a
distinction between his stance and that of Romney’s.  Wall Street vs. Detroit  “Governor Romney supported the bailout of  Wall Street  and
decided not to support the bailout of Detroit,” he said,
referring to the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program aimed at
financial institutions. “My feeling was the government should
not be involved in bailouts, period. That’s a much more
consistent position.”  Santorum’s comments and Romney’s explanation earlier this
week of his position on the auto bailout came amid signs of the
industry’s revival.  GM yesterday announced earnings of $9.19 billion in 2011,
the largest profit in its 103-year history. Also, the company’s
global sales rose 7.6 percent last year to 9.03 million to
outpace Toyota Motor Corp. as the world’s top-selling automaker.
GM shares gained 9 percent to $27.17 at the close in  New York .  Santorum in his speech noted that the federal financial
help was started under President  George W. Bush  toward the end
of his tenure in 2008.  “I actually blame President Bush more than I do President
Obama,” Santorum said. “President Obama was just following
suit.”  Out of Office  Santorum lost his bid for a third Senate term in 2006, and
so wasn’t in Congress when lawmakers dealt with the bailout
requests as the U.S. grappled with the worst economic downturn
since the Great Depression.  The other remaining Republican presidential contenders --
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas  -- haven’t actively campaigned in Michigan.
Gingrich spent yesterday in the Los Angeles area, while Paul
held rallies in Idaho and Washington state.  Also yesterday,  CNN  canceled a debate among the candidates
scheduled for March 1 in Georgia, another of the states with a
March 6 contest.  The Romney campaign had announced he wouldn’t participate
in the debate, saying in a statement he would be “campaigning
in other parts of the country.” CNN, in announcing the
cancellation, said Paul’s campaign also declined an invitation
to the gathering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Farmington Hills, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Detroit, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  