-- Romney Pressed to Check Santorum’s Momentum in Must-Win Michigan
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-15T22:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/romney-under-pressure-to-check-santorum-momentum-in-must-win-michigan-race.html
For  Mitt Romney  and Rick Santorum,
Michigan may be their political Gettysburg. If Romney loses in
his native state, where his father was governor, it would be a
defeat from which he might not recover.  The makeup of the Republican electorate, which is likely to
be one-third Catholic and opposed to abortion, will help
Santorum offset the allegiance Romney draws from supporters who
delivered his 2008 presidential primary win over John McCain.  Anything short of a win in the Feb. 28 primary would be an
embarrassment for Romney’s presidential ambitions.  “It would be a huge disappointment to Romney if he doesn’t
win this state by a substantial margin,” said  Bill Ballenger ,
editor of the  Inside Michigan Politics  newsletter. “If he blows
this, he’s really in trouble.”  This may be Santorum’s best chance to derail the candidate
who Republicans perceived as having a better shot to win the
nomination and challenge President  Barack Obama  in November
because of an advantage in money and organization.  Romney, 64, won the state’s primary four years ago with 39
percent of the vote, defeating McCain, the party’s eventual
nominee. He was born in the state and even showcased his roots
here by  announcing  his first presidential bid five years ago
this week from the  Henry Ford Museum  in Dearborn.  Santorum, 53, has said his campaign will “plant our flag”
in Michigan in the coming weeks, following victories in three
state caucuses on Feb. 7. He’s scheduled to speak tomorrow to
the  Detroit  Economic Club and to a county gathering of
Republicans in suburban Detroit, near Romney’s boyhood home.  Battleground State  Michigan , a battleground state in the general election, was
an obvious choice for the former Pennsylvania senator to place a
greater emphasis than Arizona, which will also hold a primary on
Feb. 28. Both states will help determine who has the momentum
heading into 11 state contests on March 6, a day known as Super
Tuesday because more than 400 delegates of the 1,144 needed for
the nomination are at stake then.  Santorum’s fellow Catholics made up almost a third of
Michigan’s Republican primary electorate in 2008, according to
 entrance polls  at the time. Romney’s fellow Mormons, who showed
loyalty to him in the Feb. 4 Nevada caucuses, represented 11
percent of the  vote  in  Arizona ’s primary four years ago.  While Santorum needs to collect enough campaign cash to
stay competitive, he probably will benefit from a surge in
support from conservatives outraged by Obama’s decision to force
insurance companies to pay for contraceptives for employees of
religious-affiliated institutions.  Anti-Abortion Stance  The Catholic Church bans contraception and abortion, and
Santorum has made his faith and anti-abortion rights stance
central to his political career. While Romney also stresses his
opposition to abortion rights, he backed them during his
campaigns for the  U.S. Senate  in  Massachusetts  in 1994 and
successful run for governor in 2002.  “Santorum’s trump card is social and cultural issues, and
Romney can’t get to the right of Santorum on those,” Ballenger
said. “Michigan has one of the strongest right-to-life
organizations in the country.”  Last year, state lawmakers passed a law banning so-called
partial-birth abortions and some are  pushing  more anti-abortion
legislation this year, including a “Choose Life” fundraising
license plate and a ban on the procedure after 20 weeks of
pregnancy. Almost two-thirds of state lawmakers are endorsed by
an anti-abortion group called  Right to Life of Michigan .  Contrast to Romney  Santorum also has talked about his working-class background
and the importance of manufacturing. He often mentions a
grandfather who worked in  Pennsylvania ’s coal mines.  That contrasts with Romney’s upscale Michigan upbringing.
He was born in Detroit’s  Harper University Hospital  -- a point
he made in an  opinion piece  he wrote for yesterday’s Detroit
News about his opposition to the federal government’s 2009
automotive industry bailout -- although he spent the bulk of his
childhood among the mansions of suburban Bloomfield Hills.  His boyhood home is set along a secluded and heavily wooded
section of town, adjacent to the  Bloomfield Hills Country Club .
The area was quiet yesterday except for maintenance workers and
cleaners coming and going. The home is less than a mile from the
elite  Cranbrook School  that Romney attended.  Romney’s campaign today announced the endorsement of former
Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox, former state Senate Majority
Leader Mike Bishop and other state legislators.  Movement in Polls  Michigan polls have shown large movements in the race,
mostly in Santorum’s direction.  A  survey  by Raleigh, North Carolina-based Public Policy
Polling showed Santorum leading Romney, 39 percent to 24
percent, among likely primary voters. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  was at 12 percent, while former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  recorded 11 percent. The poll, taken Feb. 10-12, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.  The primary is open, which will let independents and
Democrats cast Republican ballots.  Although the Santorum and Romney campaigns both started
running television advertising in Michigan yesterday, Romney
will have the financial advantage because he has been a more
successful fundraiser during the past year.  His campaign and its allies have shown a willingness to
flood the airwaves with negative ads, a strategy that helped him
overcome Gingrich’s lead in  Florida  to win the state’s Jan. 31
primary by 14 percentage points.  PAC Spending  Through Feb. 12, a political action committee that backs
Romney, Restore Our Future, had spent more than $246,000 in
Michigan, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG, a New York-based
company that tracks advertising. The ads have run in television
markets across the state, and the PAC plans to spend at least
twice that much in the next week.  George Romney, the candidate’s deceased father, was a chief
executive at the now-defunct American Motors Corp. and was the
state’s governor during much of the 1960s.  “Mitt’s well-known through the state, obviously, and will
play well through the state, but I think that Newt, Ron Paul and
 Rick Santorum  will have messages that will gain them delegates
in congressional districts,” Bobby Schostak, the Republican
Party chairman in Michigan, told reporters in  Washington  on Feb.
8. “It’ll be a fight, and I think Romney will do well, but I
also think the others have an opportunity.”  Schostak noted that Michigan will award the bulk of its 30
delegates by congressional district, which will encourage the
candidates to tailor their appeals around the state.  Santorum has stressed a proposal to zero out the federal
 tax rate  for manufacturers, a notion that could be popular in
Michigan, where workers have been hit by downsizing and the
 unemployment rate  is 9.3 percent.  ‘Natural Territory’  Michael Traugott, a political science professor at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said he expects Santorum
will campaign extensively in western Michigan, where more
Republicans focus on social issues such as abortion.  “That is natural territory for Santorum because of the
doubts about Romney’s conservative bona fides,” Traugott said.  Romney, a former business executive, did well in that area
in 2008 when he presented himself as a more conservative
alternative to McCain.  Michigan’s Republican governor,  Rick Snyder , has  said  he
plans to endorse a presidential candidate in the next week.
Geralyn Lasher, his communications director, said he wasn’t
available for an interview.  Auto Bailout  Obama, who defeated McCain in Michigan in 2008 by 57
percent to 41 percent, has visited the state to make the case
that his decision to bail out two of the big three automakers
benefited workers across the industrial Midwest.  Still, the federal government’s lifeline to the  auto
industry  may not be fodder for much debate in the state until
the general election, since both Romney and Santorum opposed it.  “I don’t think it will be an issue in the primary at
all,” said David Doyle, a Lansing-based Republican strategist.  More than a quarter of Michigan Republican primary
participants in 2008 were from households that included a union
member, exit polling  showed .  With 9.9 million residents, Michigan is the nation’s
eighth-most populous state. Its  population  dropped about half a
percentage point between 2000 and 2010 -- making it the only
state to show a net loss during the decade -- as manufacturing
job cuts meant workers moved elsewhere.  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index shows a
state in decline since Obama took office, when compared with
other state economies. The data shows Michigan’s economic health
fell 1.3 percent since the first quarter of 2009, when Obama
took office, to the third quarter of last year, including a 13.7
percent decline in  home prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  