-- Rousseff Cuts Spending By $32 Billion to Meet Brazil’s 2012 Budget Targets
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-15T18:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/rousseff-cuts-spending-by-32-billion-to-meet-brazil-s-2012-budget-targets.html
Brazil  will cut 55 billion reais
($32 billion) from this year’s budget to allow interest rates to
fall, while increasing investment to boost growth in the world’s
second-biggest emerging market.  The Planning Ministry, in a statement, said that the
spending cuts from the 2012 budget approved by Congress would be
spread across several ministries including a 3.3 billion reais
reduction on defense and a 5.5 billion reais decrease on health
care. Anti-poverty programs and public investment projects,
including construction of low-income housing, will not be
affected, the ministry said.  The size of the cut will allow interest rates to fall and
enable President  Dilma Rousseff  to meet the  targeted   budget
surplus  before interest payments this year of 139.8 billion
reais without sacrificing public investment, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said.  “With lower rates, the country will grow more,” Mantega
said at a press conference to announce the spending reductions.
“It is a big cut that allows us to meet the fiscal target with
ease.”  Yields on interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 fell four basis points to 9.27 percent at 4:16 p.m.
local time. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.7215 per  U.S.
dollar .  The revised budget assumes economic growth of 4.5 percent
and inflation of 4.7 percent this year, Mantega said.  World Cup  The government aims to fuel growth by boosting spending on
infrastructure ahead of the 2014 World Cup, coupled with tax
breaks and lower  interest rates . Investments this year will rise
11 percent over 2011, Mantega said.  The cut was in line with expectations and should be
sufficient to meet budget targets, Carlos Kawall, chief
economist with Banco J. Safra SA, said.  “It’s coherent with the government’s objective of a
primary surplus within the target,” Kawall said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo . “What’s important is that current expenditure
remains under control. That’s the main point, in terms of the
quality of the fiscal result.”  The central bank said last month there is a “high
probability” the overnight rate will fall below 10 percent this
year. The bank’s interest rate outlook assumes the government
will meet its primary surplus target. Since August, policy
makers have reduced the Selic rate by 200 basis points to 10.50
percent.  Brazilian consumer prices rose by 0.56 percent in January,
the fastest pace in nine months, while annual inflation slowed
to 6.22 percent.  Fiscal Restraint  Last year, the government met its primary surplus target,
equal to about 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, after
Rousseff froze federal hiring and cut 50 billion reais from her
initial budget proposal.  Credit Suisse said in a Feb. 3 report it was more probable
that the government would meet its fiscal target if it reduced
the 2012 budget by 60 billion reais.  The government has said infrastructure investment of 140
billion reais will be needed to host the  World Cup  and the 2016
Olympics.  The Finance Ministry estimates that GDP grew 3 percent last
year despite a contraction in the third quarter that was the
first in more than two years.  Rousseff’s spending plans, coupled with additional rate
cuts, will push inflation over the 4.5 percent target this year,
a central bank survey of economists shows.  Consumer prices will rise 5.29 percent this year and 5
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate of about 100
analysts in a Feb. 10 bank survey.  Traders are wagering policy makers will reduce the
 benchmark rate  to 10 percent next month and to at least 9.25
percent by August, interest rate futures show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  