-- Trump Hair Is Real, Says ‘Apprentice’ Star Andretti: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/trump-hair-is-real-says-apprentice-star-andretti-interview.html
When Michael Andretti started taping
the  “Celebrity Apprentice”  season last October, he did so on
24 hours’ notice.  He was a stand-in for his son, Marco, who the day before,
Oct. 16, was involved in a 15-car crash at the Las Vegas Motor
Speedway that claimed the life of 2011 Indy 500 winner Dan Wheldon.  Marco, 24, was too shaken to travel to New York, so his dad
stepped in.  “I was thrown to the lions,” says Andretti, 49. “It was
literally off the plane, put on a mic and ‘Here ya go!’ I didn’t
even know what the task was.”  Fans won’t know how Andretti’s luck plays out until the
U.S. television season starts, as secrecy is paramount, but from
a conversation with the racing driver and IndyCar team owner,
it’s clear that he survives the first episode, airing on Feb.
19. Other contestants in a cast of 18 include Clay Aiken, Cheryl
Tiegs and Arsenio Hall.  I hope Andretti has better luck than in his decades of
racing at Indianapolis. He has led more laps there than any
driver who hasn’t won the race -- 431, or 1,078 miles. His
family hasn’t fared much better. The great Mario Andretti, his
father, won only once at Indy (1969) in 29 starts, and son Marco
lost as a rookie in 2006 by 6 hundredths of a second to Sam Hornish Jr., one of the closest races in Indy 500 history.  Tough Tapings  Clash: What are “Celebrity Apprentice” tapings like?  Andretti: They did 14 episodes. The whole deal is around 30
days, one show every two days. It was draining. We filmed nine
hours a day, nonstop, no breaks. We were here in New York, but
we may as well have been on a remote island; we had no contact
with anybody. I couldn’t even talk to my race team. We would all
sit there, look at each other and say, “How stupid are we?
We’re not even getting paid. And we’re really putting in the
effort.” We wouldn’t do this much in our regular jobs (laughs).  Clash: How is  Donald Trump  to work with?  Andretti: He’s fine, but he’s all business. He’ll call it
the way it is in the boardroom, and it’s hard to argue with what
he says. It might tick you off, but it’s like, “He does have a
point.”  Clash: How about his hair?  Andretti: It’s unique. I know it’s real. I saw the Barbara Walters interview. He’s just got a good comb-over thing going.  Clash: Which contestants did you get along best with?  Andretti: You watch personalities change as time goes on.
Some are fakes, then the real stuff comes out. I didn’t go in
with a facade, so what you see is what you get. Dee Snider
(Twisted Sister), Penn (Jillette) from Penn & Teller and Arsenio
(Hall) are all cool guys. Clay (Aiken) was good, but he had his
own mission so you had to watch him. Lou Ferrigno to your face
was nice, but he’d throw you under the bus in the boardroom.  Finish Line  Clash: Let’s talk racing. You’ve finished second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth in the Indy 500, but
never won!  Andretti: I don’t have any ill-will toward Indianapolis.
But you do scratch your head. Of all the tracks on the racing
circuit, Indy is one that suits my style. I dominated so much
there. Why couldn’t I get to the end (in front)? It just wasn’t
meant to be. If that’s all I have to deal with, I’m blessed. I
watched my dad lose friends. Me and dad, we are two lucky guys.
Even though we were sometimes unlucky at the finish, we got
through our careers safely. Dad maybe missed two races. I didn’t
miss any. There’s some luck or something there.  Cruel Sport  Clash: When Wheldon was killed, how did it hit you?  Andretti: We had agreed right before Vegas -- a handshake
deal -- that Dan would drive for us this year, replacing Danica
(Patrick). We were to sign the contract after the race. So it
was hard. That’s the cruel side of our sport. It’s there, and
always will be. Anybody who thinks different is fooling
themselves. At 220 miles per hour, when something goes wrong,
don’t be surprised if something like that happens. It bothers me
a little that everybody has sensationalized it. A guy like Dan
would have been first to say, “Get your butts back in the seat.
I knew what I was getting into.”  Clash: Your thoughts on  Andretti Autosport  losing Danica
Patrick to Nascar?  ‘We Wish Her Luck’  Andretti: Our team did a lot to help Danica. We got her her
first win (at Motegi,  Japan , in 2008), gave her credibility,
made her competitive. When Nascar came along she lost focus, and
her results showed it. We wish her luck.  I’m not going to get in the way of a driver wanting to do
something else. There was life before Danica, and there’s life
after.  I also think Danica’s effect on IndyCar has been played
out. We’ve gained fans from her, but we won’t lose them all when
she goes. Once you follow IndyCar, you follow not just Danica
but the other guys too. So I don’t think it’s going to be as big
a deal as everybody says. It’s just business.  Clash: Indy 500 champ Helio Castroneves won “Dancing With
the Stars” in 2007. You interested in that show?  Andretti: I could never do what Helio did. I admire him,
but there’s no freaking way. If “Dancing” comes knocking, it
ain’t happening!  (James M. Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James M. Clash, in  New York , at  jclash@explorers.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 