-- Rupiah Erases Loss as China Pledges to Help Europe; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-02-15T10:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/rupiah-weakens-for-second-day-as-greece-deters-risk-taking.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah erased an earlier
loss after  China  said it will help resolve Europe’s debt crisis,
bolstering demand for emerging-market assets. Government bonds
advanced.  The currency halted a slide toward the lowest level in
almost a month after the People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  pledged today to invest in Europe’s bailout fund to
help ease the region’s debt crisis.  “The market always welcomes reassurances about China’s
participation in the Europe situation,” said Sim Moh Siong, a
currency strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “The immediate
concern is still the Greek issue. China’s firepower will be
useful at a later stage.”  The rupiah traded at 9,032 per dollar as of 4:49 p.m. in
Jakarta, versus 9,030 yesterday, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency earlier lost as much
as 0.5 percent and touched 9,130 yesterday, the weakest level
since Jan. 18.  China, which holds the world’s largest foreign-exchange
reserves of $3.18 trillion, has previously signaled it wants to
diversify the holdings away from dollar-based assets. The
government is considering options for the Europe bailout fund
through the  International Monetary Fund , Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
on Feb. 2.  Bonds Advance  The yield on the 9 percent bond due September 2018 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.76 percent,
according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.
The rate is the lowest since the government sold the notes in
September 2007.  Indonesia sold 2.2 trillion rupiah ($243 million) worth of
Islamic bonds on Feb. 14, attracting 7.1 trillion rupiah of bids,
according to the finance ministry’s debt management office.  Bank
Indonesia  unexpectedly cut its  reference rate  by 25 basis points
to 5.75 percent on Feb. 9. Inflation slowed for a fifth straight
month in January to 3.65 percent, and the central bank kept its
inflation target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent for 2012 and 2013.  “The rate-hike cycle appears to have come to an end for
most Asian countries, and a shift to accommodative monetary
policies in the near term will provide upside potential to
 government bonds ,” said Chia-Liang Lian, the Singapore-based
head of investment management for Asia excluding Japan at
Western Asset Management Co. Lian said he favors the rupiah
among his Asian currency bets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  