-- Russian Vote Monitor Says It’s Forced to Move Before March Vote
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-15T14:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/russian-vote-monitor-says-it-s-forced-to-move-before-march-vote.html
A Russian vote-monitoring group said
it’s been forced to vacate its offices ahead of the March 4
presidential election, in which Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
seeking to return to the Kremlin.  The landlord, the Literaturnaya Gazeta publisher, required
Golos to leave the premises by Feb. 15 even though the group has
a valid lease until August, Olga Novosad, a spokeswoman for the
watchdog, said by phone today.  “This is obviously linked to our activities,” Novosad
said. “It will seriously complicate things for us.”
Literaturnaya Gazeta wasn’t available to comment immediately.  Tens of thousands of people have protested in Russian
cities since December parliamentary elections, with the
opposition accusing Putin’s ruling United Russia party of
inflating its score from 30 percent to about 50 percent. Putin,
59, needs more than half the vote to win the presidency in the
first round. The prime minister, who was president from 2000 to
2008, is running for a new six-year term.  Golos, which receives funding from the U.S. government and
the European Union, monitored polling in about half of Russian
regions in the Dec. 4 polls. The group came under pressure
before the vote, as prosecutors fined it for violations of
electoral law, while its head was detained at a Moscow airport
and her laptop confiscated.  Putin pledged honest elections in March when asked in
December what he can offer the country as New Year’s gift, after
saying he doesn’t need “any manipulation” to win. The prime
minister in November said foreign powers were seeking to
intervene in elections by financing civil-society groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  