-- Russia Open to UN Role to Put End to Syria Violence, Russia’s Lavrov Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-15T19:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/russia-open-to-un-role-to-put-end-to-syria-violence-russia-s-lavrov-says.html
The  United Nations  can play a role
in bringing the Syrian conflict to a halt as long as outside
intervention isn’t imposed and opposition fighters also agree to
a cease-fire, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  Russia is willing to talk about establishing a so-called
“humanitarian corridor” in Syria when foreign ministers meet
in Vienna tomorrow, Lavrov told reporters in the Austrian
capital. A corridor for aid to be delivered to embattled cities
has been proposed by Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu ,
Milliyet newspaper reported yesterday.  “Intervention from the outside won’t solve this problem,”
Lavrov said today. His comments, made in Russian, were
translated into German. “Only intensive dialogue within Syria
will bring about a solution.”  Russia and  China  vetoed a UN  Security Council  resolution on
Feb. 4 that was supported by the Arab League and aimed at
installing a transitional government in Syria, to be followed by
elections. Syria’s army has intensified attacks since the
resolution was vetoed, deploying tanks and armored vehicles and
using heavy artillery and machine guns, according to activists.  Lavrov, who met with President Bashar al-Assad Feb. 8 in
Damascus, said it “isn’t impossible” that the Syrian leader
would resign voluntarily if all parties involved in the conflict
chose to negotiate. Some opposition leaders are refusing to
talk, he said.  ‘Political Pluralism’  Assad today called a referendum on a new constitution for
Feb. 26. The draft document, published by the Syrian Arab  News
Agency , promises “political pluralism” and democratic
elections and limits presidents to two seven-year terms. Assad’s
Baath party has had a monopoly in politics since it banned
opposition groups after seizing power in a 1963 coup.  Assad promised constitutional changes last year after
protests against his government broke out in mid-March. The UN
estimated that more than 5,400 people had been killed in Syria
as of Jan. 10.  “This isn’t a constitution that has been voted on by an
elected assembly, it’s been created by Baathist bureaucrats and
presented for a referendum to the public,” said Chris Phillips,
a lecturer in international relations specializing in the  Middle
East  at Queen Mary College in  London . “Right from the word go
it’s not even in the spirit of open multiparty politics.”  Peacekeeping Force  The  Arab League  has called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force. The league said on Feb. 12 it will ask the
Security Council to authorize a joint mission to supervise
implementation of a cease-fire, to replace an Arab League
observation mission that was suspended as violence against
protesters continued. Syria has rejected the plan.  The proposed constitution “is not the first proposed
reform from the government during this crisis and it’s unlikely
to be the last,” Phillips said. It’s “highly unlikely to win
over the people who are on the streets demonstrating against
President Assad.”  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe , German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  and United Nations Secretary General
Ban Ki-Moon will join Lavrov tomorrow in Vienna. The ministers
are gathering in the Austrian capital to discuss Afghan opium
production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  