-- Samsung May Separate Its LCD Business Amid Shift to More Profitable Panels
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-15T08:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/samsung-electronics-considers-separating-lcd-business-amid-shift-to-oled.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it is
considering separating its liquid-crystal-display operations as
the world’s largest television maker shifts focus to more
profitable next-generation panels.  The company made the comments in a regulatory filing today
after being asked by the stock exchange to respond to media
reports about the plan.  Chosun Ilbo  reported yesterday the LCD
business may be merged into Samsung Mobile Display, a venture
set up by Samsung Electronics and Samsung SDI Co. to make
organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, panels.  Samsung’s LCD business had an operating loss of 750 billion
won ($668 million) last year amid slowing TV sales. Merging the
LCD and OLED operations will help the  company  expand its next-
generation display business by utilising LCD-manufacturing
resources to boost OLED production, according to Korea
Investment & Securities Co. and Hanwha Securities Co.  “The logic of combining LCD and OLED businesses is quite
persuasive,” Ahn Seong Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Hanwha
wrote in a report today. “Samsung’s leadership in growing the
OLED market will significantly be boosted.”  Samsung rose 5.1 percent to 1,135,000 won at the close of
trading in  Seoul , while the benchmark Kospi index gained 1.1
percent.  OLED Televisions  While OLED displays are mostly used in mobile devices
including Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones, the Suwon, South Korea-
based company and its closest rival  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  are
looking to use the technology in televisions, with a plan to
start selling OLED sets as early as this year. The new models
can be wafer thin and produce richer colors than LCD TVs.  The  OLED display market  may grow to more than $20 billion
by 2018, accounting for about 16 percent of the overall panel
industry, from an estimated $4 billion in 2011, according to
 Santa Clara , California-based DisplaySearch.  Samsung plans to spend 6.6 trillion on its display business
this year, the company said last month. While the company didn’t
elaborate on how the money will be spent, investment in LCDs
won’t be “significant,” Robert Yi, senior vice president for
 investor relations , said on a conference call after the release
of fourth-quarter earnings in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  