-- Saudi Papers Backs Russian, Chinese Goods Boycott in Middle East
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-02-15T15:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/saudi-papers-backs-russian-chinese-goods-boycott-in-middle-east.html
Two Saudi newspapers supported a
boycott of Russian and Chinese products after the two countries
vetoed a United Nations  Security Council  Resolution aiming to
end the 11-month conflict in  Syria .  The English-language Saudi Gazette and al-Sharq newspapers
in the  Eastern Province  printed opinion pieces backing the
boycott. The endorsement came after Sheikh Saleh Luhaidan,
former chairman of the Supreme Judiciary Council of  Saudi
Arabia , called on Gulf oil producers to stop selling oil to
 Russia  and China, according to a Feb. 7 statement published on
the online newspaper  al-Marsd .  “Various groups in the kingdom were reported to have
launched a campaign to boycott Russian and Chinese products to
send a message to the two countries that Arabs do not approve of
their veto decision,” the  Saudi Gazette  wrote in an editorial
today. “We hope that the campaign will catch fire not only in
the kingdom but also in other countries, Arab and non-Arab
alike.”  Russia and  China  vetoed UN Security Council resolution on
Feb. 4 that aimed to facilitate a political solution to the
conflict that had killed more than 5,400 people by Jan. 10,
according to UN estimates. Since then, President Bashar al- Assad’s security forces have stepped up use of tanks and
artillery to end the conflict, moving it toward a civil war.  ‘Shameful Position’  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah said Feb. 10 that the world’s
confidence in the UN was “shaken” after the Russian and
Chinese veto. The kingdom has joined other Gulf Arab countries
in seeking to isolate the Assad government. The Gulf Cooperation
Council’s six members announced on Feb. 7 that they were
expelling Syrian ambassadors from their capitals and withdrawing
their own envoys.  The  Arab League , which has imposed sanctions on Syria and
backed the UN resolution calling for an interim government, on
Feb. 12 said it will ask the Security Council to authorize a
joint mission to supervise a cease-fire. Syria “categorically”
opposes an international peacekeeping mission, Interfax news
agency said citing its ambassador to Russia, Riad Haddad.  The calls for a boycott are reminiscent of the rejection of
Danish products in 2008 after Danish newspapers reprinted
cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. Saudi shopkeepers and
consumers stopped selling and buying Danish goods in response.  “Even if our boycott will not affect the shameful position
of China and Russia, this will definitely support the morale of
the revolutionaries when they feel Muslims standing by them,”
Abdul Rahman al-Bakry wrote in an opinion piece published in  al-
Sharq  on Feb. 14.  “All Arabs and Muslim nations should boycott the products
of these two countries in support of the Syrians,” Hammam
Saeed, the head of Jordan’s Muslim Brotherhood, said in a
statement posted on the movement’s website. “Vetoing the United
Nations decision is considered an involvement in the bloodshed
in Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ; Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
   mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  