-- Saxon & Parole Grills $18 Burger, Pours Spicy Manhattan: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/saxon-parole-serves-ghastly-32-branzino-decent-18-burger-ryan-sutton.html
Saxon & Parole isn’t just another
American chophouse. It’s where  New Yorkers  become unwitting
participants in blind beverage tastings.  Shortly after I put in a drink order, a waitress approached
our table with a tray of half-filled wine glasses. She placed
one in front of me and left. Not a word was spoken.  There was no bottle to verify the accuracy of the pour, no
opportunity to ask about the grape blend or the winery; the
server bolted before I could utter a question.  The drink was slightly sweet, with little body or acid. It
neither added nor detracted from my under-salted short rib, all
of its flavor and succulence braised away for a punishing $44.  What I ordered was a Syrah from  Long Island ’s  Bedell
Cellars . Is that what I got? Who knows? It was just another $16
glass of red at a crowded New York hotspot.  Such a transactional style of delivery one might expect
from the UPS man, not at a restaurant charging $22 for an
 Archipel  cabernet sauvignon or $25 for a flute of  Ayala Brut
Majeur . You become suspicious when they don’t even offer a
standard taste before making you buy one of those wallet
drainers.  Steak Burger  Order a $14  Four Graces  pinot noir for some acid balance
(and pray you get the right wine). Or muscle up and knock back a
spicy  Manhattan  “on draught” and the $18 burger; Saxon’s beef
blend eats like steak, with a hefty chew, gamy tang and a fried
egg to boot. Finish with hearty, heavy doughnuts.  Yes, Saxon & Parole is a decent enough place to fortify
your winter fat reserve, especially if you’re eyeing that plate
of sharp cheddar, pistachio-studded pork pate and Mangalitsa ham
($29). But we expect better food and service from the
impresarios behind Michelin-starred Public.  AvroKO  are the backers. They’re the restaurant group and
design firm that helped pioneer that industrial-chic look around
town.  Saxon & Parole replaced the team’s ill-fated Double Crown,
which closed last year. The new spot is a looker. Barnyard
browns glow; there’s a candle-lit fireplace room for families;
black banquettes downstairs are for first dates, birthday
parties.  No Free Transfer  On arriving, some guests are offered coat check. Others
aren’t. When your table is ready, about 15 minutes past the
reservation time, you vie to flag down the bartender, because
the host won’t transfer any checks.  Slurp a Blue Point oyster and you might find yourself
grinding bits of shell and sand. Chef Brad Farmerie phones in
his razor clams; they’re doused with so much diced egg and mushy
caviar that it’s hard to detect any bivalve.  So start with oversize miso-glazed marrow bones. The sweet
fat practically smears itself over brioche toast. House-made
rolls with foie gras butter are great too, when the kitchen
remembers to send them out.  Chicken liver pate has an addictive creaminess. Sugary
portobello mousse tastes like a barely savory mushroom dessert.
Marshmallow-spiked carrot soup somehow keeps its cloying
tendencies in check; order it for gingery warmth.  Do not order the ghastly, $32 branzino, which is light on
meat and heavy on soggy panko stuffing. A $29 pork chop chewed
like cardboard and tasted chemical. Strip steak suffered from
timid seasoning, blandness, too-thin slicing and undercooking.
That’s a $49 flop.  Lobster ($38-$45) is tender and succulent, though sports
none of the promised chili butter flavor.  Skeptics might skip dessert by this point but that would be
a mistake. A fluffy chocolate souflee or the spicy Dickensian
Christmas pudding served with hard sauce help erase the spirits
of entrees past.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Around 75, not onerous.  Date Place: For cocktails and charcuterie? Sure.  Inside Tip: Decent burger; skip the sweet bacon.  Special feature: Nuanced beet and tequila cocktail.  Back on My Own Dime? Nah.  Saxon & Parole is at 316 Bowery, near Bleecker Street.
Information: +1-212-254-0350 or  http://saxonandparole.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 