-- Seoul Mayor to Join Main Opposition Party as Elections Near
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-02-15T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/seoul-mayor-to-join-main-opposition-party-as-elections-near-2-.html
Seoul  Mayor Park Won Soon will join
 South Korea ’s main opposition party as the ruling camp lags in
opinion polls ahead of key elections this year.  Park will join the Democratic United Party, the DUP said in
a statement on its website, without specifying a date. Seoul
government spokesman Yoon Jong Jang confirmed the mayor’s plan
in a telephone call, without providing further details.  Park won the Seoul mayoral election as an independent in
October, dealing a blow to the ruling party ahead of elections
for parliament in April and for president in December. He
criticized President  Lee Myung Bak ’s policy of disengagement
with North Korea, and tapped public discontent over a widening
wealth gap and rising inflation.  Support for Lee’s recently renamed New Frontier Party is at
33.9 percent, trailing the DUP’s 35.8 percent, according to the
latest weekly poll conducted by Seoul-based Realmeter between
Feb. 6 and Feb. 10. The survey of 3,750 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  Park is a civil rights lawyer who helped found the  People’s
Solidarity for Participatory Democracy , which helped organize
protests against lifting a ban on U.S. beef imports in 2008. In
2006, he received the  Ramon Magsaysay Award  for Public Service,
given in honor of the former Philippine president.  He has said that the government’s  North Korea  stance
contributed to two deadly attacks in 2010, including the
torpedoing of a South Korean warship that killed 46 sailors.
North Korea denied any involvement in the incident.  With a population of more than 10 million, Seoul accounts
for more than 20 percent of the country’s people and about a
quarter of its $1 trillion economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  