-- Sept. 11 Plotter’s Associate Charged in Gas Station Scheme
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-15T01:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/sept-11-plotter-s-associate-charged-in-u-s-gas-station-scheme.html
The U.S. accused a Pakistani
detainee at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, of conspiring with Sept. 11
mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in plots including a plan to
blow up U.S. gas stations and to assassinate Pakistan’s then-
President  Pervez Musharraf .  The charges against Majid Shoukat Khan, 31, are the first
filed against him in the U.S. Military Commissions system,
according to the office’s website. Khan, who has been held at
Guantanamo since at least 2006, also is charged with aiding the
August 2003 bombing of the J.W. Marriott Hotel in Jakarta,
 Indonesia , an attack also organized in part by Mohammed,
according to a Defense Department statement today.  “Based on these allegations and others outlined in the
charge sheet, Khan is charged with conspiracy, murder and
attempted murder in violation of the law of war, providing
material support for terrorism, and spying,” the department
said. “The charges allege that Khan joined with members of al-
Qaeda in  Pakistan  to plan and prepare attacks against diverse
targets in the  United States , Indonesia and elsewhere after
Sept. 11, 2001.”  Khan lived in Baltimore,  Maryland , from 1996 until he
returned to Karachi, Pakistan, in January 2002 using a
fraudulently obtained travel document, the department said.  Gas Station Plot  The gas station plot involved plans to blow up underground
gasoline storage tanks, the Defense Department said. A version
of a classified 2004 report from the agency’s then-inspector
general, John Helgerson, said that among plots the government
uncovered in an interrogation program that was under scrutiny at
the time was one to “blow up several U.S. gas stations to
create panic and havoc.”  Khan had moved to the U.S. from Pakistan with his family,
graduated from high school there and worked in the family gas
station, according to a June 2008 Defense Department memo
recommending his continued detention at Guantanamo. The memo
cited the detainee’s own account for the information.  Khan was among 14 high-level terrorist suspects identified
in a September 2006 announcement by President  George W. Bush  as
having been transferred to Guantanamo from secret detention
centers run by the Central Intelligence Agency. It was the first
time the administration acknowledged the existence of the CIA
prisons.  Assassinate Musharraf  In the plot to assassinate Musharraf, Khan donned a suicide
vest and sat in a mosque waiting for the then-president.
Musharraf didn’t show up, according to the department statement
today.  Khan returned to Baltimore in March 2002, where he bought a
laptop computer for al-Qaeda and contacted a military recruiter
for materials regarding the U.S. armed services that he planned
to give to Mohammed, the department said. He then returned to
Pakistan and worked directly for Mohammed and others, including
alleged fellow Sept. 11 plotter Ali Abdul al-Aziz Ali.  Khan, “at the direction of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and Ali
Abdul al-Aziz Ali, traveled with his wife in December of 2002
from Pakistan to Bangkok,  Thailand , where he evaded notice by
posing as a tourist,” according to the department.  There he delivered $50,000 from al-Qaeda to a southeast
Asia-based affiliate, which in turn transferred the money to the
alleged terror group Jemaah Islamiyah. That organization used
the money in the Marriott Hotel bombing, according to the
Pentagon. The attack killed 11 people and wounded at least 81
others.  Referring to Panel  Mark Martins, the chief prosecutor for the military
commissions, has recommended the charges be referred to the
panel for trial. The charges are filed in a way that precludes
the death penalty, so the maximum possible punishment is life in
prison.  It’s then up to the retired military officer who serves as
“the convening authority” to determine whether the case will
proceed. He would “designate the commission panel members who
function as jurors,” according to the Pentagon. “The chief
trial judge of the Military Commissions Trial Judiciary would
also detail a military judge to the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  