-- Shanghai Futures Exchange Lowers Gold Margins to Boost Trading
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-15T10:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/shanghai-futures-exchange-lowers-gold-margins-to-boost-trading.html
The  Shanghai  Futures Exchange,
 China ’s biggest metals bourse, lowered the margins on gold for
trading the contract in the final month before its expiry to
boost volumes and attract more investors.  The margin requirement, or the minimum amount of cash that
investors must keep on deposit, will fall to 10 percent from 15
percent from the first trading day of the month before delivery,
the Shanghai exchange said in a  statement  on its website. The
margin is also lowered to 20 percent from 40 percent for the
last two days before the final trading day of the contract.  Margins for contracts are initially set at 7 percent from
the day they are listed on the bourse, according to the
statement. The changes will be effective from March 1.  “The exchange’s move is aimed at boosting trading at a
time when volatility seems to have been tamed,” Zuo Xichao,
manager at Beijing Antaike Information Development Co., said by
phone from Changsha today. “Lower margin requirements will make
these investments easier and more attractive because trading now
requires less money to be locked up.”  Gold futures on the Shanghai exchange gained 3.4 percent in
2011, climbing for the third year, as the escalating debt crisis
in  Europe , slowing economic growth in the U.S. and rising
inflation in China boosted demand. Still the yuan-denominated
gold futures gained less than the 10 percent increase last year
in the spot-delivery gold traded overseas.  The June-delivery contract in Shanghai gained 0.5 percent
to 352.18 yuan a gram today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  