-- Shipping Index Ends Seven Day Rise From Quarter of a Century Low
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-15T15:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/shipping-index-ends-seven-day-rise-from-quarter-of-a-century-low.html
The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
commodity freight costs, ended a seven-day climb from its lowest
level in a quarter of a century as fewer cargoes were available
for shipment.  The index slid 0.4 percent to 731, according to the  Baltic
Exchange . On Feb. 3 it fell to 647, the lowest since August
1986. Hire costs fell for three of the four shipping types
measured by the exchange, a London-based assessor of costs
across more than 50 maritime routes.  Fewer cargoes cut vessel hires for shorter- and longer-term
durations, stalling any gains in rates, ICAP Shipping
International Ltd., a London-based shipbroker, said in an e-
mailed report yesterday. Some owners temporarily withdrew
vessels from trading as rates are below operating costs,  Cantor
Fitzgerald , a New York-based investment bank said on Feb. 13.  Hire costs for the global fleet of more than 8,900 bulk
carriers slid as much as 83 percent this year on the largest
routes, as weather-related port disruptions and slowing Chinese
demand for raw materials curbed trade. The fleet will swell by
11 to 12 percent in 2012, outpacing demand that’s slowing to 5
to 6 percent, according to RS Platou Economic Research, a unit
of R.S. Platou ASA,  Norway ’s biggest shipbroker.  “The supply and demand situation indicates that the fleet
will grow at a higher rate than tonnage demand, resulting in a
further weakening of the market fundamentals,” Platou wrote in
its annual review of the shipping sector, e-mailed today.
“Prospects are again very uncertain, regarding both demand and
supply.”  Daily hire costs for Panamax vessels, the largest that can
transport the Panama Canal, fell 1.3 percent to $8,034 a day.
Supramax ships that transport minerals and grains fell 0.9
percent to $6,758, data from the exchange showed. Handysizes,
the smallest vessels tracked by the index, advanced 0.8 percent
to $5,636.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  