-- Shipping Squeezed as Freight Falls to 25-Year Low, Precious Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-15T15:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/shipping-squeezed-as-freight-falls-to-25-year-low-precious-says.html
Companies hiring ships to haul coal
and other raw materials are adding to financial pressure on
vessel owners by taking advantage of the lowest charter costs in
a quarter of a century, according to  Precious Shipping Pcl. (PSL)   Precious lost business handling logs for a regular client
who was won over by a lower-priced rental accord from a rival
vessel owner, Khalid Hashim, managing director of the Bangkok-
based company, said by e-mail today. Hire rates “barely” cover
operating expenses, leaving owners struggling to repay bank
loans from dwindling reserves, he said.  “Charterers have reveled in their joy at being able to
squeeze the very living daylights out of their ship owner
‘adversaries,’” Hashim said. His company is the largest Thai
carrier of dry-bulk commodities by sea.  Breaches of contracts between owners and ship charterers
are likely, Matt Jamieson, Asia-Pacific head of research at
 Fitch Ratings , said by phone from  Seoul  today. More owners are
in financial distress as a glut of tankers and bulk carriers
overwhelms demand for seaborne cargoes, depressing freight rates
and weighing on cash flows, Fitch said last week.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of commodity shipping
costs, reached the lowest level since August 1986 on Feb. 3.
Average rates for three of the four vessel types the gauge
tracks will be the lowest this year since at least 2003, Oslo-
based investment bank RS Platou Markets AS said this month in a
report that also predicted higher risks of charter defaults.  Payment Halt  Dry-bulk owner Paragon Shipping Inc. said Jan. 30 it ended
a charter agreement 27 months early after Deiulemar Compagnia di
Navigazione SpA stopped paying for a Supramax vessel on long-
duration hire from Jan. 5. The ship was hired out to another
company a week later, statements from Paragon showed.  PT Berlian Laju Tanker,  Indonesia ’s largest shipping
company, said Jan. 26 a unit was declared to have breached loan
conditions and others failed to make payments. China Cosco
Holdings Co. said in August it resolved disputes over 18 dry-
bulk vessels.  Customers who select the cheapest vessels and weakest
owners risk having cargoes caught up in bankruptcy proceedings,
according to Hashim of Precious.  “All we need is one spectacular bankruptcy of a large
shipowner with lots of ships afloat with tons of cargoes
belonging to different receivers all over the world,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  