-- Singapore Private Home Sales Rebound From Two-Year Low on Suburban Demand
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-02-15T07:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/singapore-private-home-sales-rebound-from-two-year-low-on-suburban-demand.html
Singapore’s January private home
sales rebounded from their lowest in two years, boosted by
purchases in the suburban areas of the island state as some
developers offered incentives after government curbs.  Private home sales rose to 1,872 units last month from 632
units in December, the highest since November 2010, according to
data from the  Urban Redevelopment Authority .  Housing transactions plunged in December after the
government imposed new taxes on house purchases. Singapore has
been attempting to rein in prices since 2009, when it barred
interest-only loans for some housing projects and stopped
allowing developers to absorb interest payments for apartments
still being built.  “We maintain our view that the underlying Singaporean
buyers’ demand market is likely to continue to support the mass
market in 2012,” Chua Yang Liang, head of research for
 Southeast Asia  at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said in an e-mailed
statement today. “With some developers absorbing part of the
additional stamp duty, this has effectively mitigated the impact
of the recent government policy.”  Foreigners and corporate entities have to pay an additional
10 percent stamp duty following the measures introduced in
December. The extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents
purchasing a second home and for citizens buying their third
residential property. The government earlier imposed a 1 percent
duty on the first S$180,000 ($142,879) of the property price, 2
percent on the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Fourth-quarter  home prices  posted their smallest gain in 2
1/2 years, a separate government report showed last month.  Watertown Sales  The Watertown development in the northeastern suburb of
Punggol contributed to more than half of the sales last month,
with 992 units, according to the government data.  Sales were also boosted by the Hillier development in the
west-central area of Hillview Rise. Both projects are being
built by Far East Organization, the city-state’s biggest closely
held developer, which teamed up with  Fraser & Neave Ltd.  and
 Sekisui House Ltd. (1928)  for Watertown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  