-- Singapore Budget Seen Aiding Poor as 14-Year Low Unemployment Spurs Costs
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-02-16T02:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/singapore-seen-aiding-poor-as-14-year-low-jobless-spurs-costs.html
Singapore’s 2012 budget will
probably feature assistance for the poor even after the island
reported its lowest  unemployment rate  since the late 1990s, as
policy makers seek to address the soaring cost of living and
help citizens cope with a slowing economy.  The government may improve a program to supplement the
income of low-wage earners and give them rebates on municipal
service fees, Singapore-based lenders  Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. (OCBC)  and United Overseas Bank Ltd. predict. Citigroup Inc. said
the budget may prioritize middle- and lower-income households
over businesses in the short run.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has signaled a shift toward
addressing public discontent over rising prices and an influx of
foreigners, after his ruling party suffered its weakest
electoral win since independence in 1965. Efforts to boost the
economy by allowing casinos and luring pharmaceutical companies
have stoked jobs growth while propelling transportation and
housing costs higher, making life harder for the city’s poorest.  “With the focus on fostering inclusive and sustainable
growth, there will be additional support to the low and middle-
income Singaporeans to help them cope with the rising cost of
living and improve their employability,” said  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “A certain
degree of wealth redistribution is expected.”  Growth Dividend  Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  will present the
budget in parliament tomorrow, the first annual spending plan
since the general election in May. A report today showed
Singapore’s economy shrank an annualized 2.5 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three months.  Lee’s administration handed out cash to all adult citizens
last year as a “dividend” from record growth in 2010, part of
S$6.6 billion ($5.2 billion) of benefits announced in the 2011
budget that included tax cuts and utility rebates. Lower-income
households received more money as the government sought to
narrow the wealth disparity.  Singapore’s Gini coefficient, an income inequality measure,
rose to 0.482 in 2011 from 0.48 the year before, and has climbed
from 0.444 in 2000, according to the statistics department.
Accounting for pension contributions and government benefits,
the reading fell to 0.452 last year from 0.455 in 2010. A
reading of zero means income equality, while a reading of one
means complete inequality.  Millionaire Households  The island’s growth has pushed the jobless rate to an
average 2 percent in 2011, a 14-year low, and made Singapore
home to the highest proportion of millionaire households
globally, according to the  Boston Consulting Group . The average
monthly income for the poorest 10 percent of households
increased by S$250 to S$1,581 in the decade to 2011, compared
with a S$10,400 jump to S$27,867 for the top 10 percent.  Inflation (SICPIYOY)  averaged 5.2 percent last year and prices are
forecast by the central bank to rise 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent
in 2012. In the nine months through September, wages rose 1.5
percent from a year earlier after adjusting for inflation.  This year’s budget will probably continue to push for
improvements in productivity as the nation moves away from
relying on boosting its population to spur growth, said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The new political norm necessitates the implementation of
measures that address the electorate’s concerns, but the
government will maintain its overall pro-growth strategy,” said
Edward Lee, Singapore-based regional head of rates strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc. “We expect stronger incentives to
encourage employers and workers to upgrade skills.”  Tighter Rules  More than a third of the 5.2 million population is made up
of foreigners and permanent residents, and Prime Minister Lee
has said the island is tightening the number of overseas workers
entering the country to a “more sustainable” rate.  Since the middle of 2010, the government has increased
levies imposed on companies such as SembCorp Marine Ltd. for
hiring non-Singaporeans. It tightened rules on overseas labor
and made it more expensive for foreigners to buy property in
Singapore after the 2011 elections.  The government probably won’t bring out the “big guns” of
fiscal measures in this week’s budget proposal as the global
slowdown isn’t expected to be as dire as the crisis in 2009,
said  Selena Ling , head of treasury research at Oversea-Chinese
Banking.  Singapore’s economic contraction last quarter reported
today was less than the government’s initial estimate in January.
The global economic outlook remains “subdued,” and the island’s
current growth forecast of 1 percent to 3 percent for 2012
doesn’t factor in risks such as a disorderly sovereign default
in the euro area and an escalation of geo-political tension in
the  Middle East , the trade ministry said.  “The 2012 challenge of below-trend growth and elevated
inflation will likely imply a need for some immediate counter-
cyclical measures and help for needy households,” Ling said.
“But policy makers would likely want to calibrate the short-
term measures to keep some policy powder dry should the global
economic environment deteriorate further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  