-- Slovak Economic Growth Unexpectedly Picks Up as Czechs Fall Into Recession
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-15T12:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/slovak-economic-growth-unexpectedly-picks-up-as-czechs-fall-into-recession.html
Slovak economic  growth  unexpectedly
accelerated last quarter as exports proved resilient to western
 Europe ’s slowdown, beating the neighboring  Czech Republic , whose
economy fell into a recession.  Slovakia’s gross domestic product grew 0.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, compared with 0.8
percent in the third. The Czech economy slumped into its second
recession in two years as it  shrank  0.3 percent, a second
consecutive contraction, the nations’ statistics offices
reported today. Slovak GDP rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 0.5 percent in the Czech Republic.  The countries, which through 1992 formed  Czechoslovakia ,
rely on western European export demand to drive growth. With
household and government spending shackled by austerity to avoid
contagion from the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis, Slovakia
probably benefited from stronger demand for its products such as
new  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  models, economists said.  “The acceleration in Slovakia, despite the slowdown at its
major trading partners, can probably be attributed to the launch
of new production lines,” said Maria Valachyova, an economist
at Slovenska Sporitelna AS in Slovak capital, Bratislava.
“Domestic demand has been stagnating for a couple of years
already.”  The Czech koruna fell 0.2 percent and was trading at 25.111
against the euro at 12:32 p.m. in Prague. The ask yield on the
Czech benchmark 3.85 bond maturing in 2012 fell to 3.181 percent
from 3.2 percent yesterday. Slovak 4 percent bond due 2020 was
priced to yield 4.405 percent compared with 4.314 yesterday.  Euro Region GDP  The euro region’s GDP contracted 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, Eurostat, the European Union’s statistic office said
today. Slovakia and  France  were the only euro-sharing nations
reporting quarterly growth of the 12 countries whose data was
available. The German economy, Europe’s biggest, contracted 0.2
percent, compared with the 0.3 percent estimated by economists
polled by Bloomberg.  Hungary today reported 1.4 percent fourth-quarter economic
growth from the year earlier, beating the 0.9 percent median
estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Romania ’s
growth slowed to 1.9 percent from 4.4 percent, while  Bulgaria ’s
expansion decelerated to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent.  Eastern Europe will continue to be hurt by the slowdown in
the euro region, which may feed into the Slovak economy’s
performance with a delay this year, economists said. The Slovak
Finance Ministry has revised the forecast for the 2012 GDP
growth to 1.1 percent from an originally projected 1.7 percent.
The Czech economy will probably expand 0.2 percent, according to
the government forecast.  Deteriorating Demand  “While leading indicators suggest some pick-up in
manufacturing activity and thus also exports, in early 2012, the
outlook for domestic demand across central Europe is
deteriorating due to tighter fiscal policies, soft labor markets
and weak credit growth,” Michal Dybula, a Warsaw-based
economist at BNP Paribas, said in an e-mail.  The Czech slump was probably the result of declining
domestic demand, with household spending curtailed by rising
unemployment and a government restricted by budget cuts, said
 David Marek , the chief economist at Patria Finance AS in Prague.
The outlook is clouded by uncertainty over the euro area, the
market for about 70 percent of Czech exports.  ‘Lost Steam’  “Investment activity lost steam amidst growing worries
about the euro zone debt crisis and its impact on the real
economy,” Marek said in an e-mailed note. “Net exports
remained the only engine of the GDP growth in the final quarter
of 2011.”  Volkswagen starting serial production of a new subcompact
models at its Bratislava plant probably helped drive Slovak
exports, Valachyova said. The German carmaker in the fourth
quarter accelerated production of the so-called New Small Family
cars, which it expects will boost output of the Slovak  plant to
400,000 vehicles in 2012 from about 144,510 in 2010.  The country’s fourth-quarter  trade  surplus was 976 million
euros, the biggest since 2004, when the current methodology was
introduced.  The 18-month-old government of Czech Premier Petr Necas has
cut state subsidies, reduced public wages, raised the value-
added tax and increased the  retirement age  to reduce the public-
finance deficit.  The shortfall narrowed to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2011, from
4.8 percent in the previous year. The Slovak administration of
Iveta Radicova trimmed the fiscal deficit to 4.6 percent from 8
percent. Both countries plan to cut the public-finance gap to
less than the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2013, even as
worsening economic outlook threatens to curb budget revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  