-- Slovenia’s Two Biggest Banks’ CEOs Step Down as Woes Mount
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-02-15T11:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/slovenia-s-nova-kreditna-banka-maribor-ceo-plos-resigns.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. ,  Slovenia ’s two largest banks, are
without chiefs as they struggle with mounting bad loans.  Andrej Plos, the chief executive officer of Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor, who took the helm of Slovenia’s second-biggest
bank in January, offered his  resignation  today without giving a
reason. Bozo Jasovic, the CEO of the larger Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. stepped down in December over the bank’s attempt to
sell the holding in retailer  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d.  to
the Croatian rival Agrokor d.d.  “It’s actually hard to believe that the biggest lenders
are without a proper leadership in such crucial times for the
banking sector and as Slovenia sees its credit rating lowered
due to a fragile bank system,” Saso Stanovnik, head of research
at Ljubljana brokerage Alta Invest d.d., said in an e-mail
today. “One can only hope the new leaderships are in place as
soon as possible to tackle the problems of the banking sector.”  Slovenian banks are struggling with mounting losses as the
faltering  economy  pushes more companies into bankruptcy. Lenders
in Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, reported 356
million euros ($469 million) of losses last year, the central
bank said on Feb. 7.  Abanka Vipa d.d. , Slovenia’s third-biggest lender by
assets, reported a loss of 119 million euros, while NLB will
report a third consecutive loss for 2011, Jasovic has said.  Slovenia had its  credit rating  cut one level to A2 from A1
along with five other euro-region nations yesterday on
uncertainty over the prospect for institutional reform in the
euro area and the weak economic outlook for the 17-member bloc.
The European Commission, the executive arm of the European
Union, yesterday said Slovenia needs an in-depth review of its
imbalances, including its “high debt at the banking industry.”  Reluctant to Lend  Banks in the country are reluctant to lend to the economy
even as they benefit from financing from the  European Central
Bank , the government’s forecasting institute, said on Feb. 3.
That may further damage the economy, which is sliding into
recession as austerity measures in  Europe  damp demand for its
exports. Gross domestic product in the 17-member bloc contracted
0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three-month
period, the EU’s statistics office said today.  NLB, majority owned by the government, wants to raise 400
million euros of equity capital by mid-2012 to improve its core
Tier 1 capital ratio to above 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  