-- Fed Divided on Need for More Stimulus Amid Signs Economy Gaining Strength
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-15T20:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/some-fed-officials-saw-a-need-for-additional-asset-purchases-before-long-.html
A few members of the Federal Open
Market Committee meeting said the central bank may soon have to
consider more asset purchases, while others said the economic
outlook would have to deteriorate first.  A few members said economic conditions “could warrant the
initiation of additional securities purchases before long,”
according to minutes of their Jan. 24-25 meeting released today
in  Washington . “Other members indicated that such policy action
could become necessary if the economy lost momentum or if
inflation seemed likely to remain” below 2 percent in the
medium run.  The central bank said at its meeting last month that it
plans to hold interest rates near zero at least through late
2014 to spur growth and reduce unemployment, extending a
previous date of mid-2013. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
since repeated the pledge, which was made before a report this
month showing that the jobless rate fell to a three-year low of
8.3 percent in January.  Policy makers said it was unlikely that the Fed would soon
begin reducing the size of its balance sheet by selling some of
the Treasury and mortgage bonds amassed in the course of two
rounds of large-scale asset purchases.  “Most participants saw sales of agency securities starting
no earlier than 2015,” said the minutes, which included, for
the first time, “qualitative information regarding
participants’ expectations for the  Federal Reserve ’s balance
sheet.”  Factory Production  Economic data since the Fed meeting have pointed to
strength in the world’s largest economy. A Fed report earlier
today showed output at factories increased 0.7 percent after a
revised 1.5 percent gain in December, reflecting gains in demand
for automobiles and business equipment that may keep
manufacturing at the forefront of the expansion.  “The bias at the time of the meeting was clearly for
additional asset purchases,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist for BTIG LLC in  New York . “The improvement in
various indicators since the time of the last meeting probably
means that for the average FOMC member the appetite for
additional purchases is lower.”  A Feb. 3 report from the Labor Department showed employers
added 243,000 jobs to payrolls last month, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg Survey of 89 economists.  ‘Exceptionally Low’  The minutes said “almost all members agreed to indicate”
that economic conditions would warrant an “exceptionally low”
federal funds rate level “at least through late 2014.” The
minutes said “several members” anticipated that unemployment
would still be higher than their estimates of its longer-term
normal rate, and inflation would be at or below the committee’s
longer-run objective of 2 percent, in late 2014.  U.S. stocks extended declines amid concern  Greece  was
moving closer to default. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost
0.6 percent to 1,342.39 at 3:09 p.m. in New York. The index is
up more than 6 percent this year on evidence of a strengthening
economy. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell was little
changed at 1.93 percent.  Fed policy makers said forward guidance on the federal
funds rate would help provide more accommodative financial
conditions. Still, “some members” said the rate outlook
“would be subject to revision” in response to significant
changes in the economic outlook.  Interest-Rate Path  For the first last month, policy makers published their own
projections for the path of the Fed’s target interest rate. The
central bank also announced a goal to hold inflation to 2
percent, along with a pledge to return the economy to maximum
employment, which it currently sees as a jobless rate between
5.2 percent and 6 percent.  All FOMC members voted to adopt the Fed’s statement of its
goals except Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who abstained because he
“questioned the usefulness of the statement in promoting better
communication of the committee’s policy strategy.”  The Fed said the statement of goals would be reaffirmed
every year and “the bar for amending the statement would be
high,” according to the minutes.  Bernanke told the Senate Budget Committee on Feb. 7 that
the decline in the jobless rate veils weaknesses in the labor
market.  Actively Seeking Work  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said in response to a lawmaker’s question
during his testimony. “There are also a lot of people who are
either out of the  labor force  because they don’t think they can
find work” or who have taken part-time jobs.  A measure of  underemployment , which includes people working
part-time jobs while seeking full-time employment, was at 15.1
percent in January.  “A few participants noted that the recent decline in the
unemployment rate reflected declining labor force participation
in large part, and judged that the decline in the participation
rate was likely to be reversed, at least to some extent, as the
recovery continues and labor demand picks up,” according to the
minutes.  Policy makers also said that “financial conditions
improved and financial-market stresses eased somewhat” since
their December meeting, crediting the  European Central Bank ’s
three-year refinancing operation and saying that continued
actions would be necessary in  Europe .  Jobless Rate  The Fed’s economic forecasts, released on Jan. 25 following
their meeting, show the  unemployment rate  falling to a range of
8.2 percent to 8.5 percent at the end of 2012 and 7.4 percent to
8.1 percent at the end of the following year.  Policy makers see economic growth of 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent in 2012 and 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent in 2013. Both
estimates were revised downward from forecasts made in November.  The central bank announced its 2 percent inflation target
even as its forecasts showed it would fall short of that goal.
Most policy makers see inflation of 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent
in 2012, as measured by the personal consumption expenditures
price index.  The Fed joined at least 12 other central banks from  New
Zealand  to  Sweden  in specifying its inflation target. Unlike
many of its counterparts, the  U.S. central bank  must also follow
a congressional mandate to promote full employment, or the
maximum amount of jobs created before firms bid up wages.  The Fed, seeking to fuel growth and avert deflation, pushed
 interest rates  to zero in December 2008 and has purchased $2.3
trillion of bonds. In September, it announced plans to replace
$400 billion of short-term Treasuries with longer-term
Treasuries in another effort to drive down interest rates.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke, 58, said during his Jan. 25 press
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  