-- Soros Buying Google Leads Managers Seeking to Profit From Tech Stock Surge
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/soros-buys-google-comverse-while-selling-visteon-corp-shares.html
Billionaire  George Soros ’ firm added
shares in  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Comverse Technology Inc. (CMVT)  in the fourth
quarter, leading purchases of technology stocks by asset
managers in the quarter.  Soros Fund Management  LLC bought 258,774 shares of Mountain
View, California-based Google, the largest maker of smartphone
software, bringing the total position to 259,900 shares valued
at $167.9 million as of Dec. 31, according to a filing yesterday
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Soros
increased holdings of information technology stocks by 12
percent in the quarter.  Hedge funds Lone Pine Capital LLC, Maverick Capital Ltd.
and Lansdowne Partners LP also added to Google during the
quarter, seeking to profit from a surge in technology stocks.
Information technology stocks returned 19 percent over the past
six months, the best out of 10 industry groups in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Lone Pine, the Greenwich, Connecticut hedge fund run by
Steve Mandel, bought shares of Google and Teradata Corp.,
increasing his technology holdings by 4.9 percent during the
quarter. His Google stake was valued at $870 million at the end
of the quarter, according to a regulatory filing. His holdings
of Dayton, Ohio-based Teradata, a data-storage  software company ,
were worth $336 million.  Family Office  Soros also added 14.7 million shares of New York-based
Comverse Technology valued at $101 million at the end of the
quarter. The firm sold 1.38 million shares, or 85 percent of its
stake, in Visteon Corp., an auto-parts maker based in  Van Buren
Township , Michigan.  The value of the firm’s U.S. stock holdings was $4.18
billion at the end of December, according to the filing.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, declined to comment.  Soros Fund Management decided in July to return outside
capital and focus on running assets for Soros and his family,
who made up the bulk of its then $25.5 billion assets, to avoid
having to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission
by March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  