-- Sorouh Full-Year Profit Surges as Rent Income Increases at Dubai Developer
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-02-15T07:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/sorouh-real-estate-full-year-profit-surges-on-rental-housing-projects.html
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s
second-biggest developer by market value, said 2011 profit
surged as income from rentals and housing projects rose.  Net income  climbed to 334.7 million dirhams ($91 million)
from 7.44 million dirhams, the company said in a statement to
the Abu Dhabi bourse today. The  average estimate  of six analysts
was for a profit of 363 million dirhams, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue more than tripled to 3.79 billion
dirhams, while provisions for doubtful debts dropped 81 percent
to 19.3 million dirhams and impairment of goodwill fell 28
percent to 117 million dirhams.  The “mix of revenue contributors has helped strengthen the
earnings profile of Sorouh, building a more sustainable business
for the future,” Managing Director Abubaker Seddiq Al Khouri
said in the statement.  Abu Dhabi ’s construction boom was hurt by the financial
crisis at a much earlier stage than that of neighboring Dubai,
which by mid-2008 had completed more projects and attracted more
buyers.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the Abu Dhabi-based developer
that was bailed out twice by the government last year, reported
yesterday full-year profit that beat analyst estimates after the
company sold more land and properties to the state.  Sorouh declined 2 percent to 99 fils at 10:44 a.m. in Abu
Dhabi. The shares  dropped  48 percent in 2011, while Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark stock index lost 12 percent.  Fourth-quarter profit after provisions, impairments and
non-recurring income was 98.1 million dirhams after a loss of
198.6 million dirhams a year earlier, the Abu Dhabi-based
company said. Fourth-quarter revenue rose to 1.2 billion dirhams
from 197 million dirhams a year earlier.  Developers in the  United Arab Emirates , whose capital is
Abu Dhabi, are generally paid in installments as construction
progresses and receive a final sum when the property is
delivered to its buyer. Sorouh expects to hand over the keys to
7,000 homes in the next four years, excluding government
housing, Chief Financial Officer Richard Amos said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  