-- Sovereign Default Risk Surges in Europe on Concern of Greek Bailout Delays
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-15T15:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/sovereign-default-risk-rises-in-europe-as-greek-crisis-deepens.html
The cost of insuring European
sovereign debt rose for a sixth day on concern delays to
 Greece ’s bailout are increasing the chance of default.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed 12 basis points to a
four-week high of 344 at 3:30 p.m. in London. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Officials are considering postponing a full aid package
until Greek elections in April, according to the Wall Street
Journal, after finance ministers canceled a meeting today
because they are unconvinced the nation will stick to austerity
pledges. Greece needs the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) deal,
along with about 100 billion euros of debt relief from private
bondholders, to avoid an economic collapse next month.  “I can’t see them giving the money,” said Peter Tchir,
founder of TF Market Advisors in  New York . “Timing is getting
tight.”  Antonis Samaras, the leader of Greece’s second-biggest
political party, sought to reassure European officials by
providing a signed pledge to maintain the “objectives, targets
and key policies” of the austerity program. He left open the
possibility of “modifications” to Greek policies to promote
growth.  “It can’t be easy signing off on lending further cash when
you don’t really believe that you are going to get it back,”
 Gary Jenkins , the director of independent credit firm Swordfish
Research in London, wrote in a note to investors.  Corporate Swaps  The cost of insuring corporate and financial debt also
rose, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Contracts on the Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings increased 24 basis points to 624.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 5.5 basis points to 143.5 basis
points. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers increased four basis points to 237 and
the subordinated index rose 15.5 to 405.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  