-- Bank Shares Fall as Spain Regulator Lifts Short-Selling Ban
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-16T16:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/spanish-regulator-lifts-short-selling-ban-on-financial-stocks.html
Spain ’s  stock -market regulator
lifted a six-month ban on short-selling of financial stocks,
saying the “extreme volatility” that justified the ban had
eased. Banking shares plunged, led by  Bankia (BKIA)  SA.  Steps taken by the European Union to tighten budget
discipline have helped stabilize markets, as have the  European
Central Bank ’s longer-term financing operations and the Spanish
government’s overhaul of the banking industry announced on Feb.
2, the  regulator said .  “The extreme volatility, continued instability and
uncertainty in European markets, particularly financial stocks,
that justified temporary restrictions on taking or increasing
short positions has eased,” the CNMV regulator said in an e-
mailed statement in  Madrid .  France, Belgium, Spain and  Italy  moved to ban short-selling
in August in an effort to stabilize markets after European banks
hit their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008.  France 
and Belgium lifted their bans this week. Spain had left the ban
open-ended since Sept. 28.  Shares in banks plunged today following last night’s
announcement. Bankia fell  as much as  9.8 percent before closing
in Madrid down 7.3 percent at 3.09 euros ($4.04).  Banco Popular
Espanol SA (POP)  closed down 6.2 percent at 3.26 euros, paring earlier
declines of as much as 8.3 percent.  Banco Sabadell SA fell as much as 7.8 percent,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  as much as 5.4 percent and  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  as much as 4.9 percent.  Share Sales  The stocks are correcting in price as investors, now free
from the short-selling ban, also adjust prices to reflect the
outlook for forthcoming share issues as Spanish banks bolster
their balance sheets, said Andrea Filtri, an analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in  London . The government also announced new
rules earlier this month designed to make banks recognize more
losses on real estate piled up on their balance sheet during
Spain’s property boom.  Bankia’s parent, Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, said Feb.
10 that it would offer to exchange as much as 1.28 billion euros
of preferred shares and subordinated debt for Bankia shares in a
swap that would be equivalent to as much as 26 percent of the
stock in circulation. The Bankia group said the same day that
cleaning up real estate would require 5.1 billion euros in
provisions and extra capital.  Sabadell is asking investors to increase its shares by
about 40 percent as it shores up its balance sheet to absorb
Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo, a failed savings bank group
seized by the Bank of Spain last year. BBVA said in December it
would issue 3.43 billion euros of bonds that automatically
convert into shares to exchange for preferred shares.  “A clear price correction was needed for Spanish banking
shares,” Filtri said in a phone interview.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price. The practice is known as “naked”
when sellers haven’t first taken steps to ensure that they can
borrow the securities.  Naked short-selling remains banned, according to Spanish
law, the CNMV said in the statement. France and  Belgium  also
prohibit the practice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  