-- Stanford Tops Harvard in Gifts as Colleges Raise $30.3 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/stanford-tops-harvard-in-gifts-as-colleges-raise-30-3-billion.html
U.S. colleges and universities
attracted $30.3 billion in charitable contributions last year,
rebounding from a lag in donations that began with the 2008
recession.  Stanford University , near  Palo Alto ,  California , topped the
list with $709.4 million, according to the  Council for Aid to
Education , a nonprofit organization in  New York .  Harvard
University , in Cambridge, Massachusetts, received $639.2
million.  “We remain in awe and humbled,” Martin Shell, vice
president for development at Stanford, said in a phone
interview. The school completed a five-year fundraising campaign
in December, bringing in $6.2 billion. The donations have funded
more than 130 new faculty positions, more than $250 million in
undergraduate scholarships and 38 new or renovated buildings.  The majority of college donations, 86 percent, went to a
quarter of the 1,009 schools that participated in the Council’s
survey. Each of the top four, Stanford, Harvard, Yale and the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology, raised more in donations
last year than the  American Heart Association , which received
$510.6 million in the fiscal year that ended in June, according
to the national charity.  Gifts for capital purposes, such as endowments and
construction, increased 14 percent, while total contributions
jumped 8.2 percent.  “In tough economic times, donors don’t necessarily stop
giving but they do reduce the number of organizations they
support,” David Onion, senior associate vice president for
development at the  University of Texas-Austin , said in a phone
interview.  Capital Campaigns  UT-Austin raised $354.3 million in 2011, a 50 percent
increase over the previous year. The school ranks just outside
the top 10 in donations, and is more than halfway to a targeted
$3 billion capital campaign that started in 2006, Onion said.  The state’s connections to the oil and gas industry has
meant the impact of the recession on its economy has been less
than for the country as a whole, Onion said.  “That has kept a lot of folks very much in the game and
feeling positive about the role of the university,” he said.  The increase in donations bucks a trend in recent years.
Last year saw the biggest drop in at least four decades,
according to the survey. The amount raised in 2011 is the
second-highest on record. Colleges and universities received
$31.6 billion in 2008, according to the Council.  In the top 10, MIT had the biggest percentage increase,
with a 74 percent jump in giving.  Yale University  came in
second, with giving eclipsing $580 million, more than the school
raised prior to the recession.  The newcomer to the top 10, the  University of California ,
 San Francisco , had donations for several medical projects. The
school received $85 million for a Mission Bay hospital complex,
and $47 million for pulmonary research and care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  