-- Sudan Plans to Resume Oil Talks With South Sudan By Month-End
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-15T14:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/sudan-plans-to-resume-oil-talks-with-south-sudan-by-month-end.html
Sudan expects to resume talks with
 South Sudan  by the end of this month to try to end a dispute
over oil payments after failing to make a breakthrough at the
latest round of discussions, a negotiator from the north said.  “They are far away from each other” on agreeing an what
fees should be paid, Sabir Hassan, a consultant co-chairing the
economic group of Sudan’s negotiating team, said in an interview
today in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital, where the latest
round of negotiations on oil ended yesterday.  South Sudan completed a shutdown of crude production last
month after accusing Sudan of diverting fuel to its refinery,
forcing companies to load oil onto ships it controlled and
blockading other shipments. Sudan said it confiscated crude to
cover unpaid fees its owed for allowing the southern neighbour
to transport oil via a pipeline to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels of oil a day when it gained
independence from Sudan in July. The crude is pumped mainly by
 China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  South Sudan will attend the talks later this month to try
to recover the “more than $600 million” worth of stolen crude,
 Pagan Amum , secretary-general of South Sudan’s ruling Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement, said in a separate interview today
in Addis Ababa.  “We will definitely talk about recovery of value of stolen
oil by Khartoum,” he said. “That will be item number one.”  Payment Offers  Sayed el-Khatib, spokesman for  Sudan ’s negotiating team,
said last month his government offered to accept payment of $6
per barrel in transit fees, while Amum said today that his
government is prepared to offer 69 cents per barrel.  Sudan wants the south also to pay transport, processing and
terminal costs, which South Sudan says it already pays to
contractors. Sudan’s government decides on the fees it is paid,
said Hassan, “not a foreign company.”  Including transportation costs, processing payments and the
use of Sudan’s marine terminal, the north would be willing to
receive $36 per barrel, Hassan said. The south is prepared to
pay $7 per barrel, he said.  During the talks, the Juba-based government said it wants
to continue exporting its oil through the north, according to
Hassan. South Sudan signed memoranda of understanding with
Djibouti and  Kenya  earlier this month to build new oil pipelines
via those two countries as an alternative to the Sudanese route.  “There is no prospect of reaching an agreement on oil
because the government of Sudan has taken a position, which is
hostile, of stealing our oil,” Amum said. “There is no way the
south can again venture to pump oil through Sudan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 