-- Sweden’s Riksbank Set to Cut Rates
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-02-15T09:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/sweden-s-riksbank-set-to-cut-rates-as-export-pain-deepens.html
Sweden ’s central bank will probably
cut its benchmark  interest rate  this week to keep the largest
Nordic economy from sliding into a recession as Europe’s debt
crisis buffets exports.  The Riksbank will lower its repo rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 1.5 percent, according to 13 of the 18
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Five predicted no change.
Policy makers at the Stockholm-based bank are meeting today and
will announce their decision at 9:30 a.m. local time tomorrow.  “All the arguments are in place for a rate cut,” said
 Roger Josefsson , chief economist in  Stockholm  at Danske Bank
A/S. “The momentum in the economic data is incredibly negative
right now.”  Sweden’s  trade surplus  shrank to its narrowest in more than
a year at the end of 2011 and manufacturing confidence hit a 28-
month low in January as exporters endure the fallout of  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The National Institute of  Economic Research 
predicted in December that Sweden’s economy will stall,
requiring rate cuts that will send the benchmark as low as 0.75
percent this year.  Halted Tightening  The krona was little changed at 8.7757 per euro, after
strengthening 1.6 percent this year. Two-year yields rose two
basis points to 1.06 percent as of 10:11 a.m. in Stockholm.  The central bank lowered rates in December for the first
time in 2 1/2 years, after it scrapped a tightening cycle two
months earlier to respond to weaker growth prospects. About half
of Sweden’s $500 billion economy comes from exports, with about
55 percent going to Europe. The bank in December estimated gross
domestic product will grow 1.3 percent this year, less than a
third the 4.6 percent rate in 2011.  “Sweden is now clearly being pulled into the international
deceleration,” Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at SEB AB,
said in a report this week. The economy probably shrank 1
percent in the final three months of last year, in part due to a
“sharp slowdown in exports,” and the Riksbank is likely to cut
its main rate to 1 percent by July, he said.  Danske Bank estimates the Riksbank will cut the rate to 0.5
percent this year and predicts policy makers will resort to new
liquidity measures to support financial markets, Josefsson said.  Futures Bet  Interest rates futures show traders expect the Riksbank
will lower its rate to 1 percent by March 2013. That’s up from
as low as 0.75 percent in December, when the  European Central
Bank  announced it would provide unlimited three-year loans to
European banks, easing credit concerns.  Futures on Sweden’s repo rate also indicate the Riksbank
will cut its benchmark to 1.3 percent by September.  Inflation (SWCPUIFY)  has lagged behind the central bank’s 2 percent
target, giving policy makers extra scope to cut rates. Consumer
price growth, adjusting for the impact of mortgage costs, eased
to an annual 0.5 percent in December -- the lowest since May
2005 -- from 1.1 percent in November. Inflation adjusting for
mortgage costs won’t reach the bank’s target until 2014, it said
in December.  The Riksbank has predicted weaker exports and investment
will hurt the labor market and warns unemployment will rise this
year. Joblessness jumped to 7.1 percent in December from 6.7
percent in November, non-seasonally adjusted figures published
by  Statistics Sweden  showed on Jan. 26.  Swedish companies have signaled they’ll adjust to the
weaker outlook by capping price increases and trimming their
workforces. A Feb. 8 Riksbank survey of 24 of Sweden’s biggest
firms representing about 200,000 employees showed that
“companies believe they will need to make further job cuts in
the period ahead” as the “economic outlook is expected to
deteriorate further in the next six months.”  Job Cuts Jump  A report yesterday from the Public Employment Service
showed job cuts in January jumped to 6,664 from 2,609 a year
earlier as companies let go of workers to combat slumping
demand.  The central bank in neighboring Norway has also had to
reverse last year’s tightening cycle and in December lowered its
main rate by half a percentage point, its biggest such cut since
May 2009. Policy makers in Oslo have signaled they’re willing to
cut rates further to prevent krone gains that hurt exporters.  The currencies of  Norway  and Sweden have strengthened this
year as official rates remain above those in the euro area and
the U.S. Even after easing policy, the Norwegian and Swedish
central banks’ main rates are higher than the 1 percent in the
euro region and a target of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Sweden’s krona has strengthened 1.6 percent against the
euro this year, while Norway’s krone is up 2.8 percent versus
the single currency in the same period.  Sweden’s “krona may continue to appreciate despite Swedish
economic stagnation,” Bergqvist said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  