-- Swisscom Posts First Quarterly Loss Since 2002 After Writing Down Fastweb
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-02-15T17:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/swisscom-posts-first-loss-in-decade-on-italian-fixed-line-unit-writedown.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) , Switzerland’s biggest
phone company, dropped 1.9 percent in Zurich after predicting
lower revenue and an unchanged dividend for 2012 as it posted
its first quarterly loss in almost a decade.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  was 835 million Swiss francs
($911 million) compared with net income of 389 million francs a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. It was the
first three-month loss since 2002, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Swisscom said in December that 2011 net income would be cut
by 1.2 billion francs because of a writedown on Italian fixed-
line unit  Fastweb SpA (FWB)  as the European sovereign-debt crisis and
Italy’s worsening economy hurts the unit’s growth. Bern-based
Swisscom has suffered from competition in  Italy  and a declining
euro that hurts sales converted into francs.  Costs at Fastweb will be cut by 120 million euros ($158
million) in the next two years through “a variety of measures,
such as bad debt management, organizational optimization and
targeting the number of managers,” Chief Executive Officer
Carsten Schloter said at a Zurich press conference today. There
will be continued price decline in the Swiss market this year,
he predicted.  Swisscom fell 7 francs to close at 360.60 francs, giving
the company a market value of 18.7 billion francs. The shares
have risen 1.3 percent this year.  Guidance Cut  “Continuing price erosion is not expected to be fully
offset by customer growth and revenue from new business” in
2012, Swisscom said in today’s release. “In addition to the
revenue-based decline in margins, a non-cash increase of around
70 million francs in pension costs is expected to contribute”
to a reduction in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization.  “The market is very disappointed by the continual cut to
guidance,” said Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales
specialist at  Societe Generale  in  London .  Fourth-quarter sales fell to 2.93 billion francs from 3.01
billion francs. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a loss
of 810 million francs and revenue of 2.9 billion francs.  The company predicted today that 2012 revenue will drop to
11.4 billion francs with Ebitda at 4.4 billion francs. That
compares with 2011 sales of 11.5 billion francs and Ebitda of
4.58 billion francs.  Dividend Plan  Swisscom plans to increase its  dividend  on 2011 profit by 1
franc to 22 francs a share. If all 2012 targets are met,
Swisscom plans to propose a dividend of 22 francs per share to
the shareholder meeting in 2013 “despite the additional
expenses arising in connection with mobile frequencies.”  To help Swisscom deal with the expenses of auctioned
frequencies the dividend on 2012 profit won’t be raised,
Schloter said in an interview.  “This expenditure will probably lead to an increase of our
overall debt level and a company should not take debt in order
to increase dividend,” Schloter said. “So it’s something
exceptional for this year.” In future “the door for further
dividend increases is definitely open.”  “Today, Swisscom’s future dividend policy has been revised
to the downside,” analysts at Exane BNP Paribas, including
Michael Zorko, wrote in a note.  Credit Checks  Swisscom projected capital expenditure of as much as 2.2
billion francs for 2012, increasing investment in the Swiss
business by 100 million francs to 1.7 billion francs. This
doesn’t include expenses from the mobile frequencies auction, it
said.  In  Switzerland  “the trend towards bundled products and
flat-rate tariffs continued” and mobile termination and data
roaming rates were “significantly lower,” Swisscom said. Price
erosion in the “Swiss core business” of 508 million francs was
not fully offset by customer and volume growth of 404 million
francs, it said.  Fastweb’s net revenue fell by 7.1 percent to 1.75 billion
euros last year. Price pressure and measures to reduce bad debt
losses weighed on Fastweb’s revenue. The company introduced
stricter credit checks for new customers as price pressure
remained strong due to “intense competition,” resulting in a
10 percent decline in revenue per broadband customer, it said.  Fastweb’s Ebitda  is “set to rise slightly” in 2012,
Swisscom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  