-- Swiss Stocks Rise as China Pledges to Aid Europe; Clariant Jumps
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-15T17:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/swiss-stocks-rise-as-china-pledges-to-aid-europe-clariant-jumps.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to a seven-
month high, led by  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , after China pledged to help
resolve the euro area’s debt crisis.  Clariant AG gained 5.7 percent after earnings exceeded
projections and the chemical maker said it may sell its less-
profitable textile and paper units. Transocean climbed 3 percent
after projecting fewer out-of-service days for its fleet of
offshore drilling rigs.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  dropped 1.9 percent after
the nation’s biggest phone company posted its first quarterly
loss since 2002.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, rose 0.6 percent to 6,198.34
at the close in Zurich, its highest level since July 7. The
gauge fell yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
credit ratings on six of the region’s countries including Italy
and  Spain . The SMI has rallied  4.4 percent this year . The
broader Swiss Performance Index also added 0.6 percent today.  “The Chinese pledge will lift the mood in stock markets,”
said Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser at Nordea
Private Bank in Copenhagen, in a note to clients.  China pledged to invest in the European Union’s rescue
funds and to maintain its holdings of euro assets.  “China will always adhere to the principle of holding
assets of EU sovereign debt,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said. “We would participate in resolving the
euro debt crisis.”  Finance Ministers’ Talks  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that
 Europe ’s wealthier countries are “playing with fire” by
considering expelling the nation from the 17-nation euro
currency as talks over a second aid program ran into new
obstacles. A decision slated for tonight on aid totaling 130
billion euros ($171 billion) was postponed until at least Feb.
20 and possibly until after a full-time Greek government emerges
from elections later in the year.  The leaders of  Greece ’s two biggest political parties, New
Democracy’s Antonis Samaras and Pasok’s  George Papandreou , sent
written commitments today to the  European Central Bank , the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  to stand
by austerity measures.  Swiss  investor confidence  rose to the highest level in nine
months in February, adding to signs that the economy may be
stabilizing.  An index of investor and analyst expectations that aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance jumped to
minus 21.2 this month from minus 50.1 in January, the  ZEW Center
for European Economic Research (GRZECSSZ)  in Mannheim, Germany, and Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG said today. That’s the highest
level since May.  Empire State Index  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s  general
economic index  increased to 19.5 this month from 13.5 in
January. The index exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New
York, northern  New Jersey , and southern Connecticut  Clariant (CLN)  gained 5.7 percent to 13.06 Swiss francs, its
highest price since July 28, after fourth-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization exceeded
analysts’ estimates. The company’s Ebitda margin widened to 12.6
percent from 10 percent.  Clariant also said it may sell or find other strategic
options for business units generating 1 billion francs ($1.09
billion) in revenue as it moves away from commodity products.  Transocean, Adecco  Transocean, the biggest operator of offshore drilling rigs,
rose 3 percent to 45.35 francs after saying its fleet will have
87 out-of-service days in the third quarter of 2012, compared
with 362 forecast for the second quarter.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest provider of temporary
workers, rose 2.5 percent to 47.00 francs to lead gains in  the
SMI  as manufacturing in the New York region expanded in February
at the fastest pace since June 2010, a sign that factories are
propelling the expansion.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  jumped 4.9 percent to 10.81
francs. Kepler Capital Markets SA started coverage of the stock
with a “buy” recommendation.  Swisscom slid 1.9 percent to 360.60 francs after the
company posted its first  quarterly loss  in almost a decade after
writing down the value of its Italian fixed-line unit Fastweb
SpA. Swisscom reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 835 million
francs, its first three-month loss since 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  