-- Syria Disrupts Text Messaging of Protesters With Made-in-Dublin Equipment
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-02-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/syria-blocks-texts-with-dublin-made-gear.html
As unrest in Syria erupted into
public demonstrations and a bloody crackdown that has claimed
over 6,000 lives in the last year, the regime of Bashar al-Assad
sought to neutralize one of the most potent tools in the
protesters’ arsenal:  text messages  sent via mobile phones.  The Syrian government has ordered blocks on text messages
when they contain politically sensitive terms such as
“revolution” or “demonstration,” according to two people
familiar with the filtering systems. A unit of the Syrian
intelligence apparatus, known as “Branch 225,” often issues
the instructions on which messages to block, they say.  Syriatel Mobile Telecom SA, the country’s largest mobile-
phone operator, conducts the blocking with equipment from
 Cellusys Ltd. , a privately-held company based in Dublin,
according to one of the people, who is familiar with the
filtering.  Cellusys delivered a filtering system to Syriatel in 2008
as the mobile operator struggled to combat viruses and spam,
which can be blocked by such gear, according to Cellusys Chief
Executive Officer Dawood Ghalaieny. Syriatel is controlled by
Rami Makhluf, cousin of President Assad, according to the U.S.
Department of the Treasury, which enacted sanctions against the
company last year.  In addition, another Irish company,  AdaptiveMobile Security
Ltd. , which is also based in Dublin, has supplied message-
filtering technology to MTN  Syria , the country’s second-largest
mobile operator, according to four people familiar with that
system. While AdaptiveMobile executives declined to comment for
this story, in interviews last year concerning the sale of its
product to a mobile operator in  Iran , they said its technology
is for blocking spam, viruses and inappropriate content, not
political repression.  Thwarting Protesters  The sales by Cellusys and AdaptiveMobile were legal. The
European Union tightened restrictions last year on sales of
equipment to Syria that can be used for internal repression,
however it’s unclear whether the gear is prohibited by the new
rules.  The  filtering  of text messages has curbed the protesters’
ability to use technologies that helped organize and fuel
dissent in other countries across the Middle East and topple
autocratic regimes in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , according to
political opposition groups.  “When the government shuts off those modes of
communications, the opposition is that much more constrained,”
says Rafif Jouejati, a McLean, Virginia-based spokeswoman for
the  Local Coordination Committees , an umbrella organization of
Syrian groups that are staging protests.  ‘They Control It’  Cellusys says it hasn’t sent workers to the country since
2009 and isn’t sure how its technology is being used today.  “Once they have the systems, they control it,” says
Ghalaieny. “If it is used for something else, there is not much
that can be done.”  In response to questions sent by e-mail, AdaptiveMobile CEO
Brian Collins replied in writing that Bloomberg’s information
was incorrect without providing specifics. AdaptiveMobile
executives did not respond to follow-up inquiries.  The Syrian government’s escalating efforts to block
opponents’ text messages are illustrated by a list said to
document the words and phrases being filtered on Syriatel’s
network, obtained by Bloomberg News. The document’s authenticity
couldn’t be independently verified, because Syriatel and the
Syrian Embassy in the U.S. didn’t respond to several phone calls
and e-mails. It contains only one reference to Syriatel and
doesn’t bear a company logo.  Orders From 225  Many of the facts in the document, however, were not
publicly known and have been corroborated by Bloomberg News. For
instance, the bottom of the document has several notations that
indicate a Cellusys technology called  SMS Defence  is being used
to filter the text messages. The company’s sale of its message-
filtering technology to Syriatel was confirmed by Cellusys after
Bloomberg asked about its inclusion on the document.  The document also indicates that Syria’s intelligence unit,
 “225,”  issued many of the text-message filtering orders, as
described by two of the people with knowledge of the filtering.  The document suggests a government trying to stay ahead of
burgeoning unrest by adding scores of new political words and
phrases, mostly in Arabic.  About half of the 300 filters include the dates they were
requested, which range from November 2010 to December 2011. More
than two-thirds relate to political unrest, while the rest
appear to target spam or viruses.  Flurry of Filtering  Nearly half of the filters were requested by “225,”
according to the document. It is the same intelligence unit that
issues orders to block web sites inside of Syria, according to
human rights groups. The unit also issues orders for blocking of
some spam and viruses on the mobile network for fear they could
be used to disseminate information to Syrians, according to two
people familiar with the systems.  The filters are often instructed to block text messages,
while sending “positive acknowledgment” to the sender that the
message has been delivered, according to the document.  According to the document, a flurry of filtering began in
February of last year, amid fledgling signs of dissent. A “Day
of Rage” protest had been planned for February 5, 2011, but it
drew only small crowds. Nonetheless, the regime soon went to
work. On February 23, Syriatel was instructed to filter messages
containing Arabic phrases for “Syrian rage” and “rage of the
Syrian.” In the following days, numerous other phrases relating
to dissident activities were added to the list.  Day of Rage  Anger towards the regime escalated in early March, when a
group of boys between the ages of 10 and 15, suspected of spray-
painting revolutionary slogans on walls in Daraa, were arrested
and allegedly tortured by local police. Some were burned and
others had their fingernails pulled out, human rights activists
said in news reports.  As plans circulated for another “Day of Rage” protest for
March 15, new filtering requests streamed into Syriatel. On
March 13, it was instructed to block messages containing the
phrases “We invite/call you to a demonstration” and “to
overthrow the regime.” And the day before a March 25 protest to
follow Friday prayers, “225” instructed Syriatel to block
messages containing the phrases “Syrian Men” and “Friday
Prayers,” according to the document.  Strike for Dignity  During that day’s protests, troops opened fire in southern
Syria, killing several demonstrators, according to news reports.
The next day, 225 instructed Syriatel to block messages
containing the word “massacres.”  Efforts to hinder protesters continued as recently as
December. Opposition groups planned a “Strike for Dignity,” to
begin on December 11 and last several weeks. Market shops would
close, university and government employees would leave work and
roadways would be blocked. The day before the strike, 225
instructed Syriatel to block messages with various terms for
“strike” or “dignity.”  Similar phrases are also being blocked at MTN Syria, the
No. 2, mobile operator, according to two of the sources familiar
with the filtering and opponents of the Syrian regime.
“Filtering is happening across the board, regardless of the
mobile carrier,” says Jouejati, of the Local Coordination
Committees.  In an e-mailed statement,  Rich Mkhondo , corporate affairs
executive for Johannesburg-based  MTN Group Ltd. , said that the
company is “a committed corporate citizen of Syria” that
complies with the country’s laws and regulations.  Human Rights Abuses  “Accordingly, we conduct our business in line with
conditions provided for in our operating license,” he said.  The company owns 75 percent of MTN Syria, according to its
2010 annual report.  Human rights groups say the companies should have known
better than to supply filtering technologies to Syria. A U.S.
State Department’s 2008 human rights  report , for instance,
stated that the country’s security forces “committed numerous,
serious human rights abuses” and “tortured and physically
abused prisoners and detainees.”  “The decision by various Europeans to sell this technology
to Syria is very problematic,” says Mara Karlin, a lecturer at
Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies and a former Pentagon official who advised on U.S.
policy for the  Middle East . “We’re seeing the fruits of this
right now.”  Adds Jouejati, of the Local Coordination Committees: “It’s
like putting a gun in someone’s hand and saying ‘I can’t help
the way the person uses it.’”  Unfair Criticism  Ghalaieny of Cellusys says the criticism is unfair. Other
firms sell technology exclusively for monitoring and
surveillance, but Cellusys frees mobile networks of spam and
viruses in order to keep them functioning at a high level, he
says.  In an hour-long telephone interview, he compared his
company’s situation to that of automaker Toyota. In news footage
from fighting across Afghanistan and Libya, the company’s Hilux
pick-up trucks can be seen in combat situations with machine
guns mounted in the bed of the truck. Says Ghalaieny: “I doubt
there’s anyone at Toyota saying we need to discontinue selling
the Hilux pick-up truck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ; Vernon Silver at  vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ; 