-- Assad Calls Referendum on Syria’s Constitution Amid Violence for Feb. 26
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-15T11:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/syria-s-assad-calls-referendum-on-constitution-amid-violence-for-feb-26.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
called a referendum on a new constitution for Feb. 26 amid an
escalating conflict between his army and opposition groups.  The draft document, published on the Syrian Arab News
Agency today, promises “political pluralism” and democratic
elections and limits presidents to two seven-year terms. Assad’s
Baath party has had a monopoly in politics since it banned
opposition groups after seizing power in a 1963 coup.  Assad promised constitutional changes last year after
protests against his government broke out in mid-March.
Thousands have died since then as security forces cracked down
on the opposition. The  United Nations  estimated that more than
5,400 people had been killed in Syria as of Jan. 10.  “This isn’t a constitution that has been voted on by an
elected assembly, it’s been created by Baathist bureaucrats and
presented for a referendum to the public,” said  Chris Phillips ,
a lecturer in international relations specializing in the Middle
East at Queen Mary College in  London . “Right from the word go
it’s not even in the spirit of open multiparty politics.”  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed by Russia
and  China  on Feb. 4. Syrian security forces have deploying
tanks, armored vehicles and using heavy artillery and machine
guns, according to activists.  The Arab League has called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force. The league said on Feb. 12 it will ask the
 Security Council  to authorize a joint mission to supervise
implementation of a cease-fire, to replace an Arab League
observation mission that was suspended as violence against
protesters continued. Syria has rejected the plan.  The proposed constitution “is not the first proposed
reform from the government during this crisis and it’s unlikely
to be the last,” Phillips said. It’s “highly unlikely to win
over the people who are on the streets demonstrating against
President Assad.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  