-- U.K. Jobless Claims Rise More Than Forecast as Cuts Bite
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-15T11:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-k-jobless-claims-rise-as-unemployment-holds-at-highest-rate-in-16-years.html
U.K. jobless claims rose more than
economists forecast in January and  unemployment  held at the
highest rate for 16 years in the fourth quarter as the economy
contracted.  The number of people claiming jobless benefits rose by
6,900 to 1.6 million, the highest since January 2010,  the Office
for National Statistics  said today in  London . The median of 24
forecasts in a Bloomberg News Survey was for a gain of 3,000.
Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods rose by 48,000 to 2.67 million in the fourth quarter,
leaving the rate at 8.4 percent, the most since the end of 1995.  The data fueled opposition claims that Prime Minister
 David Cameron  is trying to cut the  budget deficit  too quickly
after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter.
Government forecasters predict unemployment will reach 8.7
percent by the end of 2012 as the private sector fails to make
up for the loss of tens of thousands of public-sector jobs.  “The U.K. labor-market data continue to paint a bit of a
mixed picture, but the key point is that unemployment is still
rising,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London. “We continue to expect unemployment to rise
much further in response to the weakness in the wider economy.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5697 as of 11:15 a.m. in London. The 10-year gilt
yield was unchanged at 2.094 percent.  ‘Difficult Adjustment’  Bank of England  policy makers voted last week to pump
another 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) into the economy by May.
Governor  Mervyn King  said today the latest rise in unemployment
reflected the weakness of an economy battered by the euro-area 
debt crisis.  “The height of unemployment is a concern for everyone,”
King told a press conference in London after the central bank
published its quarterly Inflation Report. “These are not
figures anyone would choose to have. We have a very difficult
adjustment to make in our economy and there’s no point in
pretending otherwise. This is a consequence of it.”  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month left the claimant-count rate at 5 percent.
Claims rose 1,900 in December instead of the 1,200 initially
reported.  Employment rose by 60,000 during the fourth quarter to
29.1 million, prompting the government to argue that the labor
market is showing signs of stabilizing.  Part-Time Work  The unison labor union said the jobless figures showed the
government’s economic policies aren’t working, with a third of
those unemployed in the fourth quarter having been out of work
for longer than a year. A record number of people are working
part-time because they cannot find full-time jobs.  The move to expand asset purchases came despite tentative
signs of recovery, with indexes of manufacturing, services and
construction all rising in January. In the U.S., the
 unemployment rate  fell to a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
January and the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  has risen 8 percent
this year.  The  Confederation of British Industry , the country’s
biggest business lobby, said earlier this week that the economy
will avoid a slump and growth will pick up this year. Cameron is
counting on hiring at private companies to offset about 700,000
public-sector jobs losses by 2017 as a result of his budget
squeeze.   Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, said on Feb. 10 that it will cut as
many as 300 mainly London-based staff in its  capital markets  and
cash equities units after failing to find a buyer for the
businesses. The lender said in January it would cut about 3,500
jobs at its investment-banking division.  Job Cuts  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, said
on Feb. 2 that it will cut 7,300 jobs on top of 21,600 positions
already eliminated by Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan 
since 2007.  Today’s report showed that pay growth in the fourth quarter
was unchanged at 2 percent, while the figure excluding bonuses
barely accelerated to 2 percent from 1.9 percent, underlining
the squeeze on consumers facing an inflation rate of 3.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  