-- U.K. FSA’s Cole to Leave Agency After Leading Insider-Trading Crackdown
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-15T17:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-k-fsa-s-cole-to-leave-agency-after-leading-insider-trading-crackdown.html
Margaret Cole , a managing director
at the U.K.’s finance regulator who led its clampdown on market
abuse, is leaving the agency after seven years.  Cole will continue working at the Financial Services
Authority until the end of March and then will be on so-called
gardening leave until September, the agency said today in a
statement. Under Cole’s stewardship, the FSA fined banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , UBS AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for
financial rule breaches and levied its largest individual
penalty ever.  The FSA, which was set up in 1997, prosecuted its first
criminal case of  insider trading  in 2008. The regulator
introduced a “credible deterrence” strategy for stricter
enforcement against financial crime after it was criticized for
failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial crisis since the
World War II.  The agency is to be abolished in 2013 and replaced by at
least two new authorities as part of an overhaul of financial
supervision. Cole, who was also a board member, was a candidate
to lead the FSA’s successor, the Financial Conduct Authority.
The U.K. Treasury instead chose Martin Wheatley, then chief
executive of  Hong Kong ’s Securities and Futures Commission.  While director of enforcement at the FSA, Cole led a
division of 450 people with oversight of intelligence gathering,
forensic investigations, and civil and criminal cases over
financial crime. Prior to joining the regulator in July 2005,
Cole worked as a litigator at the law firms Stephenson Harwood
and White & Case LLP.  “Prior to Margaret Cole joining the FSA, it was rare for
criminal actions on insider dealing to be brought by the
regulator,” Tim Dolan, a regulation lawyer at Pinsent Masons,
said in an e-mail.  She “has been instrumental in encouraging
FSA Enforcement staff to take a tougher approach. In particular,
she has encouraged, where at all possible, pursuing criminal
actions against individuals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  