-- U.S. East Coast May Stay Mild Through February, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-15T13:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-s-east-coast-may-stay-mild-through-february-forecasters-say.html
The eastern U.S. may remain milder
than normal through the end of February as colder weather clings
to the West and  Canada , according to forecasters.  Temperatures in the Northeast, including New York, and the
mid-Atlantic states may be 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to 3.9
Celsius) above normal, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland.  “Large-scale drivers still point mostly to the warmer side
given the ongoing Pacific dominance over any high latitude
impacts,” MDA said in a 6- to 10-day outlook today.  Warmer weather in the eastern U.S. affects energy use
because the population density is much higher, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, the Energy Department says.  Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge demand for
natural gas, heating oil and electricity.  The high temperature in  New York  is expected to reach 51 by
the end of the week and into the 40s over the weekend, according
to the  National Weather Service .  The high later this week may be 48 in Boston; 46 in
Chicago; 52 in  Washington ; 64 in Atlanta; and 60 in Dallas.  Temperatures may drop 8 degrees below normal across parts
of Alberta to Manitoba and the northern U.S. Great Plains from
Feb. 25 to Feb. 29, according to an 11- to 15-day outlook from
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  While that colder air will spread throughout the U.S. West,
Rogers said he expects it will weaken as it moves toward the
east. He predicts temperatures will remain above normal along
the East Coast and seasonal in the Appalachian Mountain region
and the Ohio Valley.  The normal average temperature in New York on Feb. 22 is 37
degrees, according to MDA. It’s 33 in  Boston ; 38 in
Philadelphia; 49 in Atlanta; 30 in Chicago; 52 in Dallas; 44 in
Seattle; and 57 in Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  