-- U.S. Investigating Goldman Analyst on Insider Tips, WSJ Says
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-15T09:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-s-investigating-goldman-analyst-on-insider-tips-wsj-reports.html
U.S. authorities are investigating
whether a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  technology analyst leaked
insider information to hedge funds, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people close to the situation it didn’t name.  Henry King, who is based in  Hong Kong , took a leave from
his position after traveling to the U.S. earlier this year,
Goldman Sachs clients were told, according to the report. Edward Naylor, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on the report when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  Taiwan is home to Foxconn Technology Group, which assembles
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
which manufactures for Qualcomm Inc. and Intel Corp. Technology
stocks have the largest collective weighting in  Taiwan ’s Taiex
index, with four of the benchmark’s top 10 stocks being
technology companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Representatives from the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office
and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  declined to comment, the
Journal reported. King, co-head of Asia technology research and
New York-based Goldman Sachs’s Taiwan research head, didn’t
return calls for comment, the newspaper reported.  King covered Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Lenovo Group
Ltd. and Acer Inc., among other companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Former Goldman Sachs director  Rajat Gupta  was accused in
October by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing
inside information to Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon
Group LLC. The U.S. says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman
Sachs and Procter & Gamble Co. earnings. Rajaratnam was
convicted of  insider trading  in May.  Taiwan’s black market for business intelligence and its
appeal to hedge funds looking for an advantage are well-
established, Bloomberg News reported in 2010.  Since at least 2004, incidents of analysts dealing in
confidential chip-production data have occurred at the Taipei
offices of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., said six people in the finance industry with knowledge of
the events who asked not to be identified to protect their
business relationships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  