-- U.S. February Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-s-february-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The February Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates
that manufacturing activity in New York State expanded for a
third consecutive month. The general business conditions index
rose six points to 19.5, its highest level in more than a year.
The new orders index, at 9.7, was positive but down slightly,
and the shipments index was little changed at 22.8. The prices
paid index held steady at 25.9, while the prices received index
fell eight points to 15.3, suggesting that selling prices rose
at a slower pace. Employment indexes were positive and close to
last month’s levels, indicating that employment levels and the
average workweek continued to rise at a modest pace. Indexes for
the six-month outlook, while somewhat lower than last month,
remained at fairly high levels, signaling considerable optimism
about the future.  In a series of supplementary survey questions,
manufacturers were asked about their 2012  capital spending  plans
and how the plans compared with their actual spending for 2011.
Parallel questions had been asked in earlier surveys, including
the February 2011 survey. Substantially more respondents
indicated that they planned increases (46 percent) than
reductions (25 percent) in overall capital spending in 2012.
These results are not substantially different from those in last
February’s survey. As in earlier surveys, the increases most
widely expected were for non-computer-related equipment; in
contrast, manufacturers remained somewhat reluctant to invest in
structures, though less so than in earlier surveys. The median
projected level of capital spending for 2012 across all
respondent firms was up 29 percent from the median actual level
reported for 2011.  Expansion Continues to Gain Momentum  The general business conditions index rose six points in
February to 19.5, its highest level since June 2010. The index
was last negative in October, then rose to a level of around
zero in November; subsequently, the readings have become
increasingly positive, suggesting that the expansion in business
activity for New York manufacturers has gained momentum in
recent months. The new orders index fell four points to 9.7,
indicating that orders climbed at a slower pace. The shipments
index held steady at 22.8. The unfilled orders index inched down
two points to -7.1, and the delivery time index rose four points
to 1.2. After climbing above zero last month, the inventories
index fell eleven points to -4.7; the return to negative
territory indicated that inventory levels were slightly lower.  Employment Grows Modestly  The prices paid index was little changed from last month at
25.9, a sign that input prices rose at about the same pace as in
January. The prices received index fell eight points to 15.3,
suggesting that selling prices continued to rise, but at a
slower pace. Employment indexes, positive and little changed
from last month, indicated a modest increase in employment
levels and in the length of the average workweek. The index for
number of employees was 11.8, and the average workweek index was
7.1.  Six-Month Outlook Remains Upbeat  Indexes for the six-month outlook, while somewhat lower
than last month, conveyed a widespread expectation that
conditions would improve in the months ahead. The future general
business conditions index fell four points to 50.4, with 58
percent of respondents expecting conditions to improve over the
next six months and 7 percent expecting conditions to worsen.
The future new orders and shipments indexes also declined, but
remained at high levels. The future prices paid index advanced
nine points to 62.4, indicating that input prices were expected
to rise significantly. The future prices received index climbed
three points to 34.1. Future employment indexes suggested that
firms foresaw an increase in employment. The capital spending
index rose six points to 31.8, its highest level in a year, and
the technology spending index held steady at 18.8. 