-- U.S. Pilot Risk-Based Screening to Expand, Airlines Say
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-15T23:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-s-pilot-risk-based-screening-to-expand-in-2012-airlines-say.html
A program that gets U.S. pilots
through security faster by relying on already-completed criminal
background checks will expand beyond seven airports this year,
an airline industry group said.  Airlines for America, representing such companies as  Delta
Air Lines (DAL) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American
Airlines Inc., will hire Arinc Inc., a unit of the Washington-
based  Carlyle Group , to provide technology and software as the
Known Crewmember program expands, said Tom Hendricks, the
group’s senior vice president for security, safety and
operations.  Arinc, based in Annapolis,  Maryland , has been operating a
rival pilot-screening program, known as Crewpass, at three U.S.
airports since 2008.  “The expansion of risk-based programs like Known
Crewmember is making travel easier for our passengers and
employees,”  Nicholas Calio , president and chief executive
officer of Washington-based Airlines for America, said in a
statement.  About 340,000 pilots have been cleared for flights through
a Known Crewmember test at airports including Boston Logan
International and  Chicago ’s O’Hare International, the trade
group and the Air Line Pilots Association said in a statement.  “This system will ensure a safe and secure work
environment for all professional airline pilots, recognizing
their backgrounds and qualifications,” said Lee Moak, president
of the Air Line Pilots Association International, a labor union
representing 53,000 pilots at 37 U.S. and Canadian airlines.  TSA Request  Known Crewmember began operating last August at O’Hare, the
second-busiest U.S. airport by passenger traffic. The expanded
program will be managed by Airlines for America and marketed to
member and non-member airlines, Hendricks said.  “I would expect all large airports in the U.S. to be
included in this program,” Hendricks said in an interview.  Airlines for America has asked the U.S. Transportation
Security Administration to include flight attendants in the
program, according to the statement.  TSA supports the industry’s efforts to implement a new
screening system that will connect employee databases and enable
agency personnel to verify pilots’ identities, Greg Soule, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “This new system is a key component as we continue to
explore more risk-based, intelligence-driven security
solutions,” Soule said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  