-- Goldman Sachs Analyst Inquiry Said to Show New Focus in U.S. Insider Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/u-s-insider-probe-said-to-intensify-asia-bank-focus-with-goldman-analyst.html
The investigation of a  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  analyst shows U.S. officials have intensified their
focus on banks and Taiwan in a multiyear insider-trading probe
that has implicated  hedge funds , technology company employees
and consultants, a person familiar with the matter said.  The investigation of Henry King, the Goldman Sachs analyst
covering Taiwan, shows federal authorities are expanding the
insider-trading probe by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
 Manhattan  and the FBI in New York, said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  The probe, called operation “Perfect Hedge,” began five
years ago and has resulted in insider-trading and securities
fraud charges being filed against 64 people, with more than 50
since 2009 either pleading guilty or being convicted at trial.
They included Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who
is serving an 11-year prison term.  James Margolin, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York, declined to comment on the case, or
whether King is cooperating. King didn’t answer calls to his
 Hong Kong  office number yesterday. E-mails to his company
account received an auto reply saying he’s out of the country on
a personal matter.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the investigation of King, or whether he remains a
bank employee or is on leave.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Bharara, declined to comment.  PCs, Motherboard  King, based in Hong Kong, covers Taiwanese companies
including Quanta Computer Inc. and Compal Electronics Inc., the
world’s two largest manufacturers of notebook computers for
clients including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  King, who joined Goldman Sachs in 2002, was named head of
Taiwan research in 2005. Prior to New York-based Goldman Sachs,
he worked at Credit Suisse First Boston and Indosuez W.I. Carr
Securities Ltd.  Other companies which King covers, according to Bloomberg
data, include Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. and Pegatron Corp.,
the only two assemblers of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones; Catcher
Technology Co., and Foxconn Technology Co., the major suppliers
of metal casings for laptops and cell phones.  In addition to regular updates on companies under his
coverage, including  China ’s Lenovo Group Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, and Acer Inc., King
also initiated and maintained the Asian Motherboard Monitor
while at Credit Suisse First Boston, according to a 2009 report
in the Financial Times.  Industry Trends  Motherboard Monitor collated data about computer circuit
board production and shipments that allowed technology investors
to track industry trends, the FT report said. That data can also
be used to allow investors to predict the outlook for suppliers
such as  Intel Corp. (ITC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , whose chips
are required to make the motherboards function.  Pegatron, the manufacturing division spun off from Asustek
Computer Inc., is also the largest maker of motherboards which
connect components in a computer.  Because of their importance to the computer industry and
the need to develop new models ahead of time, motherboard makers
are briefed regularly by Intel and AMD about upcoming chips,
prices, production schedules and the market environment.  In a  15-page report  on the effect of  Japan ’s earthquake on
Taiwan components makers, published in March 2011, King made
five references to his having done “channel checks” with
manufacturers and vendors to calculate possible supply-chain
disruptions.  ‘Mr. X’  Bharara’s office in October indicted Rajat Gupta, a former
Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co . director, with leaking
material, nonpublic information to Rajaratnam about the two
companies. Gupta has denied wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said in a Feb. 3 letter to U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over Gupta’s case in Manhattan,
that they had witness statements that there was a second
“insider” at Goldman Sachs who leaked tips to Rajaratnam that
“did not relate to Goldman and/or Procter & Gamble.”  Prosecutors didn’t disclose which stocks the second unnamed
tipper, who Rakoff called “Mr. X,” had allegedly disclosed to
Rajaratnam.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , declined to comment about
King, or other Goldman Sachs sources Rajaratnam may have had for
illegal tips. Naftalis has argued in court that he should be
permitted to use such information while defending Gupta at
trial.  Taiwan Leaks  Taiwan  is home to the biggest custom producers of chips
used in products including Apple’s iPhone and Dell computers.  Since at least 2004, incidents of analysts dealing in
confidential chip-production data have occurred at the Taipei
offices of banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., said six people in the finance industry
with knowledge of the events, who asked not to be identified to
protect their business relationships.  Testimony about fund managers receiving such tips from  Asia 
arose in three insider-trading trials in New York stemming from
the Perfect Hedge investigations.  Adam Smith, a former Galleon portfolio manager who worked
for Rajaratnam, testified at last year’s trial of the Galleon
co-founder that part of his job was “getting the number,” or
learning revenue figures before they became public from company
insiders at Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
 Intersil Corp. (ISIL) ,  Synaptics Inc. (SYNA)  and other publicly traded
companies.  ‘Accurate’ Leaks  Smith, who pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S.,
testified that he got advanced revenue numbers about Intersil, a
semiconductor maker, from a Taipei-based engineer at the company
named Jason Lin.  In his testimony, Smith said Lin told him that he got the
data from an unidentified “senior member of the team” in
Taiwan. Smith said he told his boss about the tips and his
source’s identity.  The leaked information from Lin was “accurate,” Smith
said.  At last year’s trial of Winifred Jiau, a former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant charged with selling material
nonpublic information, former fund manager Noah Freeman
testified he received nonpublic information from technology
companies on at least 18 different occasions while working at
Sonar Capital and SAC Capital Advisors LLP. Both firms have
policies prohibiting the use of such information.  ‘Looser’  On the witness stand, Freeman, who pleaded guilty and
agreed to cooperate with the U.S., was asked how easy it was to
obtain such data in Asia.  “Was it your experience that people working in companies
based in Taiwan were looser with their financial information and
sales data?” David Luttinger, a lawyer for Jiau asked.  “Yes, they were,” Freeman said.  Don Ching Trang Chu, who worked as the Taiwan liaison for
Mountain View, California-based Primary Global, said when he
pleaded guilty last year that he was present for in-person
meetings in Taiwan between fund managers who were clients of PGR
and consultants who were also employees of technology companies.  Chu, who pleaded guilty in June, was charged in connection
with passing tips to Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at
San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  