-- Tubin of Turkey May Take Bilfinger to Court After Tribunal Award
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-15T11:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/tubin-of-turkey-may-take-bilfinger-to-court-after-tribunal-award.html
Tubin Insaat Sanayi Turizm & Ticaret
AS , a Turkish contractor, is considering taking a  Bilfinger
Berger  (GBF) SE-led joint venture to German court to extract a payment
tied to a highway project dispute in Qatar.  Tubin won a ruling in November by the  International Chamber
of Commerce , a Paris-based arbitration panel to resolve
international business disputes, more than three years after it
filed the case, Tubin Vice Chairman Turgay Ozkan said.  Tubin, hired in 2006 as a subcontractor by the joint
venture, had a stake of about 40 percent in the $300 million
project in the capital city of Doha, Ozkan said. Qatar’s Public
Works Authority, known as  Ashghal , canceled an expressway after
delays and cost overruns, Bilfinger said in 2009. Bilfinger set
aside 80 million euros to cover the fallout from the project.  The venture must pay a “very substantial amount not too
far away from what Bilfinger set aside as reserve” in 2009,
Ozkan said in an interview in Istanbul on Feb. 13. “Honoring
the decision of the ICC tribunal would be the only action
befitting the history and name of Bilfinger.”  Tubin terminated its $100 million subcontract with the
joint venture, which consists of Mannheim, Germany-based
Bilfinger and Qatar’s Al Hamed, for not receiving payment and is
now pursuing its assets in Qatar and  Germany , Ozkan said.  Unpaid Bills  Bills for 100 million euros to 200 million euros had not
been paid for the project, Herbert Bodner, Bilfinger’s then
chief executive officer, said after construction was canceled.
The delays were caused by “circumstances beyond our control
that didn’t appear in the original project drawings,” Ozkan
said.  “Bilfinger Berger isn’t involved directly, the arbitration
award has been directed against the joint venture Bilfinger
Berger and Al Hamed,” said Martin Buellesbach, a spokesman for
Bilfinger Berger. “The substance of the matter is related to
claims that are to be ultimately settled by the client,”
referring to Ashghal, he said.  The joint venture filed “its respective claims” with a
Qatari court and “efforts are underway to reach an out-of-court
settlement with the client,” Buellesbach said.  Letters at personal and corporate level to Bilfinger
officials including the chairman and chief executive officer
 Roland Koch  requesting payment after the ICC decision weren’t
answered, Ozkan said. The awarded payment will help compensate
for Tubin’s losses from the project, Ozkan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 