-- UBS Is Said to Have Sought Immunity in Canadian Libor-Fixing Investigation
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-16T12:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ubs-is-said-to-have-sought-immunity-in-canadian-libor-fixing-investigation.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
sought immunity from prosecution by Canadian regulators probing
a potential conspiracy to rig the price of derivatives globally,
three people with knowledge of the inquiry said.  The lender is the cooperating party referred to by  Canada ’s
 Competition Bureau  in court papers filed by the regulator with
the Ontario Superior Court in May, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the identity of the firm hasn’t been
made public.  The papers, shown this week to Bloomberg News by court
clerks, indicate a bank told the regulator that traders and cash
brokers conspired to influence the Yen London interbank offered
rate from 2007 to 2010 to profit on interest-rate derivatives
linked to the benchmark. Regulators worldwide are investigating
whether banks attempted to manipulate the  London , Tokyo and euro
interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  UBS has also suspended a number of employees including Yvan Ducrot, co-head of rates, and Holger Seger, global head of
short-term interest rates trading, as part of an investigation
of its rate submissions, said a person briefed on the matter who
declined to be identified because the decision is private.  The bank has already been given conditional immunity by the
Swiss Competition Commission as part of an investigation into
suspected manipulation of the Yen Libor, Tibor and Swiss franc
Libor rates. The Zurich-based lender was granted similar
immunity by the  U.S. Department of Justice  last year as part of
its probes of Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor rates.  Trader Suspensions  Dominik von Arx, a spokesman for UBS in London, declined to
comment on the court case. Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the
Competition Bureau, declined to comment on the identity of the
cooperating party.  “There is no conclusion of wrongdoing at this time and no
charges have been laid,” Keating said in an e-mailed statement.  Neither Ducrot nor Seger were reachable through their
office telephone numbers and neither responded to e-mails
through LinkedIn. A profile under Seger’s name says he oversees
70 traders worldwide. The Financial Times reported the
suspensions earlier today. Von Arx declined to comment on the
report.  According to the affidavit filed by the bureau, Canadian
officials were informed that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and RP Martin Holdings Ltd. took part in the
scheme. Employees at the banks agreed to make artificially high
or low submissions for Yen Libor to improve the outcomes of
trades tied to the rate, the Canadian regulator said, citing
information it received under the immunity program.  Daily Survey  Libor rates are generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to
borrow from one another for 15 different time periods, from
overnight to one year, in currencies including dollars, euros,
yen and Swiss francs.  According to the Competition Bureau’s filings, the
cooperating party said one of its derivatives traders described
his bets to an ICAP broker, and the trader explained how he
wanted the Yen Libor to move. The broker said he would try to
arrange for other ICAP brokers to influence banks that submit
data for the benchmark rate, the bureau said. ICAP is the
world’s largest broker of transactions between banks.  HSBC, JPMorgan  The documents also describe similar communications
involving traders at other banks. For instance, Peter O’Leary, a
trader at HSBC, allegedly instructed cash brokers on how to
influence the benchmark rate, the bureau said. It also described
communications involving London-based traders Guillaume Adolph
at Deutsche Bank, Stuart Wiley at JPMorgan and Brent Davies at
RBS, as well as former RBS employee Will Hall and former
JPMorgan employee Paul Glands. The bureau hasn’t brought claims
against any of them.  Wiley and Glands declined to comment. Davies didn’t return
calls to his mobile phone. There was no response to an e-mail
sent to an address found for O’Leary. Contact information for
Adolph and Hall couldn’t be located through directory assistance
and in an Internet search.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Edinburgh-based RBS and London-
based ICAP have declined to comment on the affidavit. A
spokeswoman for London-based HSBC didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  ‘No Formal Allegations’  Tavistock Communications, which handles media inquiries for
RP Martin, issued a statement saying, “RP Martin has received
requests from certain regulators to provide information on a
voluntary basis to assist them with their preliminary inquiries
but no formal allegations have been made against RP Martin by
any regulator.”  Not all attempts to manipulate the rate were successful,
according to an affidavit filed by the bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  