-- Hungary Eyes Government Debt Yields Below 7% With IMF Deal, Csefalvay Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-15T10:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/hungary-eyes-debt-yields-below-7-with-imf-deal-csefalvay-says.html
Hungary wants to cut government debt
yields to a sustainable level by agreeing on an  International
Monetary Fund  bailout, clearing the way to sell Eurobonds,
Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said.  The government’s “primary target” is to reduce yields to
less than 7 percent, Csefalvay said yesterday in an interview in
Budapest. Hungary should sell Eurobonds after obtaining a safety
net in the first half of 2012, he said.  “The main issue is that we need lower yields to finance
this public debt,” Csefalvay said. “I think the primary target
is below 7 percent but certainly it depends on how the market
will react, it certainly depends on the size, the conditions and
many other factors.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who had shunned international
aid after coming to office in 2010, pledged to work toward a
“quick” agreement with the IMF and the European Union on Jan.
5 after the forint fell to a record against the euro and the
yield on the 10-year government bond exceeded 10 percent.
Hungary’s sovereign credit is rated junk at Moody’s Investors
Service,  Fitch Ratings  and Standard and Poor’s.  Forint, Bonds Gain  The forint strengthened as much as 1.3 percent to 288.2 per
euro in Budapest, the strongest level since Sept. 28, and traded
at 288.8 at 11:14 a.m. in Budapest. The forint was the world’s
worst-performing currency against the euro in the second half of
2011, losing almost 16 percent. It’s risen more than 9 percent
since Orban’s Jan. 5 pledge, the most among currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  With an IMF deal “we will have a more stable  exchange
rate ,” Csefalvay said. “And certainly for the growth, you need
a more stable environment, stable exchange rate and lower yields
to finance the state debt.”  The yield on the 10-year government bond declined to 8.4
percent today from 10.8 percent on Jan. 4. Hungary sold 60
billion forint ($269 million) of 3-month Treasury bills
yesterday, 10 billion forint more than planned, at an average
yield of 7.32 percent, unchanged from the last sale of the same
maturity on Feb. 7.  Hungary, the EU’s most indebted eastern member with public
debt level representing 83 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of September, will probably wait for an IMF agreement
before selling Eurobonds, Csefalvay said.  ‘Really Logical’  “The IMF’s safety net could have influence on the yield
and I think it’s really logical to have the timing after that,”
Csefalvay said. “We have to wait certainly for the deal.”  The government maintains that it doesn’t want to tap IMF
financing, preferring instead to raise debt on the market at
lower yields than currently, Csefalvay said.  The government may reach an agreement with the IMF and the
EU at the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the
second, he said.  Hungary can’t begin formal talks until it meets EU and IMF
demands to change a disputed central bank regulation. The 27-
member bloc has also requested changes to overhauls of the
judiciary and data-protection ombudsman’s office.  The government’s reply to the European Commission, to be
sent by a Feb. 17 deadline, may “settle all the points that
were raised” by the EU executive, Csefalvay said.  “Negotiations need time and that’s why I said end of first
quarter maybe in the second but certainly in the first half of
the year we will have this” agreement, Csefalvay said. He
declined to speculate on the size of a possible loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  