-- Hungary Central Bank Unveils Plans to Help Boost Lending
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-15T11:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/hungary-central-bank-unveils-plans-to-help-boost-lending-1-.html
Hungary ’s central bank will take
steps to help boost lending, including providing corporate
credits and creating a plan to aid the mortgage industry, as
economic growth may stall this year.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will offer a two-year
collateralized credit facility to commercial banks, start a
universal mortgage bond-purchase plan and expand the range of
eligible collateral to increase lending, the Budapest-based bank
said today in a  statement  on its website.  Lending to companies in Hungary has been declining since
the fourth quarter of 2008, raising the threat of a “creditless
recovery,” the central bank said on Sept. 23. It warned that
Hungary’s recovery from its worst recession in 18 years is in
peril as the lack of corporate credit may hamper economic
growth.  “The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will stand ready to offset the
recent weakening in banks’ capacity to lend,” the bank said
today. The drop in lending is partly the result of “banks’
limited lending capacity and in large part by their reduced
willingness to lend.”  The two-year credit facility, available only to banks that
pledge not to reduce corporate lending through the maturity of
the loan, will serve as a “veritable safety net,” central bank
Governor Andras Simor said in an interview with news portal
 Portfolio  today.  ‘Feel Safer’  “Banks can feel safer with respect to funding supply, the
maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities and they can
extend credit more bravely,” Simor said.  The government expects the  expansion  to slow to 0.5 percent
this year from a preliminary 1.7 percent in 2011 while the
 International Monetary Fund  may cut its 0.3 percent growth
forecast for Hungary because of the euro area’s deteriorating
outlook, IMF representative Iryna Ivaschenko said on Feb. 9.  “In terms of lending dynamics we expect muted impact in
the near term as the banking sector as a whole already has a
significant amount of excess liquidity,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-
based strategist for  emerging markets  at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in
a report today.  The two-year variable-rate refinancing to banks at the
central bank’s prevailing  policy rate  against securities
delivered as collateral is designed to help corporate lending,
according to the statement.  Financing Access  The new facility, available as of next month, allows banks
access to financing at maturities of limited availability in the
market without the need to pay a term premium on longer-term
funding, the statement said.  The plans presented today may support ending, however the
central bank’s tools “aren’t sufficient on their own to revive
corporate lending,” Simor said. The bank has yet to decide the
amount it will allocate in two-year collateralized loans to
banks, he said.  The new two-year facility will likely support short-end
 government bonds ,’’ UniCredit’s Toth said, adding that any
“direct impact will largely depend on the finally agreed re-
pricing period.”  The central bank is seeking to revive household lending
with the mortgage bond-purchase plan, which can help improve the
maturity match between assets and liabilities, according to the
statement. To help the purchase plan’s success, it’s necessary
for lawmakers to pass legislation allowing all  credit
institutions  to issue mortgage bonds, the bank said.  The mortgage note purchase plan is expected to start within
one month after the necessary legislation is passed. The
expansion of the range of eligible collateral can alleviate
liquidity constraints potentially impeding corporate and
household lending through an increase in banks’ liquidity
buffers, the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  