-- Hungary’s Economy Expands More Than Forecast on Agriculture
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-15T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/hungary-s-economy-expands-more-than-forecast-on-agricultural-production.html
Hungary’s  economy  expanded more than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter, boosted by rising
agricultural production.  Gross domestic product increased 1.4 percent from a year
earlier, matching the pace in the previous three months, the
 statistics office  in Budapest said today in a preliminary
estimate. The median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.9 percent increase. GDP grew 0.3 percent from
the third quarter.  “Agriculture was pulling growth and industrial production
played second fiddle,” statistician Peter Szabo told reporters
in Budapest today. “The construction industry’s stagnation was
bizarrely a positive factor after double-digit drops.”  Industrial production, including exports of Audi AG cars
and Nokia Oyj mobile phones, had helped  Hungary  recover from its
worst recession in 18 years in 2009. Nokia’s announcement on
Feb. 8 that it will cut 2,300 jobs in Komarom, Hungary will have
a “negative” impact on first-quarter growth, Szabo said.  The  International Monetary Fund  may cut this year’s 0.3
percent growth forecast for Hungary because of the euro area’s
deteriorating outlook, Iryna Ivaschenko, the lender’s
representative in Budapest, said Feb. 9.  Hungary is seeking to revive bailout talks with the IMF and
the European Union to quell investor concern about its ability
to service the highest debt level among the trading bloc’s
eastern members. It sought aid in November as the forint fell to
a record low and its credit grade was cut to junk at  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The government predicts growth of 0.5 percent in 2012. The
economy expanded 1.7 percent in 2011 from the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  