-- Uni-Invest Fails to Repay $791 Million of Dutch Property Loans
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-15T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/uni-invest-fails-to-repay-791-million-of-dutch-property-loans.html
Uni-Invest NV , a privately held
Dutch property manager, failed to repay a 602 million-euro ($791
million) commercial real estate loan which fell due today,
according to a regulatory filing.  The loan, backed by 201 office buildings in the
Netherlands, is collateral for bonds issued by Opera Finance
(Uni-Invest) NV, according to a company filing. The transaction
may be declared in default if Opera doesn’t get repaid within
the next three days.  “The issuer did not receive payment of principal amount
outstanding of the senior loan and as a result did not have
sufficient funds to repay all the principal amount
outstanding,” according to the filing.  The transaction was issued in 2005 and included a 358.7
million-euro portion that initially got a top grade from Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. A group
of investors representing 90 percent of outstanding senior notes
are exploring options for the transaction, Eurohypo AG, the
administrator of the deal, said in a Feb. 8 statement, without
providing details.  “Uni-Invest regards the scenarios currently being explored
by the bondholders as positive,” Pieter Roozenboom, chief
executive officer at Uni-Invest, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We get the time and space to continue our strategy of
portfolio optimization and transformation.”  Uni-Invest’s shares were delisted in January 2003 after a
group led by Lehman Brothers Real Estate Partners and the
Merwede Group agreed to buy the company for 884 million euros.  Almost a quarter of all European commercial real estate
loans tracked by Fitch were in default at the end of December,
compared with 16.3 percent in September, the ratings firm said
Feb. 13.  ‘It’s the first time senior bondholders in a European CMBS
deal have been hit by a non-payment on the maturity day,” said
Christian Aufsatz, a London-based securitization analyst at
 Barclays Capital . “We could see deals facing similar situations
in the coming years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  