-- Munich Re Sees $658 Million in Renewable Energy Insurance Sales
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-15T15:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/munich-re-sees-658-million-in-renewable-energy-insurance-sales.html
Munich Re (MUV2) , the world’s largest
reinsurer, may generate 500 million euros ($658 million) in
annual revenue within five years from insuring renewable energy
projects, including protecting against the risk that their solar
suppliers become insolvent.  If solar module output falls below guaranteed levels and
the manufacturer is unable to meet liabilities because of
insolvency, Munich Re will protect the project investor,
management board member Thomas Blunck said.  “This relieves a lot of the risk that investors have to
cope with when they devise their business strategy for investing
in renewable energy,” he said by phone from Munich.  Solar makers such as  Germany ’s Q-Cells SE and Conergy AG
face pressure from foreign competitors including Chinese
companies that have accelerated expansion even as the spot price
for photovoltaic panels slumped about 44 percent last year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Berlin-based module
maker Solon SE and Solar Millennium AG, with headquarters in
Erlangen, filed for insolvency in December.  Munich Re  said the coverage that it started selling in
January makes it easier for solar park operators to get bank
loans because the project’s cash flow is easier to calculate.  Munich Re has sold two of the solar “option cover” it
developed over two years and has others in the pipeline, Blunck
said. The first was at a solar park in southern  Italy  financed
by Deutsche Bank AG and Rabobank Groep.  Blunck, responsible for most of the new Munich Re renewable
energy insurance products, expects revenue from that area of
about 500 million euros in three to five years from a “double-
digit million” euro figure now.  Wind Turbine Coverage  Munich Re already  insures  solar module and wind-turbine
makers if their products’ performance capacity falls below the
level pledged to project operators. The new option cover for
insolvency must be used with that. The company also plans to
sell option coverage for  wind turbines  in the “medium term.”  The insurance will benefit investors because it acts like a
certification of the manufacturer. More risk-averse investors
such as pension funds may be likely clients, Blunck said.  Munich Re has invested about 500 million euros so far in
renewable projects, he said. “If enough attractive projects
come to our table and we can close them, then on average we
expect to invest about 500 million euros per year,” reaching
2.5 billion euros in about four years, Blunck said.  The company invests in different countries to dilute the
effect of subsidy cuts that European governments are undertaking
amid austerity moves. It will invest in U.S. projects among
others and is also studying  Brazil , Blunck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  