-- Murdoch Wedding Singer Now His Phone-Hacking Trial Nemesis
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-15T14:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/murdoch-wedding-singer-takes-role-of-phone-hacking-trial-nemesis.html
Charlotte Church, the Welsh pop star
who sang at  News Corp . Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999
when she was 13 years old, is now his nemesis in the first civil
trial over the company’s U.K. phone-hacking scandal.  After dozens of lawmakers, athletes and other celebrities
settled lawsuits, the 25-year-old Church and her parents are the
only remaining victims of the now-defunct News of the World
tabloid whose case is ready for a Feb. 27 trial in London.  News Corp. “wants to avoid the trial at all costs -- they
don’t want anything coming out in open court that could cause
more damage to their reputation,” said Niri Shan, who leads the
media practice at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London  and isn’t
involved in the case. They will push Church to settle, he said.  Murdoch’s New York-based company, which shuttered the News
of the World in July in an attempt to contain public anger,
still faces possible claims by more than 800 likely victims
identified by police. The scandal has spread to its Sun tabloid,
Britain’s best-selling daily paper, where nine journalists have
been arrested since Jan. 29 in a parallel probe of bribery of
public officials.  Church and her parents, James and Maria, sued in December
after the  Metropolitan Police  showed them evidence the News of
the World’s ex-private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who was
jailed for phone hacking, had intercepted their phone messages
in 2003, 2005 and 2006 to write stories about them.  The singer, whose 2005 song “Crazy Chick” reached no. 2
on the U.K. pop charts, told a separate judge-led inquiry into
press ethics in November that the evidence includes “many pages
of names, numbers, notes, addresses, pin numbers and the fact
that my mother and I were each a ‘project.’”  Affair, Cocaine  The News of the World in 2005 reported Church’s father was
having an affair and used cocaine, and that her mother tried to
kill herself as a result. The paper probably wrote about her
mother’s hospital treatment using “illicitly obtained private
details,” Church told the inquiry.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International unit in the U.K., declined to comment on the
trial. The company has admitted liability and tried to resolve
the cases out of court, offering victims an online process to
begin settlement talks overseen by a former judge.  Church’s lawyer, Mike Brookes at Lee & Thompson in London,
declined to comment on the trial or settlement talks.  Evidence that could be made public for the first time in a
trial includes Mulcaire’s notes about Church and any News
International e-mails that relate to her. Judge Geoffrey Vos
previously ordered the publisher to search millions of internal
messages and other documents that had been deleted and
reconstructed.  Grid of Victims  Vos created a grid of “test cases” last year for the
phone-hacking trial, including six lead claims and dozens of
backups to take their places if they settled. The grid had six
categories of victims, including politicians and non-public
people who were subjected to intense tabloid scrutiny.  For months, News International has pushed settlements with
the lead victims and their backups, chipping away at the grid
and delaying the trial twice. News Corp. has agreed to pay out
$15.6 million to phone-hacking victims, settling at least 54
lawsuits out of 60 that were filed by October.  Law, Coogan  Actor Jude Law, once the most vocal victim seeking a final
ruling on damages, instead took 130,000 pounds ($206,000) to
drop his claim last month. Sports agent Sky Andrew, one of the
first to sue, agreed earlier this month to settle for 75,000
pounds, while actor  Steve Coogan  took 40,000 pounds.  Church’s claim, one of the last filed, is the only test
case remaining.  The main reason victims are settling -- even those who
insisted they would go to trial -- is a U.K. law that forces
victims to pay a portion of the other side’s legal costs if they
reject a settlement offer and then win less than that amount at
a trial, Shan said. Victims who win large awards can end up
paying even more money to the losing side, he said.  Vos has repeatedly said the trial will benefit everyone by
giving guidance for damages and resolving common disputes. At a
Feb. 8 hearing, he ruled the trial should go ahead with Church
alone and denied News Corp.’s request to delay it indefinitely.  Physical, Mental Examinations  If Church doesn’t settle, she’ll have to meet evidentiary
requests made by News Corp. at the hearing. Her mother must
undergo physical and mental examinations by a doctor chosen by
the company and Church will have to turn over past regulatory
complaints against other tabloids and personal e-mails sent to
friends and family describing her reaction to stories.  News International will make the trial as difficult as
possible for the Church family to discourage future claimants
from going to court, said  Duncan Lamont , a lawyer at Charles
Russell LLP, who isn’t involved in the case.  “The News of the World remains a very tough litigator”
that doesn’t want to be seen as a “pushover,” Lamont said in a
phone interview. “They’ve got a crack team and they’re not
being nice. They’re only going to pay what they have to.”  At trial another Church lawyer, David Sherborne, will seek
to maximize damages by showing more than 30 articles based on
intercepted phone messages caused her mother prolonged mental
distress. The negative coverage of Church’s parents forced them
to sell a pub in  Wales , Sherborne said at the Feb. 8 hearing.  The public may see the trial as unnecessary since the wave
of civil cases already succeeded in bringing once-buried police
evidence to light and triggered three new police investigations
and a judge-led inquiry, Lamont said. News Corp. will want to
portray Church as “greedy” and seek to punish her, he said.  100,000-Pound Fee  Church waived her 100,000-pound fee for singing at
Murdoch’s wedding to wife Wendi Deng in  New York  more than a
decade ago, because she was told she would be looked upon
favorably by his papers, she told the inquiry.  “This strategy failed,” Church said in her statement to
the inquiry. “In fact, Mr. Murdoch’s newspapers have since been
some of the worst offenders, so much so that I have sometimes
felt that there has actually been a deliberate agenda.”  About a year after the wedding, News Corp.’s Sunday Times
newspaper published what she called one of the most damaging
article of her career after interviewing her about her time in
New York during the 9/11 terrorist attacks, she told the
inquiry. The story “distorted” her comments to suggest she was
being critical of the celebrity of New York’s firefighters,
resulting in her needing extra security in the U.S., she said.  Church, a mother of two, also claims Murdoch’s Sun tabloid
may have hacked into a voice mail from her doctor to report her
pregnancy in 2007, before she’d told her friends and family.
That claim isn’t part of her lawsuit.  Murdoch is going to London this week in response to the
latest arrests at the Sun and is scheduled to discuss the
situation with the paper’s staff. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  The case is Church v. News Group Newspapers,  High Court  of
Justice Chancery Division, No. HC11C03393.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  