-- Vancouver Port Could Handle Bigger Tankers for Kinder Morgan Oil, CEO Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/vancouver-port-could-handle-bigger-tankers-for-kinder-morgan-oil-ceo-says.html
Vancouver would be able to handle
larger tankers that could receive crude oil from an expanded
 Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMP)  pipeline, allowing  Canada  to boost energy
shipments to  Asia , the head of the city’s port authority said.  Canada’s largest port has already expanded from handling
Panamax-sized ships to partly-laden Aframax vessels, and is
studying so-called Suezmax tankers, Port Metro Vancouver head
Robin Silvester, 43, said in an interview yesterday in
Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom. The ship names are linked to the
size of waterways they can pass through.  “Can we see sort of Asia-trade competitive sizes of
vessels with a pipeline that can deliver capacity to them? I
think that’s very plausible” Silvester said.  Kinder Morgan  is seeking commitments from Canadian oil
drillers so it can double its pipeline’s capacity to 600,000
barrels a day. Trans Mountain is the only pipeline that connects
Alberta’s oilsands region to the Pacific coast, and regulatory
approval to expand it may come before  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed
Northern Gateway project.  “It would seem as a sort of involved bystander the
permitting of expanding an existing right-of-way is probably an
easier task than permitting a whole new right-of-way,”
Silvester said.  Canada’s  largest  port handles an oil tanker every week and
probably needs new harbor dredging to handle larger ships, he
said. The biggest obstacle may be convincing the public it can
be done safely, he said.  No Impediment Seen  “We understand the public concern and we see it’s very
important to make a good case that this trade can happen safely,
but we don’t see any impediment,” Silvester said.  Ships travel through the port in daylight with two pilots
on board and tugs powerful enough to control a tanker that has
lost engine power and rudder control, Silvester said.  Kinder spokeswoman Lexa Hobenshield said by e-mail the
company has no comment on Silvester’s statements. The company
has said it would decide by mid-year whether to seek government
approvals for an expansion.  Enbridge spokesman Paul Stanway said the company is
“focused on the regulatory process we are in now.”  Alberta  Finance Minister Ron Liepert said in a Feb. 13
interview the province needs multiple pipelines to ensure its
crude doesn’t become “landlocked” as  oil companies  prepare to
ramp up production.  The western Canadian province, home to the world’s third-
largest pool of oil reserves, is working to obtain capacity to
transport crude amid opposition from environmental groups as
companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Suncor Energy Inc.
invest about C$20 billion ($20 billion) annually in the
oilsands.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  last month denied a permit to
TransCanada Corp.’s planned Keystone XL pipeline that would
deliver 700,000 barrels a day of crude from the oilsands to the
 Gulf of Mexico  through six U.S. states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  