-- Volksbanken’s Owners Face Dissolution Vote After Moody’s Warning
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/volksbanken-s-owners-face-dissolution-vote-after-moody-s-warning.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
dozens of cooperative bank owners will vote on merging with the
money-losing lender today after Moody’s Investors Service said
more government help would jeopardize  Austria ’s finances.  Volksbanken, which twice failed European stress tests, is
trying to gain support for a planned restructuring from its
majority owners in a meeting in Vienna today. The tentative
cross-guarantee pact would combine Volksbanken with the regional
lenders and terminate all Volksbanken business that goes beyond
support functions for those owners. Three of the 62 cooperative
banks have balked at a deal.  “We want to have a formal approval for that combination at
the meeting,” Volksbanken spokesman Walter Groeblinger said.  Should the vote be approved following months of talks, the
merger plan still needs endorsement from shareholders of the 62
lenders. Volksbanken’s owners may also discuss the future of a
“wind-down unit” for undesirable businesses, which the
Austrian state has said it refuses to nationalize.  Regional lenders own 61 percent of Volksbanken, while
Germany’s  DZ Bank  owns 23 percent,  Munich Re (MUV2)  owns 9.4 percent,
and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG holds 6 percent. The
three dissident regional banks, including Volksbank Tirol
Innsbruck-Schwaz AG, have objected to losing their independence
and having their capital used to plug holes in Volksbanken’s
balance sheet.  Volksbanken is also due to complete the sale of its eastern
European business to  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank today, a deal that’s
part of the restructuring.  Bailout Proposal  Austria is under pressure from ratings companies and bond
investors concerned about “contingent liabilities” from the
nation’s financial-services industry.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
country’s rating to AA+ last month, citing banking risks.
Moody’s lowered its outlook to “negative” in Feb. 13, saying
it may cut the nation’s Aaa rating if banks need more aid.  The Alpine nation is already saddled with bad assets
Volksbanken ran up through 2008 in its municipal-lending unit,
Kommunalkredit, which it co-owned with Dexia SA, the Belgian
lender being broken up in the wake of losses. Volksbanken got 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of state capital in 2009 after
Kommunalkredit was rescued by the state in 2008.  The bank said last year that units equivalent to about half
of its 43 billion euros in assets, such as large corporate and
real-estate loans, a money-losing Romanian bank and its leasing
business, will be sold or terminated.  No Nationalization  Some Volksbanken owners proposed that the wind-down unit be
taken over by the Austrian government. The  finance ministry 
rejected the proposal, a spokesman said yesterday.  The state is backing Kommunalkredit’s “bad bank,” KA
Finanz AG, for years to come as it winds down 24 billion euros
of assets including credit-default swaps on  Greece . KA Finanz
may need fresh capital this year, depending on the terms under
which Greece swaps its debt.  Volksbanken failed to repay 300 million euros of state aid
last year and revealed that it will report another loss of at
least 825 million euros for 2011. The lender also failed the
European Banking Authority’s stress tests in July and October.  Among other setbacks, the lender had to reduce the price of
the unit it’s selling to Sberbank to 505 million euros and
replenish its capital as losses in  Hungary  worsened. Sberbank
declined to buy the Romanian unit, which Volksbanken is keeping
now. The international business is co-owned by  Germany ’s DZ Bank
and WGZ Bank and by Groupe BPCE in  France .  Volksbanken also failed to sell a stake in RZB to shore up
its capital after the RZB shareholders who wanted to buy it
walked away from a deal.  The bank’s reorganization may be no panacea.  Fitch Ratings 
cut its viability rating for Volksbanken-Verbund, the
combination of Volksbanken and its owners, by two steps to bb-
from bb+ in January, citing the burden that the restructuring
will put on the small cooperative lenders. Fitch said then that
it “expects pressure on profitability to persist in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  