-- Vonage Tumbles Most Since November 2009 on Expansion Plan: New York Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-02-15T21:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/vonage-holdings-tumbles-most-since-november-2009-new-york-mover.html
Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , the biggest
U.S. provider of telephone service over the Internet,  fell  the
most in more than three months after saying it will accelerate
investments in infrastructure with no immediate plans to buy
back shares.  Vonage  dropped  12 percent to $2.40 at the close in New
York, for the biggest decline since Nov. 2. The shares have
fallen 47 percent in the past 12 months.  The Holmdel, New Jersey-based company, which cited a higher
churn rate in the fourth quarter, is looking to expand long
distance, mobile service, and increase its overseas reach.
Vonage will invest $5 million to $10 million per quarter above
2011 levels to expand, Marc Lefar, chief executive officer, said
on a conference call today.  “With the company now on a solid foundation operationally
and financially, the time is right to accelerate our investment
in key strategic growth initiatives,” Lefar said.  “The negative is very clear: Shareholders want them to buy
back stock,” said Robert Routh, an analyst with Phoenix
Partners Group in  New York . Routh, who recommends buying the
shares, spoke in a telephone interview.  Vonage reported cash and equivalents of $58.9 million on
Dec. 31, down from $78.9 million a year earlier. The company had
$55.6 million in cash at the end of the third quarter.  Buyback Plans  Buybacks are “something we will actively - and do -discuss
with our board, and would consider doing at the right time,”
Barry Rowan, chief financial officer, said on the call.  “In the near term, we are very focused on strategic,
organic growth and this is where we are investing a portion of
our dollars,” Leslie Arena, vice president for  investor
relations , said in an e-mail.  The company reported profit, excluding certain items, of
$24.5 million or 10 cents a share, for the fourth quarter
compared with $14.6 million, or 6 cents, a year earlier.  Churn during the period was 2.7 percent, up from 2.4
percent a year earlier, Vonage said in a statement. The company
cited higher turnover among Hispanic subscribers relative to
other international customers. Vonage lost 14,000 net lines
during the quarter and 30,000 for the year, on par with a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  