-- U.S. Government to Nominate World Bank President Candidate in Coming Weeks
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-15T21:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/world-bank-president-zoellick-to-step-down.html
The Obama administration plans to
nominate within weeks a candidate to replace World Bank
President  Robert Zoellick , who says he’ll leave the institution
when his five-year term ends June 30.  “It is very important that we continue to have a strong,
effective leadership in this important institution,” Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an e-mailed statement
today. “In the coming weeks we plan to put forward a candidate
with the experience and requisite qualities to take this
institution forward.”  The announced departure of Zoellick, who was chosen by
President  George W. Bush  in 2007, opened the competition for a
job that has always been held by a U.S. national under an
informal agreement that also has a European head the
 International Monetary Fund .  Christine Lagarde , then  France ’s
finance minister, was picked over Mexican central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens for the IMF job with U.S. support last year.  Under Zoellick’s presidency, shareholders approved the
first capital increase in more than 20 years to meet demand from
countries hit by the global slump that followed the 2008
financial crisis. His successor may face another surge in loan
requests as the European debt crisis threatens to trigger more
global turmoil.  “Together we have focused on supporting  developing
countries  to navigate crises and adjust to global economic
shifts,” Zoellick, 58, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The bank is now strong, healthy and well positioned for new
challenges, and so it is a natural time for me to move on and
support new leadership.”  Summers, Clinton  President  Barack Obama  may nominate  Lawrence Summers , his
former National Economic Council adviser, to replace Zoellick,
two people familiar with the matter said last month. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  is also being considered, one of the
people said.  Clinton has said she doesn’t plan to stay in her post if
Obama wins a second term and plans to leave government.  “After 20 years -- and it will be 20 years -- of being on
the high wire of American politics and all of the challenges
that come with that, it would probably be a good idea to find
out how tired I am,” Clinton told State Department employees
during a town-hall meeting on Jan. 26.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , speaking with
reporters on Air Force One, said today President Obama
appreciates Zoellick’s service and that he had no information
about  potential successors . He declined to answer questions from
reporters about Summers and Clinton, saying he would not discuss
speculation.  Wolfowitz Furor  Zoellick, a former U.S. trade representative, took over an
institution bruised by the scandal that engulfed his predecessor
Paul Wolfowitz, who resigned over his involvement in giving his
companion an unusually large pay raise and promotion.  Zoellick “brought calm and a return of a sense of mission
when he went to the bank,” said Nancy Birdsall, president of
the Washington-based Center for Global Development, an aid
research group, in a phone interview. “What is needed in the
next president of the  World Bank  is a big vision about the
bank’s role in this century.”  A veteran of three Republican administrations, Zoellick
appointed Chinese academic Justin Lin as chief economist and
picked several women for top management positions, including
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of  Nigeria , who has since returned home to
become finance minister.  He alerted the world to a forthcoming food crisis, secured
$49 billion in 2010 to replenish the unit that funds projects
for the poorest countries and made more information on the
lender’s projects public.  Bank Boosted  The bank boosted loans to a record during the financial
crisis, though an internal audit published in 2010 said it had
responded to it with “some delay.” Management rejected the
criticism, saying it had acted quickly.  The Washington-based lender, which was established to
rebuild  Europe  after World War II, made loans worth about $57
billion in the year ended June 30. Now focused on developing
economies, it offers financial and technical assistance, with
 Pakistan  for example set to receive $5.5 billion in grants and
loans through mid 2015.  Group of 20 nations have pledged to make recruitment at the
bank and the IMF open and transparent. Last year, the U.S.
waited until the end of Lagarde’s campaign for the job before
declaring its support for her. Still, members of Congress, who
decide on U.S. funding for development banks, have indicated
they are not ready to relinquish U.S. control of the World Bank.  Fair Process  Brazil ’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega today said
Zoellick’s successor shouldn’t come from a specific country and
that he would work to change how the Washington-based lender
chooses its leadership.  “ Emerging markets  have the right to seek the leadership
of the World Bank,” Mantega told reporters.  Still, developing economies failed to unite behind Carstens
for the IMF.  A coalition of non-governmental organizations today called
for a fair selection process to replace Zoellick and said it
asked the U.S. to announce it will not seek to monopolize the
job.  “The next World Bank chief can’t be selected in a behind-
the-scenes carve-up,” said Jeroen Kwakkenbos, a spokesman for
Eurodad, one of the organizations based in Brussels, in an e-
mailed statement. “The second wave of global economic crisis is
almost certainly going to start hitting poor countries very
hard, very soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 