-- Xi’s Iowa Dinner Serves Porkfest With Side of Dietary Nightmare
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-15T19:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/xi-s-iowa-dinner-serves-porkfest.html
The “Taste of Iowa” menu for
Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s dinner in  Des Moines  tonight
isn’t going down well with nutritionists. They say bacon-
lettuce-and-tomato bites and potatoes stuffed with white cheddar
are dietary perils high in calories, sodium and saturated fat.  “It’s a celebration of Iowa foods, but this menu is over
the top in terms of calories and the amount of food,” Margo Wootan, nutrition policy director at the Center for Science in
the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group, said in an
interview. “There’s very little chance you’re going to walk out
without eating all your day’s calories in one meal.”  The menu features two meat entrees -- bacon-wrapped pork
tenderloin with cider and green peppercorns, and Angus beef
tenderloin with a demi glaze and onion ring. Xi and his fellow
guests will get a choice of three desserts, including crème
apple pie cupcake topped with  Iowa  maple syrup frosting, blue
cheese drizzled with Iowa honey, and mini Iowa sweet corn
cheesecake.  At least there are a few vegetables, Wootan said. The
edamame and corn salad pairs the Asian-prepared soybean with the
largest U.S. crop. Xi stayed in 1985 with an Iowa family as part
of a delegation to study corn technology.  Pork tenderloin is a wise choice because it’s the leanest
cut, she said.  “But why are they wrapping it in bacon?” Wootan said.
“Wrapping it in bacon is counterproductive. Bacon and other
processed meat are the fifth-leading source of saturated fats.”  Pork Queen Reigns  The meal features staples familiar to the 3 million
residents of Iowa, where young women compete in January to wear
the  Iowa Pork Queen  crown. The runner-up becomes the Iowa Pork
Princess. At any one time, there are 19 million hogs in Iowa,
according to the  state Pork Producers Association .  The Iowa menu for Xi also is notable for the sheer quantity
of food, said Wootan.  “It’s a lot to have appetizers, two courses, dessert,
soda, wine and beer,” she said. “Even if you have small
portions, it’s a lot of food.”  The diners will be able to wash down their meal with a
local beverage imported from  China . Des Moines-based Gong Fu Tea
was started in 2004 by Mike Feller and Rusty Bishop, who were
roommates at  Iowa State University .  They import mostly from China and  India  and sell in all 50
states from their website. Their sales have increased every
year, Feller said. He said Xi’s return to Iowa should be good
for his company’s nationwide sales.  Tea for Xi  “The vice president’s visit will also help to improve the
image of the state and should help to increase business
opportunities,” Feller said.  The dinner reflects food grown and raised in a state where
residents are more likely than most Americans to be obese and
overweight -- and to eat fewer fruits and vegetables, according
to the  website  of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
in Atlanta.  More than one in four deaths in Iowa are caused by  heart
disease . Eighty percent of Iowans ate fruit and vegetables less
than five times a day, more than the U.S. average of 76 percent,
according to the CDC. And about 65 percent of residents are
overweight or obese, compared to the U.S. average of 63 percent.  The percentage of Iowans with diabetes and high  blood
pressure , however, is below the nationwide percentage, according
to the CDC.  The pork on tonight’s menu got a robust defense from Jim
Thompson, director of producer relations at Eden Pork in Des
Moines. The company produces about 14,500 pigs a year, with each
taken to a local slaughter plant in Des Moines and hand
inspected.  “This is an opportunity for us to open up new markets,”
Thompson said. “It’s great to get our name out as the supplier
of pork for this occasion. We produce a high-quality product.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  