-- Xiaomi’s Amazon Tack to IPhone Fight May Mean 3 Years of Losses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-15T18:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/xiaomi-s-amazon-tack-to-iphone-fight-may-mean-3-years-of-losses.html
Xiaomi Corp., a Chinese smartphone
vendor that counts  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte as an
investor, is ready to post losses for years as it battles  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  to attract high-end users to its software.  “We are not looking to make any money, or to make Xiaomi
profitable, for the next two or three years,” President Bin Lin
said in a Feb. 7 interview in Beijing. “We will be able to look
at profitability from software and services after we have the
user base.”  Xiaomi, whose founder Lei Jun compares his hardware
approach with Amazon.com Inc.’s subsidies on the Kindle e-book
reader to boost digital book sales, is racing to fill gaps in
China not met by Apple’s iPhone. Xiaomi will today start
offering a phone for  China Telecom Corp. (728) ’s network, which Apple
has yet to do. Since releasing its first handset in September,
Xiaomi has sold 1 million phones online, and won an order from
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  for another 1 million, Lin said.  “Besides Apple, no one else has been able to do that in
such a short span of time,” said Hans Tung, who helps manage $1
billion at Qiming Venture Partners, one of the six initial
investors in closely held Xiaomi. “It’s a very auspicious
start. We believe this team is innovative and fast-moving enough
to continue to turn out interesting things.”  Single Carrier  Apple’s iPhone, which has been available through China
Unicom since October 2009, is yet to be offered by the nation’s
other two carriers. Apple sold 5.6 million iPhones in China
during the first nine months of last year, ranking it fourth
among smartphone vendors in the country in the third quarter
behind  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj, Samsung Electronics Co., and Huawei
Technologies Co., according to Stamford, Connecticut-based
research company Gartner Inc.  Apple last month moved a step closer to supplying China
Telecom when it won regulatory approval for a device compatible
with the carrier’s network. Still, neither Apple nor China
Telecom has announced a date for sales. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment on when the
device will be available, or to respond to Lin’s remarks.  Xiaomi, which means “Little Rice” was founded in April
2010 by Lin, who had previously spent 15 years working for
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Microsoft Corp., and Lei. Lei, the chairman of
software developer  Kingsoft Corp. (3888) , also founded the online
retailer Joyo.com that  Amazon (AMZN)  acquired in 2004.  Android Customization  Xiaomi offers a software customization of Google Inc.’s
Android operating system called MIUI to allow users to alter the
appearance of their phone with fonts, themes, and wallpaper.
MIUI has been translated into 23 languages in 16 countries, and
has 1 million users globally, one-third of which are outside of
China, Lin said. The company also offers the Mi Talk messaging
and group chatting application that runs on Android as well as
Apple and Nokia devices, Lin said.  All that software is currently free. The company will
decide how to make money from its software and Internet services
later, possibly involving advertising, Lin said.  The company’s name derives from Xiaomi’s focus on software
and applications for the mobile Internet, the English-language
abbreviation for which is the same as the Chinese word for rice,
mi. The company is pursuing a strategy of integrating its
software with a high-performance handset, Lin said.  ‘Audi Engines’  The Beijing-based vendor is drawing customers to its
smartphones by offering a device with specifications comparable
to products offered by Apple, Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  at a
fraction of the cost. Xiaomi’s phone with a dual-core 1.5
gigahertz  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Snapdragon processor is priced at 1,999
yuan ($317) on its website, less than half the 4,988 yuan price
for the iPhone 4S at Apple’s online store in China.  “Those phones are stuffed with hardware usually found in
mid high-end models, but they’re offered at mid-tier handset
prices,” said Teck Zhung Wong, a Beijing-based analyst at IDC.
“It’s like these phones come with Audi engines but are sold at
Toyota prices. And that’s where their value proposition lies.”  A Chinese-language biography of Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs 
is one of the first things a visitor sees on the coffee table of
Lin’s office at Xiaomi. Lin said that before founding Xiaomi he
was an early adopter of Apple products and bought two iPads, two
iPhones and two iPad 2s as each product was released.  Angry customers pelted Apple’s oldest  China  store with eggs
on Jan. 13 when the shop failed to open for the first day of
sales of the iPhone 4S, proving there is pent-up demand Apple is
failing to meet, said Lin. “I’d probably have been one of them
throwing eggs and saying I want a 4S” if he wasn’t busy
building Xiaomi, he said.  “See how high the demand is for great products, really
top-quality, beautiful handsets,” he said. “There is still a
huge market for that. That’s an opportunity for many companies,
and Xiaomi as well.”  Foxconn, Inventec  In less than two years, Xiaomi has grown to more than 500
employees, Lin said.  Two months ago, the phone vendor, which has no
manufacturing capability of its own, added  Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd. (2038)  as a supplier to help it ramp up output. Foxconn,
a unit of the world’s largest contract electronics maker Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., joins Xiaomi’s initial supplier  Inventec
Corp. (2356)  in assembling the devices, Lin said.  Lin said the company is not looking to sell shares to the
public “any time soon” and will continue to fund its expansion
with  venture capital . The company to date has raised $131
million from investors including Tung’s Qiming, IDG Capital,
Morningside, Temasek, and Qualcomm Ventures.  Limited Range  To expand its handset business and win share from companies
like Apple or Samsung, Xiaomi will have to overcome the current
weakness of its limited range of products, said analysts
including  Wang Ying  at Analysys International and Gartner’s
Sandy Shen.  “The problem with them is that they are relying on a
single model, which wouldn’t help them to get more market share
or mind share of the user,” said Shen. “When a new brand or
product comes in, they will have a hard time to defend their
market share.”  Xiaomi’s Lin said the company is working on a “next-
generation handset” to follow the success of its first device.
He didn’t offer details on specifications or when it would be
available for sale.  “Building just one product is certainly not where we
stop,” Lin said. “We have to continue to innovate.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  