-- Hynix Rises to Eight-Month High on Elpida Woes, DRAM Prices: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-02-15T06:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/hynix-rises-to-eight-month-high-on-elpida-gain-in-dram-price-seoul-mover.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  jumped to
an eight-month high in Seoul trading after Hyundai Securities
Co. said contract prices for dynamic random access memory chips
increased and as financing delays at  Japan ’s  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) 
raised the prospect of less competition.  Hynix, the world’s second-largest maker of computer-memory
chips, gained 5.3 percent to 29,000 won as of the close on the
Korea Exchange, the highest level since May 31. Larger rival
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  advanced 5.1 percent, while the
benchmark Kospi index rose 1.1 percent.  Elpida, facing an April deadline to repay debts, said it
sees “uncertainty” over remaining in business because it still
doesn’t have the necessary financing. DRAM contract prices for
the first half of February increased, and are likely to maintain
a “stable” trend, Hyundai Securities said in a report today.  “Investors appear to be betting that the possible failure
of Elpida will mean less competition in the industry, reducing
the number of players and production capacity,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion.  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after
personal computer shipments missed analyst forecasts and as
sales of Apple’s iPad surged. Samsung controlled 45 percent of
the DRAM market by value in the third quarter, according to
Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc.’s iSuppli. Hynix held a 22
percent share, followed by Elpida’s 12 percent.  Separately, the Electronics Times reported Samsung
Electronics may spin off its liquid crystal display business,
citing unidentified industry officials. While Samsung is
reviewing the separation of its LCD business, nothing has been
decided, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  