-- YPF Drops on Argentine Tax Bill Sanctions: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-15T17:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/ypf-drops-on-argentine-tax-bill-sanctions-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s largest energy
company, dropped the most in the  Buenos Aires  Stock Exchange’s
leading share index after the federal tax agency banned it from
importing and exporting because of an unpaid tax bill.  YPF declined 4.4 percent to 153 pesos at 2:27 p.m. in
Buenos Aires, the  biggest decliner  in the Merval index. The
shares plunged 22 percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  YPF is prohibited from importing or exporting any goods
until it pays $8 million of overdue gas-export levies, an
official from the tax agency known as Afip, who declined to be
named because of internal policy, said by telephone from Buenos
Aires today. State news agency Telam reported the sanctions
earlier today.  A YPF official in Buenos Aires, who asked not to be
identified because of corporate policy, declined to comment.  The Argentine oil producer’s shares plunged 13 percent
through yesterday since Jan. 29, when Pagina/12 newspaper
reported that government officials discussed re-nationalizing
the company that was bought by  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  in 1999. The paper
didn’t say where it obtained the information.  Since the beginning of this year, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has stepped up pressure on YPF to invest
more in oil production, blaming it and other companies for a
doubling of imports in 2011. The government on Feb. 3 withdrew a
plan that provided financial incentives for investment for YPF,
BP Plc, Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Exxon Mobil Corp., citing an
increase in local crude prices.  YPF, which said last week that its 30,000 square kilometer
Vaca Muerta formation in southern Argentina holds at least 23
billion barrels of oil equivalent, lost eight potential
investors in South America’s shale deposits after the
government’s measures made oil investment less attractive, a
person familiar with the talks said Feb. 13.  Companies from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe  abandoned
negotiations after the government withdrew financial incentives
for producers and forced companies to repatriate export revenue,
the person said, declining to be identified because talks are
private. Six of the producers cited unpredictable policies, this
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  