-- Yuan Forwards Halt Four-Day Decline as China Vows to Help Europe
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-02-15T08:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/yuan-forwards-halt-four-day-decline-as-china-vows-to-help-europe.html
Yuan forwards halted a four-day
decline after Premier  Wen Jiabao  and the head of the central
bank pledged to help Europe resolve a debt crisis that’s hurting
Chinese exports.  China  is ready to be more involved in tackling the crisis,
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing, before European finance
ministers hold a teleconference today to prod Greece to do more
to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion euros ($171 billion).
The Asian nation’s  exports  fell 0.5 percent from a year earlier
in January, the first drop in more than two years.  “China’s comments have given more confidence to investors
that Europe can find a solution,” said Stella Lee, president of
Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in Hong Kong. “However,
it’s too early to be optimistic as we still have to see what the
outcome is from today’s discussions between finance ministers.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards traded at 6.2798 per
dollar as of 4:42 p.m. in  Hong Kong , little changed from 6.2805
yesterday and a 0.3 percent premium to the onshore spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan closed at 6.30 in  Shanghai , from 6.2996 yesterday,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
People’s Bank of China set its daily reference rate 0.02 percent
weaker at 6.2958. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent
on either side of the fixing. In Hong Kong’s offshore market,
the yuan gained 0.05 percent to 6.2980.  President Barack Obama met yesterday with Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping  and repeated the U.S. view that the yuan is
undervalued and more should be done to let it appreciate,
according to an administration official who wasn’t authorized to
discuss the talks on the record. China’s policy makers may slow
yuan gains to help exporters weather weakening overseas demand
and rising labor costs, according to IHS Global Insight.  “Obama just repeated his old calls on the yuan without
putting more pressure on Xi,” said  Daniel Chan , a Hong Kong-
based chief economist at BWC Capital Markets. “China is more
worried about the export outlook now. Yuan gains may slow
further if  Europe  continues to struggle with debt problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  