-- Zloty Approaches Fair Value in Rebound, Premier’s Aide Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-02-15T15:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-15/zloty-approaches-fair-value-in-rebound-premier-s-aide-says-1-.html
The Polish zloty is advancing toward
its fair value after last year’s slump against the euro, Prime
Minister Donald Tusk’s chief economic adviser said.  “There’s nothing odd in the zloty’s appreciation this
year,” Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, who heads Tusk’s council of
economic advisers, said yesterday in an interview in Warsaw.
“It was undervalued and now it’s just returning toward the
correct level.”  The zloty plunged 11 percent against the euro in 2011 as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatened to infect  Poland . It’s up 7
percent this year, the third-best performer among currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  European Central Bank ’s emergency
lending program has had a “stabilizing effect” that helps
“strengthen currencies like the zloty,” Deputy Finance
Minister  Dominik Radziwill  told the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna
newspaper in an interview published today.  Poland’s  economy  expanded 4.3 percent last year as the
weaker currency buoyed exports and infrastructure investment
benefited from European Union funding. It was the only member of
the 27-member bloc to escape a recession in 2009. The zloty
traded at 4.1879 against the euro as of 4 p.m. in Warsaw, down
from 4.1829 yesterday.  Poland will be able to trim this year’s budget deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product or less even under the
government’s “very conservative” economic-growth forecast of
2.5 percent, according to Bielecki.  The European Commission said in January that Poland would
exit the EU’s excessive deficit procedure this year after taking
“effective action” to narrow the gap from 7.8 percent of GDP
in 2010.  The deficit probably didn’t exceed 5.6 percent of GDP last
year, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told the upper house of
Parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  