-- ‘Fifty Shades’ Is a Fantasy, Just Not the One You Think
-- B y   A m a n d a   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/-fifty-shades-is-a-fantasy-just-not-the-one-you-think-books.html
I tried to duck “ Fifty Shades of
Grey .” I’m good at ignoring trends. By the time I got around to
“The Sopranos,” I was able to watch six seasons in one
marathon viewing.  But when, in a single 18-hour period, the woman sitting
next to me on a flight to  San Francisco , an always-sensible co-
worker and a whole tableful of women at a benefit all asked if I
had started it yet, I caved.  And none too soon. The three books in the series beginning
with “Fifty Shades of Grey” top every bestseller list in the
universe, having sold 15 million copies in just 3 months. The
popular explanation is that this tale of the bondage and
discipline enjoyed by Anastasia Steele and Christian Grey has
tapped into middle-class women’s hidden desire to be spanked.
This is so-called Mommy porn.  I have a different view. “Fifty Shades of Grey,” along
with its companions “ Fifty Shades Darker ” and “ Fifty Shades
Freed ,” is porn all right. But underneath the titillating
allure of  E.L. James ’s books is another, more elusive female
fantasy.  Not lust for sex, but lust for control. Lust for power.
Love. Respect. Financial independence. Fidelity. Family.
Motherhood. Talking about your feelings. Being hotter than his
ex. Oh, and cute clothes and shoes, too. Who doesn’t lust for
all that?  I understand that this is kind of like saying you read
Playboy for the articles, but bear with me. (And if you’re among
the few who haven’t read the books yet, be warned that there’s a
spoiler ahead.)  The Basics  We start with the chick-lit basics.  He: An impossibly gorgeous gazillionaire. Older, but not so
old as to be creepy. He pilots his own helicopter. He drives
cool cars. He broods.  She: A standard-issue gawky, badly dressed, insecure girl
who thinks she’s unattractive.  He: Sees beauty in her that she herself does not see.  She: Is the only one who can soothe and cure his horrible
secret emotional wounds.  Seriously. Does it get any more erotic than that?  Okay, I admit it. Once they get down to it, the sex scenes
are steamy. And marvelously inventive. I had no idea human
beings could do stuff like that.  But well before the end of the first volume, I found my
attention wandering every time I hit the word “moan” (which,
by the way, appears 39 times in the first book, 46 in the second
and 33 in the third). By “Fifty Shades Darker” I was flipping
and by “Fifty Shades Freed” I knew exactly how many pages to
skip.  Even in the world of bondage, it appears, there are only so
many variations on a theme.  Wanton Desires  Yet what kept my attention is that all the gasping and
panting is delivered with a whopping payload of fantasy aimed at
satisfying a woman’s even more wanton desires.  For example: Christian isn’t just rich. He’s virtuously
rich. While it’s hard to tell exactly how he got his billions,
it sounds suspiciously like he’s in private equity. But not just
any private equity -- no, his work involves renewable energy,
sustainable building and helping people in third-world countries
better their lives.  He’s a family man. After his very first sexual encounter
with Anastasia -- which involves a bit of light restraint and a
tour of the Red Room of Pain -- what does he do? He plays a Bach
concerto and introduces her to his mom.  Safe Sex  Christian is responsible. He practices safe sex. Nearly
every erotic encounter begins with the tearing of a foil pack.
He only whips Anastasia when she really wants it: He gives her
total control, offering her a detailed contract in which she is
able to list exactly what she will and won’t do. (Just reading
the list was mind-boggling.)  He likes it that she’s sassy and talks back. He accepts her
financial independence, gained working as an assistant at a
Seattle publishing house. When he showers her with expensive
gifts -- including a first edition of “Tess of the
d’Urbervilles” (he’s literate too!) -- she resists at first.
Once she has made this stand, though, she is free to melt into
his fiscal attentions.  He buys her clothes: A $540 bikini. Expensive lingerie.
Manolo Blahniks. He forces a personal trainer on her. A new
haircut. All the waxing she wants. Before the series ends, she
is remarking with satisfaction that she is now a sleeker, more
polished version of her old self.  Talking Cure  But wait. It gets better. When she compels him to talk
about his childhood, his relationship with his mother and his
innermost fears, he of course protests. But secretly he wants
it. He needs it. He gets better. It’s all because of her!  Moreover, dear reader, E.L. James delivers the coup de
grace. (Spoiler coming.)  He marries her.  The final scenes of the saga feature Anastasia and
Christian sitting on a picnic blanket in a bucolic field with
their perfect copper-haired son -- as they discuss what to name
the daughter they are expecting. The titan Adonis turns out to
be not just a sexual powerhouse (pregnancy, it seems, is no
barrier) but a great dad as well.  I read that the novel has sparked a run on stores that sell
adult, uh, toys. Go for it, ladies. Stock up on handcuffs. Cute
little fringed whips. Paddles. Maybe it will spice up your sex
lives. But don’t forget the other stuff. Because that’s where
the real fantasy lies.  The “Fifty Shades” books are published by Vintage in the
U.S. and Arrow in the U.K. ($15.95, 7.99 pounds each). To buy
these books in  North America , click  here .  (Amanda Bennett is an executive editor at Bloomberg News
and author of “The Cost of Hope: The Story of a Marriage, a
Family and the Quest for Life.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Bennett in  New York  at 
 Abennett6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 