-- ‘Madagascar 3’ Stays No. 1 Movie With Sales of $35.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/-madagascar-3-stays-no-1-movie-with-sales-of-35-5-million.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s
“Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted” was the No. 1 movie for a
second weekend at U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in $35.5
million in ticket sales.  “Madagascar 3” beat challenges from two new releases, the
Tom Cruise musical “Rock of Ages,” by Warner Bros., and Adam Sandler’s “That’s My Boy,” from  Sony Corp. (6758)  “Rock of Ages”
was third with $15.1 million and “That’s My Boy” placed fifth
with $13 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Madagascar 3,” the first major animated feature of the
summer, is benefiting from a scarcity of family fare in
theaters. Competition in the genre will heighten next weekend
when  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar opens “Brave,” the animated tale
about a defiant Scottish princess. “Brave” is expected to open
with $58 million in sales, the forecast of researcher
 Boxoffice.com.   “‘Madagascar 3’ was the first true family-friendly film to
open this summer that you can take a five- or six-year-old kid
to see,” said Phil Contrino, editor of Boxoffice.com. “If the
family crowd is underserved and something comes along that
appeals to them, it’s going perform very well.”  “Madagascar 3” was expected to have sales of $35 million
this past weekend, according to Boxoffice.com. The picture has
taken in $120.5 million since it opened on June 8.  ‘Rock of Ages’  In “Madagascar 3,” featuring the voices of  Ben Stiller ,
 Chris Rock  and Jada Pinkett-Smith, Alex the lion and his
citified animal friends leave  Africa  to return to their home in
New York’s Central Park Zoo. During a detour to  France , they
join a circus to escape the clutches of a relentless animal
control officer.  “Prometheus,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox,
held in second place for a second week with sales of $20.2
million. The film follows a group of explorers who travel to a
distant planet to investigate evidence of alien life, and what
they discover may threaten all of humanity. “Prometheus” stars
 Charlize Theron , Noomi Rapace and  Michael Fassbender .  “Rock of Ages,” based on the Broadway show, is built
around 1980s rock ’n’ roll hits by artists including Journey and
Pat Benatar. Cruise plays self-absorbed rocker star Stacee Jaxx.
The movie also features  Alec Baldwin  and  Russell Brand . Jaxx’s
appearance at a Sunset Strip club intertwines with the life of a
small-town girl hoping to make it as an actress.  ‘Snow White’  The film, forecast to take in $30.5 million by
Boxoffice.com, failed to attract enough men, Contrino said.
 Warner Bros . reported that 62 percent of the viewers were female
and 38 percent male, he said.  “It’s a very underwhelming start for something like this
because the potential is there,” Contrino said.  Dropping to fourth place, “ Snow White  and the Huntsman,”’
 Universal Pictures ’ action-adventure take on the classic fairy
tale, had sales of $13.8 million. The film is a dark retelling
of the story about a jealous, aging queen who plots against a
young beauty. Kristen Stewart stars as Snow White and Chris
Hemsworth plays the hunter who helps her. Theron portrays the
queen who preys on young women as a means of preserving her own
beauty.  “That’s My Boy” features Sandler as an absentee father
who shows up uninvited for his son’s wedding. He immediately
clashes with his son and the family of his bride-to-be. Andy
Samberg and Leighton Meester play the engaged couple.  R Rating  The film “was a huge disappointment by  Adam Sandler ’s
standards,” Contrino said. “This reveals a little bit about
who goes to see an Adam Sandler film; since this was rated R, I
think he lost out on a lot of 15-year-old boys.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 15 percent to
$125.2 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film sales this year have risen 10 percent to $4.91 billion,
with attendance up 12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
15 and June 16 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Drew Benson in  New York  at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  