-- Fernandes Says Tune Can Repeat AirAsia’s Budget Success
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-06-18T06:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/airasia-s-fernandes-parlays-planes-into-phones-hotels.html
As  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  prepares to more
than triple its fleet, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes 
says he wants to match the growth of his budget airline with
discount hotels, mobile phones and financial services.  Tune Group , the closely held parent company of Fernandes
and business partner Kamarudin Meranun, may sell stock in some
of the units by the end of next year, Fernandes said. Initial
public offerings are also planned for AirAsia’s Indonesian
budget arm and long-haul unit AirAsia X Sdn., he said. AirAsia
is the world’s fastest-growing traded airline by sales in the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Tune Money and Tune Hotels have the most potential,” the
Malaysian entrepreneur said in a June 14 interview. “The
financial services industry is complicated, just like airlines,
and we are reaching a market that they generally missed and we
are utilizing AirAsia’s customer base, which is huge.”  The 48-year-old is targeting emerging wealth in  Southeast
Asia  where an increasing number of its 598 million inhabitants
can afford to travel and buy  consumer goods  such as mobile
phones for the first time.  Fernandes will relocate to Jakarta this month to focus on
regional growth. He will also step down as CEO of his Kuala 
Lumpur-listed airline from June 30 to be replaced by Aireen Omar, 
currently regional head of corporate finance and treasury, 
according to an exchange filing in Malaysia today.  “When you’re based in Malaysia you’ll inevitably get drawn
into the Malaysian operations,” he said. “I’ll take on the
regional role.”  Resilient Demand  Demand for budget services has so far withstood the global
economic slowdown amid a protracted crisis in  Europe . AirAsia’s
first-quarter profit rose while full-service carriers  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  posted losses in
the period, citing fuel costs. AirAsia’s passenger numbers
gained 12 percent in the quarter as the region’s slowing
economic growth prompted more people to opt for budget travel.  Tune Group is the holding company created in 2007 when the
initial aviation business was extended to include hotels. It
will eventually hold assets from movie production to Formula One
racing and online financial services.  Southeast Asia is weathering a slump in IPOs better than
markets including  Hong Kong , as optimism about the region’s
economic outlook draws investors to offerings by companies
including Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd., Malaysia’s
biggest plantation owner, and IHH Healthcare Bhd., Asia’s
largest Hospital operator.  Repeating Model  Asia Aviation Pcl (AAV) , the parent of AirAsia’s Thai airline,
has fallen 8 percent in Bangkok after becoming the first
subsidiary to begin trading last month.  “The best use of capital is a repeating model,” said
Fernandes, who has spent some of his wealth on buying a Formula
One racing team and the English soccer club  Queens Park Rangers .  Most of Tune’s companies are designed to contribute to one
another. Passengers booking flights online are offered travel
insurance, budget bedrooms and prepaid mobile phone cards. All
are available and interlinked via the Internet.  “With AirAsia, he found a section of the population
underserved by current flag carriers,” said Narayan Pant, a
Singapore-based professor of management practice at Insead.
“It’s not clear if there’s such an underserved segment in the
new businesses that he’s going into.”  Tune Hotels Regional Services Sdn.  operates 24 budget
hotels in Southeast Asia and the U.K., with deals signed with
developer partners to add another 60 properties in countries
including  Australia ,  India  and the Middle East, Chief Executive
Officer Mark Lankester said in an interview.  ‘Disastrous Start’  While international hotel operators including France’s
Accor SA have set up economy brands such as Ibis and All Seasons
to target budget-conscious travelers, they don’t compete in the
same bargain-bucket segment as Tune.  Tune Money Sdn. , an online distributor of insurance and
mutual funds, got off to a “disastrous start,” said Fernandes,
a trained accountant. It changed management and strategy, making
about 30 million ringgit ($9.5 million) last year. “Many people
who fly with us don’t have insurance, don’t have credit cards,
don’t have unit trusts.”  Tune Talk Sdn.  is a so-called mobile virtual network
operator that uses other carriers’ infrastructure for its
wireless phone services. It has just broken even, he said.  Of three Tune units targeted for listing, fund manager Choo Swee Kee said he’s most skeptical about Tune Talk.  “Its fate could be very similar to  XOX Bhd. (XOX) , another MVNO
player that wasn’t very profitable at the time of listing and
then the share price tanked,” said Choo, who manages about 700
million ringgit as chief investment officer of TA Investment
Management Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Music Roots  XOX has reported three straight quarterly  losses  and slid
80 percent in Kuala Lumpur since its trading debut a year ago.  Some Tune ventures have little connection to the core
tourism business. Tune Studios allows aspiring singers to record
albums inexpensively. Plans are under way to start Tune Live,
which would organize concerts.  “All these businesses are run by different people,” said
Fernandes, who like his former boss  Richard Branson  started out
in the  music industry  before branching into aviation and other
industries. “We are no different from a private-equity fund.”  Fernandes, who previously worked as financial controller
for Branson’s Virgin Records in  London , has more time to expand
these businesses after stepping down from Malaysian Air’s board
in April and reversing a share swap following union dissent over
management’s turnaround plans.  Young Population  Southeast Asia offers one of the fastest-growing markets
for Tune’s products.  Indonesia , the region’s most-populous
country, has a median age of 28, compared with 36 in  China ,
according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s World Fact Book.  Tune joins furniture retailer Ikea Group and Uniqlo store-
operator Fast Retailing Co. in targeting a region where gross
domestic product growth exceeds 7 percent and its population is
among the youngest in the world. The total GDP of Southeast
Asia’s 10 nations is $1.86 trillion, more than India, and 37
percent of its residents are under 19, according to the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Fernandes and Kamarudin bought AirAsia from DRB-Hicom Bhd.,
with two aging Boeing Co. 737 jets and 40 million ringgit of
debt, for a token 1 ringgit, or 32 cents -- three days before
the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the U.S. With a current market
capitalization of  10.2 billion ringgit , it has overtaken
Malaysian Air as the country’s biggest airline by value.  Airline Partnerships  The budget carrier may order 100 more Airbus SAS A320 jets,
including options, within the next two months to facilitate
growth, Fernandes said on June 13. The AirAsia group already has
300 planes booked to add to its 110-strong fleet. AirAsia is
Airbus’ biggest customer for single-aisle A320s.  AirAsia aims to form five budget airline partnerships in
the next two years in countries including South Korea, Vietnam
and China, Fernandes said. This may include the Middle East. A
budget tie-up with  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  is scheduled to start
flights from  Tokyo ’s Narita Airport in August.  Sales growth has averaged 35 percent over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of 20 analysts
who have updated their coverage of AirAsia’s stock in the past
six months, 15 rate it the equivalent of  buy  and three recommend
selling it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  