-- Anti-Euro Le Pen Party Wins First Parliament Seats in 15 Years
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-17T22:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/anti-euro-le-pen-party-wins-first-parliament-seats-in-15-years.html
France ’s anti-immigrant  National
Front  party, which calls for the country’s exit from the euro,
won two seats in the  parliamentary  elections, its first such
victory in 15 years.  Marion Marechal-Le Pen, 22, the granddaughter of the
party’s founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, 84, won one of party’s seats
in yesterday’s legislative elections, with Gilbert Collard
winning the other. Marechal-Le Pen will be the first Le Pen in
parliament since 1988 and its youngest member since the founding
of the Fifth Republic in 1958.  “The ideas that we represent will finally be present at
the National Assembly,” Marion Marechal-Le Pen, the niece of
the party’s leader Marine Le Pen, said in her victory speech.
She promised to defend the national identity, economic
protectionism and social welfare during her five-year mandate.
Jean-Marie Le Pen was quoted by  Agence France-Presse  as
welcoming her victory saying, “she comes from good stock.”  The arrival of a Le Pen at the National Assembly marks a
victory for the party, which has sought to move to the
mainstream, breaking from the founder’s anti-Jewish and
xenophobic stances. Marine Le Pen, the founder’s daughter who
failed to win a seat, has tried to make the party more
respectable.  Marine Le Pen came in third in the May presidential
election with 17.9 percent of the votes, behind Francois Hollande and  Nicolas Sarkozy . She said the National Front’s
absence in parliament wouldn’t have been legitimate after 6.4
million people voted for her in the presidential vote.  ‘Semi Victory’  “It’s a semi-victory because two lawmakers is not a lot,
they will have little space to exist at the assembly and the
winners are inexperienced politicians,”  Jean-Yves Camus , a
political analyst for the French Institute of International
Relations in Paris, said in an interview. “But with millions of
voters and over 30 years of strong political presence, no one
can say that the National Front is just a party supported by
protesting voters. There is more to it.”  Marion Marechal-Le Pen, a political novice, won with 42.2
percent of the votes against a Union for a Popular Movement
candidate. She represents the third generation of the Le Pen
family in politics.  She won a constituency in the southern Vaucluse department
and came first in the town of  Carpentras . That’s where in 1990
dozens of Jewish tombs were desecrated with National Front
supporters accused of the act -- a crime Jean-Marie Le Pen has
always denied. Marechal-Le Pen promised during her campaign to
clear her grandfather’s “soiled honor.”  Starting Young  Marechal-Le Pen joined the party at the age of 18 and was
defeated in a 2010 regional election for a second seat in the
party’s candidates list.  Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen lost to her Socialist Party rival
with 49.9 percent, falling short of about 120 votes. It was her
second unsuccessful attempt after the 2007 bid. The 43-year-old,
a lawyer by training, was defeated in the northern France
constituency of  Henin-Beaumont , a former mining region plagued
with unemployment nearing 20 percent.  Marine Le Pen, who is a member of the  European Parliament ,
focused her campaign on attacks against European treaties, the
region’s stability pact, the euro and immigration policies,
which she said have led to France’s 13-year-high unemployment
and diminished its sovereignty.  The vote yesterday gave President  Francois Hollande ’s
Socialist Party and its allies an absolute majority in the
National Assembly with 314 out of 577 seats, exit polls by
Paris-based institute  CSA showed . Sarkozy’s UMP party and its
allies had 228 seats.  Front Presence  The Front National, founded in 1972, has currently three
lawmakers at the European Parliament. It only had seats in the
country’s parliament from 1986 to 1988, with 35 lawmakers at the
National Assembly. The 1986 victory came after a brief change in
the French electoral law. A 1997 win was short-lived after the
winner was expelled for breaching electoral rules.  Marine Le Pen has tried to remake the party -- historically
based on anti-immigration policies and on the founder’s anti-
Jewish views and his World War II revisionist theories -- in a
bid to attract more mainstream voters who blame  Europe  and
porous borders for many of the country’s woes.  Her father, who headed the National Front until last year,
made it into the second round of the French presidential
election in 2002, losing to  Jacques Chirac , and garnered 10.4
percent of the vote in 2007. Jean-Marie Le Pen was found guilty
by a French court in 1991 for denying the Holocaust.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  