-- Audi Wins Le Mans in Hybrid Car; Davidson’s Toyota Flips Over
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-17T15:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/audi-wins-le-mans-in-hybrid-car-davidson-s-toyota-flips-over.html
The Audi team became the first
winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans with a hybrid engine after
accidents in the fourth hour hit Toyota’s return to the race.  Marcel Fassler, Andre Lotterer and Benoit Treluyer drove an
Audi R18 e-tron Quattro to victory, covering 378 laps of the
8.5-mile circuit southwest of Paris. Audi also took second with
its other hybrid in the field, while one of its R18 Ultra
diesels was third.  Race organizer  Automobile Club de L’Ouest  changed the rules
for the top class last year to allow part-electric engines,
allowing a boost of recouped energy from braking at the expense
of a smaller fuel tank. The Audi power train also included a
flywheel developed by Formula One team owner Williams Grand Prix
Engineering Ltd.  It’s the eighth win in nine years for Audi, the first
winner with a diesel car in 2006. Toyota, at its first Le Mans
race since 1999 and also using two hybrids, was the only other
team owned by a major carmaker.  Both Toyotas failed to finish. The team’s chances of
victory evaporated just after driver Nicolas Lapierre had taken
the lead by passing Audi’s Treluyer on the Mulsanne straight.  A few seconds later, the other Toyota TS030 driven by
Anthony Davidson was clipped by amateur racer Piergiuseppe
Perazzini’s Ferrari 458. Davidson’s car flipped in the air and
smashed into a tire barrier.  Davidson, 33, suffered two broken bones in his back, Toyota
said. The fractures should heal in about three months, according
to a team statement.  Overtaking Suspended  Perazzini, 56, got of the car and sat on a grass verge.
Amateur and professionals race side-by-side at  Le Mans  even
though they compete in different classes. Each team has three
drivers who take turns at the wheel.  Overtaking was suspended for more than an hour to clear
debris and repair a guardrail. With cars bunched up at the
restart, the Toyota of Kazuki Nakajima -- who’d taken over
driving from Lapierre -- made contact with the Nissan DeltaWing,
which went into a wall and quit the race because of the damage.  Nakajima had to stop to repair a puncture, dropping the car
out of contention, and it eventually withdrew in the 11th hour
because of engine failure.  “It really hurts to see both cars retire early,” Toyota
Team President Yoshiaki Kinoshita said in a statement. “But in
the next days we will look back with pride that we could lead Le
Mans” in the team’s first race back.  The DeltaWing had taken much of the pre-race attention
because of its design: It has four-inch front wheels and weighs
about half the amount of other cars.  Audi Accidents  The project was backed by U.S. entrepreneur Don Panoz and
the 1967 Le Mans winner Dan Gurney, and the car had been running
near the back after an early gearbox malfunction.  The Audi cars also had accidents. In the fourth hour,
Romain Dumas was in third place when the R18 Ultra he was
driving ploughed into a tire wall.  As a race official in orange overalls signaled for Dumas to
abandon the race, he ripped off the damaged front wing, jumped
back in the car and nursed it slowly to the pits with a front
wheel hanging loose.  Audi teammate Marc Gene slammed the same R18 Ultra into the
same tire barrier with three hours left. While the Spaniard
shepherded the car back to the pits, Allan McNish in an e-tron
Quattro hit a barrier.  That allowed Treluyer to move into a one-lap lead, which
the Frenchman and his teammates --  Germany ’s Lotterer and
 Switzerland ’s Fassler -- maintained until the end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Le Mans,  France  through the London sports desk at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  