-- Aussie, Kiwi Gain as Greek Pro-Bailout Parties Win Vote
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-06-18T06:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/aussie-kiwi-gain-as-greek-pro-bailout-parties-winning.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose as an election victory by supporters of Greece’s
bailout eased concern the nation will leave the euro bloc.  Both South Pacific currencies gained after projections
based on 99 percent of votes counted showed the New Democracy
and Pasok parties would together be able to forge a
parliamentary majority. The so-called Aussie touched a one-month
high as  Australia ’s treasurer said mineral exploration spending
in the nation rose to a record in March. New Zealand’s dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, reached the strongest in six weeks as the
country’s services industries grew last month.  “The easing of fears for a Greek euro exit have spurred a
relief rally across global markets,” said  Mike Jones , a
Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd.
“Markets seem to have got the result they wanted from the
elections over the weekend. In the short term, risk currencies
such as the kiwi and Aussie are biased to strengthen.”  The Australian dollar climbed 0.6 percent to $1.0116 as of
4:09 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  on June 15, after
earlier touching $1.0135, the strongest since May 10. The Aussie
added 1.1 percent to 80.17 yen.  New Zealand’s currency reached 79.38 U.S. cents, the most
since May 8, before trading at 79.37, 0.7 percent stronger than
last week. It gained 1.4 percent to 62.88 yen.  Australian bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield up by nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.08 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, climbed seven basis points to 2.70 percent.  Election Results  Yesterday’s vote forced Greeks, in a fifth year of
recession, to accept austerity or reject the conditions of
international aid. European governments indicated a willingness
to adjust the terms of  Greece ’s bailout package as long as a new
government “swiftly” emerges from the election, according to a
statement by finance chiefs in the euro area. Leaders of the
Group of 20 nations begin a summit today in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  The Australian dollar has gained 0.9 percent in the past
week, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its
New Zealand counterpart has risen 1.7 percent, the best
performance in the gauges that track 10 developed-nation
currencies.  Mineral exploration spending in Australia, the world’s
biggest exporter of  iron ore , rose 12 percent to a record
A$1.086 billion ($1.1 billion) in the March quarter and the
investment pipeline in the resources industry reached an
estimated A$500 billion on demand from Asia, Treasurer  Wayne
Swan  said in his weekly economic note yesterday.  Fears ‘Overdone’  “The fears of economic weakness in Australia are
definitely overdone,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency
strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank, told Bloomberg Television today. The Australian dollar may
climb toward $1.09 by year-end, he said.  In New Zealand, the  Performance of Services Index  climbed
to 56.8, the highest since November 2007, according to a report
today by the Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business NZ.  Consumer
confidence  fell to 99.90 this quarter from 102.40 in the three
months through March, figures from Westpac Banking Corp. and
McDermott Miller Ltd. showed today.  Futures traders trimmed bets that the Australian dollar
will depreciate against the greenback, according to data from
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission last week.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
Aussie compared with those on a gain, known as net shorts, was
45,459 in the five days ended June 12, down from a record 51,172
in the previous period.  “I think we’re lacking a fresh reason to buy here, aside
from maybe short-covering,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney, said about the
Aussie today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Short
covering is when investors end bets an asset will decline.
“We’re probably pretty close to what might be multi-week
highs,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  