-- Australia Says Resources Investment Hits Records on Asian Demand
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-17T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/australia-says-resources-investment-hits-records-on-asian-demand.html
Mineral exploration spending in
Australia, the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, reached a
record in March and has risen 35 percent since a new policy to
tax carbon was unveiled last year, the government said.  Spending rose 12 percent to a record A$1.086 billion ($1.09
billion) in the March quarter and the investment pipeline in the
resources industry reached an estimated A$500 billion on demand
from Asia, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in his weekly economic note
yesterday. The tax on  carbon emissions , starting July 1, will
reap about A$6.5 billion over two years from the country’s
biggest mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   “It’s yet another reality check for those who try to talk
down the outlook for our resources sector or make ridiculous
claims that important economic reforms are hurting investment,”
Swan said. “Asia’s rise will create demand for a lot more than
just our iron ore and coal.”  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion in four years
from the tax as the government tries to reduce emissions and
spur investment in cleaner energy. While a resources boom has
made  Australia  one of the fastest-growing economies in the
developed world, the policy isn’t helping Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s approval ratings as the local currency’s strength
against the  U.S. dollar  hits the country’s tourism,
manufacturing and retail industries.  “While it’s clear not everybody’s in the fast lane, it’s
equally clear that the fundamentals of our economy are rock-
solid,” Swan said.  Growth in Australia  Australia’s annual growth in the January-March period was
the fastest since the third quarter of 2007, a government report
showed this month. Growth averaged over the past two quarters
was the fastest among countries with Group of 10 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Still, a Newspoll survey on June 12 showed support for
Gillard’s ruling  Labor Party  slid even after the central bank
lowered  interest rates , the economy expanded twice as fast as
forecast, and employment growth accelerated.  Labor’s primary vote dropped 1 percentage point to 31
percent and the Liberal-National opposition fell 2 points to 44
percent, according to the survey. The poll of 1,146 people was
taken June 7-10 and had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  earlier
this month expressed optimism about the nation’s economic
outlook in a speech titled “The Glass Half Full.” Stevens said
he felt the need to do some “cheerleading” for the economy in
response to negative commentary on the country’s prospects.  Borrowing Costs  The RBA lowered borrowing costs by 75 basis points in its
past two meetings, to 3.5 percent, benefiting households in a
nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages have variable rates.  The nation’s employment gains from January through May were
the most in five years, and the unemployment rate of 5.1 percent
in May is less than half the 11 percent level of joblessness in
the euro area.  Europe’s sovereign debt problem will continue to cast a
shadow on the global economic outlook, Swan said in yesterday’s
note. Australia shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that it faces
the challenges from a position of “unrivaled strength.”  Asia ’s share of the global economy has doubled in the past
50 years to more than a third of the world’s GDP and that share
is likely to increase to around half by 2030, Swan said.  China ,
the biggest buyer of Australian resources products, became the
country’s biggest market for services two years ago, he said.  “These healthy fundamentals should be cause for optimism
and for seeing the glass as half full,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  