-- California’s Bad Bet Makes JPMorgan’s Look Minor
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2012-06-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/california-s-bad-bet-makes-jpmorgan-s-look-minor.html
Congress ordered  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s chief executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , to testify about $2
billion that his bank lost on an investment bet.  Worrisome as that gamble was -- after all, the banking
crisis was largely due to bad bets by banks -- it is unfortunate
that Congress has never called hearings on a far bigger bet, one
that has had more catastrophic consequences for millions of
taxpayers.  The one I’m referring to was  made  by California legislators
on Sept. 10, 1999. They decided that investment gains would
cover 100 percent of the cost of retroactive pension increases
they granted that day to hundreds of thousands of state workers.  The politicians made the wrong bet -- and the result has
been a penalty to  California ’s budget that has averaged $2
billion a year ever since and that will cost the state billions
more for decades to come.  Promising that “no increase over current employer
contributions is needed for these benefit improvements,” and
that the state pension fund would “remain fully funded,” the
 proposal , known as  SB 400 , claimed that enhanced pensions
wouldn’t cost taxpayers “a dime” because of healthy investment
returns. The proposal went on to assert that it “fully expects”
the state’s pension costs to remain below $766 million a year
for “at least the next decade.”  Pension Projections  The Legislature  included  cost projections provided by the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  -- or Calpers --
in the description of the bill and passed it with broad
bipartisan support. Governor  Gray Davis  signed it.  Since then, the pension system  has earned  only 75 percent
of what it had hoped. Because the state is unconditionally on
the hook, the state budget has had to make up the difference. As
a result, the state has spent $27 billion on pensions, $20
billion more than Calpers projected.  Because the boosted promises last for decades -- for
employees’ lifetimes -- and because the pension fund amortizes
the difference between what it expected to earn and what it
really earned during such a long period, just a small portion of
the increased costs has so far been recognized. Far larger
increases are in store.  To finance the $20 billion of extra cost for pensions, the
state has cut spending on services and raised taxes. As one
example, spending on the  University of California  and California
State University systems declined  18 percent  from 2002 to 2012,
while state spending on pensions  rose  214 percent.  The pension deal was a stunning example of nondisclosure.
The legislators didn’t inform the taxpayers that:  1. The state was on the hook for deficiencies if actual
investment returns fall short of assumed investment returns.  2. The assumed investment returns  implicitly forecast  that
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  would reach about 25,000 by
2009 (it barely made it over 10,500  that year ) and 28,000,000 by
2099.  3. Potential costs to the state were uncapped.  4. Members of the Calpers board had received campaign
contributions from beneficiaries of the legislation.  Ten years later, a journalist  uncovered  that Calpers had
produced internal projections showing the risks to the state if
the bet didn’t work out. The internal projections forecast that
if the system earned half of what it assumed, state costs for
the pensions would rise to almost $4 billion a year by 2010,
close to where those costs ended up.  Negligent Politicians  This problem wasn’t caused by the public employees who
receive the pensions but by the politicians who made the
promises without setting aside sufficient funding. “Because the
fuse on this time bomb is long,”  Warren Buffett  noted in 2007,
“politicians  flinch  from inflicting tax pain, given that
problems will only become apparent long after these officials
have departed.” Most of the politicians who made those promises
in 1999 are long gone and keep their heads low whenever the
issue is discussed.  In JPMorgan’s case, the losers of the bet were the bank’s
shareholders and, according to Dimon’s testimony, some of the
employees who made the bet. But in California, the losers are
taxpayers and recipients of public services. None of the elected
officials who made the bet will suffer any consequences. Perhaps
we should require politicians to post personal bonds whenever
they make bets with the public purse. After all, they are still
 making bets  every day on new pension promises and  counting on 
investments to cover the cost.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive and a
Democrat, is a lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of
Govern for California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He
was an economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  from 2004 to 2011. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why it’s time for an EU-U.S.
free-trade pact , on  amnesty for illegal immigrants  and on
 plugging national-security leaks ; William D. Cohan on  the death
of Dodd-Frank ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s coming
decisions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  why Obama’s campaign needs help ;
Richard Vedder on  why the government should get out of the
student loan business .  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 