-- China Economy to Bottom This Quarter, PBOC Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/china-to-maintain-steady-robust-growth-hu-jintao-says.html
China ’s economy will bottom out this
quarter and rebound in the following three months as government
measures to stabilize a slowdown take effect, an academic
adviser to the nation’s central bank said.  “The second quarter should be the lowest point” this
year, Chen Yulu said in an interview at a forum in Beijing on
June 16. Full-year growth “should be able to hold up above 8
percent,” he said.  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy are
shoring up expansion as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis curtails
exports and foreign investment, and property curbs at home damp
demand. As leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in  Mexico 
today, President  Hu Jintao  said he was confident China would
maintain steady expansion and contribute to the global recovery.  “Facing a complex and grave external economic environment,
China has taken targeted measures to strengthen and improve
macroeconomic regulation, accelerate the shift of the growth
model, adjust economic structure and build long-term mechanisms
to boost domestic demand,” Hu said in a written interview with
the Mexican newspaper Reforma, the official  Xinhua  news agency
reported yesterday. “We are confident that China will maintain
steady and robust growth and thus make solid contribution to
global economic growth.”  China on June 7 announced the first cut in  interest rates 
in more than three years to spur lending amid a slowdown that
Chen said exceeded expectations. The government has lowered bank
reserve requirements, speeded up approvals for investment
projects and announced incentives to boost home-appliance sales.  Deepening Slowdown  China’s  growth  slid to 8.1 percent in the first three
months of the year from a year earlier, the fifth quarterly
deceleration. Bank of America Corp. says the decline may deepen
to 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the three months through June.  Credit Suisse Group AG has reduced China’s growth estimate
for this year to 7.7 percent, which would be the slowest pace in
13 years. Deutsche Bank AG lowered its forecast to 7.9 percent.
The predictions compare with a 9.2 percent expansion last year.  Chen, who sits on the monetary policy committee of the
People’s Bank of China, is also president of Renmin University
in Beijing. He is the editor in chief of a report on the
internationalization of the  yuan  which was distributed by the
university’s International Monetary Institute at the June 16
forum.  China has been promoting wider use of the yuan in
international investment and trade settlement to reduce the U.S.
dollar’s global dominance and curb its own reliance on the
currency of the world’s biggest economy.  Fragile Markets  Its efforts to make the yuan a global currency may be
hampered by the lack of an independent monetary policy, fragile
domestic financial markets and an “unbalanced” economy,
according to the report.  The PBOC isn’t independent, with financial decisions such
as changes in the exchange rate and interest rates made by
leaders of the ruling Communist Party.  “In the process of yuan internationalization, it will be
hard to gain the confidence of the international community in
the value of the yuan if monetary policy lacks sufficient
independence,” the authors wrote, citing as an example the
“excessively rigid” exchange-rate system.  A “more open and transparent” system where the yuan is
valued against a basket of currencies would send a “clear,
convincing” signal that the yuan isn’t pegged to a single
currency and that fluctuations are a result of many factors
including market demand and supply, according to the report.  Slowdown Pressure  The yuan, which rose 4.7 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
last year, has dropped 1.1 percent this year. The U.S. contends
China is keeping its currency artificially weak to boost
exports.  China could let the yuan decline to avoid further slowdown
pressure in a scenario where Europe’s sovereign debt crisis led
to a “sharp” fall in the euro,  Robert Mundell , a Nobel Prize-
winning economist credited as the intellectual father of the
euro, said at the forum.  A drop in the euro to below $1.18 would be “a good time”
to let the yuan depreciate “because if the dollar is going up
rapidly and if China goes up with it, it would bring a new kind
of slowdown to China,” said Mundell, 79, a professor at
 Columbia University .  China may make the yuan convertible on the capital account
by 2020, the institute estimates, basing the projection on the
experiences of  Japan ,  Germany  and other advanced economies in
opening their capital accounts. The yuan could become an
international  reserve currency  within 20 to 30 years, it says.  Loosening Controls  While China’s leaders haven’t publicly given a timetable
for convertibility, which would allow capital to flow freely for
investment purposes such as securities transactions, officials
told European Union business executives “full convertibility”
will happen by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce in China President
Davide Cucino said in September.  Policy makers pledged in a five-year plan running through
2015 to keep loosening controls on currency flows and make the
 exchange rate  more flexible.  The central bank in April widened the yuan’s daily trading
band against the dollar for the first time since 2007, allowing
it to fluctuate up to 1 percent either side of a daily  reference
rate  from a previous 0.5 percent. The same month, the government
said it would more than double the amount of funds foreign
investors can invest in domestic stocks, bonds and  bank
deposits .  China will need to retain limits on the yuan even after
capital-account convertibility is achieved in order to prevent
destabilizing capital flows, according to the institute’s
report. “If no strict controls are imposed on speculative hot
money, monetary and fiscal policies won’t be effective and the
safety of the nation’s financial markets and the real economy
could be seriously jeopardized,” it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  