-- Chinese Wine Lovers Go Californian as Taste Widens
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-06-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/chinese-wine-lovers-go-californian-as-taste-widens.html
At Shi Tang, a private wine club in
 Shanghai , Jesse Coffino circled the table, splashing crisp
Graziano chenin blanc from Mendocino county into glasses of 15
eager members.  All were regular drinkers of French wine but had never
heard of Mendocino. Coffino had to unroll a map.  “It’s hard to break pre-conceptions in China about where
good wine comes from,” said 29-year-old Coffino, a Mandarin-
speaking, San Francisco Bay-Area native, the wine’s importer.  French labels, especially Bordeaux, dominate imports in
China, with a 45 percent market share, according to  VinExpo 
figures.  Coffino, studio director for prominent Chinese artist Xu
Bing, founded San Francisco-based Pacific Brothers Wine company
two years ago with his 32-year-old lawyer brother Eli. They’re
among the growing number of American entrepreneurs focused on
bringing  mid-priced , boutique quality  California  wine to China’s
rapidly changing market.  All see potential in the country’s more than a million
millionaires and huge aspirational middle class turning on to
wine.  California’s  Wine Institute  international marketing
director Linsey Gallagher said in a phone interview that calls
from China have convinced her that “California wine could be
China’s shiny new toy.”  Excited Converts  Maybe so. By the end of the evening at Shi Tang, Coffino
said he had excited converts.  They sipped reds and whites from Calera, Graziano, and
Tulocay, the wineries in his portfolio. The favorite was 2007
Monte Volpe Primo Rosso (‘Fox Mountain’ in China), made by
 Graziano Family of Wines . The fruity Mendocino red blend,
neither tannic nor oaky, pairs well with Shanghai’s cuisine.  “We’re going after young middle-class professionals, CEOs
and artists,” Coffino explained in  New York  last month over a
glass of spicy Calera Central Coast pinot noir. The China
Financial Futures Exchange served the same wine at a recent
lunch.  These family-owned wineries have history, which is crucial
there, he added, so someone can impress his boss at dinner by
recounting the wine’s story.  Discovering California  Interest in mid-range California wine is new in China.
Though pioneer importer  ASC Fine Wines Holdings  lists some well-
known brands in its extensive portfolio and Chinese collectors
buy pricey auction-grade reds such as  Harlan Estate  and Opus
One, most drinkers are just discovering California makes wine.  Considering that President  Richard Nixon  served Napa
Valley’s  Schramsberg  Blanc de Blancs 40 years ago at the 1972
‘Toast to Peace’ in Beijing, why has it taken so long for
California wines to catch on?  Napa Valley Vintners  communications director Terry Hall
explained that only a few wineries exported anywhere before the
1990s. The NVV ramped up efforts in  China  after the Beijing 2008
Olympics and the economic downturn, sponsoring eight vintner
trips to Shanghai and Beijing. That surely helped the state’s
exports to China jump 42 percent last year.  Still, small producers remain wary of venturing into the
country on their own. Obtaining necessary licenses took Coffino
a year. Entry barriers include counterfeiting, customs issues,
problems getting paid, and most of all, finding a reliable
importer.  Electrical Wire  According to China Customs’ estimates cited in a recent
Rabobank China wine market report, 3,863 companies say they
import wine. “Companies that import electrical wire suddenly
think they can sell wine, too,” Hall said.  That’s why Paul Leary, president of Napa Valley’s  Blackbird
Vineyards , a producer of excellent cabernet and merlot, signed
on with San Francisco wine export and marketing firm  Thirvin
International .  “Working with a U.S.-based company that takes care of
everything adds a level of comfort,” he said.  Brad Tompkins, a former high-tech executive who set up
Thirvin in 2010, said he found going into China harder than
expected.  “So much California junk with labels like ‘Lucky Red
Dragon’ have been dumped into China, they think all California
wines are cheap,” he complained when I met him in  Hong Kong 
last fall.  Jim Beam  He’s more sanguine since signing a distribution deal in
March with  Dxcel International Trading Company , which also
handles Jim Beam and American craft beers.  Another player, Nevada-based California Grapes
International, opens its first retail shop and tasting bar next
month in Beijing’s Sanlitun SOHO district, featuring 100
California labels.  One intriguing model for introducing California reds and
whites to the Chinese is  California Vintage Wine Bar . It opened
the first of a planned chain in Hong Kong’s trendy Soho district
in 2011. It peddles wines from its 22 partner wineries alongside
California fare like heavenly garlic fries and  Laura Chenel’s
Chevre  from Sonoma.  Chief branding officer Susan Darwin said the top selling
wines aren’t the expected fruity reds. Light, crisp, and
aromatic whites, roses, and sparkling wines head the list. The
mid-20s to 40 late-night crowd goes for bottlings with wild
labels. Another Hong Kong branch opens in August and a first
outlet in China’s Guangdong province is next.  Back to Jesse Coffino, who’s leaving for Shanghai next
month. Personal relationships are all important in selling wine
in China, he said. This trip, he’s meeting with property
developers adding retail wine shops to give their developments
more cachet.  “You get to know them and maybe you sell something the
fifth time,” said Coffino. “In China you have to put in face
time.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London stage
and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 