-- Co-Host Poland Pays the Price of Mistakes With Euro 2012 Exit
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-06-17T22:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/co-host-poland-pays-the-price-of-mistakes-with-euro-2012-exit.html
Poland  must wait at least another
four years for its first win at the European soccer championship
as this year’s co-host was left ruing its mistake-ridden loss to
the Czech Republic.  Poland, hosting the 16-team tournament with neighboring
Ukraine, was making its second appearance in the championship
after qualifying for the previous event in  Austria  and
 Switzerland  four years ago. On that occasion, the team lost two
games and drew one. This year’s exit came after a 1-0 defeat to
the Czech Republic, which reached the quarterfinals, and 1-1
draws with  Greece  and  Russia .  “The situation from the Greece game repeated itself
again,” Polish defender Marcin Wasilewski told reporters after
the game in Wroclaw, southwestern Poland, two days ago. “We
just didn’t show up for the second half. What can I say, we
screwed up and we all know it.”  Czech midfielder Petr Jiracek scored the only goal in the
72nd minute. The hosts ran out of steam: They covered only 30.3
kilometers (18.8 miles) in the second half, or 45 percent less
than in the first, according to data from  European soccer body 
UEFA. Poland completed 68 passes in the second half, compared
with 168 in the first and a tournament-average 410 for all teams
for the whole 90 minutes.  “We had chances to score in the first half, but we didn’t
succeed,” captain Jakub Blaszczykowski told reporters. “In the
second half it was much more difficult as we started to play
long balls.”  Missed Chances  Blaszczykowski and his teammate from German champion
 Borussia Dortmund ,  Robert Lewandowski , both missed chances in
the first 10 minutes. Blaszczykowski’s injury-time shot was
cleared off the line by Michal Kadlec.  RSC Anderlecht’s Wasilewski called his team’s second-half
performance “terrible” and said it was “the worst night of
his career.” After the game against Greece, when Poland lost
the lead when playing against 10 men, Wasilewski said the Poles
slept through the second half.  “The hardest part will be to look all those fans in the
eyes,” he said. “We gave them a glimpse of hope.”  The game was watched by 41,480 people at the Stadion
Miejski and, according to Wirtualnemedia.pl media portal, by
14.1 million on the Polish television.  Poland had to win to advance to the next round, while the
 Czech Republic ’s requirement depended on the Russia-Greece
result. When Giorgos Karagounis’s goal in first-half injury time
gave the Greeks the lead in Warsaw, the Czechs needed a win to
qualify.  ‘Stay Calm’  “We could keep the ball better in the second half and you
could see that the Polish team were nervous,” said the Czech
Republic’s Tomas Rosicky, who missed the game because of injury.
“We knew we had to stay calm.”  Polish coach Franciszek Smuda, who’s leaving his post, said
at a press conference after the game that his team might have
been “too certain” they could win the game. Poland must now
target the next edition of the tournament, in  France  in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 