-- Congress Must Act on Immigration Laws, Obama Adviser Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-06-17T14:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/congress-needs-to-act-on-immigration-reform-obama-adviser-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
stop the deportation of some immigrant children wasn’t
politically motivated and didn’t expand his executive powers,
White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said.  The policy is “fully within our ability,” Plouffe said
today on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. “This is not
amnesty, this is not citizenship.”  The deportation rule is a decision made by the Department
of  Homeland Security  that will enforce the policy, according to
Plouffe.  “The Homeland Security attorneys are absolutely confident
this is within our authority,” Plouffe said on ABC’s “This
Week” program.  “We still need a permanent fix.”  Plouffe said congressional action on immigration overhaul
is still needed. Obama is ready to sign into law the Dream Act
which is designed to provide a path to legal status for younger
undocumented immigrants. That legislation has been stalled in
Congress.  Politics  Obama announced June 15 that the U.S. will immediately stop
deporting some illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as
children and make them eligible for work permits, an election-
year action with appeal to Latino voters.  Obama said the change in policy provides a degree of relief
and hope “to talented, driven, patriotic young people” and
makes the nation’s immigration system “more fair, more
efficient, and more just.”  Democrat Obama’s immigration policy pushes the issue back
into the spotlight in the presidential election campaign.
Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has
opposed the Dream Act.  Romney has said the Obama action will make it more
difficult to deliver a long-term solution to illegal
immigration. Romney said in April that he would review a
proposal by Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  -- a
potential vice presidential running-mate -- to grant work visas
to some young people brought to the U.S. illegally as children
if they served in the military or pursued an education.  Close Election  Obama will have “to fight for every vote,” in his re-
election campaign against Romney, Plouffe said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program today.  Countering criticism of Romney’s opposition to the Dream
Act, Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, said on the
same program that Romney understands “the plight” of those
young people who face deportation.  McCain accused Obama of “dictating” through the executive
order which laws are not going to be enforced.  Plouffe, who appeared on four Sunday television talk shows,
repeated the Obama campaign message that congressional
Republicans are stalling on the economy over the next five
months to boost Romney’s election chances.  “Whether it’s failing to move forward on the Dream Act,
failing to move forward on putting teachers back to work,
failing to do all the things we could do right now to help the
economy and middle class, this Congress is just saying no,”
Plouffe said on ABC.  Unauthorized Leaks  The White House also has been criticized by Republicans who
are saying that disclosures in the media on issues such as drone
strikes or cyber attacks on  Iran’s nuclear program  were meant to
boost Obama’s re-election chances.  “He has zero tolerance for this kind of security leak,”
Plouffe said of the president on “Fox News Sunday.”  Attorney General Eric Holder has appointed two U.S.
attorneys to investigate whether administration officials leaked
classified information to reporters.  Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who
appeared on “Fox News Sunday,” said he would advise Obama to
appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the leaks to avoid
the appearance of a conflict of interest. Plouffe said the White
House has confidence that the investigation will be thorough and
has no plans to appoint a special prosecutor.  “We’re going to let that investigation proceed rather than
turning this into some game of distraction,” Plouffe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  