-- Credit Suisse Has No Plans to Sell Shares, CEO Dougan Says
-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 2012-06-17T10:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/credit-suisse-has-no-plans-to-sell-shares-ceo-dougan-says-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  has no plans
to sell shares, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said after
a central bank report called for a “marked increase” in
capital this year.  The bank may continue to offer owners stock rather than
cash as dividends to boost equity, Dougan told  SonntagsZeitung ,
saying he’s “disappointed” by the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  report
as the capital calculation is incomplete.  Marc Dosch , a
spokesman for Credit Suisse in Zurich, confirmed the remarks.  The Swiss government, the SNB and the market regulator are
stepping up efforts to make the country’s biggest banks prepared
in the event that the  European debt crisis  worsens. The SNB on
June 14 singled out Credit Suisse as needing a bigger capital
boost than larger rival  UBS AG (UBSN) , and put a timeframe on its
recommendation. Credit Suisse shares fell 11 percent that day.  When asked how long he plans to stay as CEO, Dougan said
he’s committed to his responsibilities. While there’s “always
pressure from the board,” cooperation is “very close and good,
and we’re holding very intense discussions,” he said.  Credit Suisse is one of the “safest banks,” and the
central bank didn’t take into account 6 billion Swiss francs
($6.3 billion) of  convertible securities  when calculating its
 capital ratios , Dougan said. That would have given a ratio of
7.9 percent rather than 5.9 percent, he said. “Technically,”
the securities will be issued in 2013, according to the CEO.  Capital Boost  Dougan is confident the bank can achieve profit targets and
will earn enough in coming quarters to boost capital, he said.
His different assessment from the central bank may be partly
explained by a “very pessimistic scenario about the debt
crisis” in the SNB stability report, he said.  “The SNB report unsettled customers and market
participants. That’s not only bad for us, but for the entire
financial center,” according to Dougan. Credit Suisse has the
highest capital ratio among its peers and its liquidity is
“very good,” he said.  The government and the central bank had to prop up UBS in
2008 by letting it spin off risky assets into an SNB-sponsored
fund. Credit Suisse didn’t need any support from the tax payer
throughout the crisis.  UBS’s writedowns and losses from the crisis totaled more
than $57 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
losses amounted to more than 3 percent of the net balance-sheet
total, the SNB said June 14, while loss-absorbing capital made
up about 1.7 percent of total assets at Credit Suisse and 2.7
percent at UBS at the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  