-- Dan Dorfman, Market-Moving Business Reporter, Dies at 80
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-06-18T17:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/dan-dorfman-market-moving-financial-journalist-dies-at-80.html
Dan Dorfman, a journalist whose
stock reports were once so market-moving that U.S. exchanges
imposed regulations to limit the resulting price swings, has
died at the age of 80.  He died June 16 at  New York  Hospital, according to a death
notice in yesterday’s New York Times. The cause was cardiogenic
shock, a heart condition, the  Associated Press  reported, citing
his family.  Dorfman began swaying share  prices  regularly at the  Wall
Street  Journal, where he wrote the Heard on the Street column
for six years. Stints with New York and Esquire magazines, the
New York Daily News, USA Today and Cable News Network followed.  His influence peaked in the 1990s, when he appeared daily
on the CNBC cable network and earned at least $800,000 annually
for his television and print reporting. He paved the way for TV
pundits such as  Jim Cramer , the former hedge-fund manager who
hosts CNBC’s “Mad Money” program.  “I always found him entertaining, but I always thought he
was a negative force, not a positive one,” Cramer wrote in 2006
for  TheStreet.com . Dorfman “became so pressed for stories that
I believe he had to compromise his own standards.”  Money magazine, where Dorfman worked as a columnist, fired
him in January 1996 as the government examined his relationship
with a stock promoter. He suffered a stroke later that year and
lost his position at CNBC.  Blogging Career  Even though the network exonerated him and regulators never
accused him of a securities-law violation, his career wasn’t the
same afterward. He wrote for the New York Sun, a newspaper that
closed in 2008, and also  blogged  for  Huffington Post  as recently
as last year. Dorfman was writing for a blog published by
TrimTabs Investment Research at the time of his death.  Daniel Donald Dorfman was born on Oct. 24, 1931, according
to Marquis Who’s Who. The death notice in the Times said he was
82 and didn’t give a date of birth. Dorfman grew up in  Brooklyn ,
one of New York’s five boroughs. He spent two years in an
orphanage after his parents divorced, and then lived with his
mother.  In 1949, he graduated from the New York School of Printing,
a vocational high school. He worked as a printer before joining
the Army. While stationed in  Germany , he was a driver for the
editor of a local newspaper distributed to U.S. soldiers.  Apparel Reporter  “They were interviewing interesting people; I thought that
was a fun thing to do,” he said in a 2008  interview  with a
website about the history of business journalism. “So I asked
the editor if I could do some reporting.”  Dorfman took a journalism course at  New York University 
after leaving the Army. He went to  Fairchild Publications  and
worked as a copy boy, a boys’ wear reporter for the Daily News
Record, and a retail-management reporter for Women’s Wear Daily.  From Fairchild, he moved to the New York Herald Tribune as
a business reporter. The paper shut down and he worked for its
successor, the World Journal Tribune, which closed in 1967. He
also spent time at Merchandising Week magazine.  The  Journal  then hired Dorfman for Heard on the Street, a
column designed to break news about the reasons for stock moves.
He departed in 1973 after the Securities and Exchange Commission
told the paper’s editors that a source made special arrangements
for Dorfman to buy new stock, the Journal reported.  Dorfman then wrote  New York  magazine’s “Bottom Line”
column for three years and  Esquire’s  “Full Disclosure” column
for two before arriving at the  Daily News , where he was part of
the Chicago Tribune Syndicate.  Television Work  Along the way, Dorfman expanded into television. He was a
panelist on public TV’s “Wall Street Week with Louis Rukeyser”
from 1975 to 1984. He joined  CNN  in 1980, the network’s first
year, and appeared three times a week on “Moneyline,” a
business show that aired after the stock market closed.  After six years at the Daily News, he rejoined New York
magazine in 1985. He left the following year for  USA Today ,
where he wrote two columns a week for the paper and a third that
was syndicated by  Gannett Co. (GCI) , its owner.  CNBC  hired him in 1990 and featured him at 12:36 p.m. New
York time each weekday. His reports caused share prices to swing
so often, and so much, that the Nasdaq Stock Market, the Midwest
Stock Exchange and the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  all had
so-called Dorfman rules for trading in the companies he cited.  Dorfman’s reports weren’t always on target.  Quaker Oats
Co. , for instance, rose 14 percent in January 1995 when he told
viewers that  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  had made a $60-a-share takeover offer
and might pursue a hostile bid.  Company Comment  Coca-Cola responded with a statement that said: “It is the
policy of the Coca-Cola Company not to comment on rumors about
acquisitions or divestitures. That remains our policy. However,
today we would like to elaborate on our statement and observe
that Dan Dorfman does not have a clue.”  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  bought
Quaker, the maker of Gatorade sports drinks, in 2001.  Even so, he had numerous scoops to his credit. He was first
to report on Time Inc.’s merger with Warner Communications Inc.,
the insider-trading investigation of financier  Ivan Boesky  and
the 1980s emergence of  Donald Trump  as a corporate raider.  Money magazine  lured him from USA Today in October 1994 to
write a monthly column. Frank Lalli, Money’s managing editor,
had been his editor at New York magazine and the Daily News.  A year later, he took a leave of absence after  Businessweek 
magazine said the SEC was looking into his relationship with
promoter Donald Kessler. Kessler, a public-relations consultant
and friend, later pleaded guilty to  tax evasion  and  securities
fraud . He charged $5,000 to $10,000 in fees to set up meetings
between company executives and Dorfman, prosecutors said.  Confidential Sources  After the Businessweek story was published, Lalli asked
Dorfman -- who was earning $450,000 a year at Money -- to name
confidential sources for his columns. He refused and was fired.  Regulators had previously investigated Dorfman’s ties to
Centaur Partners, an investment firm cited several times in his
writing for  USA Today , according to a U.S. News and World Report
story in 1989. No one was charged.  Four months after his ouster from Money, he suffered the
stroke, forcing him off the air at CNBC. His network contract,
valued at $350,000 a year, lapsed and wasn’t renewed.  Financial World magazine hired Dorfman as a columnist in
December 1996, after he recovered from the stroke. The magazine
folded 18 months later. He then wrote for  JagNotes.com , which
failed in its attempt to expand beyond compiling brokerage
analysts’ calls, before joining the Sun in 2002.  Dorfman was married twice. His first marriage, to a woman
named Iris, lasted 28 years and ended in 1986. The couple had
one daughter, Leah Dorfman Kelly, who died of cancer in 2008.
After divorcing Iris, he married Harriet Kasenatz.  “On my tombstone, I would like it to read, ‘Here lies Dan
Dorfman, a reporter who cared,’” he said in the 2008 interview.
“All that I’ve tried to do is to give to the masses what was
known to a chosen few. That was my contribution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  