-- Hedge Funds Boost Bullish Bets as Stimulus Pressure Rises
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-18T21:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/hedge-funds-boost-bullish-bets-on-stimulus-outlook-commodities.html
Hedge funds  raised their bullish
commodity bets as mounting speculation that central banks will
announce more economic stimulus halted a slide in prices and
drove gold to its longest rally since August.  Money managers  raised  combined net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 9.1 percent to 587,327 contracts in
the week ended June 12, rebounding from the lowest level this
year, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Gold
holdings rose to a six-week high, while wagers on a rally in
silver prices jumped to the highest since the start of May.  More than $1.5 trillion was added to the value of global
equity markets in the past two weeks on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will join central banks in bolstering growth at its
policy meeting this week. Commodities rose more than 80 percent
from December 2008 to June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion
of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing and held borrowing
costs at a record low. Policymakers from the U.K. to  Japan  are
warning of the threat posed to markets by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The markets are signaling they expect some kind of
central monetary easing,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  fund
manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $14.7 billion of assets. “That tends to bode well for
the type of assets that get re-priced very quickly when that
happens, and that’s the commodity complex.”  GSCI Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
fell for five sessions through June 13, before rallying 1
percent the next two days to pare last week’s drop to 0.9
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities last week
rose 1.7 percent. The U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six
trading partners, slipped 1.1 percent last week. Treasuries
returned 0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The GSCI gauge fell 0.2 percent to settle at 581.45 today.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee, which sets the course of
policy, begins a two-day meeting June 19. Fed officials,
including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , have said there’s scope
for further easing at some point to reduce a jobless rate
persisting above 8 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted a 29 percent return over
the next year from S&P’s GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index, saying
that Europe’s policy makers will contain the debt crisis and
that the recovery in the U.S. and  China  will continue. Price
risks are “shifting more to the upside,”  Jeffrey Currie , the
bank’s head of commodities research in New York, said in the
report on June 11.  Cooling Growth  Government and central-bank efforts to boost the global
expansion may be coming too late amid signs commodity demand is
already being curbed, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage
C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of total
production in the U.S., dropped 0.4 percent last month, and
output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1 percent, a Fed
report showed June 15. More Americans than forecast applied for
 unemployment  insurance payments in the week ended June 9,
another sign that the labor market is struggling, according to
government data June 14.  Greece ’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats to forge a parliamentary majority,
easing concern that the country was headed toward an imminent
exit from the euro. Last month’s elections failed to produce a
government, increasing investors’ concern the 17-nation euro
would fracture.  Contagion ‘Problem’  “The risk is overwhelming to the downside in terms of
commodity markets,” Stephenson said. “It’s a terrible
macroeconomic backdrop because you’re looking at the very real
problem of contagion through the  euro zone .”  Investors added $376 million to commodity funds in the week
ended June 13, according to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. That’s the biggest
inflow since the last week of February, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for EPFR. Gold and precious-metals funds
took in $747 million, he said.  “People are scared, and most of the policy solutions to
the things that are scaring them involve more quantitative
easing by central banks, which basically means pumping out more
paper currency,” Brandt said. Those are “two good reasons to
get some assets into gold,” he said.  Gold Bets  Wagers on higher bullion prices rose for a third week, the
longest increase since February. Net-long positions climbed 1.3
percent to 99,684 contracts, the highest since May 1, CFTC data
show. Bets on higher silver prices gained 12 percent to 7,312
futures and options, a six-week high.  Gold rose 3.8 percent this year, after 11 straight annual
gains. Investors are buying the metal as a hedge against
inflation, speculating that global stimulus measures will
devalue currencies and increase consumer costs.  The net-long position in oil fell for a sixth consecutive
week as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
pledged June 14 to maintain production targets even after prices
plunged. Crude has tumbled to $83.88 a barrel in  New York , from
as much as $110.55 in March.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 21 percent to
378,963 contracts, the first increase in three weeks. Investors
almost doubled bullish bets on hogs and increased their net-long
position in soybeans by 19 percent, the CFTC data show.  “We’re probably in the later stages of the commodity
correction,” said  John Bailey , the founder and chief executive
officer of  Stamford , Connecticut-based Spruce Private Investors
LLC, which advises clients on $3 billion of assets. “We’re
looking for a policy-led rebound in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  