-- Egypt Vote Counting Begins as Islamist, Old Guard Vie for Lead
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/egypt-vote-counting-begins-as-islamist-old-guard-vie-for-lead.html
Egyptians awaited results from a
divisive runoff vote that will determine whether the country’s
first freely elected president will chart an Islamist course or
be drawn from the ranks of  Hosni Mubarak ’s ousted regime.  The two-day race between the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed
Mursi and Ahmed Shafik, who served as Mubarak’s last premier,
was intended to cap a transition to democracy punctuated by
unrest that has stifled the economy. Instead, activists called
on voters to boycott the election.  As ballot counting began yesterday, the next president
stood to inherit a nation split by political discord. A new
constitution has yet to be drafted, while parliament has been
dissolved under court order. A $3.2 billion  International
Monetary Fund  sought months earlier as a way to reassure wary
investors is no closer to being approved.  “It’s better to endure some more days of unrest if Shafik
is elected than the years of Taliban rule the Brotherhood would
bring,” said Sami Kamel, a 32-year-old U.S.-trained lawyer,
adding that he anticipated a backlash if Shafik, a career air
force officer and former Cabinet minister, is elected. “Mursi
has changed positions so many times he’s like the Brotherhood’s
version of  Mitt Romney .”  While the Brotherhood is the most organized political group
to emerge since the January 2011 uprising that toppled Mubarak,
its decision to field a candidate after pledging not to raised
doubts about its intentions. At the same time, youth activists
and Islamists contend that Shafik wants to recreate the old
regime, a charge he has denied.  Parliament Dissolved  In contrast to the optimism that characterized the
election’s first stage last month, the runoff, the results of
which will be officially released on June 21, was marked by
renewed anxiety after  Egypt ’s highest court last week ordered
that the Islamist-dominated parliament be dissolved and threw
out a law that would have kept Shafik from the race. The
military council, which took power after Mubarak, then locked
the lawmakers out of the legislature.  The developments effectively handed the generals
legislative as well as executive powers. The military has argued
it is impartial and is committed to handing over power, as
scheduled, by July 1.  “I had hoped we’d have a real change after the
revolution,” said Mohamed Khaled, a 28-year-old doctor who was
among those who treated the wounded during last year’s uprising.
“What we ended up with was the Brotherhood grabbing at power
and the military fooling us all into thinking it was behind
us.”  Election Boycott  Turnout appeared low on the last day of the vote based on
visits to some Cairo polling stations and state television
reports. The independent newspaper Al-Shorouk’s banner headline
read: “The Beginning … The Boycott Wins.”  Officials had hoped for higher participation after about
half of the 50 million eligible voters cast ballots in last
month’s first round. In that contest, Shafik and Mursi only
garnered a combined total of about 50 percent of the vote.  There were several claims of electoral violations in the
runoff, though none that officials said would have an impact on
the vote. The  interior ministry  said authorities had seized a
shipment of vanishing-ink pens that were part of an attempt to
disrupt the vote.  Three men were arrested near a polling station after they
were found with a laptop and compact discs that included calls
for people to take the streets in protest and attack one of the
presidential palaces in Cairo in the event Shafik wins, the
Interior Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Mursi’s
campaign, in a statement on the Freedom and Justice Party’s
Facebook page, denied any involvement.  Divisive Candidates  The two men are the most divisive candidates to have
emerged from the field of 13 presidential hopefuls last month.  Shafik has run on a law-and-order platform, vilifying the
Brotherhood as a secretive organization intent on dragging the
country into “darkness.” Mursi, a last-minute entrant into the
race after it became clear the group’s first choice would be
disqualified, has sought to win over supporters by casting
himself as the “candidate of the revolution” while also
reaching out to women and minority Christians wary of the
Islamist rule he could bring to the presidency.  Mursi “has an open mind -- he’s a scientist,” said Hassan
Abdallah, a 23-year-old pharmacist. A U.S.-educated engineer,
Mursi also heads the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party
that held nearly half of the seats in the now-defunct lower
house. “We have to try something else other than the old
regime.”  Economic Slowdown  The tensions are affecting Egypt’s chances for an economic
recovery.  Fitch Ratings  on June 15 cut Egypt’s foreign-currency
debt by one step to B+, four levels below investment grade,
citing “increased uncertainties surrounding the political
transition.” Foreign reserves have also fallen by more than
half since the beginning of last year.  Egypt’s military rulers are expected to issue a declaration
that would stress the need to draft a constitution within three
months, empanel a new committee that would draft the document
and convene new parliamentary elections, Sameh Ashour, the head
of the military council’s civilian advisory body, was cited as
saying by the state-run Al-Ahram yesterday.  The Brotherhood’s spokesman, Mahmoud Ghozlan, said the
military had no right to issue such a declaration. It should
“pack up and leave within two weeks,” he told the Ahram Gate
website.  For Hoda Abdulla, a 57-year-old tour company manager, it
was a vote about business as much as freedom. It will be hard to
draw back tourists if they’re being told “what to wear or not
wear on the beaches,” she said. Conservative Islamists in
parliament had earlier suggested segregating the beaches and
banning alcohol.  A dislike for both candidates led some like Emad Kassem, a
36-year-old accountant who had participated in the last year’s
uprising, to invalidate his ballot by voting for both men.  “The only choice I have is to not choose,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  