-- Leigh Party Explodes, Genocide Girl Drops Out: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-06-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/leigh-party-explodes-genocide-girl-drops-out-u-k-stage.html
Simon, a character in Vivienne
Franzmann’s new play “The Witness” at  London ’s Royal Court
Theatre, is a survivor of the  Rwandan genocide .  He’s decent, articulate, and oozes dignity from every pore.
He’s suffered, he’s forgiving. He’s every white liberal’s dream
of an educated young African.  With that CV, is it surprising he’s also a theatrical lead
weight?  The play deals with a raddled, heavy-drinking British
photojournalist called Joseph (Danny Webb). Twenty years ago, he
rescued a baby girl from a heap of massacred bodies in a church
in  Rwanda .  His photograph of the event has become famous, and haunts
his adopted daughter Alex (Pippa Bennett-Warner), who is the
subject of the image.  For reasons which slowly become clear, Alex has dropped out
of her studies at  Cambridge University  and is living a
rudderless existence at home with her father in London.  Joseph, who has secrets to be revealed too, tries to help
her find her place in the world.  Then Simon appears in Act 2, claiming to be Alex’s lost
brother and massacre survivor.  There are some good things here. The relationship between
clever, independent Alex and her sardonic father is attractively
done. They make each other laugh. They squabble in a healthy
manner. They’re physically affectionate.  Jealous Tension  A little of that goes a long way, and it makes for a long
first act. It’s much more interesting when Simon appears, and
jealousies and tensions arise between father and daughter.  Franzmann uses some of the stock devices of melodrama --
guilty secrets, the return of the past, an ambiguous stranger --
to generate some heat. Those sorts of tricks need careful
handling if not to appear mechanical or soapy.  When yet another bitty short scene finishes on a climactic
cliffhanger and a blackout, without delving into the conflict
just raised, it’s clear that the soap-opera trap is one
Franzmann hasn’t avoided.  “Don’t you dare. Don’t you dare leave this room,” screams
Alex to her father after a juicy revelation of past misdeeds. He
leaves.  Webb and Bennett-Warner do a fine job with their parts, and
create a psychologically believable father-daughter
relationship. They’re well directed by Simon Godwin. David Ajala
does his best with the saintly Simon, and designer Lizzie
Clachan creates an attractive bourgeois-bohemian living room
set. Rating: **.  ‘Abigail’s Party’  Mike Leigh ’s 1977 bitter comedy of manners “Abigail’s
Party” is a much sharper and more subversive piece of work, and
gets a terrific production which has transferred to Wyndham’s
Theatre.  Beverly, a selfish and domineering hostess, gives a drinks
party for her lower-class neighbors Angela and Tony, and invites
upper-middle-class Sue as well. During the evening Beverly
manipulates her guests, now humiliating them, now playing them
off against each other.  The clever part of the play, the aspect which has made the
1977 televised version a film classic, is the manner in which
the guests start to turn on each other.  The television version is so well-known that it’s hard not
to compare the stage production. Mike Britton’s suburban living-
room set, an almost exact replica of the one in the film,
doesn’t help in making a separation.  Acting honors go to Andy Nyman (Laurence) and Susannah
Harker (Sue), who both tread the line between comic exaggeration
and pain with extraordinary precision. Jill Halfpenny is
amusingly bitter and loud as the monstrous Beverly, without
quite getting to the heart of what makes her tick.  Director Lindsay Posner carefully keeps the tension
building until the explosive, funny-horrifying climax. A treat
for fans of cruel suburban satire. Rating: *** ½.  “The Witness” is in repertoire at the Royal Court
Theatre.  http://www.royalcourttheatre.com  or +44-20-7565-5050  “Abigail’s Party” is at Wyndham’s Theatre.
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  