-- End U.S. Student Loans, Don’t Make Them Cheaper
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-06-17T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/end-u-s-student-loans-don-t-make-them-cheaper.html
U.S. employers complain that they
can’t find enough skilled employees. Then how do we explain why
almost  54 percent  of recent college graduates are underemployed
or unemployed, even in scientific and technical fields,
according to a study conducted for the  Associated Press  by
Northeastern University researchers?  The cause is more fundamental than the cycles of the
economy: The country is turning out far more college graduates
than jobs exist in the areas traditionally reserved for them:
the managerial, technical and professional occupations.  The  Bureau of Labor Statistics  tells us that we now have
115,000 janitors, 83,000 bartenders, 323,000 restaurant servers,
and 80,000 heavy-duty truck drivers with bachelor’s degrees -- a
number exceeding that of uniformed personnel in the U.S. Army.  Was college worth it? A huge part of the problem relates to
federal financial-aid programs. Annual  student loans , Pell
Grants, tax credits and other federal assistance totaled some
$169 billion a year in 2010-11 -- more than 1 percent of
national output. These programs are based on two erroneous
premises: that almost everyone needs higher education for
vocational success, and that they reduce student costs.  More than 25 years ago, Education Secretary William Bennett
argued that federal aid programs benefited colleges more than
students. Recent  studies  by Stephanie Riegg Cellini of George
Washington University and Claudia Goldin of  Harvard University ,
as well as by  Andrew Gillen  for the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, support that hypothesis. A new
study by  Nicholas Turner  of the Office of Tax Analysis in the
U.S. Treasury Department argues that when tax-based aid goes up,
institutional scholarships go down, dollar for dollar.  Underqualified Borrowers  Consequently, we have millions of underqualified college
students borrowing or getting  Pell Grants  to finance college.  More than 40 percent of them don’t even graduate within six
years, and many who do have marginal academic records. Because
the average college student spends  fewer than 30 hours  a week on
all academic activities, for about 30 weeks a year, never have
so many dollars gone to teach so many students for so little
vocational gain.  Besides leading to more underemployed college students of
increasingly dubious academic quality, the dysfunctional federal
student financial assistance programs have other pathologies:  First, universities, unlike the taxpayers, suffer no
financial consequences when the underqualified students they
have lured into their academic programs ultimately default on
their loans.  Second, students who study six years but ultimately drop
out receive more financial aid than the diligent “A” student
graduating in three years: We reward mediocrity and punish
excellence.  Third, there is no adjustment of student-loan interest-rate
terms to meet market conditions or differing risk factors
relating to individual repayment prospects. That means too much
money is lent, especially to high-risk individuals with little
prospect for academic success.  Fourth, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid  form ,
associated with these programs, aside from being unbearably
complex, gives colleges private information about family
finances that allows them to gouge students more.  Fifth, colleges’ tuition and fee policies drive the amount
of loan volume, rather than the other way around, thus
contributing to the college-cost explosion and the subsequent
academic arms race.  Sixth, intended partly to promote greater opportunities for
the poor, these federal-aid programs have been accompanied both
by rising income inequality in the U.S., and a decline in the
proportion of recent college graduates from poor families.  Undeveloped Credit  Proponents of federal student-loan programs argue that
private student-loan markets are underdeveloped, that banks are
afraid to lend to students, largely because of their lack of
credit history. This argument is vastly overblown. It is amazing
how students have no trouble getting credit cards and racking up
debt, or little difficulty borrowing to buy a car. Why would
college be any different?  Yes, the goal of providing educational opportunity for all
seems commendable. Any revamping of the federal student-
assistance program would have to be phased in to avoid severe
hardship and enrollment disruptions. But here are some better
policies:  -- The federal government should get out of the student
loan business.  -- It should provide educational vouchers (similar to  Pell
Grants ) directly to students (not schools), and make those
vouchers progressive (very low-income students receive the most,
fairly low-income students a little, and middle- and upper-
income children nothing).  -- Add performance incentives, rewarding timely degree
completion and good performance.  -- Remove the tuition tax credit that largely assists
relatively affluent students and their families; perhaps use
savings from all of the above to reduce the  budget deficit .  -- Eliminate the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
form and require that applicants give the Internal Revenue
Service permission to provide family-income data.  My guess is that the total number of students attending
four-year programs would fall modestly, a good thing given the
disconnect between the labor market and college enrollment; that
the proportion of students from lower-income families would
probably increase (also good) both because the Free Application
for Federal Student Aid form is a barrier for lower-income
families, and the burden of aid reductions would fall mainly on
the colleges and more affluent students.  Also, the total cost to the federal government would drop
significantly.  More radical solutions might involve rolling many
government-income security programs into compulsory tax-
sheltered 401(k)-like lifetime individual security and
investment accounts, allowing withdrawals for college costs.
However it is done, the current system needs replacing.  (Richard Vedder is director of the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why it’s time for an EU-U.S.
free-trade pact , on  amnesty for illegal immigrants  and on
 plugging national-security leaks ; William D. Cohan on  the death
of Dodd-Frank ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s coming
decisions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  why Obama’s campaign needs help ;
 David Crane  on  a bad bet that makes JPMorgan’s look trivial .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 