-- EU-U.S. Free Trade Deal Offers Painless Stimulus for Both
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-17T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/eu-u-s-free-trade-deal-offers-painless-stimulus-for-both.html
Before the end of the month, U.S.
and European Union trade officials will recommend whether to
pursue a  free-trade agreement .  Such a deal has the potential to jump-start economic growth
and create millions of jobs, even as it sidesteps the paralyzing
debate on both sides of the Atlantic over austerity versus
stimulus. A trade agreement is necessary, achievable and urgent.  The economic relationship between the U.S. and the 27
countries of the EU is the  biggest in the world , accounting for
almost one-third of all trade. About $5 trillion in trade and
investment flows each year between markets representing 54
percent of global gross domestic product. This back and forth is
largely in balance. (The U.S. runs a deficit in goods, a surplus
in services and direct investment is roughly even.)  In 2011, Europeans bought three times more U.S. goods
($286.1 billion) than did the Chinese, and Europeans sold about
twice as much merchandise to the U.S. ($368 billion) as they did
to  China . Investment flows dwarf these figures: In 2010, U.S.
direct investment in the EU reached $1.9 trillion, while the
EU’s share in the U.S. was $1.5 trillion. About  15 million jobs 
are directly linked to the transatlantic trade.  Low Tariffs  The benefits of increasing these flows are unequivocal.
Although the remaining tariffs on goods are comparatively low (5
percent to 7 percent, on average), bringing them to zero would
increase U.S.-EU trade by more than $120 billion within five
years and generate combined GDP gains of about $180 billion,
according to a study by the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , which,
along with its European counterpart, BusinessEurope, is pushing
hard for a comprehensive agreement. Further, more than one-third
of transatlantic trade is conducted between affiliates of the
same companies, and eliminating the tariffs they pay would make
companies on both sides more competitive.  There are even larger prizes to be had from pruning
regulatory barriers to trade -- the myriad restrictions on the
sometimes specious basis of health standards, national-security
concerns or consumer protection. A  study by ECORYS  that was
commissioned by the European Commission showed that eliminating
just half of these so-called non-tariff barriers would increase
GDP by 0.7 percent in the EU and by 0.3 percent in the U.S.  The recognition of this codependence -- and its potential
to provide pain-free stimulus -- should be reason enough for
trade officials to recommend moving ahead with a free-trade
agreement. Their  report this month  will assess whether the two
sides can overcome enduring and pesky irritants (such as EU
restrictions on genetically modified foods, or U.S. laws
limiting maritime freight and airline ownership) that have
derailed at least three attempts over the past 20 years to close
a formal U.S.-EU trade deal. A final decision is due by the end
of the year, and negotiations could begin immediately after. The
EU trade commissioner, Karel De Gucht, has said he thinks an
agreement could be concluded by mid-2014.  That is a tall order, but it is doable. The economies of
the EU and the U.S. don’t have the disparities in social, labor
and environmental standards that have made other bilateral trade
agreements so difficult. And this one has some powerful
champions, including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , business leaders and  associations  on
both continents. Even the AFL-CIO and other labor unions, which
traditionally oppose trade deals, have urged negotiators to push
ahead. This month, the  President’s Export Council , the principal
national advisory committee on international trade, sent a
letter to President  Barack Obama  recommending that the
negotiations begin before the end of the year.  Chlorinated Chicken  Areas still in dispute are only about 1 percent to 2
percent of the total trade in goods and services. These issues
include perennial arguments over agricultural products such as
U.S.-produced chicken washed in chlorine or tit-for-tat
recriminations over unfair subsidies to the aircraft
manufacturers  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS. Other sticking points
include access to markets for services, which account for about
70 percent of both sides’ economies; EU concerns over  Internet
privacy  and the flow of electronic data; and the lifting of
restrictions on investment and bidding for public procurement
contracts.  The two sides have been meeting since November to assess
whether some of these points can be resolved pre-emptively.
These exploratory discussions could ensure that no single issue,
industry or interest group can sabotage the talks, as has
happened in the past.  A deal could have benefits beyond the immediate effect on
growth. By enhancing competition and reducing regulatory
barriers, it could compel the countries of the EU to adopt the
more flexible economic, investment and labor policies that many
economists say will be necessary to restore growth and bring
down deficits. In other words, it could help achieve what many
European governments say they want, but lack the political clout
to do. It also could serve as a template for future trade
negotiations with rising powers such as China and  India , setting
common EU-U.S. standards on regulation, tariffs and investment
rules.  When Obama and European leaders gather at the Group of 20
meeting in  Mexico  this week, they will talk about ways to
prevent  Europe ’s troubles from dragging the world into recession
or worse. A new trade alliance would be a good place to start.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  amnesty for illegal
immigrants  and on  plugging national-security leaks ; William D.
Cohan on  the death of Dodd-Frank ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme
Court’s coming decisions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  why Obama’s campaign
needs help ;  David Crane  on  a bad bet that makes JPMorgan’s look
trivial ; Richard Vedder on  why the government should get out of
the student loan business .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 