-- Europe Gets Emerging Market Crisis Ultimatum at G-20
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-06-18T05:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/europe-gets-emerging-market-crisis-ultimatum-as-g-20-meet.html
European leaders are under pressure
at the Group of 20 summit in  Mexico  to stamp out the debt crisis 
as global partners hint at help to keep the world economy 
afloat.  As elections in Greece reduced the immediate risk of the
euro area’s breakup, China and Indonesia signaled growing
exasperation with more than two years of European crisis-
fighting that has failed to stem the threat of global contagion.
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said that policy makers
bungled their attempt to rescue Spain’s banks.  “I hope that one way or another our European colleagues
will reach an agreement on rigorous methods to manage the
crisis,” Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who
heads Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, said in a speech in the
Mexican resort of Los Cabos yesterday. “The absence of such
methods will have unsettling consequences to all of us.”  The two-day G-20 summit starting today kicks off a week of
crisis meetings taking place after  Spain  this month became the
fourth euro-region nation to seek a bailout amid the weakest
global economy since the 2009 recession.  G-20 officials at Los Cabos were still negotiating last
night the language to be used in their communique to be issued
at the summit’s conclusion. The talks included discussions over
ways to stimulate the world economy if needed using language
similar to pledges made at Cannes, France last year, a Canadian
official said on condition they not be named because they’re not
authorized to be publicly identified.  Boost Demand  At Cannes, some European countries  pledged  to reduce
deficits while  emerging markets  and those with healthier
finances said they’d boost demand if needed.  Stocks and the euro rose after Alexis Tsipras, the Greek
Syriza party leader who advocates reneging on bailout terms,
failed to win yesterday’s parliamentary elections, reducing the
risk of  Greece  becoming the first country to exit the 17-nation
currency region. The  Group of Seven nations  said in a statement
that it was looking forward to working with the next Greek
government.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier
 Mariano Rajoy  discussed the Greek election outcome by phone late
yesterday as they headed to Mexico.  EU Summit  The heads of the four biggest euro economies next meet in
Rome on June 22, before a full European Union summit in Brussels
on June 28-29 that will discuss paths to closer political and
economic union in a bid to regain market confidence.  As countries from the U.S. to  China  prod euro-area leaders
to keep the crisis from spreading, a boost in the  International
Monetary Fund ’s global financial backstop is moving back into
focus after Merkel called for the rest of the world to do more.
The G-20 will boost the $430 billion firewall the International
Monetary Fund announced in April, Mexican President  Felipe Calderon , the meeting’s host, said on June 16.  “I estimate that there will be a larger capitalization
than the pre-accord reached in Washington, which will be
finalized here,” Calderon said in Los Cabos, the Pacific resort
where the leaders are meeting. The summit’s final statement will
endorse steps taken by Europe to achieve closer monetary and
fiscal union, he said yesterday.  European Stocks  European stocks advanced for a second week last week amid
speculation that central banks would take steps to stimulate the
global economy. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has declined 10
percent from its high on March 16 as Spain’s call for aid sent
Italy’s borrowing costs higher.  Greek election winner Antonis Samaras, who said the country
chose “to stay anchored with the euro,” today begins his
second bid in six weeks to form a coalition. Euro-area finance
chiefs pressed him to form a government that would keep bailout
aid flowing.  European officials indicated a willingness to ease the
terms of rescue loans as long as Greece, with just weeks of cash
in the bank, re-commits to their austerity demands. Merkel
expects Greece to stand by its “European obligations,”
according to a statement from the Chancellery in Berlin.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European
Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso , also in Los Cabos,
said they continue to support Greece’s membership in the euro
and look forward to a government being formed quickly.  Wasted Bullet  Zoellick, speaking in Los Cabos, said European leaders have
increased market uncertainty through their “incremental” steps
and fumbled the announcement of a 100 billion-euro ($127
billion) banking rescue for Spain, he said. They “took a very
big bullet, and wasted it,” he said.  “This meeting is coming at an absolutely critical time and
we’re waiting for Europe to tell us what it is going to do,”
Zoellick, whose mandate ends June 30, said during a panel
discussion. “The danger we’re creating is that the pattern of
policy making is increasing uncertainty and making markets more
nervous.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who is
helping draw up the road map for closer integration, said on
June 15 the ECB will continue to provide liquidity to solvent
banks. The ECB has already lent banks more than 1 trillion euros
for three years.  China President Hu Jintao, in a written interview with a
Mexican newspaper posted on the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s
website today, said the G-20 should adopt a “constructive and
cooperative approach” to “encourage and support the European
efforts and jointly provide confidence to the markets.”  Business Leaders  With market uncertainty persisting, business leaders at a
Los Cabos forum before the G-20 urged policy makers to find a
way to solve the European crisis as soon as possible.  “Everybody thinks the faster they find a way to handle
these challenges at the moment in Europe, the better for
everybody,”  Ditlev Engel , president and chief executive officer
of  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest wind turbine
maker, said in an interview.  In Greece, “it looks like there could be a coalition that
could be really useful for achieving some stability,” Marcus Wallenberg, chairman of Swedish defense company  Saab AB (SAABB) , said in
an interview in Los Cabos. “Calming down the markets going
forward is the most important issue. It should be more positive
than anything else right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Los Cabos at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  