-- Euro Gains as Greeks Back Pro-Bailout Parties; Yen Falls
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-06-18T06:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/euro-climbs-as-greek-pro-bailout-parties-could-form-coalition.html
The euro rose to the strongest in
almost a month as official projections showed pro-bailout
parties won enough seats to control  Greece ’s parliament, easing
concern the country would be forced from the currency bloc.  The 17-nation euro extended last week’s 1 percent jump
versus the dollar after figures from Greece’s Interior Ministry
indicated New Democracy has the ability to form a majority
government with Pasok. The dollar and yen declined against most
major counterparts as Asian stocks advanced, sapping demand for
so-called safe-haven currencies.  “The two pro-austerity groups getting a majority together
in the parliament is a very good outcome,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in Tokyo at  Mizuho Corporate Bank 
Ltd., a unit of Japan’s third-largest banking group by market
value. “It’s the best-case scenario for the election, prompting
traders to cover short positions in the euro,” he said
referring to bets that an asset’s price will fall.  The euro reached $1.2748, the most since May 22, before
trading at $1.2710 as of 6:44 a.m. in  London , up 0.6 percent
from the close in New York last week. It sank to $1.2288 on June
1, the weakest level since July 2010. The euro jumped 1.2
percent to 100.65 yen and gained 0.6 percent to 80.90 U.K. pence
after touching 79.68, the weakest since May 16.  The dollar rose 0.6 percent to 79.19 yen and weakened 0.5
percent versus the Swiss franc to 94.51 centimes. It fell 0.6
percent to $1.0113 per Australian dollar.  Greek Ballot  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slid 0.3 percent to 81.364. The gauge earlier
declined to 81.161, the lowest since May 22.  While 21 parties were on the Greek ballot yesterday, the
main contest was between Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras, who has
promised to renege on budget cuts demanded by creditors, and  New
Democracy ’s Antonis Samaras, who has said his challenger was
risking an exit from the currency union. Greece was left with a
political stalemate after the previous general election on May
6.  Since the initial vote, the euro weakened 4.8 percent
against the yen and lost 3.4 percent versus the dollar through
last week as investors sought havens from the turmoil. The
crisis escalated on June 9 when Spain asked for a bailout of as
much as 100 billion-euro ($127 billion) to prop up its banks,
becoming the fourth member of the trading bloc to request
international aid.  ‘Broadly Positive’  The outcome of the Greek elections “is broadly positive,
but I think what you have to acknowledge is that a lot of
Europe’s problems still remain,” said  Robert Rennie , chief
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
“There’s still a lot of unknowns in terms of the outlook for
Europe. I don’t think those question marks have really
changed.”  European governments indicated a willingness to adjust the
terms of Greece’s bailout package as long as a new government
“swiftly” emerges from the election.  Greece’s international monitors will “return to Athens as
soon as a new government is in place to exchange views with the
new government on the way forward,” euro-area finance ministers
said in an e-mailed statement following the vote.  Through most of the financial and political turmoil in
Europe, the euro has held above its lifetime average of about
$1.21 as investors put their faith in  Germany ’s Merkel to keep
the monetary union in place.  “The euro has been trading above $1.27 on the back on a
possible coalition on the right side of austerity measures,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank in London.  Shorts Pared  While forecasting little change in the euro versus the
dollar, a majority of the world’s biggest foreign-exchange
trading firms surveyed last month by Bloomberg News said the
loss of a member such as Greece would risk more departures and
send the currency lower.  The median year-end estimate for the euro is $1.25,
according to more than 50 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The forecast has come down from $1.30 as recently as
May 18.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced trades that
would profit from a drop in the euro against the dollar last
week from a record the week before, figures released on June 15
by the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed.  The  difference  in the number of wagers on a drop in the
euro against the greenback versus those on an advance was
195,187 contracts on June 12, from 214,418, the data showed.  Smaller Union  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
sell the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases was 2.83 percentage points at the end of last week, up
from a low this year of 1.41 percentage points in March. The so-
called risk reversal rate has eased from 3.47 percentage points
last month.  The implied volatility for one-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
reached a high of 13.29 percent last week. While that’s up from
8.25 percent in April, it’s below last year’s peak of 18.42 in
September. The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  rose to 11.88 this
month from 8.84 in April, the least since November 2007.  The most probable outcome is the euro will evolve into a
smaller union, including  France , Germany, Italy and Spain, and
underpinned by stronger coordination and financing, Pacific
Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El- Erian wrote in a May 15 report outlining the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s medium-term economic outlook.  Rather than a euro failure, an orderly Greek exit from the
currency has Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  predicting a
stronger and more stable monetary union.  Merkel, Sarkozy  “If you can weather the storm and haven’t put your bets
too short term, probably the euro is going to go up,” Stiglitz,
a professor at  Columbia University  and winner of the 2001  Nobel
Prize  in economics, said in a June 4 interview at Bloomberg’s
New York headquarters. “It’s likely there will survive some
rump version,” centered on Germany, he said. If it includes
countries such as France, the “euro would likely appreciate.”  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24, and has depreciated about 6.1 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine developed-market peers, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  For much of the crisis, speculating on a weaker euro meant
betting against the ability of Merkel and then-French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to keep the currency union together. They said
in a September statement that “it is more than ever
indispensable” to “assure the stability of the  euro zone .”  French Elections  Sarkozy became the first French president in 30 years to
fail to win re-election. The standing of Hollande’s Socialist
Party was further bolstered following yesterday’s parliamentary
election in France. The party and its allies won an absolute
majority in the National Assembly, exit polls showed, paving the
way for them to pass legislation without the aid of other
members of parliament.  In Germany, Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union had its
worst-ever result in an election last month in the country’s
most populous state.  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros of debt, about 194 billion
euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European Central Bank ,
euro-area governments and the IMF, according to the Greek debt
management office in Athens. In 2010, before the first bailout,
Greece owed about 310 billion euros, all to the private sector.  Greek Restructuring  Greece completed the largest bond restructuring in history
in March, as holders forgave more than 100 billion euros of
debt.  Since then, Greek bonds issued under the terms of the deal
have slumped. The 2 percent note due February 2023 was at 16.42
percent of face value on June 15, down from 28.68 percent on
March 15. The bonds yielded 27.13 percent last week.  German  two-year  yields turned negative for the first time
on June 1, while 10-year rates touched an all-time low of 1.127
percent the same day.  “It’s still a long road for Greece,” said  Simon Smith ,
chief economist at foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group Ltd. in
London. “We are bearish euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  