-- Oil, Euro Fall as Spain Yields Surge; S&P 500 Advances
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-06-18T21:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/euro-rises-with-stock-index-futures-after-greek-elections.html
Oil and the euro fell while  Spain ’s
10-year yield rose to a record as an increase in bad Spanish
loans fueled concern the debt crisis is deepening, overshadowing
wins by pro-bailout parties in Greece. Most U.S. stocks rose.  Oil lost 0.9 percent to pace a retreat in commodities.
Natural gas rallied on speculation hotter weather will boost
demand at  power plants . The euro weakened 0.5 percent to $1.2572
at 4 p.m. New York time after strengthening for four straight
days. The 10-year Spanish yield jumped as much as 41 basis
points to 7.29 percent and ended at 7.16 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent as 11 stocks gained for every
10 that fell on U.S. exchanges. Treasury 10-year yields were
little changed at 1.58 percent.  Spain, which has asked euro-region governments for as much
as 100 billion euros to help shore up its banks, reported today
that bad loans jumped in April to 8.72 percent of total lending,
the highest since 1994. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
Greece should not be given more leeway to comply with austerity
measures needed to secure international aid after pro-bailout
parties won enough seats to form a majority in parliament.  “There are still a lot of sharks out there, a lot of fins
protruding to the surface,”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “It’s not a safe
environment as long as the EU and the global economy is de-
levering, which it continues to do.”  G-20 Meeting  G-20 nations are discussing a mix of measures that will
include deficit reduction for some countries and pledges for
additional stimulus by others with sounder finances, a Canadian
official said as leaders prepare for a two-day summit in Mexico.
Federal Reserve policy makers will bring new forecasts to their
June 19-20 meeting and probably will mark down their April
central-tendency estimate for growth of 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent this year.  Crude oil decreased 0.9 percent to $83.27 a barrel in New
York, falling for the first time in three days. Global  oil
prices  may drop as much as 25 percent if multiple euro-area
economies ran into severe difficulties at the same time,  Andrew
Burns , the  World Bank ’s director of global economic trends, said
in an interview in Brussels today.  Raymond James & Associates Inc. cut its forecasts for West
Texas Intermediate crude and Brent oil by $12 a barrel each,
saying WTI will average $87.63 a barrel this year and Brent
$102.12.  Commodities, Euro  Cocoa, lead, gasoline, nickel and zinc each lost more than
1 percent as 16 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index
retreated. Gold fell for the first time in seven days, with the
metal for August delivery slipping 0.1 percent to settle at
$1,627 an ounce to end the longest rally in almost 10 months.  Natural gas climbed 16 cents, or 6.5 percent, to $2.627 per
million British thermal units in New York on forecasts for
hotter-than-normal weather in the Midwest and East regions of
the U.S. spurred speculation of stronger demand for power plants
to run air conditioners.  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing the
most against the currencies of South Korea, Australia and  South
Africa . The dollar strengthened against nine of its 16 major
counterparts.  S&P 500 Rebound  Equities recovered from their lows of the day as a gauge of
U.S. homebuilder confidence rose to a five-year high and Fitch
Ratings said Greece’s elections remove the immediate risk of a
ratings cut for the  euro zone .  The  S&P 500  advanced today after last week capping a second
straight  weekly gain . The index has rebounded 5.2 percent from a
five-month low on June 1. Consumer-discretionary, technology and
health-care companies rose at least 0.5 percent for the biggest
gains among the 10 main industries in the index, while financial
and energy companies had the only declines.  Hewlett-Packard Co., Bank of America Corp. and Alcoa Inc.
lost at least 1.5 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  down 23.35 points to 12,741.82 today. Kraft Foods Inc.,
Home Depot Inc. and United Technologies Corp. had the biggest
gains in the 30-stock Dow.  A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rallied 3.5 percent
as D.R. Horton Inc. and PulteGroup Inc. paced gains in all 11 of
the measure’s stocks. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index rose to 29, the highest
since May 2007, from a revised 28 in May that was lower than
first estimated. The gauge exceeded the median estimate of 28 in
a Bloomberg News survey. Readings below 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  The largest U.S. companies are beating the average stock in
the S&P 500 by the most in more than a decade, fueled by rising
dividends, valuations 31 percent below the historical average
and fear.  S&P 100  Companies in the  S&P 100 (OEX)  from Apple Inc. to Bank of America
Corp. have gained 7.7 percent in 2012 through last week,
compared with 5.1 percent for a version of the S&P 500 that
strips out weightings for market value, the widest margin since
1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With price-earnings
ratios down 6.6 percent this quarter to 12.7 and payouts at 2.2
percent of share prices, analysts raised buy recommendations for
the group to the highest level since 2007.  Costs of options to protect against losses in equities slid
today as Greece’s elections eased concern that anti-bailout
politicians would take over, jeopardizing the nation’s
membership in the euro. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, known as the  VIX (VIX) , lost 13 percent to 18.32 for
its biggest drop since April. Europe’s  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure
of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices, slipped 13 percent, the
most since October, to 29.46.  Among  European stocks , Bankia SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA slumped as a gauge of bank shares posted the
biggest decline on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which closed
little changed. Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc jumped 7.8
percent after its largest investor said it will accept Vodafone
Group Plc’s takeover offer.  Greek Stocks  The  ASE Index (ASE)  of Greek stocks rallied 3.6 percent to the
highest level in a month as National Bank of Greece SA and EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA climbed more than 11 percent. The ASE has
rebounded 22 percent after reaching the lowest level since 1990
on June 5.  Deposit withdrawals from Greek banks slowed today after the
election, three people familiar with situation said. Antonis
Samaras of the New Democracy Party raced to build a coalition to
keep aid flowing after the anti-bailout party Syriza rejected
his offer to join a government. Socialist Pasok leader  Evangelos
Venizelos , the former finance minister who negotiated the
nation’s second rescue, proposed President Karolos Papoulias
host a meeting of party leaders tomorrow to get a coalition with
the widest possible support.  ‘Bought Time’  “You can’t solve these problems overnight, and yes I know
we’re two years into this crisis,”  John Ryding , chief economist
and co-founder of RDQ Economics in New York, told Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” program. “But I firmly believe
that between the bailout of the Spanish banks last week,” he
said, “and the Greek elections this weekend, we have bought
time for these institutions to come together.”  Spain’s five-year note yields climbed 41 basis points to
6.55 percent and rates on 30-year bonds jumped 22 basis points
to 7.22 percent, also euro-era records. Italy’s 10-year yield
climbed 16 basis points to 6.08 percent.  The yield on Germany’s 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government debt security, slid three basis points to 1.41
percent after jumping as much as 11 basis points to 1.55
percent. The nation’s one-year yield dipped below zero for the
first time since May 30. The U.K. two-year gilt yield slid to as
low as 0.173 percent, a record.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.1 percent to the
highest level in more than a month as gauges in South Korea,
Taiwan, Hungary and South Africa led gains.  The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies rose 0.8 percent.
India’s Sensex Index dropped 1.4 percent after the central bank
unexpectedly kept  interest rates  unchanged.  As financial markets closed in New York, Brazil’s Finance
Minister Guido Mantega said the so-called BRICs group of the
largest emerging-market nations will announce their contribution
to International Monetary Fund resources at a Group of 20
meeting in Mexico.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index fell 3.4 percent, extending its
decline from this year’s high on March 7 to 22 percent. The
country’s ruling military council issued a declaration yesterday
after polls closed in the first post-Hosni Mubarak election,
giving itself sole authority over its affairs, including the
budget and personnel. It also acquired the power to name the
100-member committee that will draft a new constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  