-- Euro Chiefs Signal Greek Austerity Softening as Summit Looms
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-18T09:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/euro-leaders-signal-softening-on-greek-austerity-as-summit-looms.html
European governments signaled a
willingness to relent on  Greece ’s austerity measures as leaders
turn from an election victory by Greek bailout proponents to
focus on safeguarding the other 98 percent of the euro economy.  Greece’s new government must emerge “swiftly” from
yesterday’s contest, which showed pro-bailout  New Democracy  in a
position to form a coalition, euro finance chiefs said in a
statement. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said
negotiators could consider giving Greece more time to fix its
finances, telling ZDF television that the political gridlock
over the past six weeks “has done damage.”  Greece’s international monitors will “return to Athens as
soon as a new government is in place to exchange views with the
new government on the way forward,” the finance ministers said
in the statement. They want “the swift formation of a new Greek
government that will take ownership of the adjustment program.”  The election result in the country where the debt crisis
began in 2009 paves the way for euro leaders’ fourth make-or-
break summit in a year. While  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned
global leaders last week that Germany rejected what she called
quick-fix management of the crisis, a softening of the terms of
Greece’s bailout may provide a template for how euro leaders
overcome policy differences.  Euro Falls  The euro erased a gain against the dollar to trade little
changed at $1.2636 as of 9:27 a.m. London time, after
strengthening as much as 0.9 percent to $1.2748.  European stocks erased their advance as the yield on
Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond climbed to 7 percent, amid fading
optimism that Greece’s election will calm the euro sovereign-
debt crisis. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.2 percent to
243.82 at 9:30 a.m. in  London , erasing an earlier rally of as
much as 1.1 percent. The gauge has  dropped 11 percent from its
peak on March 16  on concern that the debt crisis has triggered a
slowdown in global economic growth.  The  International Monetary Fund , which contributed to
Greece’s two rescue packages, said that it is “ready to engage
with the new government” to help the country reach its goals
“of restoring financial stability, economic growth and jobs,”
according to an e-mailed statement.  Respect Commitments  The Group of Seven nations said in a statement that they
were looking forward to working with the next Greek government,
“and believe that it is in all our interests for Greece to
remain in the euro area while respecting its commitments.”  “It will be tough for the Greek people,” Japanese Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Los Cabos, Mexico, before a
Group of 20 summit. “But by keeping to the plan that they have
been building on, I hope they make progress on mending their
finances -- by implementing the agreed-upon reforms and
receiving outside aid while staying within the euro framework.”  European (SXXP)  and world leaders will have a chance to design an
improved plan to overcome the two-year-old crisis as leaders
including Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  convene
today at the G-20 summit in Mexico, as well as next week in
Rome, before descending on Brussels on June 28.  Amid what  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  called a
“black cloud” over the world economy, euro chiefs will use the
last two weeks of the month to hammer out a plan. Global leaders
will probably press Merkel to give ground on her austerity-first
policy, as they did at the G-8 summit last month.  Monti’s Meeting  After the G-20 gathering, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will host a meeting in the Italian capital on June 22 with
Merkel, Hollande and Spanish Premier Mariano Rajoy to seek
common ground. The three will gauge  Germany ’s position after
Merkel last week said her country’s resources weren’t
“infinite” in the “Herculean task” of mastering the debt
crisis -- and that jointly issued euro bonds and a euro-wide
deposit insurance were a non-starter.  Merkel’s role as leader of Europe’s biggest economy gives
her an effective veto on crisis-fighting policy.  “More important than the summit is the gathering of the
big four,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., told Bloomberg Television June 15.
“They hold the key.”  The anticipation ahead of the next EU summit echoes the
expectations that preceded gatherings last July 21, when a
second bailout agreement for Greece was outlined; October 26,
when bondholders accepted a Greek writedown and the euro rescue
fund was beefed up; and Dec. 9, when new budget rules were
adopted. None of those steps arrested the crisis.  Spain Aid  The Greek vote, a week after  Spain  said it would seek a 100
billion-euro ($126 billion) rescue for its banks, posed the
latest threat to deepen the euro crisis. A victory for Syriza,
the party that promised to renege on Greece’s end of the bailout
deal, would have stoked speculation the country would exit the
euro area.  The tilt away from German-inspired budget-cutting
prescriptions that have dominated the crisis response gained
further momentum yesterday when Hollande’s Socialist allies took
a parliamentary majority in French elections.  Since his election on May 6, Hollande has advocated moving
toward euro bonds, echoing a position backed by Merkel’s
domestic opposition and EU officials in Brussels. The French
president hosted Germany’s opposition Social Democrat leaders
last week.  ‘Joint Issuance’  “In the financial circles, few doubt that it makes
economic sense to create a deep, liquid and stable market for
 government bonds  with the joint issuance of public debt,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said June
15, according to the text of a speech prepared for a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. conference in Brussels that was closed to the
press.  The euro’s guardians will also debate a blueprint being
devised that may chart the way out of the crisis and toward the
full union that Merkel envisions. Drawn up by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , the plan may echo the
euro’s 1989 road map set out by a panel led by then-European
Commission President Jacques Delors.  “The important thing as far as we are concerned today is
that this report in a sense spelled out a methodology,” Draghi
told reporters June 6. “There was a road with dates, deadlines
and conditions to be satisfied. I think that is part of the
efforts that our leaders and we, ourselves have to draw up
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  