-- Evonik Owners Said to Recommend Suspending IPO for Third Time
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/evonik-owners-said-to-recommend-suspending-ipo-for-third-time.html
Evonik Industries AG’s main owner is
recommending that the German chemicals company suspend plans for
an initial public offering as the  European debt crisis  shakes 
equity markets, three people familiar with the plan said.  RAG-Stiftung, the foundation that owns Evonik together with
private-capital company CVC Capital Partners Ltd is leaning
toward abandoning the process for now, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the decision has yet to be
announced. Management will meet today to evaluate their next
move. No final decision has been made, the people said.  The move would mark the third time that Evonik has tried
and failed to sell shares on the stock market in what would be
 Germany ’s biggest public listing in more than a decade. Evonik
has refocused on chemicals with an emphasis on health and 
nutrition as it reduces holdings in real-estate and energy.  Evonik had sought to raise between 2 billion and 4 billion
euros ($5 billion) in its latest attempt to sell shares in an
IPO, one of the people said. Barbara Mueller, a spokeswoman for 
Evonik, didn’t answer calls made by Bloomberg to her office 
yesterday outside working hours.  The maker of additives for plastics, glass and cosmetics
also shelved plans in 2008 and last year because market
conditions deteriorated. CVC bought a 25 percent stake in 2008
after the first failed listing. RAG said on June 10 that
investors had shown a “very high interest” in the IPO planned
in  Frankfurt , though market conditions raised “growing
uncertainty” a process could be seen through.  RAG-Stiftung, a body charged with the winding down of
Germany’s deep-shaft coal mines, had earmarked proceeds from the
share sale to pay for costs related to closing the mines, which
are estimated to be about 200 million euros a year from
2019. Canceling the IPO will require RAG-Stiftung to rely
in large parts on dividends it gets from Evonik.  Financial Times Deutschland reported earlier today that the
IPO would probably be abandoned by the majority owners, citing
unidentified people familiar with the plans  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  