-- Lexus Racing to Reclaim No. 1 Lets SUV Discounts Rise 60%
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-17T22:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/lexus-racing-to-reclaim-no-1-lets-suv-discounts-rise-60-.html
U.S. consumers are getting better
deals on luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles this year as the
top brands clear out old models and race to be No. 1 in sales.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus has led the rise in customer
incentives. Lexus boosted discounts on its cars by 54 percent
this year and its SUVs by 60 percent, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz increased incentives
11 percent and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  by 6.9 percent,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in industry-wide promotions.  “You have these three brands that are all very close to
one another and that’s going to put incredible pressure on
pricing,” Tom Libby, lead North American analyst for R.L. Polk
& Co., said in a phone interview. “That’s going to cause
incentive wars. ”  Lexus was the top-selling luxury-auto brand in the U.S. for
11 years, until BMW took the crown last year. Mercedes leads BMW
by fewer than 2,000 vehicles through May and Lexus by more than
18,000. All have increased deliveries faster than the total U.S.
light-vehicle market’s 13 percent gain.  Lexus sees little chance of winning the U.S. sales race
this year,  Mark Templin , Toyota’s U.S. Lexus chief, said in a
phone interview. The brand’s goal is for 250,000 U.S. sales this
year, less than 1 percent more than BMW’s 2011 results. BMW
sales are up 14 percent so far this year. Regaining the sales
title would be a goal “if possible,” Kazuo Ohara, senior
managing officer for Lexus, told reporters in February.  “Spending is up this year because last year we didn’t have
anything to sell,” Templin said. “If you go a year from now,
in terms of incentives, you won’t see big growth.”  Redesigned Models  The brand will offer smaller incentives over the course of
the year, he said, as new versions of its most popular models
reach dealerships.  “ES and RX have both been in sell-down mode, so there was
some increase there,” Templin said. “We had the buildout of
2012 RX, but the new RX just hit this month, and we added the
new ES recently, so you’ll see that change.”  Lexus has historically spent the least in the industry on
incentives, said Eric Lyman, vice president of residual value
solutions at ALG Inc. in  Santa Barbara , California.  ALG sees “significant compression” between companies that
have historically been the most aggressive discounters, such as
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, and those that have
been thriftier, such as Toyota,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and the German
luxury brands, including  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  Past ‘Discipline’  “Those brands that have had discipline in the past have
started to increase their spending,” said Lyman, whose company
publishes a benchmark guidebook used by the industry to set
residual values, or projected resale values that determine
buyers’ monthly lease payments.  Residual values are particularly important for the luxury
market because leasing accounts for as much as half of sales
transactions, Polk’s Libby said.  Discounts baked into lease contracts aren’t as expensive as
they may appear, said Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst with
TrueCar.com.  “It’s not money out-of-pocket today,” he said.  Mercedes sales for this year through May increased 18
percent to 106,364, while BMW gained 14 percent to 104,779 and
 Lexus  rose 14 percent to 88,110. The results exclude Daimler’s
Sprinter vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t
 luxury vehicles .  Lexus Line  Lexus spent $3,734 on incentives per SUV sold in May and
$2,855 per car, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata Corp. The average vehicle last month sold with $2,545
in discounts, up 11 percent from a year earlier, Autodata said.  The brand has been coaxed into using discounts as models
such as the RX SUV, its only North America-built vehicle, get
older and rivals roll out competing vehicles, ALG’s Lyman said.
Mercedes started selling a refreshed M-Class last year. GM’s
Cadillac SRX and even mainstream brands such as Chrysler Group
LLC’s Jeep, which offers versions of its Grand Cherokee SUVs
that can sell for more than $50,000, are challengers to the RX.  “Lexus is at the tail end of their life cycle for a lot of
their volume products, and the competitive landscape has
changed,” Lyman said.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , boosted incentive
spending by 28 percent in May to $3,990 per Mercedes car, and by
23 percent to $3,473 per SUV, according to Autodata.  Mercedes Models  The Mercedes E-Class has consistently been the most heavily
incentivized model in the mid-size luxury segment and S-Class
promotions “continue to trend upwards,  Stuart Pearson , a
London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a June 6
research note.  That’s to be expected from a model at the end of its run,
said  Steve Cannon , head of Mercedes U.S. sales, noting that a
new S-Class will go on sale next year.  “Your flagship when it’s at the end of its life cycle
struggles, but that’s not particular to us,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It’s the same for any of our key
competitors.”  The flip side is the opportunity to cut discounts on
popular redesigned models.  “The best success this store is having is based on new-
product releases, such as the new 3-Series,” said Jeff Gerken,
general manager of BMW South County near  San Diego . “It is not
being incentivized, but yet it’s selling very well.”  BMW Discounts  Total U.S. incentive spending for Munich-based BMW,
including its Mini brand, climbed 4.1 percent in May to $3,613
per vehicle, as promotions on cars increased 10 percent to
$4,218. The company pared discounts on SUVs by 9.4 percent from
a year earlier to an average of $2,286.  BMW has approached its incentive strategy “scientifically
and strategically,” Gerken said. So-called loyalty offers that
give current BMW owners $1,500 to $2,000 rebates have “done a
lot to help us sell cars,” he said.  “They’re not just putting thousands of dollars in the
trunks,” Gerken said in a telephone interview. “You almost
need your ouija board to put a car deal together today. They’re
pulling all the strings that they possibly can.”  BMW and Mercedes are also in a global luxury race with VW’s
Audi brand. Its U.S. sales this year through May rose 14 percent
to 52,494, topping GM’s Cadillac, as the premium unit of
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW has set sales records for 17
consecutive months.  Audi’s Increase  Audi increased incentives on cars by 18 percent to $3,553
per car and by 23 percent to $2,261 per SUV in May, according to
Autodata. Audi aims to increase U.S. sales to 200,000 vehicles
annually by 2018 from 117,561 last year.  Incentives in the luxury market have been “targeted” and
“fairly modest,” said Greg Goodwin, CEO of Kuni Automotive
which operates 14 premium-brand dealerships in  California ,
 Oregon ,  Colorado  and  Washington . Loyalty deals often involve
customers trading their previous car in for a new one, which is
helping rebuild used-car supplies that have been crimped by slow
sales during the recession, he said.  “I expect that we will see incentives continue for the
foreseeable future, but I also expect that they’ll be more
effective and more impactful,” said Goodwin, whose company in
 Vancouver , Washington, operates BMW, Lexus and Audi stores.
Momentum from new-product introductions should “enable
manufacturers to continue to manage incentives more carefully
and cautiously than they have in past years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  