-- Fairfax to Cut 22% of Staff Amid Slumping Revenue
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-18T06:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/fairfax-media-to-cut-1-900-jobs-as-readers-shift-to-web.html
Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ,  Australia ’s
second-largest newspaper publisher, plans to cut 22 percent of
its workforce, close printing sites and introduce digital
subscriptions to halt sliding sales and a stock price slump.  The Sydney Morning Herald, bought by Fairfax in 1841, and
its  Melbourne  sister The Age will shrink to tabloid size by
March 2013, the company said in a statement  today . Fairfax will
start charging the publications’ online readers in the first
quarter of next year and may end print editions entirely if
revenue declines materially, it said.  Fairfax shares jumped the most in more than four months
after Chief Executive Officer Greg Hywood deepened cost cuts and
announced 1,900 job losses. The publisher’s biggest shareholder
and Australia’s richest woman,  Gina Rinehart , is pushing the
company to address an 85 percent stock-price decline since 2007
and falling newspaper circulation after a record loss in 2011.  “These are the sorts of things people wanted to see last
year,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets
in Melbourne, “It’s not as if the challenges the business faces
have emerged recently.”  Fairfax  climbed  7.4 percent to 65 Australian cents at the
close in Sydney trading, the biggest advance since Feb. 1. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 2 percent.  ‘Challenging Times’  “No one should be in any doubt that we are operating in
very challenging times,” Hywood said in the statement.
“Readers’ behaviors have changed and will not change back.”  The migration to the Internet has left the publisher
funding a print business at a time when readers are switching to
free Web content.  While monthly readership of the Sydney Morning Herald and
The Age climbed 25 percent to 7 million in the past five years,
about two thirds of that is via computer, phone or tablet, the
company said today. The number of print readers has fallen every
year since at least 2006, while the number of digital-only
viewers increased annually in the same period, Fairfax said.  “The days of the huge printing plants, built for our
legacy print classified business, are well and truly over,”
Hywood said in a video on the Sydney Morning Herald website.  Hywood raised his annual savings target to A$235 million
($237 million) by 2015 from a previous estimate of A$170 million
and said printing plants in Chullora and Tullamarine will close
by June 2014.  Newspapers Shrink  Fairfax said it’s also reducing its stake in  Trade Me Ltd. (TME) ,
the Wellington-based online auction business, to 51 percent from
66 percent to raise about A$160 million and strengthen its
balance sheet.  Credit-default swaps on Fairfax’s debt fell 10 basis points
to 375 at of 12:46 p.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  prices.  Fairfax is shrinking its flagship titles almost a decade
after the company’s closest rival,  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
cut the size of U.K. broadsheet The Times. Other papers that
have trimmed their size to cut costs and appear less cumbersome
include The Guardian and the Independent, both in the U.K.
Fairfax’s Australian Financial Review is already compact-sized
and charges readers for most online content.  Fairfax, which will make the job cuts announced today over
the next three years, plans to reduce expenses by sharing
content across radio, newspapers and the web, and centralizing
advertising sales activities.  The company publishes more than 430 regional and
metropolitan newspapers and magazines including the Dungog
Chronicle and the Southern Highland News, according to the
company’s annual report and website.  Advertising Revenue  Earnings peaked in 2008 before Fairfax last year posted a
loss of A$391 million as advertising revenue dwindled. Sales are
projected to decline for a fourth consecutive 12-month period in
the year to June 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rinehart, the Australian mining magnate worth $18.6 billion
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , raised her stake
in Fairfax to about 19 percent from about 13 percent, the
company said today. She has also sought support from fellow
investors for two board seats, according to the Australian
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  