-- Fed Seen Twisting to Risk Management to Spur U.S. Growth
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-06-18T15:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/fed-seen-twisting-to-risk-management-to-spur-u-s-growth.html
Federal Reserve officials must
choose this week between their best estimates and their worst
fears of what will happen to the  U.S. economy .  Policy makers will bring new forecasts to their June 19-20
meeting and probably will mark down their April central-tendency
estimate for growth of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent this year.
Lurking in the background is the risk of increasing financial
stress in Europe and  stubbornly high  U.S. unemployment that has
remained above 8 percent for 40 consecutive months.  All this could prompt them to move away from their outlook
for moderate growth and tilt toward a “risk-management”
strategy pioneered by former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan , which
puts more emphasis on tracking and containing high-cost threats.
Both  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s vice chairman, and William C. Dudley, head of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , used the
phrase in the past month.  “What we are hearing from Vice Chairman Yellen and
President Dudley, and the minutes of the last meeting, is that
there are more risks on the downside,” said  Donald Kohn , the
former Fed vice chairman who is now a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution . “The ability to combat weakness with
 interest rates  at the  zero lower-bound  is limited and uncertain.
In a situation like this, their reasoning is you might want to
buy some insurance.”  Extend Twist  That insurance may come in the form of extending Operation
Twist -- which JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies & Co. predict
-- or an even more aggressive response if Fed officials see high
costs in a slowdown of U.S. growth. The $400 billion program,
which was announced in September and ends this month, involves
selling short-term debt and buying longer-term bonds.  The Fed has about $190 billion of short-term maturities
left to continue Operation Twist for another three months, based
on calculations by Nomura Securities International Inc. The
firm’s forecast is for no extension at the June meeting, with
both Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  probably indicating they could take additional easing
steps, such as outright bond purchases, if economic
circumstances warrant.  An extension would fit a forecast that says the U.S.
economy will avoid a disaster scenario of rising unemployment
and rapidly decelerating inflation. The Fed’s decision June 20
at 12:30 p.m. New York time could be more aggressive than
investors expect if policy makers decide their confidence in
their own forecasts is low and want to do something extra to
lean against a worst-case scenario, said  Vincent Reinhart , chief
U.S. economist in New York at Morgan Stanley.  ‘High Odds’  “We put high odds on them acting at the meeting,” said
Reinhart, who was the head of the Fed board’s Division of
Monetary Affairs, which develops policy strategy, under chairmen
Greenspan and Bernanke. “Risk management says that you act in
advance of a potential downdraft in activity because that could
trigger” a collapse in demand that would be difficult to escape
with the main policy rate at zero. The Fed cut the  target  for
the federal funds rate to a record-low range between zero and
0.25 percent in December 2008.  Financial-market indicators are signaling a flight from
risk. Yield spreads on the Credit Suisse U.S. Liquid Corporate
Index, which tracks almost 1,300 U.S. investment-grade corporate
bonds with an average maturity of about 10 years, widened to as
much as  1.865 percentage points  over Treasuries of similar
maturity this month, the highest since January.  Fading Optimism  Greece’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats to forge a parliamentary majority,
easing concern the country was headed toward an imminent exit
from the euro. Even so, optimism about the election quickly
faded as Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose above 7 percent to a
euro-era record.  The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  was basically unchanged
at 1,343.43 at 11:00 a.m. in  New York , while yields on Treasury
30-year bonds fell to the lowest in more than a week. The yield
on the benchmark long-term government bond stood at 2.67 percent
after reaching 2.65 percent, the lowest since June 8.  In the U.S., payrolls increased by just 69,000 jobs last
month, and unemployment rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in
April. Retail sales fell for a second month, with the May total,
excluding autos, slumping by the most in two years. Still, few
private-sector economists are forecasting another recession. The
U.S. will grow between 2 percent and 2.5 percent in each of the
remaining three quarters this year, according to the median
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey in early June.  Early Boost  Some of the weakness in labor markets could be explained by
unseasonably warm weather that boosted hiring earlier this year.
Operation Twist has helped increase housing activity, with sales
of new and existing homes rising to a 4.96 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate in April from 4.51 million a year earlier,
based on Bloomberg calculations.  Service industries , which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, grew in May, according to the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of non-manufacturing businesses.  Fed officials probably won’t have complete confidence in a
baseline outlook that’s likely to call for continued moderate
growth and perhaps even a faster acceleration next year, said
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America at BNP Paribas
in New York.  “What the Fed is worried about is that a seasonal slow
patch will be converted into something worse because of the
uncertainty over  Europe  and U.S. fiscal policy,” said Coronado,
who worked on the Fed board forecasting staff. “The risks are
that we will be disappointed on the downside in the U.S. economy
again.”  Stable Inflation  Yellen’s outlook calls for a gradual reduction in the
 unemployment rate  and stable inflation of around 2 percent, she
said in a June 6 speech in  Boston . Being patient with that
forecast may not be desirable, she added.  “Risk-management considerations arising from today’s
unusual circumstances strengthen the case for additional
accommodation,” she said. “It may well be appropriate to
insure against adverse shocks that could push the economy into
territory where a self-reinforcing downward spiral of economic
weakness would be difficult to arrest.”  Yellen said the FOMC could begin another round of bond
purchases or extend its  portfolio  maturity further if the
expansion proceeds at an “insufficient pace.”  Fiscal Cliff  Dudley addressed similar concerns in a May 24 speech before
the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York. Hazards to U.S.
growth are “skewed to the downside, reflecting risks posed by
developments in Europe and the impending U.S. fiscal cliff,” he
said. “The costs associated with such downside outcomes are
likely to be considerably higher than the costs of realizing
upside surprises.”  The so-called fiscal cliff includes the expiration of
income-tax cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush ,
the end of payroll-tax reductions and automatic decreases in
government expenditures, which would trim a combined 3
percentage points from growth next year if allowed to kick in,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News at the end of
May. Instead, compromises will limit the damage to 0.8 point,
sustaining the expansion, the survey showed.  In a  2003 speech  that shaped monetary-policy strategy,
Greenspan told central bankers in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , that
“uncertainty” was the “defining characteristic” of the
policy landscape, making risk management a core element of
central banking.  Provide Insurance  “Policy makers need to consider not only the most likely
future path for the economy but also the distribution of
possible outcomes about that path,” he said. Officials
“operating under a risk-management paradigm may be led to
undertake actions intended to provide some insurance against the
emergence of especially adverse outcomes.”  That paradigm is the opposite of a “keep-your-powder-dry”
strategy that waits for confirmation from lagging economic data
to indicate the economy is turning one way or another, said Joe Gagnon, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  He predicts the Fed will extend Operation Twist for another
three months. Because risk-management considerations come into
play, he said he won’t rule out another round of bond purchases
that includes mortgage-backed securities.  “Risk management means your forecast is the most likely
outcome, but you shouldn’t just set your policy on that,” said
Gagnon, who worked under Greenspan and Bernanke as associate
director in the Fed’s Division of International Finance. “If
the risk now is a lower outcome on employment or growth, then
they need to take that into account by being more stimulative
than they otherwise would have been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  