-- Nalbandian Disqualified After Injuring Official; Federer Loses
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-17T16:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/federer-upset-by-wildcard-haas-in-final-of-gerry-weber-open.html
David Nalbandian  was disqualified
from the Aegon Championships tennis final today after he kicked
an advertising board into a line judge’s leg, injuring the
official.  Tommy Haas  upset  Roger Federer  to win the Gerry Weber
Open for a second time.  Argentina’s Nalbandian was leading 7-6 (7-3), 3-4 against
Marin Cilic at Queen’s Club in London when he was defaulted for
unsportsmanlike conduct after reacting angrily to a break of
serve. The line judge suffered a bloody gash to his shin where
he was hit by the board.  “I’m very sorry, sometimes you get very frustrated here on
court,” the 30-year-old Nalbandian said in a televised
interview after the match. “I agree I did a mistake, but I
don’t feel it had to end like that, especially in a final.”  Tournament Director Chris Kermode told the British
Broadcasting Corp. that Nalbandian was “struggling to come to
terms with it” but was sorry for what he’d done.  The crowd called for the contest to continue and greeted
the start of the post-match presentation with loud jeers. Cilic,
though, was cheered as he was awarded the trophy and Nalbandian
also received a warm reception.  Croatia ’s Cilic, 23, now has seven ATP titles, with this
his first on grass. World No. 39 Nalbandian, runner-up at
Wimbledon in 2002, is without a title since August 2010.  “It’s definitely not the way I wanted to win,” Cilic,
 ranked No. 25  by the ATP, said.  At another warm-up event for Wimbledon, which starts June
25, Germany’s Haas upset Federer of  Switzerland  at the Gerry
Weber Open in Halle, Germany.  Losing Run  The 34-year-old, who entered the grass-court tournament as
a wildcard, beat the third-ranked Federer 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 to
collect his first ATP title since winning this event in 2009.  Haas, ranked No. 87, last beat the 30-year-old Federer in
2002 and ends a run of  10 straight defeats  against him,
including the semifinals in Halle in 2005 and 2006. Federer is a
five-time champion at Halle.  Haas lost his serve in the first game before recovering to
take the opening set in a tiebreak. In the second set, he broke
to take a 5-4 lead, then held serve to claim the title.  The German has also has a wildcard for Wimbledon.  In the Nurnberger Gastein WTA final,  France ’s Alize Cornet
defeated Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer 7-5, 7-6 (7-1).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 