-- Hollande Bolstered as Socialists Win French Parliament Control
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-17T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/french-socialists-win-absolute-majority-in-parliament-csa-say.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
Socialist Party and its allies won an absolute majority in the
National Assembly, exit polls showed, paving the way for them to
pass legislation without the aid of other members of parliament.  The Socialist bloc won 314 out of the 577 seats, pollster
CSA said, with 289 needed for a majority. Former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Union for a Popular Movement party and its
allies have 228 seats, CSA said, and the anti-euro National
Front won two seats. Turnout in the second and decisive round of
legislative elections yesterday was 56 percent.  “The French people have amplified their call for change,”
Socialist Party Head Martine Aubry, said on France 2 television.  The victory gives the Socialists control of practically
every political institution in  France  -- the presidency, the
upper and lower houses of parliament, all but two of the regions
and most of the country’s big cities, communes and departments -
- a first in the Fifth Republic.  Control of the lower house of parliament will allow
Hollande to push through the tough decisions needed amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis. With growth stalling at home, Hollande now
faces the task of telling the French people that the state’s
depleted coffers may mean cuts in spending and higher taxes as
he makes good on his deficit-cutting promises.  “The result means that President Hollande and his
government have free reins to continue to govern,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .
“With domestic politics now out of the way, investors’ focus
will probably turn to the domestic economy, which has shown
recently worrying signs of deterioration, and to the Franco-
German relationship, which has yet to reach cruise speed.”  Merkel Ties  Since being sworn in on May 15, Hollande has pushed back
against the austerity measures that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  had advocated to tame Europe’s debt crisis. Still,
Hollande has said growth can’t come from the increase in
spending that the communist-backed Left Front has demanded.  The French legislative election coincided with a vote in
Greece, where the two largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy
and Pasok, won enough seats to forge a parliamentary majority,
pointing to an outcome that may ease concern of a clash that
could force the country out of the euro.  Hollande’s “large majority will allow us to lead the
battle for growth with our European partners against the
politics of austerity,” Harlem Desir, the acting secretary of
the Socialist Party, said on France’s BFM television.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  and Culture and
Communications Minister Aurelie Filipetti were among those who
won seats, while  Segolene Royal , the Socialist presidential
candidate in 2007 and Hollande’s ex-partner and the mother of
his four children, lost her race.  Segolene Royal  Royal was defeated in a western France constituency by
rival Olivier Falorni, a former Socialist party member. Forlani
beat Royal 63 percent to 37 percent. The defeat dashes her plan
to become the  National Assembly  president, a position that could
have made her France’s fourth most-powerful elected politician.  “I ran a difficult campaign, but a straight, loyal
campaign, with a sense of honor and commitment,” Royal said in
a speech conceding defeat from the coastal town of  La Rochelle .  The Socialists won’t have to rely on the 10 seats won by
the Left Front, which said it would support Hollande’s
government even if it didn’t agree with on many issues.  The Left Front’s presidential candidate, Jean-Luc Melenchon, openly supported  Greece ’s Syriza party, which wants
to renegotiate Greece’s European Union aid agreements.  Hollande has said Greece must abide by its rescue deals,
even if he has also spoken about the need for growth measures.  Strong Opposition  Sarkozy’s UMP pledged to use its position as the second-
largest group in parliament to present a strong opposition.  “Even though we have been defeated, we will be united and
become a constructive opposition to avert irreparable damage in
education and public spending,” said Rachida Dati, a former
justice minister in Sarkozy’s government.  Marine Le Pen, the head of the anti-euro National Front,
lost her bid to sit in parliament, although her 22-year-old
niece Marion Marechal-Le Pen won her seat in southern France,
becoming the first member of her party to hold a seat in
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@loomberg.net  