-- Greek Vote Outcomes Range From Coalition to Euro Exit: Scenarios
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-17T07:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/greek-vote-outcomes-range-from-coalition-to-euro-exit-scenarios.html
Below are some frequently asked-
questions on Greece’s elections today and a list of some
possible outcomes after the vote.  There are 9.9 million citizens eligible to vote. Polls
close at 7 p.m. Athens time (5 p.m. in London, 12 p.m. in  New
York ). Exit polls will be published immediately, and initial
estimates of the result will come in around 9:30 p.m. local
time. A more accurate estimate will be available at about 11
p.m.  Who’s likely to win?  The last date voter opinion polls were allowed to be made
public was June 1. On that date, New Democracy led with 22.7
percent, Syriza had 22 percent, while Pasok had 11.2 percent.
The maximum margin of error in the survey was 2.8 percentage
points. The poll of 1,200 people was conducted by Metron
Analysis for Athens-based ANT1 TV from May 30 to May 31.  What have the three main party leaders said about what they will
do after the election?  New Democracy - Antonis Samaras said June 13 the parties
“must find common ground” to avoid a third election or a euro
exit. His conditions for cooperation are “staying in  Europe  and
the need to renegotiate the bailout to cater for growth.”  Syriza - Alexis Tsipras said June 13 that European
officials won’t push  Greece  out of the euro even if he fulfills
his pledge to cancel austerity measures.  Pasok -  Evangelos Venizelos  has sent rival party leaders a
framework for a coalition to avoid paralysis and said on June 12
a Greek government must attend the European Union summit at the
end of the month.  What are the possible outcomes of the vote?  If there’s no clear winner, the parties will have to
negotiate to form a coalition. The legislature has 300 seats,
and 151 seats are needed to form a government. Once the election
results are known, the largest party automatically gets an extra
50 seats, and the coalition bargaining begins.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch note lists the following
potential outcomes from negotiations:  -- A victorious  New Democracy  forms a coalition with Pasok.
The key is whether, combined, they’ve won at least 151 seats. If
so, they will govern together, and no smaller party will have an
incentive to join and share the political pain of implementing
reforms. If not, they’ll need to fold in one of the smaller
parties, who may be more likely to assent because the pressure
is greater to agree this time around.  -- A victorious Syriza will try to form a coalition, but it
will be “hard pressed” to do so. It would have to sign up New
Democracy or Pasok in order to govern, but to do so it would
have to make some commitment to following through with the
Troika program, the opposite of its election campaign.  What happens after a government is formed?  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a May 28 note there are
three possibilities:  -- Muddling through (most likely): Greece seeks to stay in
the euro but doesn’t agree to unconditionally implement the
reform program. The most likely consequence is that the Troika
ceases payments, though banks continue to receive European
Central Bank support unless a political decision is made to
withdraw central bank facilities. Greek membership in the euro
depends on its ability to adjust to new incentives as the threat
of exclusion from the rest of the bloc gains credibility.  -- Slow exit (next-most likely): Greece is excluded from
the euro area after the remaining members are given time to
build firewalls against the shock, such as deposit guarantees
and liquidity injections by the ECB. While there isn’t a legal
mechanism for exclusion, it could be done in practice by cutting
Greek banks off from ECB facilities and payments systems. For
the rest of the euro area, the firewalls are unlikely to be
robust enough to deal with the impact of the Greek exit, while
there may be market fallout because of the new precedent that
euro membership can be rescinded, Goldman says.  -- Fast exit (least likely): Greece abandons the euro and
introduces a new currency. A “sudden and abrupt” exit wouldn’t
give other nations time to prepare and an insufficient firewall
could mean an unraveling of the euro area.  What happens if the parties can’t agree to form a government?  The Greek constitution says that when a coalition can’t be
formed, the president must broker a government of national
unity, and if that can’t be done, new elections must be held.
This is what happened after the May 6 election.  The BofA/Merrill note says were Syriza to fail to form a
coalition a third election period would follow in which Greece
would run out of money, the Troika would stop providing funds,
and the ECB’s support for Greek banks would be at risk. The
economic damage suffered during this period would require a new
program to be negotiated with the Troika, with more funds.  Will Greece leave the euro?  Citigroup Inc. said even under a New Democracy-led
government, Greece’s problems are so challenging that there’s a
50 to 75 percent chance it will get pushed out of the euro in
the next year or two. That would happen sooner under a Syriza-
led government.  Aviva said the chances of no exit and Greece “muddling
through,” or a managed exit from the common currency, are both
about 40 percent. There’s a 20 percent chance of a disorderly
exit, it said.  Berenberg Bank’s Holger Schmieding says European officials
seem “ready to reward a responsible Greek government,” and the
election is “too close to call.” He gives the following
scenarios:  -- A New Democracy win and a coalition with Pasok will coax
 Germany  to overlook doubts on Greece and allow Europe to adjust
the bailout program and even possibly add to support. In this
case, the probability of Greece being in the euro by the end of
2012 is 75 percent, according to Berenberg.  -- A Syriza win would probably see the EU demand that
Tsipras sign up to the bailout plan or be cut off from EU and
central bank support. Loss of funds would lead to a bank run and
“the threat of utter chaos.” Among Tsipras’s options are
relenting and signing up to the Troika terms or standing his
ground and causing a “chaotic” exit. He may also negotiate a
semi-orderly euro exit. Under a Syriza victory, Berenberg puts
the probability of Greece being in the euro by the end of 2012
at 30 percent.  -- An inconclusive election result that requires a third
vote will put the probability that Greece is still in the euro
at the end of the year at 50 percent or less.  How much time would Greece have to arrange its affairs were it
to make a fast exit?  Assuming the decision were to come at the end of foreign
 currency trading  in New York on a Friday, it might have about 46
hours to get its affairs in order before the opening of trading
in Wellington,  New Zealand  on the Monday. In that time,
officials might have to manage a potential sovereign default,
plan a new currency, formulate a plan to recapitalize banks,
stem the outflow of capital and seek a way to pay bills once the
bailout lifeline is cut, economists say.  Can Europe survive a Greek exit?  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told the
 Rheinische Post  in an interview published May 11 that the euro
region would be able to cope better with a Greek exit now than a
year ago. He said May 14 while a departure would trigger a
crippling devaluation, he signaled such a scenario would be
manageable.  “We can only hope that the Greeks make the right
decision,” Schaeuble said. “If they make another decision,
we’ll have to react in such a way as to ensure that the
consequences are as contained as possible.”  Professor James Davis at the University of  St. Gallen  in
 Switzerland , an expert in political psychology and international
security, says contagion from a Greek departure poses a bigger
threat to the European Union than the exit itself.  “Unless the EU can convince markets that Greece is a
special case, euro-denominated assets in Portugal, Spain and
 Italy  will all appear at risk of devaluation, a prospect likely
to generate massive capital flight and the eventual collapse of
the banking sectors across Europe’s southern tier,” he said in
a statement on June 13. “A Greek exit from the euro could in
fact mean the end of the EU.”  Gabriel Stein, a director at Lombard Street Research, says
the history of monetary unions, including the breakup of the
 Soviet Union , shows that they “can dissolve, and it is not the
end of the world.” In a March 29 note, he said “war and
breakdown” are not the inevitable result. While “there has
been no dissolution of a monetary union with EMU’s advanced and
integrated financial system,” that “does not make it
impossible, just complicated.”  Still, “the history of other monetary unions confirms
that, without a fiscal union, a monetary union will not last,”
he wrote.  What are the possible market reactions?  Aviva says no matter what happens there will be “market
turbulence.”  -- Were Greece to stay in the euro, European equities would
rally 5 to 10 percent and the euro would reach $1.32, it
forecasts.  -- In a managed exit from the common currency, stocks would
initially drop 15 percent, though a strong response by officials
to contain contagion would then produce a rally of 20 to 30
percent, and the euro would settle at the mid-$1.20s.  -- In a disorderly exit, Aviva forecasts that stocks would
drop 30 percent, below lows reached in 2009, and the euro would
weaken to $1.10.  Are there alternatives to a full Greek exit?  Deutsche Bank AG’s  Thomas Mayer  said in a May 18 note that
the Troika could stop payments to Greece if it refuses to
implement the program. A Greek parallel currency to the euro,
which Mayer called a “Geuro,” could emerge as the government
issues IoUs to meet payment obligations.  That would allow Greece to devalue without formally exiting
Europe’s monetary union and “keep the door open to a future
return to the euro,” said Mayer, who used to be chief economist
to the bank and is now a senior adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  