-- Greek Pro-Bailout Parties Take Majority, Projection Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-17T20:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/greek-parliamentary-vote-too-close-to-call-exit-poll-shows.html
Greece ’s largest pro-bailout
parties, New Democracy and Pasok, won enough seats to forge a
parliamentary majority, official projections showed, easing
concern the country was headed toward an imminent exit from the
euro. The currency rose on the result.  The election would give New Democracy and Pasok  163 seats 
if they agree to govern together in the 300-member parliament,
according to the official projection by the  Interior Ministry  in
Athens based on 63 percent of today’s vote.  “For markets, a majority for an ND-Pasok coalition would
be a relief,”  Holger Schmieding , London-based chief economist
at Berenberg Bank, said in a note today. “It would very much
reduce the risk of a Greek euro exit.”  The vote forced Greeks, in a fifth year of recession, to
choose open-ended austerity to stay in the euro or reject the
terms of a bailout and risk the turmoil of exiting the 17-nation
currency. The election threatened to dominate a summit of world
leaders that starts tomorrow in  Mexico .  Antonis Samaras’s  New Democracy  had 30.1 percent, or 130
seats, and Socialist Pasok took 12.6 percent for 33 seats, the
projection showed. Alexis Tsipras’s Syriza, which advocated
reneging on the terms of the bailout, won 26.5 percent, or 71
seats. Samaras called for a government of national salvation.  “The Greek people expressed their will to stay anchored
with the euro, remain an integral part of the euro zone and
honor the country’s commitments,” Samaras told supporters.
“There’s no time to lose.”  Pressure on Venizelos  While Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  demanded that Syriza
join a unity coalition, the former finance minister said a
government must be formed right away to avoid further economic
deterioration and safeguard Greece’s place in the euro. That
will make it harder for him to hold off demands to team up with
Samaras in a coalition that excludes Tsipras.  Pasok “will not be able to resist such a pressure,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , a political risk analyst at Eurasia Group in
 London , said in an e-mail.  While 21 parties were on the ballot, the main contest was
between Tsipras and Samaras, who said his challenger’s policy
risked an exit from the currency union.  Tsipras signaled Syriza won’t join the national salvation
government planned by New Democracy.  Syriza “will be present in all developments as the main
voice of the anti-bailout vote in Greece,” he said in
statements carried live on state-run NET TV today.  Austerity
measures underpinning the international rescues extended to
Greece have no popular support, he said.  Euro Concerns  The election marked a revote after an inconclusive May 6
ballot that stoked increasing speculation that Greece’s
dwindling cash reserves and accelerating deposit flight would
force it out of the 17-nation currency union.  Now in its third year, the European debt crisis has rounded
back to Greece, which sparked the turmoil in October 2009 when
Pasok Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed a deficit four
times more than European rules allowed. Greece has since gotten
two rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros ($303 billion)
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  In exchange for the aid, Greece promised state asset sales,
pension cuts and wage reductions. Tsipras pledged to abandon
those measures. Samaras had said that made the vote a referendum
on quitting the euro. Tsipras, who said he’d try to keep Greece
in the euro while tearing up the bailout agreements, urged
voters to reject the two main parties that backed the
international rescue, New Democracy and Pasok.  German Signal  Meantime,  Germany  signaled a willingness to loosen some of
the pressure on Greece. “I can imagine we could do something in
terms of the timeframe, because the standstill that has taken
place over the past few weeks has done damage,” Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told broadcaster ZDF in Berlin today.
“But one thing must be clear: the treaties must be valid in
substance. They can’t be canceled or renegotiated.”  Before the vote, central banks intensified warnings that
 Europe ’s failure to tame its debt crisis threatens to roil the
world’s financial markets and economy as Greece’s election looms
as the next flashpoint for investors.  The Greek turmoil has cast a pall around the world, with
 Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King calling the euro debt
crisis a “black cloud” over the global economy.  Following the vote, the currency gained 0.6 percent to
$1.2709 at 11:20 p.m. in  Athens .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  