-- Greek Cash Dwindles as Rivals Race to Form Government
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-18T09:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/greece-races-as-cash-dwindles-with-europe-seeking-return-to-cuts.html
Greece ’s two traditional political
rivals are in a race to forge a coalition as the state’s cash
dwindles,  bank deposits  flee and Europe demands renewed
austerity pledges before releasing more emergency aid.  The euro erased an initial advance, stocks fell and
borrowing costs in  Spain  and  Italy  surged on concern an election
win by Greece’s biggest pro-bailout party would provide only a
brief respite from Europe’s financial crisis.  Greece will run out of money in mid-July, the Syriza party,
which placed second in yesterday’s election, said on June 13
after being briefed by Acting Finance Minister Giorgios Zanias.
Caretaker Labor and Social Security Minister Antonis Roupakiotis
refused to offer assurances pensions will be paid in August,
 Athens  News Agency reported the same day.  “There’s no time to lose or leeway for small party
games,” Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, said in
Athens yesterday after placing first in a rerun vote that leaves
him needing the support of third-place Pasok party to rule.
“The country must be governed.”  The political limbo of a two-month campaign season threaten
to cut off the quarterly disbursement of euro-area and
International Monetary Fund loans that have kept the country
afloat since 2010. Greece, in its fifth year of recession, would
face having to abandon the 17-nation euro and reintroduce the
drachma were the flow of rescue funds to stop.  Political leaders in  Europe  insist Greece enact spending
cuts promised in return for 240 billion euros ($305 billion) in
rescue packages since 2010 while holding out the possibility of
granting extra time to meet targets for narrowing the budget
deficit.  ‘Stand by Greece’  “We will continue to stand by Greece,” European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement following the
vote. The Group of Seven industrialized nations said in a
statement that it’s in “all our interests for Greece to remain
in the euro area while respecting its commitments.”  After an inconclusive May 6 election that led to the June
17 rerun, European and IMF budget experts canceled a mission to
review Greece’s eligibility for the next aid installment and now
intend to carry out the assessment around the end of June. That
plan assumes a new Greek government is in place by then.  “There’s not even a day to lose,” said  Evangelos Venizelos , leader of the Socialist Pasok party.  The euro erased an advance of as much as 0.9 percent and
was trading at $1.2648 at 10:30 a.m. in  London . The Euro Stoxx
50 fell 0.1 percent and Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed to a
euro-era high.  Coalition Majority  New Democracy  won 129 seats in the 300-seat parliament,
according to Interior Ministry projections with 99 percent of
the vote counted. Pasok, which has alternated in power with New
Democracy over the past four decades, won 33 seats, enough for
the two of them to forge a coalition that backs the creditors’
austerity demands.  Syriza matched its second-place ranking of last month by
stepping up demands to abandon the fiscal-tightening program.  Alexis Tsipras, the head of eight-year-old Syriza, had
vowed to keep Greece in the euro while winning concessions on
the rescue terms from European leaders including German
Chancellor Angela Merkel. He said New Democracy and Pasok, which
united last year to back further fiscal tightening by a
caretaker government, had “lowered the Greek flag and
surrendered it to  Angela Merkel .”  Syriza Opposition  Tsipras signaled yesterday that Syriza won’t join a
government with New Democracy and Pasok, saying his faction
“will be present in all developments as the main voice of the
anti-bailout vote in Greece.”  Euro-area finance ministers said Greece’s economic recovery
requires “continued fiscal and structural reforms.” In a
statement yesterday, the European ministers urged the “swift
formation of a new Greek government that will take ownership of
the adjustment program.”  Greece must pursue budget cuts with “determination” to
win the release of further aid, the European Commission said on
May 30. The country faces a cumulative fiscal gap in 2013-2014
of 5.5 percent of gross domestic product, according to the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm.  A lack of progress in bolstering tax collection, improving
public procurement and selling state-owned assets has left
Greece struggling to meet targets for narrowing a budget deficit
that in 2009 was more than five times the EU limit.  Rescuer Demands  European and IMF demands for an economic overhaul underpin
an initial 110 billion-euro rescue in May 2010 and a second 130
billion-euro loan package that, along with the world’s biggest
writedown of privately held debt, followed this year. The latest
package is due to last through 2014.  The Greek budget-policy shortcomings have increased
skepticism in euro nations such as  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  about offering aid, while the worst recession in Greece
during peacetime has made domestic voters critical of the
fiscal-austerity demands. Syriza’s electoral success last month
sparked concerns across Europe about a possible Greek exit from
the euro area.  Greek deposit outflows accelerated before the June 17
election, two bankers familiar with the situation said, on
concern the nation may move closer to abandoning the euro. Daily
withdrawals had increased to as much as 500 million euros this
month, one banker said, asking not to be identified because the
figures aren’t public.  Budget Deficit  Greece narrowed its deficit from more than 15 percent of
GDP in 2009 to 9.1 percent in 2011. The country’s spending gap
is due to fall to around 7 percent of GDP this year.  With Greece’s financial troubles still festering more than
two years after sparking Europe’s debt crisis, Italy at risk of
joining the Greek, Irish, Portuguese and Spanish governments in
seeking emergency aid and European leaders split over deeper
fiscal integration, the onus to calm any renewed volatility on
financial markets may fall on central banks.  Central banks “are the only actors who can react
swiftly,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in
London, said in a June 17 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Athens at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  