-- Iran Nuclear Offer Isn’t Enough to Delay EU Oil Embargo
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-18T15:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/iran-atomic-deal-prospects-dim-as-elections-embargo-loom.html
Iran ’s signal of willingness to
compromise over the most contentious part of its nuclear program
failed to convince the European Union to reconsider a pending
embargo on oil shipments from the Persian Gulf country.  Diplomats adjourned in Moscow after five hours of meetings
and will reconvene talks tomorrow over Iran’s atomic work that
officials say probably won’t yield enough progress to end the
threat of military strikes. Chinese, French, German, Russian,
British and U.S. negotiators met with their Iranian counterparts
behind tight security at a hotel near Russia’s Foreign Ministry.  “All the sanctions that are supposed to come into force on
July 1 will come into force on July 1,” EU foreign-policy
spokesman  Michael Mann  said in an interview today in the Russian
capital. “We’ve taken a political decision that this is an
important measure to put pressure on the Iranian regime.”  The so-called P5+1 group wants Iran to suspend production
of uranium enriched to 20 percent, while the Islamic republic is
pressing for relief from sanctions set to tighten when the EU
oil embargo kicks in. European insurers and shipping companies
carrying Iranian crude to other parts of the world will be
affected by the embargo and shouldn’t expect relief, Mann said.  Today’s talks were “constructive and serious,’’ Iran’s
deputy negotiator, Ali Bagheri, told reporters after the
meeting ended. Mann said that while the negotiations were
“very intense, tough,” they had been more substantive than
those in Baghdad last month.  Iranian Offer  “On a voluntary basis we are now willing to take a
positive step, if the other side also takes steps,” Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  told  Germany ’s Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung in an interview published on June 16. While
emphasizing that Iran has the right to enrich 20 percent
uranium, Ahmadinejad said his government was open to importing
the fuel for its research reactor.  Oil dropped from the highest level in a week. Crude for
July delivery fell as much as $1.38 to $82.65 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was
at $83.01 at 3:45 p.m. London time. The odds that Israel or the
U.S. will carry out an overt air strike against Iran by the end
of the year declined to 24 percent on June 15 from 28 percent
the week before, according to bets made on Intrade.com.  Iran is the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Nations and about 20 percent of the world’s
traded oil passes through the  Strait of Hormuz , the waterway
separating Iran and Oman, the U.S. Energy Department says.  Slim Chances  “Chances are not good for success,” Thomas Pickering, a
former U.S. ambassador to Russia and the  United Nations , said
today in an e-mailed reply to questions. “It appears that Iran
wants some progress, but so distrusts the U.S. that they are
asking for more than they can get.”  Following April talks in Istanbul and negotiations last
month in Baghdad, the round that began today takes place in one
of the last remaining capitals that has shown support for Iran’s
atomic work. Russia, which backs the UN inquiry into Iran’s
nuclear activities, built the country’s only functioning atomic
reactor in Bushehr and has criticized unilateral sanctions
against the Persian Gulf nation.  Iran today outlined its legal case for enriching uranium to
20 percent, according to a member of the country’s delegation
who asked not to be identified because of the talks’
sensitivity. Refusal by the P5+1 to recognize Iran’s right to
enrich uranium would cause the negotiations to fail, the Iranian
delegate said after Mann said the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty makes no explicit enrichment guarantees to states.  Time Needed  The UN International Atomic Energy Agency said on May 25
that Iran increased its stockpile of higher-enriched uranium by
a third. The heavy metal purified to 20 percent can make medical
isotopes. Only a small technical step is required to enrich
uranium to the weapons-grade 90 percent level.  “The talks are so difficult that two days won’t be enough
for us,”  Russia ’s top negotiator, Sergei Ryabkov, told
reporters after the meeting ended, adding that he wants another
round of talks to be scheduled. “The difficulty here is not
only quite a distance between the positions of the parties, but
also the sequencing of the effort: what comes first, what comes
next, what reciprocity means. It’s very complex.”  Presidential Elections  Iran is facing growing pressure from economic sanctions as
well as from statements by Israeli leaders that their patience
for diplomacy is limited. Major world powers will impose “a
certain time limit” on efforts to reach a negotiated settlement
with the Islamic republic over its nuclear program, a European
diplomat said on June 13 on condition of anonymity.  This year’s presidential election in the U.S., along with
the 2013 vote for a new Iranian president, complicate the
diplomacy, according to  Nikolay Kozhanov , Russia’s former
attache to Iran who now teaches at St. Petersburg State
University.  Both U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Ahmadinejad “have
very limited room to maneuver,” he wrote in a June 14 analysis
for the  Washington  Institute. “Any action on the nuclear front
could potentially improve their opponents’ chance. Both sides
will probably try to secure a status quo in the nuclear issue
until 2013.”  One compromise within reach would be for Iran to pledge
conversion of its entire uranium stockpile into reactor fuel
pellets, according to the Arms Control Association and
 International Crisis Group . Converting the metal would make it
more difficult for the country to assemble a bomb if it ever
decided to do so. Iran has already converted 33 percent of its
20 percent-enriched uranium into reactor fuel plates, according
to the IAEA.  Concrete Steps  Iran must be prepared to take concrete steps to respond to
the P5+1 proposal made in  Baghdad  concerning its enrichment and
stockpiling of 20 percent-enriched uranium, a Western official
said yesterday in Moscow.  The international community is willing to take reciprocal
steps in exchange for verifiable Iranian actions to address
these concerns, said the official, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are confidential. The Islamic
republic will face intensified pressure and isolation if it
refuses to compromise, the official said.  “It is difficult to see any significant room for
agreement,”  Paul Ingram , executive director of the British
American Security Information Council, a London-based policy-
advisory group, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “There
are good solutions out there for win-win agreements; it’s just
that the politics in Washington are not conducive to any form of
compromise.”  It’s no secret that “hardliners in Washington and  Tel Aviv 
are waiting for the talks to fail to justify further sanctions,
or even military action,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  