-- Third Fed Stimulus Won’t Be Better Than QE2, Romney Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-06-17T19:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/third-fed-stimulus-won-t-be-better-than-qe2-romney-says.html
Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
said the  Federal Reserve ’s attempts at stimulating the U.S.
economy “did not have the desired effect” and a new round of
quantitative easing by the central bank wouldn’t fare better.  The second round of quantitative easing, a series of bond
purchases referred to as QE2, “was not extraordinarily harmful,
but it does put in question the future value of the dollar and
it will obviously encourage some inflation,” Romney said in an
interview that aired today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“A QE3 would do the same thing.”  With the CBS interview taped yesterday, the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee spent Father’s Day campaigning
in Ohio with his wife, two sons and several grandchildren, on
the third day of a six-state bus tour.  “We need someone who puts jobs No. 1, not Obamacare No.
1,” Romney told a rally in Newark, Ohio. President  Barack Obama 
has “tried to convince us that he’s made things better but he
hasn’t made things better,” Romney said. “He’s failed. He
deserves to go home and give someone new a chance.”  Protesters followed Romney, casting him as out of touch
with the middle class. In Newark, they chanted, “job killer”
and “go home, Romney,” trying to drown out the candidate and
his surrogates. A plane flew over the rally trailing a banner
that said, “Mitt -- Can see 3 of your houses from here.”  Loud Protesters  Romney ignored them, although at one point, sounding
flustered, he said, “I’m confused,” rather than “I’m
convinced” about the country’s future, then laughed it off,
correcting himself. “We can be just as loud about how we love
this country,” his wife, Ann, told protesters.  This is Romney’s first barnstorming tour in a general
election that will pit him against Obama, a Democrat, in
November.  Obama spent the morning playing golf in his hometown of
 Chicago  before departing for a Group of 20 summit in Los Cabos,
 Mexico .  Romney mixed a Father’s Day message about devotion to his
family with a message that he will do more than Obama to create
jobs and repair the economy.  At an outdoor pancake breakfast in Brunswick,  Ohio , Romney
thanked hundreds of drenched supporters who waited through
thunderstorms to hear him speak.  “This is courage,” Romney said, noting “you guys out
here wearing garbage bags” and telling the crowd they were
“fabulous” for sticking it out.  A Metaphor  When the sun broke through, Romney said it was a
“metaphor” for how the nation can improve if he defeats Obama
in November. With his family in tow, Romney later served
breakfast to those who lined up.  On CBS, Romney said the U.S. isn’t going to support
European banks if the financial crisis there worsens.  The international economy is at its weakest since the 2009
recession and a failure by European leaders to manage the crisis
would add to risks of a bigger slowdown in the  U.S. economy .  Europe  “is capable of dealing with their banking crisis if
they choose to do so,” with a response heavily dependent on
 Germany , Romney said. The U.S. is “not going to send checks to
Europe. We’re not going to bail out the European banks. We’re
going to be poised here to support our economy.”  He declined to say what he would do if elected president
about the policy Obama announced June 15 to end deportation of
800,000 illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children.  Long-Term Solution  “I would work with Congress to put in place a long-term
solution,” Romney told CBS. He wouldn’t say whether he would
keep the policy in place until Congress reached an agreement.  “We’ll look at that setting as we reach that,” Romney
said. Romney said Obama’s immigration decision was driven by
politics and “if he really wanted to make a solution that dealt
with these kids or with illegal immigration in America, then
this is something he would have taken up in his first three and
a half years, not in his last few months.”  White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said today that
congressional action on immigration overhaul is still needed.
Obama is ready to sign into law the Dream Act which is designed
to provide a path to legal status for younger undocumented
immigrants. That legislation has been stalled in Congress.  Latino Appeal  Plouffe, who appeared on four Sunday television talk shows,
repeated the Obama campaign message that congressional
Republicans are stalling on the economy to boost Romney’s
election chances.  “Whether it’s failing to move forward on the Dream Act,
failing to move forward on putting teachers back to work,
failing to do all the things we could do right now to help the
economy and middle class, this Congress is just saying no,”
Plouffe said on ABC’s “This Week” program.  Obama’s policy would make illegal immigrants brought to the
U.S. as children eligible for work permits, an election-year
action with appeal to Latino voters. Plouffe said the
president’s  immigration  decision wasn’t politically motivated
and didn’t expand his executive powers.  The policy is “fully within our ability,” Plouffe said on
CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program today. “This is not
amnesty, this is not citizenship.”  The deportation rule is a decision made by the Department
of  Homeland Security  that will enforce the policy, according to
Plouffe.  Permanent Fix  “The Homeland Security attorneys are absolutely confident
this is within our authority,” Plouffe said on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “We still need a permanent fix.”  Obama will have “to fight for every vote,” in his re-
election campaign against Romney, Plouffe said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program today.  The CBS interview with Romney, taped while he was
campaigning in  Pennsylvania , is the candidate’s first national
Sunday morning news show interview this election on a network
other than Fox.  Sidestepping campaign talk briefly, Romney also told CBS
his wife Ann is “quite thrilled” to have a horse she co-owns
competing in the London Olympics in the sport of dressage,
exhibition riding in which a horse is controlled in difficult
steps by slight movements of the rider. Romney said his wife
“has a passion” for the sport and that horseback riding has
helped her regain strength after being diagnosed with multiple
sclerosis.  ‘Road to Europe’  In Ohio, Romney said that Obama “wants you to think that
somehow he’s made things better” on the economy, while the
administration’s policies were making conditions worse for
businesses and would take the U.S. down “the road to Europe.”  “Do you know how many people are unemployed in  Spain  -- 25
percent,” Romney said. He said Obama policies stifled domestic
energy production and that Obama’s health care overhaul, now
under review by the  Supreme Court , is hurting businesses and
pledged, “We’re going to get rid of it.”  Debbie Collier, 46, a registered nurse in the crowd, said
of Romney, “I like that he’s a family man. I like that he has a
strong business background.” She said Romney’s chances in Ohio
may be helped by perceptions the health overhaul is a strain on
businesses. Collier also said Ohio’s unemployment statistics
don’t tell the full story because “people who’ve been
unemployed for several years have just stopped looking or taken
jobs that pay significantly lower.”  Creating Jobs  Bernard Rogers, 69, of Parma, a retiree, said he’s looking
for part-time work and has more confidence in Romney than in
Obama to create a climate conducive to  job creation .  Rogers said he worries about one issue with Romney --
whether he’ll reduce his Medicare coverage to cut  government
spending . Rogers said he has asthma and had been hospitalized
earlier this week. “I can’t afford” to pay for treatment that
isn’t covered, Rogers said. “People rely on that.”  The Romney campaign released a Father’s Day Web video in
which Romney’s sons tell stories of their childhood, describing
their father doing yard work with them on weekends and playing
pranks.  Matt Romney recalled his father asking him to “smell how
awful” some butter smelled that had supposedly gone bad. “And
you’d go in and smell it and he’d put your nose in it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Newark , Ohio at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  