-- Israel Stocks Rise Most in Three Months on Europe as Saudi Gains
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-17T13:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/israel-stocks-rise-most-in-a-week-on-europe-as-saudi-advances.html
Israel  shares rose the most in more
than three months on speculation central banks will take steps
to bolster global growth as investors await the result of Greek
elections. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index also gained.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  advanced to a record following a rally in its
U.S. shares on bets a drop in imports and slowing job growth in
the U.S. will push consumers to save money and buy the generic
drugmaker’s products.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an Israeli
developer of technology used to transfer and store data, jumped
5.7 percent. The  TA-25 (TA-25)  climbed 2 percent, the most since March
14, to 1,070.65, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. In the
 Persian Gulf , Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced
0.4 percent after retreating 0.3 percent yesterday.  “There is optimism in the market,” said Daniel Rapoport,
head of equity and derivatives at  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd.
“The Greeks are going to vote. This is lowering uncertainty
about foreign markets and this is good for Tel Aviv.”  Europe accounts for 36 percent of all Israeli goods sent
abroad excluding diamonds. The nation gets about 40 percent of
its gross domestic product from exports. The Greek vote today
may determine whether the country remains in the euro bloc.
Policy makers from the U.K. to Japan and Canada have stepped up
warnings of the threat to financial markets should Europe fail
to contain its debt crisis.  Israel Highs  Perrigo rallied 3.2 percent to 433.3 shekels, the highest
since March 2005 when Bloomberg started tracking the shares. The
largest U.S. generic over-the-counter drugmaker jumped 1.1
percent to $111.62, or the equivalent of 430.15 shekels,  in New
York  on June 15, the highest level since the company’s initial
public offering in December 1991.  Mellanox closed at the highest since July 2007 when the
company’s shares were listed, rising to 261.3 shekels and
closing the gap with  U.S.-traded shares . The New York-traded
stock advanced to $66.73, or 257.16 shekels, on June 15, also a
record.  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 5.5 percent notes due
January 2022 declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 4.35 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.9 percent last week
after the  Bank of England  announced credit-easing measures and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its first back-to-back
weekly gain since April, rising 1.3 percent in the five days
through June 15. The  Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting
June 19.  Crown Prince  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index gained to 6,754.23
in Riyadh after tumbling to as low as 6,565.82 yesterday.  Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, who led Saudi
Arabia’s terrorism fight while in his dual role as interior
minister, died. Nayef had been Saudi Arabia’s most powerful
prince amid the turmoil that has rocked the region. He was the
second crown prince to die in less than a year, renewing
questions about succession as the Saudi leadership ages.  Bahrain’s index rose 0.1 percent, while Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  was
little changed. Markets in the United Arab Emirates, Oman and
Kuwait were closed for an Islamic holiday.  In North Africa, Egypt’s market was closed for the second
day of presidential elections. Egyptians today conclude the
final round of presidential voting, choosing between Ahmed Shafik, Mubarak’s last premier, and Mohamed Mursi, who heads the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party.  The relationship between Israel and Egypt has frayed since
Mubarak, who maintained the peace agreement between the
countries for three decades, was forced out by street protests
in February last year. His successor will decide whether that
changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  