-- Jindal Power to Invest $7.7 Billion in Hydro: Corporate India
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2012-06-18T04:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/jindal-power-to-invest-7-7-billion-in-hydro-corporate-india.html
Jindal Power Ltd., a unit of  India ’s
biggest steelmaker by market value, plans to spend $7.7 billion
on hydroelectric projects over the next decade as a coal
shortage forces utilities to cut dependence on fossil fuels.  The generator, which shelved a share sale plan announced in
2009, will invest 427 billion rupees in the northeastern state
of Arunachal Pradesh to install 6,100 megawatts of capacity,
Jayant Shrinivas Kawale, managing director for hydro and
renewables, said in an interview in New Delhi. The company
expects to get government approvals for its first water-based
electricity project by the end of the year, he said.  “These projects will strengthen our portfolio,” Kawale
said. “The biggest positive for us will be that for the next 45
years, we will have plants that run steady without troubles
coal-fired ones face.” The company’s first unit may start
producing power in seven years, he said.  Jindal,  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  and  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) 
are expanding into hydro projects as a hedge against inadequate
fuel supplies in the nation where 56 percent of the power is
generated using coal. Apart from the unit of  Jindal Steel &
Power Ltd. (JSP) , at least five companies have announced capacities
worth $16 billion of investments to take advantage of incentives
offered by federal and state governments for the clean energy.  Power Outages  A shortage of the fuel used in thermal plants is
threatening to worsen blackouts in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy,
where power is vital for reviving growth from the slowest pace
in almost a decade. About one in four Indians lives without
electricity, according to the UN.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the nation’s
biggest generator, last week said it scaled back plans to add
coal-fired capacity by 42 percent for the five years ending 2017.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is offering concessions to
promote cleaner alternatives to counter concerns from
environmentalists even as his efforts in February to boost coal
supplies to utilities fail. The government allows hydro
operators to sell 40 percent of their output at market rates,
unconstrained by state-administered price controls faced by
thermal plants.  Fossil fuels are blamed for global warming as a  United
Nations Environment Program  report on June 6 said current trends
in carbon output show the Earth may warm by at least 3 degrees
Celsius by 2100 from pre-industrial levels.  Hydro projects account for about 20 percent of generation
capacity, according to data provided by the Central Electricity
Authority. The rest is from gas, wind and solar sources.  Worst Performer  Parent Jindal Steel & Power rose as much as 1.4 percent to
443.65 rupees and traded at 441.9 rupees as of 9:34 a.m. in
Mumbai. The stock has  slid  31 percent from this year’s high,
making it the worst performer in the 11-member  BSE Metal Index. (BSEMETL) 
The company is rated a “buy” by 25 of the 36 analysts who
track it, while four  recommend  a “sell,” according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jindal Power’s plans to expand into hydro may distract its
focus away from its core thermal business as the investments
take a long time to yield results, said Niraj Shah, an analyst
at Mumbai-based Fortune Equity Brokers (India) Ltd.  “Their core strength is thermal and they shouldn’t be and
can’t be spending on hydro power,” said Shah, who has a buy
rating on the parent. “They should be spending money to
complete thermal projects where work is already going on.”  Jindal Power operates a 1,000-megawatt power plant in the
central state of Chhattisgarh, and it plans to raise total
capacity more than 11-fold to 11,480 megawatts in eight years,
according to the company’s website. The New Delhi-based company
plans 6,100 megawatts of capacity in hydro, with each megawatt
costing 70 million rupees, Kawale said, while a coal-fired
capacity costs 50 million rupees typically.  Coal Mines  The government is pushing for about 9,204 megawatts of
hydro capacity addition in the five years to 2017, or a 24
percent increase, according to a new policy draft on the website
of the Central Electricity Authority.  Chairman Naveen Jindal, who is also a lawmaker belonging to
the ruling Congress party, has acquired coal mines abroad to
feed his thermal and steel plants as the government estimates
the fuel shortfall to widen 40 percent to 192 million tons in
the year ending March 31.  Jindal owns three fields in  Mozambique ,  Indonesia  and  South
Africa  with combined reserves of 1.5 billion tons. Profit at the
parent company rose 5.6 percent to a record 39.65 billion rupees
in the 12 months through March. Earnings have lagged behind
analyst estimates in each of the past three years.  Low Costs  Jindal Power has yet to decide on the time for its initial
public offering, Deputy Managing Director Sushil Maroo said last
year, without elaborating. The company planned to raise 72
billion rupees when it announced the proposal on Dec. 29, 2009.
Jindal Steel’s shares have since slipped 4 percent.  “There’s incentive now to push for these hydro projects as
access to coal is becoming a bigger problem,” said Vijaykumar Bupathy, an analyst at Spark Capital Advisors in the southern
city of  Chennai . “The running costs are very low compared to
thermal plants after considering the risks and delays involved
in building the plants” that include flash floods and
rehabilitation of people.  Heavy rains, delays with land acquisitions and
environmental approvals have crimped coal output in India, with
the hurdles exacerbated by inadequate transportation networks.
Coal India Ltd., a state-owned company that accounts for about
80 percent of the national output, has failed to sign supply
contracts, saying it could meet only 50 percent of the demand
even after Singh ordered penalties in February.  Singh is planning to spend $400 billion in the five years
ending March 31, 2017 to add 76 gigawatts of generation capacity
to spur growth as government data last month showed gross
domestic product expanded 5.3 percent in the quarter through
March, the least since 2003.  The hydropower business “is relatively risk free,” said
Kawale. “It also makes sense because our carbon footprint is so
much smaller.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  