-- The Obama Campaign Needs an Intervention
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-06-17T15:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/obama-campaign-s-friends-should-organize-an-intervention.html
During a focus group in Denver last
week, Jeffrey Penny laid out his “criteria” for giving
President  Barack Obama  his vote this year as he did in 2008.  “I just want to see specifics and quit the trash talk,”
the 31-year-old web designer and construction worker says in the
session conducted by the pollster Peter Hart for the Annenberg
Public Policy Center of the  University of Pennsylvania . “Just
get down to business and figure this thing out.”  Obama probably hoped Penny and his fellow voters in the
crucial swing state of  Colorado  were listening on June 14, when
the president gave a major economic speech in  Cleveland . For
Democrats, June has been the cruelest month; there has been
discouraging economic news; the re-election candidate has made
mistakes and seems out of his comfort zone. The supposedly
superior Obama campaign looks amateurish, and complaints about
the operation’s insularity have reached a fever pitch.  Private conversations with a half-dozen of the smartest
Democratic political thinkers -- all of whom have played at the
highest levels of national campaigns, are genuine Obama backers,
and almost never are consulted by the campaign -- reveal a
consensus of advice for the president: Stop trying to tell
voters they’re doing better, offer an optimistic sense of how,
if re-elected, you would lead America to more prosperous times,
and challenge Republicans with specifics.  Baseline Predicate  Establishing that predicate will lend credibility to
legitimate assaults on the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee,  Mitt Romney , for his policies, past and political
persona. All the Democratic sages essentially agree with Hart’s
conclusions last week.  “The challenge for the president is not the current
conditions, but the huge expectations he set that have not been
met,” said  Hart , a leading Democratic pollster. “There is no
road map, no program, no conviction of where the president wants
to lead the country.”  Too often, it’s felt that Obama is playing political small
ball or tactical games. Party critics note the fumbled response
to the president’s much-criticized statement earlier this month
that the “private sector is doing fine.”  When the president assembled the press, he really had
nothing much to say about the European crisis or the domestic
economy, so the slip dominated the story. After he later
backtracked, the White House and campaign prolonged the story by
insisting those remarks were being taken out of context by
Romney and the press.  Not so. Go  to the White House website  and check the June 8
transcript.  All politicians make misstatements. And there was a
plausible follow: corporate profits are soaring, the largest
companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 100 Index (SPXL1)  have increased
earnings for 11 consecutive quarters and are now more profitable
than ever, while demand for U.S. government securities reached a
record last year. Corporate chief executive officers are as well
compensated as ever, and the most recent figures show that the
inflation-adjusted incomes of the 1 percent of wealthiest
Americans rose by an average of $105,637 in one year.  The problem, the president could have declared, while
citing these numbers, is that the middle class and small
business have been left behind. Saying so would have afforded an
opportunity for Obama to contrast his views on what to do with
Romney’s emphasis on the more affluent.  This is what the president laid out in his Cleveland
economic address last week. He framed the case and choices
better than usual (in an otherwise overlong speech). Maybe it’s
a start.  Effective Surrogates  Another complaint is that the president has few effective
surrogates on the economy. The best are Vice President  Joe Biden 
and former President  Bill Clinton , though the latter has created
problems in the process.  Most of the outside Democrats consulted had few issues with
the attacks on Romney, as long as that’s not the dominant
message. One operative likens these to body punches a boxer
throws in the early rounds, softening up his opponent for the
knockout.  Romney, they say, has made his private-equity experience
his centerpiece credential, and he has exposed vulnerabilities
going back to his first campaign -- an unsuccessful 1994 Senate
race in  Massachusetts  against  Ted Kennedy . Some early soundings
suggest voters see him as rich and out of touch. Another series
of focus groups done by Democrats  James Carville , Stan Greenberg
and  Erica Seifert  reached conclusions similar to Hart’s on the
pressing need for an Obama message on the economy.  One of those focus groups, in  Bala Cynwyd ,  Pennsylvania ,
concluded that Romney’s personal liabilities were more
pronounced.  “They do not trust him because of who he is for and
because he’s out of touch with ordinary people; he is vulnerable
on the Ryan budget and its impact on people; he is vulnerable on
the choices over taxes,” these Democrats wrote, referring to
the spending blueprint drafted by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  that Romney has praised.  The central challenge, the other Democratic consultants
say, is a compelling narrative from the president and campaign,
which they describe as unusually insular and arrogant.  The campaign has an almost mystical confidence in
sophisticated technology and in its organization, assets that
only matter in a razor-tight race. Further, these other
strategists say, the Obama camp is no more justified in its
belief that this campaign is like a rerun -- with the uniforms
changed -- of 2004, when a shakily popular Republican president
won re-election, than it would be to believe that 2012 is a
reprise of 1980, when an incumbent president was thrown out for
non-performance.  Any outreach by Obama’s Chicago acolytes to hear out these
arguments is limited and superficial.  A longtime Democratic strategist predicts defeat unless
there is some boldness. He offers an idea: Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , as popular as any American figure, has said she
plans to resign after the election. Obama should persuade her to
leave her post a month or so early and campaign for him. She
might add some electricity and she wouldn’t be likely to commit
the same occasional discipline lapses as her husband.  The secretary probably would reject such a suggestion, and
team Obama wouldn’t ask. They don’t believe they need help. More
than a few Democrats disagree.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 