-- Obama Family Takes Two-Day Chicago Break for Wedding
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-17T00:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/obama-family-takes-two-day-chicago-break-for-wedding.html
President  Barack Obama  and his
family were taking a two-day break in their hometown of  Chicago 
this weekend, attending a wedding, visiting friends and
remaining out of the public spotlight.  Small American flags planted by neighbors lined the curbs
of South Greenwood Avenue as the Obamas arrived home on
Chicago’s South Side yesterday. There were no public events on
the president’s schedule, as the family sought a two-day retreat
during the Father’s Day weekend.  The president and first lady  Michelle Obama , joined by
daughters Malia, 13, and Sasha, 11, attended the wedding tonight
of Laura Jarrett, daughter of Obama’s senior presidential
adviser  Valerie Jarrett , to Harvard Law School graduate Tony
Balkissoon, the  Chicago Tribune  reported.  Obama, wearing a tan suit, was joined by Michelle in a
white skirt and dark top. Sasha wore a green dress and Malia a
yellow dress. The first couple walked from their house to
Jarrett’s nearby home in the Kenwood neighborhood, inside a
Secret Service security perimeter.  Reporters were kept a block away, straining for any
glimpse. Guests entering the cordoned off area were subject to
searches by the Secret Service. Car trunks and hoods were opened
for inspection.  Famous Guests  Attorney General Eric Holder was spotted entering, along
with Vernon Jordan, senior managing director at Lazard Freres &
Co.  The White House issued a one-sentence statement: “Tonight
the First Family is attending the wedding of Laura Jarrett.”
Aides offered no other details, calling it a private event.  It’s not unusual for presidents to attend weddings
involving their staff, a situation where the guests are more
famous than the bride and groom. President  George W. Bush  and
first lady  Laura Bush  attended the wedding of Brett Kavanaugh
and Ashley Estes, Bush’s former personal secretary, in
Washington’s Georgetown neighborhood in 2004.  Yesterday, as darkness fell, the president took an
impromptu walk to visit a neighborhood friend, Martin Nesbitt, a
Chicago businessman and treasurer of Obama’s 2008 presidential
campaign. The president returned home about 1:20 a.m. today
Chicago time, aides said.  The president is scheduled to leave Chicago late tomorrow
for a two-day G-20 Summit of industrialized and emerging nations
in Los Cabos, Mexico. Europe’s financial crisis and violence in
Syria will dominate the discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Chicago at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  