-- Crude Futures Decline in New York on Record Spanish Bond
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-18T12:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/oil-rises-most-in-a-week-in-new-york-on-greek-election-optimism.html
Oil dropped in  New York  as rising
Spanish borrowing costs pushed the dollar higher, adding to
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb crude demand.  Futures fell as much as 1.5 percent in New York after the
Spanish 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record of 7.14
percent.  Greece ’s New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough
seats to form a majority in the 300-member parliament, according
to an official projection. Money managers cut bullish oil wagers
for a sixth week, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitment of Traders Report.  “Investors should remain cautious until Greece forms a
government that could stabilize the markets for the short-medium
term,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd. in
 London , said by e-mail.  Oil for July delivery fell as much as $1.38 cents to $82.65
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $82.84 at 1:35 p.m. London time.  Brent crude for August settlement dropped $1.40 cents to
$96.21 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The front-month European benchmark contract was at a $13.15
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate, down from $13.28 on June 15.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, rose as much as 0.3 percent. A
strengthening dollar pushes up the cost of commodities priced in
the U.S. currency.  Oil in New York has technical support along its 200-week
moving average, around $80.65 a barrel today. Futures halted
last week’s decline near that indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered close to chart-support levels.  Saudi Successor  “The victory of the austerity program’s supporters in the
Greek parliamentary elections has lent a modicum of buoyancy to
crude  oil prices ,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a note. “That said,
some of these gains have already been shed again, underlining
the continuing skepticism among market players.”  The death of Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud in
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, raised the
issue of succession for the second time in less than a year.
Nayef’s death leaves Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz as a leading
contender for the crown prince position, as the kingdom grapples
with high youth unemployment and security issues, including the
threat of al-Qaeda militants and historic political change in
the  Middle East .  The kingdom will ensure adequate supply in the global crude
market, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in a June 15 interview, a
day after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries kept
its output ceiling unchanged at 30 million barrels a day.  Iran Talks  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s largest oil producer, pumped 9.9
million barrels a day last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Output from  Iran , the second biggest, was 3.2 million
a day, the data show.  “Supplies remain abundant and we have yet to see any
evidence that OPEC is reducing supplies or the EU crude embargo
against Iran is significantly curbing shipments,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London said.  Diplomats began a two-day round of discussions in Moscow
about Iran’s atomic program that officials say probably won’t
yield enough progress to end the threat of military strikes
against the Islamic republic.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, British and U.S.
negotiators convened with their Iranian counterparts behind
tight security at a hotel near Russia’s Foreign Ministry. The
so-called P5+1 group will continue to seek Iranian acquiescence
to suspend production of uranium enriched to 20 percent while
Iran presses for relief from sanctions set to tighten from July
1, when a European Union oil embargo kicks in.  Fewer Bulls  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced bullish bets
on  Brent crude  by 9.9 percent, or 5,714 contracts, in the week
ended June 12 to the lowest in more than seven months, according
to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 52,037 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s the least since Oct. 25, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The same trend was evident in the U.S., where money
managers cut bullish wagers on crude for a sixth week ahead of
the Greek elections.  Net-long positions  fell by 2,541, or 1.9
percent, to 130,508 futures and options combined in the seven
days ended June 12, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitment of Traders Report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  