-- Hollande’s Socialists Seek Parliament Control in French Vote
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-06-17T15:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/hollande-s-socialists-seek-control-of-parliament-in-french-vote.html
President  Francois Hollande  is about
to learn just how much power he has as French people returned to
voting stations today for the second and final round of the
country’s legislative elections.  The vote will determine whether he has control of the lower
house of parliament to push through the tough decisions needed
as Europe’s debt crisis intensifies. The last polling station
closes at 8 p.m. local time tonight in France’s largest cities
including Paris and Lyon.  Voter turnout at 5 p.m. was 46.16 percent, compared with
49.58 percent at the previous election in 2007, according to 
 Interior Ministry  data. The turnout dropped more than two 
percentage points from last week’s first-round level.  While his Socialist Party is projected by pollsters to win
the largest number of seats in parliament, Hollande may also
have to rely on parties that are anti-European and more adamant
than he is about rejecting German-led austerity, which has been
a key piece of the plan for  Europe ’s crisis recovery.  “Should the Socialist Party have to depend on the anti-
capitalist, anti-globalization, anti-austerity Left Front, we
believe it would pull the new government further to the left and
open up wider divisions between Paris and Berlin over the
handling of the euro-zone crisis,” Alastair Newton, senior
analyst at Nomura International, wrote in a note to clients.  Greek Vote  The election coincides with a vote in Greece, where the
possible success of anti-austerity parties may set in motion
that country’s exit from the euro. Meanwhile, banking-industry
woes and recession concerns have sent borrowing costs soaring in
Spain and  Italy . In France, growth has stalled and joblessness
is the highest in 13 years.  With 289 seats required for a majority in the National
Assembly, the Socialists may win 280 to 310 seats, pollsters
TNS-Sofres forecast, based on the results of the June 10 first
round.  That may leave them needing to rely on the Greens or even
the communist-backed Left Front for a working majority. The
Greens may win 12 to 17 seats, and the Left Front 13 to 18, TNS
predicts. Former President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Union for a  Popular
Movement  and its allies may get 235 to 265 seats.  “The ecologists are pro-European and shouldn’t cause too
many problems for Hollande,” said Dominique Reynie, a senior
researcher at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies. “It will
get a bit more complicated if they have to rely on the Left
Front, who have deputies hostile to Europe.”  Socialist Control  Victory for Hollande’s party would give France’s Socialists
control of the presidency and the National Assembly for the
first time since 1993. The Socialists took control of the
Senate, the upper house of parliament, last year for the first
time in 50 years. On a local level, the Socialists and their
allies control 20 of mainland  France ’s 21 regions.  The National Assembly is divided into 577 constituencies.
In 36 of them, candidates were elected with more than 50 percent
of the vote in the first round. In the rest, run-offs are needed
for all contenders receiving more than 12.5 percent of
registered voters. After some candidates dropped out as part of
electoral agreements, there will be 34 constituencies with three
candidates running.  “In some form or another, there will be a majority in the
French parliament so that’s off my list of things to worry
about,” said Tina Fordham, senior global political analyst at
Citigroup Inc. “They will be able to push through
legislation.”  Left Front  While the Left Front has said it would support Hollande’s
government, the parties don’t agree on all issues. The Left
Front’s presidential candidate, Jean-Luc Melenchon, openly
supports  Greece ’s Syriza party, which wants to renegotiate
Greece’s European Union aid agreements. Hollande has said Greece
must abide by its rescue deals, even if he has also spoken about
the need for growth measures.  Melenchon himself won’t be in parliament. He was eliminated
in the first round in a failed attempt to challenge Marine Le Pen, head of the anti-immigrant National Front.  “Given Melenchon’s oratory skills, his presence in
parliament would have created all sorts of problems for Hollande
if he ever did have to impose austerity measures,” Reynie said.  Le Pen is facing a Socialist candidate in a northern
constituency as she seeks to become the first member of the
anti-euro National Front ever to hold a seat in parliament.  Segolene Royal  Another closely watched race is in the west of France where
Segolene Royal, the Socialist presidential candidate in 2007 and
the mother of Hollande’s four children, faces a local renegade
Socialist. The Socialist Party officially supports Royal.
Hollande’s current partner Valerie Trierweiler sent a post via
Twitter backing her opponent.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  took 41 percent in his
constituency in eastern France and is expected to win in the
run-off against candidates from the UMP and the National Front.
Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius were elected in the first round.  Turnout in the first round was 57.2 percent, less than the
61 percent in 2007, the  Interior Ministry  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  