-- HKEx Shares Tumble as LME Purchase May Clear Regulator
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-06-18T12:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/hong-kong-lme-bid-faces-regulator-as-32-billion-in-deals-killed.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd.’s bid for the London Metal Exchange, the most expensive
bourse merger over $1 billion, may succeed in gaining the
approval of regulators who’ve scuttled $32 billion of similar
cross-border deals.  Hong Kong Exchanges shares dropped 4.5 percent in Hong
Kong, taking declines to 26 percent since Feb. 18, when the
 South China Morning Post  first reported the bid. The  Bloomberg
World Exchanges Index (BNWEXCH)  has dropped 14 percent in that time. The
offer of 107.6 pounds a share, or 180 times LME’s 2011 net
income, requires approvals from LME’s shareholders and the U.K.
Financial Services Authority. It doesn’t need shareholder
consent in Hong Kong.  The offer price is “extremely expensive,” according to a
client note from Morgan Stanley written by  Anil Agarwal  and
Isabella He. The  London  bourse will remain under the watch of
the FSA, meaning the deal may avoid national interest and market
power concerns that prompted market regulators and politicians
to block other exchange mergers.  “There’s a much lower level of political concern about the
LME than there would be about the takeover of the London Stock
Exchange,” said Ruben Lee, chief executive officer of Oxford
Finance Group, a London company specializing in financial and
commodity markets. “U.K. regulators will maintain their control
over the operations of the exchange. There will be concern about
the fitness and the properness of any new owner, but I’m sure
that Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing are going to satisfy that.”  First Reaction  Hong Kong Exchanges had the biggest decline among the 49
companies in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  as investors had their first
chance to react to news of the bid today. Shares of
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., which lost out to Hong Kong in
the bidding for the LME, fell 0.2 percent in German trading
after jumping 4.3 percent on June 15.  The takeover would give Hong Kong control of a business
that sets global prices for base metals, while LME stands to
gain greater access to China, the biggest consumer of metals
including nickel, aluminum and copper.  The Chinese bourse was cut to underperform by analyst  Sam Hilton  at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and had its earnings estimate
reduced by Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Arjan van Veen. Both
analysts have a HK$100 target on the shares.  LME shareholders, led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and closely held Metdist Ltd., are expected to
vote on the offer by the end of July. If they approve it, the
transaction will be reviewed by the FSA. The regulator has three
months to consider a completed application from a buyer once
it’s received, according to  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman for the FSA
in London.  Prudent Management  The FSA’s sole concern is that Hong Kong Exchanges doesn’t
“pose a threat to the sound and prudent management” of the
markets operated by the LME, according to the regulator’s
 handbook . While there are no fixed criteria for the review, the
regulator will consider the financial soundness of the bidder
and the influence the new owner may exert, David Blair, head of
financial regulation at  Osborne Clarke , a  law firm , in London
said by e-mail June 15.  “The FSA will obviously want to understand the change of
ownership and more about the new owners of the exchange,” Niki Beattie, chief executive officer of Market Structure Partners
Ltd., a London-based consulting firm, and a former managing
director at Merrill Lynch & Co., said in a phone interview.
“If, as they say they will, HKEx continues to operate the same
model for the time being, there is unlikely to be further
scrutiny of the model.”  Deals Blocked  Singapore Exchange Ltd’s $8.3 billion bid for Sydney-based
ASX Ltd. was blocked in April 2011 by  Australia ’s government on
national interest grounds. The European Commission vetoed  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s $9.53 billion sale to  Deutsche Boerse  on Feb. 1,
saying the deal to create the world’s biggest bourse owner would
have led to a “near-monopoly” in European exchange-traded
derivatives.  “This is different from NYSE-Deutsche Boerse or ASX-SGX
mergers,” said  Diego Perfumo , an exchanges analyst at Equity
Research Desk in Greenwich,  Connecticut , who has been analyzing
exchanges for 12 years. “You have a global market of metals
that doesn’t affect directly the economy of the U.K. The FSA
will have the last word. That should give confidence to any
market participant that there won’t be manipulation.”  The  Office of Fair Trading  doesn’t have an open
investigation into the London Metal Exchange acquisition, said
Frank Shepherd, a spokesman in London.  Most Expensive  At 180 times trailing net income, Hong Kong Exchanges’ bid
is the most expensive of any bourse deal above $1 billion since
at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next
highest multiple was 66 times net income paid for CBOT Holdings
Inc. in 2007 by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  Chicago-based CME overtook Hong
Kong Exchanges as the world’s biggest exchange operator by
market value earlier this year.  LME’s fees have historically been kept low to benefit
members, according to Hong Kong Exchanges’ offer document. A fee
increase to take effect in July would have tripled profit had it
been in place during 2011, according to the document. Hong Kong
Exchanges said as part of the bid that it won’t increase fees
until at least January 2015.  The bid price is almost 22 times the 4.925 pounds that LME
stock last changed hands for in July last year, before the bid
process began.  “The major approval they need is from shareholders, that’s
the first hurdle they need to clear,” said Gurjit Kambo, a
London-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG, by phone June 15. “At
the moment as a shareholder you have much more control over what
the LME will charge you, and that could change. They will have
to make a tradeoff in terms of getting a cash injection versus
potentially losing out in terms of higher fees.”  China Companies  Hong Kong Exchanges doesn’t need shareholder approval for
the deal, Henry Law, the bourse’s head of corporate
communications said by phone. At 1.39 billion pounds ($2.17
billion), it’s worth less than 25 percent of the bourse’s $15.66
billion market value, meaning it’s merely a “disclosable”
transaction under the city’s  listing rules .  Hong Kong is the only place in  China  where investors can
freely buy and sell shares in Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the biggest lender by value, and PetroChina Co.,
 Asia ’s largest company. The deal would be Hong Kong Exchanges’
first overseas acquisition. The 135-year-old LME’s network of
warehouses doesn’t currently extend into China, the biggest
consumer of the metals it trades.  “Hong Kong is very much known for its link to China and
its initial public offerings in equities, so this is a very
smart way to diversify their revenues,” Simmy Grewal, London-
based senior analyst at Aite Group LLC, said in a phone
interview. “The fact that Hong Kong doesn’t have experience in
commodities is a plus. They’ll let the LME do the job since they
are the experts. That’s what’s needed for this deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  