-- Ping Seeks Gabon Lobby to Fight South Africa for AU Post
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/ping-seeks-gabon-lobby-to-fight-south-africa-for-au-post.html
African Union  Commission Chairman
 Jean Ping  enlisted Gabon’s President Ali-Ben Bongo Ondimba to
help spearhead his re-election campaign and fight South Africa
for control of the top decision-making body.  South Africa, which is lobbying African nations to back its
Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to replace Ping in
July, has “total disregard” for an unwritten agreement that
the AU’s five dominant members not hold the post, Ping said in
an interview on June 13 in Libreville, Gabon.  “The best scenario is that the president of Gabon Ali-Ben
Bongo Ondimba must personally, strongly and publicly spearhead
the chairperson’s campaign for re-election,” said Ping, a
former foreign minister from Gabon, who has been head of the AU
Commission since 2008. Libya,  Algeria , Nigeria,  South Africa  and
 Egypt  have traditionally been excluded from holding the post at
the 54-nation AU.  Neither Dlamini-Zuma, an ex-wife of South African President
 Jacob Zuma , or Ping secured enough votes to win an election on
Jan. 30. Zuma has been visiting leaders in Southern Africa since
then to rally support as South Africa, which has the continent’s
largest economy, pushes for a bigger role for the AU in global
politics.  A candidate from Southern Africa has never held the AU
Commission’s top post, prompting the 15-nation Southern African
Development Community to formally nominate Dlamini-Zuma to the
position. South Africa is the only African member of the Group
of 20 nations and is currently a non-permanent member of the
 United Nations  Security Council.  Sudan, Mali  Dlamini-Zuma’s candidacy is opposed by West African
nations, including  Nigeria , Africa’s most-populous nation. The
election is set to take place at a leaders’ summit in Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, from July 9 to 16.  Ping said the AU is working “diligently” to solve a
dispute between  Sudan  and South Sudan, which seceded from the
north in July, gaining about 75 percent of oil output from the
previously united country. The two nations have clashed over
border territories and failed to agree on fees that South Sudan
must pay for exporting oil through pipelines and processing
facilities in Sudan.  The AU is facilitating talks between the
two nations.  In Mali, where Touareg rebels declared an independent state
in the north of the country in April, the AU is calling for
military intervention if necessary to help the government quell
the uprising, Ping said.  The rebels took advantage of a lack of power in the
capital, Bamako, after a military coup on March 22 that ousted
President Amadou Toure. The U.S. and United Nations have warned
that the flow of weapons, cash and foreign fighters from  Libya 
since Muammar Qaddafi’s government was toppled last year may
fuel instability in the Sahel region.  “The African Union must resolve the Mali crisis and we
expressed support for all means necessary, including the use of
force, to restore the territorial integrity of Mali,” Ping
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  