-- Political Leaks Deserve a Political Investigation
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-17T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/political-leaks-deserve-a-political-investigation.html
Some leaks are purely political.
Some are more civic-minded. Others are criminal. Still others
are some combination of all three.  What prompts this taxonomy is the growing controversy over
the recent leaks of several national-security secrets. Neither
the Obama administration, as U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
has ordered, nor a special prosecutor, as two Republican
senators have predictably called for, is in a good position to
investigate these leaks. It is an inquiry best left to Congress.  First, some background. Although Holder was vague on
exactly what ground his probe would cover, three recent
disclosures in the news media are at the center of the
firestorm: there was the report that the U.S., along with
Israel, created the Stuxnet computer virus that wreaked havoc on
Iranian nuclear efforts; the revelation that the White House
maintains a “kill list” of targets in the drone war and that
Obama plays a hands-on role directing the enterprise; and, most
significant, the disclosure that a plot by al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula to bomb a U.S.-bound airliner was foiled
because intelligence officials had infiltrated the terrorist
group.  On the face of it, such leaks seem worthy of a special
investigation. The catch is that anyone paying attention pretty
much knows who was responsible: the administration itself --
which emerges from the revelations looking tough on terrorism.
Obama’s  outraged statement  that “the notion that my White House
would purposefully release classified national security
information is offensive” doesn’t pass the laugh test.  For example, a  New York  Times article on Stuxnet includes a
fly-on-the-wall account of a meeting in which Obama questions
whether the program should be shut down; it  cites as its source 
“members of the president’s national security team who were in
the room.” The Times’s David Sanger notes that his  scoops on
the drone war  were based on interviews with “three dozen” of
the president’s “current and former advisers.” In a new book,
 Newsweek ’s Daniel Klaidman quotes a senior Pentagon official as
saying that former White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  saw
political gain in  calling attention to the death  by drone of the
Pakistani terrorist Baitullah Mehsud.  Even the most potentially damaging leak -- that the
airliner plot had been infiltrated -- may have been caused at
least in part by administration efforts to shape news coverage.
Informed that the  Associated Press  was going run with a story
about the plot, White House counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan   held a conference call  with several former colleagues
from the security establishment who now consult for TV networks.
The attack never came close to fruition, he said, because the
U.S. “had insider information, insider control.” It wasn’t
much of a leap for those on the call to conclude (and report)
that the terrorist group had been infiltrated.  So, now that we know what happened, what do we do about it?
First: Let’s drop the feigned outrage.  Releasing sensitive and even classified material is an age-
old tradition in  Washington , and often serves a public good by
increasing transparency of government actions. Yes, leakers
(almost always) have ulterior motives; it’s up to experienced
reporters to put the information in context.  A new  Justice Department  inquiry or an independent counsel
would do little more than tie individual names to leaks that
were part of a coordinated group effort. This would be a
pointless exercise. In addition, the Justice Department, as part
of the administration, has an inherent conflict of interest.
Independent counsel inquiries tend to go off track, waste time
and money, become political footballs and rarely result in
convictions on major charges (think Whitewater and Valerie Plame).  Both types of probes would likely require subpoenaing
reporters and their notes, which raises legitimate First
Amendment questions and invariably involves lengthy legal
battles. Convictions have to clear a high bar -- proving that
the disclosure violated the  Espionage Act of 1917  and that the
leaker knew it would harm the U.S. or aid a foreign government -
- that they are difficult to obtain without further compromising
ongoing intelligence actions.  Congressional hearings are the only sensible way forward.
They would inevitably involve much partisan grandstanding.
Better to contain it to a congressional forum than let it spill
into a legal proceeding, and to save the investigations for
leaks intended to damage U.S. interests. Besides, in between the
posturing there’s always a chance a congressional inquiry could
find itself focused on the real issue: whether any of the wink-
and-a-nod leaks from the Obama administration made Americans
less safe.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 