-- Qantas Fire-Sale Discount Seen Inviting LBO After Plummet
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/qantas-fire-sale-discount-seen-inviting-lbo-after-plummet.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  is so beaten
down that acquirers can buy Australia’s biggest carrier for less
than its value in a fire sale.  Qantas, which fell to an  all-time low  this month after
forecasting its first annual loss in at least 17 years, traded
at a record 61 percent discount to its $5.6 billion in so-called
net tangible assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By
that measure, Qantas is undervalued by as much as $3 billion.  While fuel costs and intensifying competition doubled
losses on overseas routes and a law limits foreign ownership in
the carrier, Qantas is now cheap enough to lure bidders, said BT
Investment Management Ltd. Qantas, which hired  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG)  to fend off unwanted private-equity bids, has 65 percent of
the Australian market, where the Sydney-to- Melbourne  route is
busier than any in North America or  Europe . The domestic unit,
projecting a near-record  operating profit , alone could have a
higher value than Qantas commands, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “Qantas has a lot to offer, in particular the strength of
the corporate domestic market,” Cameron McDonald, a Melbourne-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone interview.
“There is appeal at these levels. They’ve got a range of things
that are world class.”  The airline won’t comment on speculation and hasn’t had a
“formal” approach from private-equity groups, Alan Joyce,
Qantas’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mail.  “Fair value for Qantas shares is a lot higher than it is
today,” the 45-year-old CEO wrote. “Our shareholders know we
are on the right path.”  Outback Mail  Qantas, which rose as much as  4.8 percent  today, ended 2.2
percent higher at A$1.18 a share in Sydney, its highest since
before the June 5 profit forecast.  Qantas has flown scheduled flights since 1922, when a
biplane began  delivering mail  between Cloncurry and Charleville,
outback towns in the state of Queensland that had a combined
 population  at the time of about 3,600.  The carrier, which has never suffered a fatal crash since
it began flying jet-powered aircraft in the early 1950s, was
controlled by  Australia ’s government from  1947  until its initial
public offering in 1995.  Qantas has tumbled  36 percent  in the past year as fuel
costs rose and airlines from the  Middle East  attracted more
customers on routes between  Asia  and Europe.  Exacerbated by Europe’s economic crisis, Qantas
International will probably have an operating loss of A$450
million ($450 million) in the year ending this month, the
airline said June 5, more than double the unit’s deficit last
year. The group also expects a full-year net loss, the first
since its IPO, after as much as A$574 million in one-time costs.  Lowest Valuation  While Qantas said its domestic operating profit will rise
to A$600 million this year and its international business will
return to profitability by 2014, the stock still plunged 32
percent in four days after the announcement, wiping off A$1
billion of market value as it fell below A$1.  Worth almost A$12 billion in 2007, Qantas ended at A$1.155
a share last week, leaving it valued at A$2.6 billion.  Qantas traded at a low of 0.39 times tangible book value on
June 8. The shares have risen 21 percent since then as takeover
speculation intensified. The measure of shareholder equity
excludes assets that can’t easily be sold in liquidation and
includes cash, planes and parts, hangars and investments in
other companies.  The company, which said last week that it had hired Sydney-
based Macquarie to ward off potential bids by buyout firms, is
now valued at 0.47 times its net tangible assets.  Frequent Fliers  That’s still lower than any airline in the industrialized
world with more than $1 billion in market capitalization, apart
from  Air France-KLM (AF) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The overwhelming appeal is its discount” to net assets,
Simon Fitzgerald, an analyst at Moelis & Co. in Sydney, said in
a telephone interview. “Compared to its peers it’s cheaper,
compared to the market it’s cheaper, and compared to its
history, it’s far cheaper.”  Qantas could be a lucrative investment for potential buyers
able to turn around its international business because of the
airline’s dominance in Australia, according to Jason Teh, who
helps manage A$2.3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney.  Australians flew 2.3 domestic flights per person in 2010,
the highest rate among any of the world’s 10 biggest domestic
travel markets, according to data from the  International Air
Transport Association  and national census bureaus.  Domestic flights in the U.S., the world’s largest market by
passenger numbers, came to 1.9 per person. Canadians flew 1.2
flights per person and all other nations were less than one.  Busiest Routes  Qantas says its namesake carrier and low-cost unit Jetstar
account for two-thirds of flights within Australia, benefiting
from demand for flights between Sydney and Melbourne.  The route is the world’s  fifth-most active  and busier than
any in Europe or  North America , according to Amadeus IT Holding
SA, the world’s largest processor of travel reservations.  In the U.S., no single carrier had more than a 17 percent
share, according to 2010 data from  IATA  and the U.S.  Department
of Transportation .  With Singapore  jet fuel prices  falling by the most since
the financial crisis in the past three months, the company’s
fuel bill also may decrease in 2013 for the first time in three
years, according to Moelis’s Fitzgerald.  “The domestic business generates good profits,” Teh said
by phone. “Whoever can resolve the international business is
going to make lots of money, whether it’s the current management
or new owners.”  Relative Value  Qantas Domestic by itself is worth about A$6.5 billion
excluding its share of corporate costs, according to a report by
Deutsche Bank’s McDonald dated May 24. He based the valuation on
his estimate for Qantas’s earnings next year.  That’s more than the entire company’s so-called  enterprise
value , or the sum of its stock and net debt, of A$6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Combined with its other units, Deutsche Bank’s estimate for
Qantas would then reach A$8.4 billion based on McDonald’s sum-
of-the-parts analysis, 40 percent above its current level.  While the estimate was published before Qantas’s full-year
loss forecast and McDonald said a revised valuation would be
lower, he added the stability of the domestic business would
mitigate some of the weakness internationally. McDonald last
week declined to offer an updated valuation analysis.  Qantas also owns stakes in freight, catering, and travel
agency companies, as well as a terminal at Sydney airport, which
together are worth about A$1 billion, according to Sondal Bensan, an analyst at BT Investment.  Qantas Law  The  fund manager  is owned by Westpac Banking Corp.,
Qantas’s seventh-biggest  shareholder  with a 5.1 percent stake,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Any buyer will have to comply with the  Qantas Sale Act ,
which requires that the airline remain majority-owned by
Australians. Individual overseas companies aren’t allowed to
hold more than 25 percent, while the total owned by all foreign
carriers can’t exceed 35 percent.  The company’s unions may also resist cuts to salaries or
benefits that would be needed to help turn around the airline,
according to Matt Crowe, a Sydney-based analyst at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia . Last year, Qantas spent a greater share of
its sales on salaries and benefits than any other airline worth
more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The groups involved -- the pilots union and engineers --
they’re pretty powerful and it’s a company with a culture of
union activity,” Crowe said in a telephone interview.  Deal Structure  Those hurdles still haven’t prevented private-equity firms
from working together to try and acquire the carrier. In 2006, a
buyout group that included  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital,
Toronto-based Onex Corp. and Macquarie, Australia’s biggest
investment bank, agreed to buy Qantas for about A$11 billion.  The transaction was structured so the largest stake in the
group, called Airline Partners Australia Ltd., would be held by
Australia’s Allco Finance Group Ltd., which filed for bankruptcy
in November 2008.  The deal, rejected by Qantas shareholders, put Qantas’s
enterprise value at 5.72 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Qantas is now worth 3.77 times the average of
analysts’  Ebitda estimates  for the year ending this month.  Qantas also held merger talks with British Airways Plc in
2008, while the Australian newspaper said in November that
former Qantas CEO Geoff Dixon and a group of investors
considered buying a stake last year.  “There have to be people looking at a takeover,” BT
Investment’s Bensan said in a telephone interview. “There’s no
doubt there’s value in it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 