-- Rajoy’s Support Declines After Spain Seeks Bailout, Poll Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-17T11:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/rajoy-s-support-declines-after-spain-seeks-bailout-poll-says.html
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy support
is declining after his government requested European aid to
rescue banks in the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy, an
opinion poll shows.  A poll conducted for  El Mundo  by Sigma Dos between June 12
and June 14 shows 43 percent of Spaniards have a negative image
of the premier compared with 22.4 percent in January. According
to another poll conducted by Metroscopia for  El Pais  from June
13 to June 14, 47 percent view Rajoy’s handling of the bank
bailout as negative, while 40 percent say it is positive.  Rajoy is urging the  European Central Bank  to take measures
to prevent  Spain  from losing access to financial markets. The
yield on its  10-year benchmark bond  grazed 7 percent on June 14
after it became the fourth bailed-out euro-zone member with a
100 billion-euro ($126 billion)  credit line  for its banks.  In terms of voting intentions, Rajoy’s  People’s Party  has
lost 5.5 percentage points since its landslide victory in
November 2011 while the extreme left parties Izquierda Unida and
Union Progreso y Democracia together gain 4.6 percentage points,
according to Sigma Dos. The poll of 1,000 people has a margin
for error of 3.2 percentage points.  The polls say Rajoy’s handling of the banking crisis
contributed to his losing support. A month after nationalizing
the third-largest lender, Bankia Group, Rajoy last week admitted
the country needs external aid to shore up the country’s
lenders, which are hobbled by bad real-estate loans.  Bank Aid  Only 10 percent of Spaniards believe the government when it
says the banks will pay back the aid, while 46 percent said the
state will end up footing the bill, according to the Metroscopia
poll of 600 people, which has a margin for error of 4.1
percentage points. The Sigma Dos poll shows a majority of 92
percent are in favor of creating a commission in Parliament to
investigate the nationalization of Bankia.  Rajoy said June 13 that Spaniards should celebrate the fact
that the European Union rescued the country’s banks. The
government says it has obtained aid on different terms than
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , with no conditions attached beyond
the banking sector. According to Metroscopia, 48 percent of
Spaniards don’t believe the country is receiving different
treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  