-- Rolls-Royce Gets 1 Billion-Pound U.K. Submarine Reactor Contract
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-18T09:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/rolls-royce-gets-u-k-submarine-reactor-contract-minister-says.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  won a
contract valued at 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to deliver
reactor cores for a new class of U.K. submarine.  Rolls-Royce will upgrade its manufacturing facility in
Derby with a new site as part of the contract, the company,
based in London, said in a statement today.  “What we are going to be announcing is a commitment to the
major refurbishing of the plant at Rolls-Royce in Derby, which
builds these core reactors -- not just for the nuclear deterrent
submarines, but also for our attack submarines, the Astute class
submarines,” Hammond told BBC1 Television’s Sunday Politics
yesterday. “So this is sustaining a sovereign capability in the
U.K., and some very high-end technical skills in the U.K. for
the next 40 or 50 years.”  The decision to press ahead with the plans may increase
tensions in the coalition government. During the 2010 general
election, the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the
coalition, called for Trident to be replaced with a cheaper,
land-based missile system.  Since Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led
government took power two years ago, it’s been looking for ways
to eliminate a 38 billion-pound defense shortfall built up under
the previous Labour administration. Cost-cutting has included
reductions in armed-forces manpower as well as the cancellation
of some equipment programs.  Plugging Gaps  Hammond said last month that he’s plugged those gaps and
that the armed forces will have 152 billion pounds to spend on
new equipment over 10 years. Menzies Campbell, former Liberal
Democrat leader, told the BBC the plans are sensible, playing
down that there may be a rift in the coalition.  A decision to build the subs “won’t have to be taken until
2016 and what we’re doing at the moment is ordering the things
that have to be ordered now to give us that option,” Hammond
said.  The vessels, which will replace the current Vanguard class
of Trident missile-bearing submarine, will enter service in
2028.  The new specification calls for longer-lasting submarines,
with the aim of keeping the U.K.’s nuclear deterrent active into
the 2060s. The Royal Navy has had submarines carrying nuclear
missiles at sea for 40 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  