-- Russia Bans 11 U.S. Officials Over Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-06-17T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/russia-bans-11-u-s-officials-over-guantanamo-and-abu-ghraib.html
Russia  barred 11 serving and former
U.S. administration officials for human rights abuses at
facilities including Guantanamo Bay and the  Abu Ghraib  prison in
 Iraq .  The ban on entry to Russia was enacted last year in
retaliation for a U.S. visa ban for 11 Russian officials accused
of playing a role in the death of anti-corruption lawyer Sergei
Magnitsky, President  Vladimir Putin ’s top foreign policy
adviser, Yuri Ushakov, said in an e-mailed statement.  “These people are linked to high-profile human rights
abuses, including torture and abuse of detainees in special
prisons set up by the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence
Agency in Guantanamo, Bagram in Afghanistan and Abu Ghraib in
Iraq,” Ushakov said. Russia hadn’t previously made public the
exact nature of its response to the U.S. visa ban, which was
announced in July last year.  Russia is warning of further steps if Congress passes a law
that would impose U.S. travel and financial curbs on any
official abusing human rights in Russia, including all 60 people
suspected of involvement in Magnitsky’s death in a Moscow jail
in 2009. Ushakov criticized what he termed as an “anti-
Russian” step that would complicate ties as Putin and U.S.
President  Barack Obama  prepare to meet on the sidelines of the
Group of 20 summit in Mexico.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December 2009 refused to revive a
lawsuit against former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  and
other military leaders by four British men who said they were
tortured while imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, a detention center
at the U.S. military base in Cuba. Abu Ghraib photographs
showing U.S. guards mistreating inmates surfaced in 2004.  Deviant Behavior  Rumsfeld spoke of “disgusting deviant behavior” by guards
at Abu Ghraib while praising Guantanamo as an “exceedingly
well-run prison” in an interview with  Fox News  in February last
year.  The House Foreign Affairs Committee on June 7 approved the
legislation targeting Russian officials guilty of human rights
abuses. Congress will vote on the measure at a later date.  The U.S. administration will no longer seek to prevent
Congress from passing the bill, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron
Kirk  said June 7 in Moscow. “You’d be hard pressed to find
anyone who would bet against Congress expressing their concerns
on the Magnitsky matter in some way,” Kirk said.  The Obama administration is seeking to repeal trade
restrictions with Russia to prevent U.S. companies from being
penalized once Russian membership of the  World Trade
Organization  takes effect later this year. A bipartisan group of
senators has made a repeal of the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment
conditional on imposing sanctions on Russian officials for
human-rights violations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  