-- Samaras Races to Form Greek Government as EU Warns on Timing
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-06-18T18:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/samaras-begins-bid-to-form-greek-coalition-to-stave-off-crisis.html
Greek election winner Antonis Samaras raced to build a coalition to keep bailout aid flowing
after the anti-bailout party Syriza rejected his offer to join a
government, with talks set to continue a second day.  With German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  offering no
flexibility on emergency loans, Socialist Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance minister who negotiated the second
rescue, proposed President Karolos Papoulias host a meeting of
party leaders tomorrow to get a coalition with the widest
possible support.  “With Mr Venizelos we remain in agreement that we must
have, at all cost, and within the deadline of my mandate, a
government of national salvation,” Samaras said in  Athens  after
receiving the three-day mandate to form a government. “We will,
of course, have new meetings.”  Yesterday’s vote forced Greeks, in a fifth year of
recession, to choose open-ended austerity to stay in the euro or
reject the terms of a bailout and risk the turmoil of exiting
the union. With the 17-nation currency’s future on the line,
finance ministers pledged to assist  Greece  in its struggle with
the cycle of austerity and recession that has trapped the
country since it became the first victim of the debt crisis in
2010.  Stocks Gain  The win by Samaras over Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras sent
Greek stocks and bonds higher. The euro pared an advance on
concern the debt crisis will deepen in  Spain . The Athens Stock
Exchange Index rose 3.6 percent to 580.67, after earlier gaining
as much as 7.2 percent. The FTSE/Athex Banks Index climbed 6.2
percent, its ninth day of gains. Deposit outflows slowed today,
three people familiar with situation said.  In exchange for aid pledges totaling 240 billion euros
($302 billion), Greece promised state asset sales, pension cuts
and wage reductions. Tsipras said he’d abandon those measures.
Samaras had said that made the vote a referendum on quitting the
euro. Tsipras, who said he’d try to keep Greece in the euro
while tearing up the bailout agreements, urged voters to reject
the two main parties that backed the international rescue,  New
Democracy  and Pasok.  In a rare show of agreement on the urgency of the situation
facing Greece, which has cash only until the middle of next
month, Tsipras said that he’d refuse to take the mandate to form
a government if offered to him under the Constitution if Samaras
fails in his three-day window.  High Bar  The opportunities opening up to renegotiate the austerity
policies “mustn’t be wasted,” Tsipras said after meeting
Samaras. “The new government which will be formed must go to
Brussels with the bar high, where the people have put it.”  New Democracy won 129 seats, enough to put together a
coalition with Pasok. Venizelos said today after meeting Samaras
that party leaders needed to send a message of unity to Greeks
and a message of credibility internationally by forming a
government.  New Democracy and Pasok would have  162 seats  if they agree
to govern together in the 300-member parliament. The addition of
Democratic Left, which has demanded commitment to staying in the
euro as well as “gradual disengagement” from the austerity
measures, would give a government 179 seats.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said yesterday his
party, the sixth-biggest, would take part in talks to form a
government that will secure the country’s place in the euro.  ‘No Loosening’  Merkel indicated today there would be no leeway on Greece,
saying any government must stick with the rescue commitments and
that “there can be no loosening on the reform steps.”  The EU will withhold aid payments to Greece until the next
review by international monitors, said  Thomas Wieser , head of
the group that prepares meetings for euro-area finance
ministers.  “There will be no new decisions on disbursements before
the new MOU has been negotiated and signed,” Wieser told
reporters in Vienna.  In contrast, Richard Corbett, an aide to European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview “there might need to be some adjustment, but not a
rewriting of the whole memorandum of understanding, far from
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  