-- Saudi Arabia Buries Crown Prince Who Led Terrorism Fight
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-17T17:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/saudi-arabia-buries-crown-prince-who-led-terrorism-fight.html
Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, who led  Saudi Arabia ’s terrorism fight while in his dual
role as interior minister, was buried today in Mecca.  Nayef’s coffin was carried through the Al-Haram Mosque in
Islam’s holiest city, with members of the royal family and
senior government officials attending. State television showed
images from the funeral. The death of the heir to King Abdullah
was announced yesterday in a  Royal Court  statement carried by
the broadcaster, which didn’t give details. The crown prince was
in his late 70s.  Abdullah was met by his sons and other princes ahead of the
funeral,  Saudi Press Agency  said. Nayef was buried in an
unmarked grave in a cemetery, as stipulated by the Sunni Wahhabi
version of Islam.  Nayef had been Saudi Arabia’s most powerful prince amid the
turmoil that has rocked the region. He put down attacks by al-
Qaeda and backed the religious police in the Sunni Muslim
kingdom, the world’s largest oil producer. He was the second
crown prince to die in less than a year, renewing questions
about succession as the Saudi leadership ages. The king named
him Oct. 28 to succeed Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. Prince
Salman bin Abdulaziz, who was born in 1935, followed Crown
Prince Sultan as defense minister.  Prince Salman is the likely candidate for the crown prince
position, Khalid Al-Dakhil, a professor of political science at
King Saud University, said in a phone interview from  Riyadh .
“He has been a public figure since the 1960s,” Al-Dakhil said.  Died in Geneva  Nayef left Saudi Arabia last month for scheduled medical
tests and a vacation, the Royal Court said at the time. Nayef
met with a number of the kingdom’s princes and officials at his
residence in Geneva, the Saudi Press Agency reported on June 12.
The Swiss government said he died there, according to an e-
mailed  statement .  His death comes as Saudi Arabia confronts unemployment, an
issue cited by some activists during the unrest that led to the
toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt , Yemen and  Libya  during
the so-called Arab Spring that began in December 2010.
Joblessness reached 27 percent for Saudis between 20 and 30
years old in 2009, according to official data.  King Abdullah  unveiled a $130 billion spending plan in the
first quarter of 2011, including allowances for government
workers and salary increases for military personnel.  Six kings have ruled Saudi Arabia since it was established
in 1932. Abdullah changed the kingdom’s succession rules in 2007
to give an appointed commission of princes, the Allegiance
Council, more power to select a new ruler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  