-- Saudi Succession Question Reopens With Crown Prince’s Death
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-18T10:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/saudi-arabia-succession-set-in-motion-with-death-of-crown-prince.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
oil exporter, buried Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud,
raising the issue of succession in the kingdom for the second
time in less than a year.  Nayef, who also served as interior minister for more than
three decades, was interred yesterday in Mecca in an unmarked
grave, as stipulated by the Sunni Wahhabi version of Islam. King Abdullah, who is in his late 80s, attended the ceremony.  Nayef’s death, the first time in modern Saudi history that
a king has outlived two crown princes, leaves Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz as a leading contender for the crown prince position
as the kingdom grapples with high youth unemployment, security
issues including the threat of al-Qaeda militants and
unprecedented political change in the  Middle East .  “Salman is obviously the candidate,” said  Robert Lacey ,
author of “Inside the Kingdom,” a 2009 history of Saudi
Arabia. “People would say that he has been a king in waiting
for 20 years.”  Salman, born in 1935, served as governor of Riyadh for
almost five decades. In that time, the capital grew from a city
of about 150,000 people to about 5 million people, according to
data on the website of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. He
was appointed defense minister after Nayef, who was in his late
70s, was named crown prince in October.  ‘Got Charisma’  Salman, like Nayef, is one of the influential brothers
known as the Sudairi Seven, the sons of the kingdom’s founder,
King Abdulaziz Al Saud, and one of his wives, Hassa bint-Ahmed
al-Sudairi.  Since taking on the role of defense minister, Salman has
raised his public profile by visiting soldiers around the
country.  “He has got charisma,” Lacey said. “He has got the
presence of a king.”  Following Sultan’s death, Abdullah waited for the end of
the three-day mourning period before appointing Nayef on Oct. 28
as heir to the throne. Salman followed Sultan as defense
minister on Nov. 5.  Other senior royals include Foreign Minister Saud Al- Faisal, Deputy Interior Minister Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz,
 Muqrin bin Abdulaziz , who serves as chief of the general
intelligence directorate, and Khaled al-Faisal, the governor of
the Mecca region. All four were born in the 1940s.  National Guard  King Abdullah’s son Mutaib, who heads the 110,000-man
National Guard, and another son, Abdul Aziz, who serves as
deputy foreign minister, are also senior members of the family.
So is former Crown Prince Sultan’s son Khaled and Nayef’s son
Mohammad, who serve as deputy ministers, and Mohammed bin Fahd,
the governor of the  Eastern Province   “Prince Nayef’s untimely demise brings the shift to the
second generation closer,” Emad Mostaque, a U.K.-based analyst
at Religare Capital Markets, said in an e-mailed note today.
“This is positive for oil as there is no clear front runner
from the next generation.”  Crispin Hawes, director for the Middle East and North
Africa at Eurasia Group in  London , said he doubts “that they
have decided who is going to be the standard bearer from the
next generation.”  “I don’t think they will feel the need to make that huge
decision rapidly as it is one that they have essentially been
delaying for ten years,” he said.  Oil Supply  Succession is unlikely to have a major impact on Saudi
policies, said analysts including Jarmo Kotilaine, chief
economist at the Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank .  Saudi Arabia will make sure there is enough supply in the
global crude market, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said at last
week’s OPEC meeting. Oil for July delivery advanced as much as
$1.57 to $85.60, the highest intra-day price since June 11. It
was at $84.62 at 2:49 p.m. Singapore time.  Saudi Arabia’s oil output increased 1.8 percent in April
from the previous month to 10.1 million barrels a day, according
to the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  The change comes as Saudi Arabia confronts unemployment, an
issue cited by some activists during the unrest that led to the
toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt , Yemen and  Libya  during
the so-called Arab Spring that began in December 2010.
Joblessness reached 27 percent for Saudis between 20 and 30
years old in 2009, according to official data.  Largely Unscathed  While Saudi Arabia has been largely unscathed by the Arab
revolts, the kingdom sent troops into neighboring  Bahrain  in
March last year to help crush a mainly Shiite-led uprising after
accusing  Iran  of interfering in the affairs of the Persian Gulf
country. Iran denies the allegation and accuses Sunni rulers in
Bahrain and Saudi Arabia of discriminating against Shiites.  King Abdullah  unveiled a $130 billion spending plan in the
first quarter of 2011, including allowances for government
workers and salary increases for military personnel.  Six kings have ruled since the formation of the kingdom in
1932. Abdullah changed the kingdom’s succession rules in 2007 to
give an appointed commission of princes, the Allegiance Council,
more power to select a new ruler and the new crown prince. The
1992 basic law stipulates that the king must be a son or
grandson of the kingdom’s founder, King Abdulaziz Al Saud.  “They need to activate the allegiance law to stabilize and
normalize succession,” Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of
political science at King Saud University, said in a phone
interview from  Riyadh . “We need to know how the leader is going
to be chosen. Start the precedent now with the allegiance
council then the younger generation adheres to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  