-- Sea Monster Devours, Spits Out Hero in Baroque Spectacle: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-06-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/sea-monster-devours-spits-out-hero-in-baroque-spectacle-review.html
“Hippolyte et Aricie” was the
first musical work to be dubbed “baroque” by contemporary
critics. They didn’t mean it as a compliment.  The production of Jean-Philippe Rameau’s 1733 opera at the
 Palais Garnier  in Paris, which comes from Toulouse, is visually
stunning, though vocally not up to snuff.  Voltaire found the opera, Rameau’s first, boring. Others
deplored its overly complex style and compared it unfavorably
with Lully’s dignified simplicity.  The dispute between “Lullistes” and “Rameauneurs” -- a
pun: ramoneurs are chimney sweeps -- was one of the 18th
century’s great musical quarrels.  In the 19th century, the “tragedies en musique” by both
Lully and Rameau disappeared from the repertory. It has only
been in the past few decades that William Christie, John Eliot Gardiner and other champions of the period-instrument school put
them back on the map.  The basis of “Hippolyte et Aricie” is the most famous of
French classical tragedies, Racine’s “Phedre.”  Phaedra lusts after her stepson Hippolytus. At the false
news that her husband Theseus is dead she confesses her passion.
Hippolytus, who’s in love with Aricia, brusquely rejects her.  When Theseus unexpectedly returns, Phaedra accuses
Hippolytus of having attempted to rape her. Theseus has his son
killed, and a remorseful Phaedra poisons herself.  Baroque Spectacle  What the audience at the premiere of Rameau’s opera
expected was more than just a musical rehash of Racine’s play.
They wanted a show with dances, pomp and special effects. Rameau
obliged and also came up with another novelty -- a happy ending.  Theseus, therefore, isn’t just absent: We follow him into
the Underworld where he pleads for a friend before Pluto and his
infernal court.  Other gods, too, take sides in the erotic tug-of-war: Cupid
argues for free love, Neptune prevents Theseus from killing
himself, and Diana rescues Hippolytus from the belly of a sea
monster that has swallowed him.  Ivan Alexandre, the director, and Antoine Fontaine, the set
designer, have magnificently risen to the challenge.  Not only have they resisted the temptation to update the
story and make it more “relevant” to a modern audience.
They’ve enthusiastically jumped at the chance to let Baroque
theater magic shine in its full glory.  Floating Clouds  Painted clouds majestically sail through the sky, gods
descend from Heaven or rise from Hell, and the painted sea
disgorges a wonderfully weird monster.  It’s great fun, with just the right pinch of ironic
nostalgia.  The elaborate costumes (Jean-Daniel Vuillermoz) could have
stepped out of a canvas by Watteau or Gainsborough.  The opera has longueurs. Half of the endless dances that
slow down the action could easily be cut.  The real problem is the voices. The period-instrument world
has attracted an army of singing lightweights who never would
have dared to dream of a stage career before.  Most of the gods produce decidedly ungodly noises. The
humans are better. By far the most impressive is Stephane
Degout: His Thesee is powerfully declaimed and beautifully sung.  Sarah Connolly’s Phedre, though strongly characterized, has
a hint of shrillness. Topi Lehtipuu and Anne-Catherine Gillet in
the title roles are bland.  Emmanuelle Haim conducts her “historically informed”
band, the Concert d’Astree, with vigor.  Rating: ***.  “Hippolyte et Aricie” is in repertory through July 9.
Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Warwick
Thompson  on London stage.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 