-- Slobbering Senators Woo Dimon While They Gut Dodd-Frank
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-06-17T22:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/slobbering-senators-woo-dimon-while-they-gut-dodd-frank.html
I often get asked a  Wall Street 
variation of the Ronald Reagan 1980 campaign saw, “Are you
better off than you were four years ago?”  To wit: Are we safer than we were four years ago? Will the
2010 Dodd-Frank law and the regulations that the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
are busy writing and rewriting prevent a recurrence of the kind
of financial meltdown that we experienced in 2007 and 2008?  Just as in November 1980, the answer is easy: a resounding
no. Neither Dodd-Frank nor the Volcker Rule nor bank-capital
requirements nor the other regulations that will ultimately get
written -- with a lot of help from Wall Street’s lawyers and
lobbyists -- will change the behavior of the hundreds of
thousands of bankers, traders and executives who work on Wall
Street and who do the things every hour of every day that slowly
but surely have had a tendency to lead to the collective action
that cause financial crises.  People are pretty simple: They do what they are rewarded to
do. At this very moment on Wall Street, smart, well-educated
people are being rewarded to take big risks with other people’s
money. Because that’s what they get paid to do -- often in the
millions of dollars each year -- it is hardly surprising that
they continue to do it.  Need some evidence? President  Barack Obama  signed the
 2,300-page Dodd-Frank law  nearly two years ago, in July 2010. At
the time, with great bravado, he said, “These reforms represent
the strongest consumer financial protections in history. In
history.”  Corzine’s Folly  Since the law has been in place, here are some of the
things that have happened (that we know about): At the end of
October 2011, the commodities and futures broker-dealer MF
Global Holdings Ltd. filed for bankruptcy -- and is being
liquidated -- the largest collapse of a financial company since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The chief executive officer of MF
Global was  Jon Corzine , a former co-CEO of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , a former senator and governor of  New Jersey , and an oft-
rumored candidate to replace  Tim Geithner  as secretary of the
Treasury. Could anyone have a more gold-plated resume?  So what did Corzine do? He ratcheted up the financial risks
the formerly sleepy firm was taking, and ran it into the ground
by making a huge, leveraged bet on the risky sovereign debt of
European countries. When the market discovered the extent of
Corzine’s bet, and how leveraged it was and what might happen to
MF Global’s capital if he was wrong, investors, creditors,
counterparties and customers ran for the exit.  On Oct. 31 the firm collapsed, taking with it billions of
dollars in shareholders’ and creditors’ money as well as 3,000
jobs. Oh yes, $1.6 billion more in customers’ funds has
disappeared -- a mind-bending violation of the rule that
customer money should never be mingled with other corporate
funds to make payments in the ordinary course of business.
Corzine badly damaged the few remaining shreds of confidence
that customers and investors had in our  capital markets .  What else has happened? Well, as we all know now,  Jamie Dimon , the presumptive King of Wall Street, directed  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  chief investment office into risky and riskier
investments in a swashbuckling effort to increase profits for
his bank -- again, exactly what his compensation structure
rewarded him to do. But this was not his money -- it was his
depositors’ and shareholders’ money. For a while, the strategy
worked well: adding billions of dollars in profits to JPMorgan
Chase’s bottom line.  Haywire Strategy  Then, this spring, the strategy went haywire after a group
of highly compensated, high-flying traders in  London  made a big
bet with some of the money on an esoteric “synthetic credit
portfolio.” The losses on the bet -- $3 billion and counting --
have not proved an existential threat to JPMorgan Chase, in part
because it is the biggest of the too-big-to-fail banks. The bet
has wiped about $27 billion off the company’s market
capitalization -- sorry, shareholders -- and once again shaken
our confidence that Wall Street is anything more than a giant
casino in which bankers take huge risks with other people’s
money.  Why does this kind of gambling continue unabated? Why does
Wall Street continue to serve best the people who work there at
the expense of the entrepreneurs and businessmen who actually
rely on our markets to provide their businesses with the capital
needed to hire workers, build plants and equipment, and try to
provide people with a better life?  For that answer, one need look no further than the kind of
slobbering, fawning comments that many members of the Senate
Banking Committee -- on both sides of the aisle -- used to greet
Dimon during his two-hour hearing last week.  Instead of pushing him to explain why, two years after the
signing of the Dodd-Frank law, he encouraged his bankers and
traders to take risks that shouldn’t be taken with his
depositors’ money, we got this from Senator  Jim DeMint ,
Republican of  South Carolina : “We can hardly sit in judgment of
your losing $2 billion. We lose twice that every day here in
 Washington . And plan to continue to do that every day. It’s
comforting to know that even with a $2 billion loss in a trade …
your company still, I think, had a $19 billion profit. During
that same period, we lost over $1 trillion.” He concluded: “So
the intent today is really not to sit in judgment but to maybe
understand better what happened.”  Good Lord, can this really be happening?  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why it’s time for an EU-U.S.
free-trade pact , on  amnesty for illegal immigrants  and on
 plugging national-security leaks ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme
Court’s coming decisions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  why Obama’s campaign
needs help ;  David Crane  on  a bad bet that makes JPMorgan’s look
trivial ; Richard Vedder on  why the government should get out of
the student loan business .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 