-- Solar Boom Heads to Japan Creating $9.6 Billion Market
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-06-18T16:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/solar-boom-heads-to-japan-creating-9-6-billion-market-energy.html
Japan  is poised to overtake Germany
and Italy to become the world’s second-biggest market for solar
power as incentives starting July 1 drive sales for equipment
makers from Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co. to  Kyocera Corp. (6971)   Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  set today a premium price for
solar electricity that’s about triple what industrial users now
pay for conventional power. That may spur at least $9.6 billion
in new installations with 3.2 gigawatts of capacity, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance forecast. The total is about equal to the
output of three atomic reactors. Solar stocks rallied.  “The tariff is very attractive,” said Mina Sekiguchi,
associate partner and head of energy and infrastructure at  KPMG 
in Japan. “The rate reflects the government’s intention to set
up many solar power stations very quickly.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s effort to cut dependence on
atomic energy that provided about 30 percent of Japan’s power
before the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in 2011 will help a solar
industry suffering incentive cuts across Europe. It’s also
raising concern among Japanese business groups that clean power
aid will raise bills and slow Japan’s economic recovery.  “This is a mechanism with a high degree of market
intervention by setting tariffs artificially high and making
users shoulder the cost,” said Masami Hasegawa, senior manager
of the environmental policy bureau of Keidanren, Japan’s most
powerful business lobby, which counts Toyota Motor Corp. and
 Nippon Steel Corp (5401)  among its members. “We question the
effectiveness of such a scheme.”  Twice German Rate  Utilities will pay 42 yen (53 cents) a kilowatt-hour for 20
years to solar power producers, almost twice the rate in
Germany, the world’s biggest market by installations. The solar
tariff was among incentive rates for clean energy announced
today by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and
foreshadowed by a ministry official June 15.  Solar stocks rallied for a second day. The Bloomberg Global
Large Solar Energy index added 1.8 percent at 12:13 p.m.,
bringing its two-day gain to 8.5 percent, the largest two-
session intraday advance since February.  Developers are counting on the subsidies and have
accelerated solar-park construction plans this year.  “We hear every day a new announcement of a megawatt-scale
project,” Izumi Kaizuka, a solar industry analyst at RTS Corp.,
said in Munich, referring to projects 1 megawatt or bigger.  Japan ranked sixth worldwide by new installations last
year, when it added 1.3 gigawatts of solar to bring its
installed base to 5 gigawatts. Next year builders will erect
roughly triple that level, or another 3.2 gigawatts to 4.7
gigawatts, New Energy Finance forecasts. A gigawatt is enough to
supply about 243,000 homes in Japan.  Comparison With China  Only  China  will exceed Japan in terms of solar capacity
growth as it supplants Italy and Germany, which held the top two
positions in 2010 and 2011, London-based New Energy Finance
estimates.  Japanese companies such as Kyocera and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  that
kept the photovoltaic industry alive when the U.S. scrapped
investments in the 1990s are gearing up to supply their home
market, as the government converts a pilot program into one
aimed at large, commercial solar farms.  “We no longer have enough electricity, especially during
the day, and that is when solar power can help,” said  Mikio Katayama , chairman of the electronics manufacturer Sharp Corp.
and the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association. “This is a very
good rate to promote investment and mega solars.”  Suntech Leadership  Germany’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  overtook Sharp as the biggest solar
cell producer in 2007, according to the  International Energy
Agency . Now Chinese manufactures such as  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  and Yingli dominate the industry as their lower prices
helped push Q-Cells and several other Western rivals into
 bankruptcy protection .  Japan got about 1.6 percent of its energy from renewables
in 2011, the smallest portion among Group of Seven countries
after Canada. It trailed the U.S. and  France  in the G-7 in
atomic power consumption. The shift toward solar reflects
concern that the cost of imported fossil fuels will rise in the
coming decades.  “Japan’s manufacturing economy was severely challenged by
the oil crisis of the 1970s,” said Arthur Mitchell, senior
counselor in the  Tokyo  office of the law firm White & Case LLP,
whose expertise includes environmental and power policies.
“Assuming that the price of energy and almost everything else
will rise, Japan is betting it will once again become the most
efficient user of energy.”  A 42-yen solar rate, targeted for 10-kilowatt or bigger
plants, is above the 38 yen price for 15 years the industry
expected, said  Takashi Watanabe  and Daiki Takayama, Tokyo-based
analysts for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , in a note in April.  German Subsidy Cut  Germany is cutting subsidies and plans to offer 0.135 euros
to 0.195 euros (17 to 24.6 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour,
depending on size. Italy’s rate is 0.128 euros to 0.237 euros.  Utility-scale projects may earn 6 percent internal rates of
return, and that could increase to more than 18 percent if
developers can bring system costs closer to international
levels, Travis Woodward, a New Energy Finance analyst, wrote in
a note on June 6. He also estimates residential solar systems
are being sold in Japan for $6.28 a watt, more than double the
$2.70 a watt price in Germany.  Japan is one of the highest average selling price markets
dominated by a few large installers,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) 
analysts  Jesse Pichel , Min Xu and Scott Reynolds said in an
April 30 report. “We expect Chinese and Taiwanese producers to
erode the high domestic share through local partnerships to
drive down cost,” the analysts said.  Surcharge to Consumers  Under the new program, utilities will buy solar, biomass,
wind, geothermal and hydro power. All costs will be passed on to
consumers in surcharges, which the government today said will
average out at 87 yen a month per household. The government’s
previous average estimate was 100 yen.  The industry ministry will set terms and rates annually for
projects whose contracts are signed the same year with
utilities.  The measures beginning in July expand on a program started
in November 2009 that requires utilities to buy solar power that
the generator didn’t need. That expanded the market for rooftop
residential panels.  The new incentives will encourage utility-scale projects.
Japan’s five largest solar projects planned or under
consideration were all announced between October and April, as
the government worked out details of the feed-in tariff program,
according to New Energy Finance.  Dozens of companies have announced plans to take advantage
of Japan’s subsidies. Yingli, based in Baoding, China, has set
up a unit in Japan.  Closer to Customers  “Being closer to the customers is extremely important for
Yingli,” Masaki Mizuta, managing director of Yingli Japan, said
on May 4. “We also believe that this is a key success factor in
Japan.”  Kyocera Corp. is “aggressively” expanding its solar
division, said Sanae Iwasaki, a spokeswoman for the company
that’s based in Kyoto, Japan. It doesn’t disclose production
targets, though it’s considering a 70-megawatt station with  IHI
Corp. (7013)  and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Kagoshima on the
southern island of Kyushu, which would be the largest in Japan
when completed.  “More players will enter the market for investment
purposes,” Iwasaki said. “‘There will be more importance on
the quality. We will pursue cost-cutting by producing panels
with higher conversion efficiency.”  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which also owns Sanyo Electric Co., plans
to boost supply for its home market by shipping solar products
from its new plant in  Malaysia , said Kazuhiro Yoshida, who heads
the company’s solar panel operation.  “Japan is where the demand is,” Yoshida told reporters
May 23. The plant will begin production in December, boosting
the company’s capacity to 900 megawatts from 600 megawatts,
according to the company’s statement.  Foreign Panels  Japanese home renovation company  West Holdings Corp. (1407) ’s
entry into the solar business was putting panels by Sanyo on
rooftops five years ago. The company now gets almost all panel
supplies from Chinese and Korean makers, Senior Managing
Director Toshihisa Nagashima said.  “The quality of foreign panels is comparable and their
prices are more competitive,” compared with Japan-made
products, Nagashima said in an interview on May 18 in Tokyo.
“Customers are becoming less picky about who makes them.”  West Holdings now plans to start making modules in July
with Taiwanese company  Eversol Corp. (3647)  in western Japan.  Other manufacturers are focusing on technology that uses
little or no silicon, the main raw material used in most solar
panels. Solar Frontier K.K. is working on thin-film modules
using copper-indium-gallium-selenide, or CIGS, technology. The
unit of  Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (5002)  is projecting its domestic sales
this year will account for 60 percent of revenue, compared with
30 percent last year.  The Tokyo-based company boosted its production capacity to
about 1 gigawatt with the start of operations at a 900 megawatts
plant in February 2011. The CIGS technology “will become a core
technology in solar power,” Senior Vice President Atsuhiko Hirano said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  