-- Supreme Court’s Super Mondays Don’t Serve Justice
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-06-17T15:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/supreme-court-s-super-mondays-don-t-serve-justice.html
For court watchers, the drama is
becoming unbearable. With just two Mondays left on the U.S.
 Supreme Court ’s  calendar  to announce opinions -- June 18 and 25
-- the five most important cases of the term all remain
undecided.  The club of Supreme Court devotees (OK, junkies) likes to
think of the first Monday in October as opening day, and the
last Monday in June as game seven of the  World Series . But many
years, the series is a dud. Most of the cases are technical and
unexciting, they enter the casebooks with little fanfare, and
the public barely notices. This year will be the exception that
proves the rule.  The action will happen very fast, and the images on your
screen will be blurry. Some cases that would in other years be
headliners will disappear almost entirely. So it’s worth taking
a minute to look at the politics of the crucial cases -- and to
ask why the Supreme Court has chosen to stack them all up at the
end of the term, instead of announcing the outcomes over time so
that each decision could get the attention it deserves.  The big kahuna, of course, is President  Barack Obama ’s
Affordable Care Act. Like it or not, this will be the most
significant political case decided since Bush v. Gore in 2000.
The court won’t decide who wins the election, but it will have a
tremendous effect on the race. By agreeing to hear the case, the
court guaranteed that it would be ruling on the
constitutionality of Obama’s most important policy achievement
the summer before he is up for re-election.  Election Returns  More than a century ago, the great Chicago humorist Finley
Peter Dunne had his comic character Mr. Dooley observe that the
Constitution may or may not follow the flag, but the Supreme
Court follows the election returns. Dunne was commenting on the
court’s decision not to extend full constitutional rights to the
people of  Puerto Rico ,  Guam  and the  Philippines  after their
annexation in the Spanish-American war. President William McKinley’s re-election in 1900 demonstrated public support for
the idea of becoming a global empire, and the court was not
prepared to reverse it.  Today, the court has done Mr. Dooley one better: It doesn’t
follow the election returns; it tries to lead them. No wonder,
then, that a recent  poll  suggests that public confidence in the
court has never been lower in the modern era, with just 44
percent of respondents approving of its performance.  The second huge case, reviewing whether Arizona’s
immigration law impinges on the federal government’s authority
to make immigration policy, is equally political. The Obama
administration sought to depoliticize the case by declining to
argue that  Arizona ’s stop-and-question policy (sometimes called
“papers, please”) would surely discriminate on the basis of
race.  But everyone can still see that the case effectively turns
on whether the Republican stalwart state of Arizona is right on
tougher immigration enforcement or whether the more liberal
Obama administration is. (Never mind that the Obama
administration has deported illegal immigrants at a vastly
higher rate than that of his predecessor, the Republican  George W. Bush .) This decision, too, will have significant political
impact, especially if  Mitt Romney  decides he can’t win Latino
voters and therefore turns to immigration in order to encourage
Republican turnout.  Super PACs  Health care and immigration will probably overshadow the
Supreme Court’s return to campaign finance, but here, too, the
political consequences are major. The court will have to decide
whether a  Montana  law essentially barring corporate campaign
spending violates its holding in  Citizens United  of 2010, the
case that gave us the Super PACs. If the court strikes down the
century-old law, then it’s official: the Super PACs are here to
stay and the justices will have embraced their own legacy as the
ones who changed forever the rules of campaign finance in
America.  If, on the other hand, the court draws back from the brink,
for example by holding such regulation is allowed under the
distinctive circumstances in Montana (where the mining companies
and other business interests all but controlled politics before
the law was enacted), then the door is open for a legislative
end run around Citizens United. No issue could be more
significant to the way electoral politics will really work in
the U.S. for the foreseeable future.  Two more cases also matter a lot but will surely fall below
the radar. In one, the court must decide whether it counts as
cruel and unusual punishment to sentence someone to  life
imprisonment  without parole for a murder he committed when he
was 14 years old. To human-rights advocates, this might be the
most important case of the term -- but it will probably get less
coverage in the U.S. than in  Europe , where the very thought
seems barbaric.  The court will also decide whether Congress can make it a
crime to lie about your military service, even if you stand to
gain nothing tangible. This intriguing case goes to the essence
of free speech. But it will barely register against the backdrop
of the end of term.  So why does the court come out with this flood of opinions
every summer, in which meaningful and interesting cases often
get buried on the back pages of the newspapers? Part of the
answer is human nature: hard decisions get delayed because
procrastination is a signal of thoughtfulness. Another part is
practical. A hard case means more back-and-forth among the
justices, which requires more time. And the justices, like
anyone else, like to be in the headlines if it means the world
is noticing the importance of their work.  That said, the court would have done the nation a service
by stringing out these five decisions over the course of June,
guaranteeing that each got the scrutiny it deserved. That it
chose not to suggests the court may be a little worried about a
world in which its approval rating stands at 44 percent and some
three-quarters of respondents believe (correctly, I’d say) that
a justice’s personal opinion matters in deciding important
cases.  This summer, the court may have overplayed its hand. It
will be too much in the sun. And that way, as Hamlet noted, lies
nothing but trouble.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why it’s time for an EU-U.S.
free-trade pact , on  amnesty for illegal immigrants  and on
 plugging national-security leaks ; William D. Cohan on  the death
of Dodd-Frank ; Noah Feldman on  the Supreme Court’s coming
decisions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  why Obama’s campaign needs help ;
 David Crane  on  a bad bet that makes JPMorgan’s look trivial ;
Richard Vedder on  why the government should get out of the
student loan business .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 