-- U.K. Home Sellers Push Asking Prices to Record, Rightmove Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/u-k-home-sellers-push-asking-prices-to-record-rightmove-says.html
Asking prices for U.K. homes rose to
a record in June, bolstered by  London  and southeast  England ,
Rightmove Plc said.  The average  asking price  in England and  Wales  rose 1
percent from May to 246,235 pounds ($384,800), the operator of
Britain’s biggest property website said in an e-mailed report
today. That’s the highest since Rightmove began the survey in
2002. Prices in London jumped 1.7 percent to a record 477,440
pounds.  Further gains in values may be limited as the worsening
debt turmoil in the euro area undermines  consumer confidence  and
pushes up bank funding costs.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said last week the crisis is casting a “long shadow” over
Britain’s recovery as he announced measures to boost bank
liquidity and try to lower borrowing costs.  “It is likely we have seen the last of record asking
prices for the remainder of 2012,”  Miles Shipside , commercial
director of Rightmove, said in the report.  Rightmove also said there was a surge in sellers coming to
the market before the public holiday this month for Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee. That suggests “further
increases in asking prices are unlikely as fresh supply exceeds
summer demand,” it said.  Of the 10 regions tracked by Rightmove, six recorded
monthly increases in prices in June, according to the report.  From a year earlier, average house values in England and
Wales were up 2.4 percent in June. In London, the annual
increase was 8.8 percent. The monthly gain in the capital was
led by Camden, up 3.1 percent, as well as Wandsworth and
Kensington and Chelsea.  Consumer Spending  Separately, Lloyds TSB said the squeeze on consumers’
finances is continuing, with discretionary real spending power
falling by 0.3 percent in May from a year earlier. For
households, that means they had on average almost 34 pounds a
month less than a year ago to spend on non-essential items,
Lloyds said in a report.  U.K. inflation  probably remained at 3 percent in May,
economists said before a report on June 19.  “Weak income growth and stubbornly high inflation is
ensuring that the squeeze on consumers is remaining in place
longer than many thought it would,” said Patrick Foley, chief
economist at Lloyds. “The benefits of falling inflation on
consumers’ spending power will be limited until we also see a
stronger economy and faster growth in incomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  