-- Ugandan Swamp Helps Stiglitz Show Benefits Beyond GDP
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/ugandan-swamp-helps-stiglitz-show-benefits-beyond-gdp.html
A swamp that filters sewage from
Uganda’s capital Kampala is providing ammunition for Nobel
Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  and lawmakers from at
least 86 nations seeking ways to save oceans and the atmosphere.  The Nakivubo swamp, where wastewater flows from the city
toward Lake Victoria, provides as much as $1.75 million a year
in purification services. Without it, Kampala would need a
sewage plant costing at least $2 million a year, according to
the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The findings
helped prod the city into protecting the area.  “Economic logic prevailed,” said Pavan Sukhdev, a former
Deutsche Bank AG economist who in 2010 led a United Nations
report on the Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity. “It’s
going to cost $2 million per year to do what the swamp was doing
for free, and they don’t have that money.”  Lawmakers and economists converging on a UN conference in
Rio de Janeiro beginning June 20 are trying to convince 130
world leaders to place a value on nature, moving beyond gross
domestic product as the usual measure of national well-being.
From Uganda’s swamps to  New York ’s water supply in the Catskills
Mountains, it’s already happening around the world.  Supported by Stiglitz and an estimate from the World Bank
that “natural capital” stored in forests, reefs and glaciers
is worth $44 trillion, they’re encouraging authorities to take
into account the value of water retention, air-scrubbing and
coastal protection provided by trees, soil and reefs.  ‘Smarter GDP’  When countries don’t consider their natural resources,
“it’s like grading a corporation based on one day’s cash flow
and forgetting to depreciate assets and other costs,” Stiglitz
said in the World Bank’s report “A Smarter GDP ” this month.  If adopted, the measures could affect planning decisions
for projects from new drinks-bottling plants to oil pipelines,
power stations, mines and canals.  “It might sound like a hippie thing, to go beyond GDP,”
European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in an
interview. “It’s from the core economic establishment that the
call is coming stronger and stronger, that we have to measure
our growth in a more modern and intelligent way. This is a very
important paradigm shift we could decide in Rio.”  More than 50,000 delegates from 190 nations are due to
attend the Rio+20 summit on sustainability marking the 20th
anniversary of the first Earth Summit in the city. On the agenda
are 80 pages of recommendations on how to preserve the diversity
of plants, eradicate poverty, protect oceans and clean the air
as the population swells 29 percent to 9 billion by 2050.  Katrina Backfired  The devastation wrought by  Hurricane Katrina  on  New Orleans 
in 2005 provides an example of how failure to account for
natural capital can backfire, said Barry Gardiner, a former
British  environment minister  pushing for what’s known in the
U.K. as “GDP-plus.”  The  U.S. Congress  in 1956 authorized construction of the
Mississippi River Gulf Outlet, or MRGO, a 76-mile shipping
channel that cleared about 19,400 acres of wetlands into open
water for ships. The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers project
allowed salty water to encroach on surrounding marshes,
degrading a further 600,000 acres of wetlands surrounding the
city, according to the National Wildlife Federation.  Swamp Loss  The loss of swamps destroyed a buffer for storm surges that
had protected New Orleans from hurricanes, according to a 2009
study in the Journal of Coastal Research led by Gary Shaffer, a
biology professor at Southeastern Louisiana University. Without
the MRGO, the potential for water to breach levees protecting
the city would have been cut 80 percent, according to the study,
which put the total economic cost of the channel, including
Katrina’s damage, at “hundreds of billions of dollars.”  Rene Poche, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers,
declined to comment, citing “ongoing litigation.”  Environmental economists have struggled for decades to
marry economic development with protecting natural resources.
U.S. academics in the 1960s produced works that established the
field, including a 1968 book “Pollution, Property and Prices”
by John Dales of the  University of Toronto , which became the
intellectual foundation for tradable pollution credits, later
dubbed “cap and trade.”  As the environmental movement grew and policy matured, the
public debate expanded. In 1999, Paul Hawken, Amory Lovins and
Hunter Lovins published “Natural Capitalism,” which thrust the
ideas into the executive suite. Today, companies and pressure
groups play at least as great a role as governments in designing
ways to account for the critical natural infrastructure
previously taken for granted.  Executive Support  In Rio this weekend, executives from companies with annual
sales totalling more than $350 billion, including Nestle SA,
Unilever NV and SABmiller Plc pledged to set targets and develop
plans to protect natural capital under a University of Cambridge
program. Chief executive officers of 37 banks, funds and
insurers including National Australia Bank and the Brazilian
investor Instituto Infraero de Seguridade Social, or Infraprev,
said they will account for their impacts on natural capital.  The UN is taking steps, and its Statistical Commission in
March adopted the System of Environmental Economic Accounts, the
first international standard of natural capital accounting,
putting it on a par with global methods of GDP measurement.  This week, the UN conference may advance a topic that was
discussed at the Earth Summit two decades ago without gaining
traction, said Mary Barton-Dock, director of the environment
department at the  World Bank .  ‘Critical Mass’  “If we can push to get a critical mass of countries saying
they’re willing to do this in Rio, it might tip the balance into
seeing this as an issue whose time has really come,” Barton-
Dock said in an interview.  The latest version of the declaration being negotiated in
Rio recognizes “the need for broader measures of progress to
complement GDP in order to better inform policy decisions,”
though it deletes a phrase about the “limitations” of GDP.  The G77 group of developing nations, which includes China
and India, has expressed concern the measures may give rich
nations a reason to meddle in their domestic affairs. They may
hold up efforts to have the GDP-plus idea inserted into the
conclusions for the Rio meeting.  “There is a general mistrust, which is part of the overall
atmosphere largely generated by backtracking by developed
nations on key principles,” said Chee Yoke Ling, director of
the Third World Network, which tracks policies of developing
nations at the UN talks.  24 Nations  Some countries, like  Uganda  with its swamps, already take
into account environmental wealth. Canada, Germany, Japan,
Mexico and Australia are among 24 nations to use some form of
natural capital accounting, the World Bank report said.  While the U.S. doesn’t produce a balance sheet of natural
capital with its national accounts, in some areas environmental
services are enumerated. The Agriculture Department’s
Conservation Reserve Program pays farmers and landowners $1.8
billion a year to use land in a way that cleans air, filters
water and preserves wildlife.  New York has spent more than $1.5 billion in a watershed
protection program that started in 1991 to conserve land around
the Croton River and in the Catskills where the city’s water
originates. The city buys property and pays landowners to
protect the area.  Valuing Bees  In the U.K., the government set up a Natural Capital
Committee under the leadership of Dieter Helm, a professor of
 energy policy  at the University of Oxford, to advise lawmakers
on how to integrate ecosystems into decision-making. He says the
starting point is to develop a “balance sheet” of natural
capital to accompany the GDP income statement.  Gardiner as environment minister in 2006 and 2007 convinced
then-Chancellor of the Exchequer  Gordon Brown  to fork out 6
million pounds to investigate bee diseases by pointing out that
the Treasury was losing 200 million pounds in tax revenues as a
result of an unexplained decline in colonies of the pollinators.  “Natural capital touches on every element of policy-making
from building roads to seabed management, the construction of
shipping channels and the pollination of our crops,” Gardiner
said in an interview.  He’s part of the Globe International alliance of lawmakers
from at least 86 nations that’s pushing governments in Rio to
incorporate environmental value in their national accounts.
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  announced before flying to Rio
that by 2020 Britain will include a measure of natural capital
in statistics published with GDP.  British Decision  “We’re reforming the U.K.’s national accounts so that, by
2020, they also reflect our natural wealth,” Clegg said in a
statement from his office in London. “I’ll be pressing our
international partners to follow suit.”  “A country can expand its GDP, creating the illusion of
increased wealth, while becoming ‘poorer’ as it destroys the
natural capital on which its long-term prosperity depends,”
Globe President John Gummer and Brazilian Senator Cicero Lucena
wrote in an e-mailed statement.  The World Bank through its program on Wealth Accounting and
the Valuation of Ecosystem Services, or WAVES, is funding
programs in  Botswana ,  Colombia ,  Costa Rica , Madagascar and the
 Philippines . It’s designed to value the fish nurseries formed by
reefs and mangroves and tourist revenue generated by preserving
wild animals that also destroy crops and kill livestock.  In Madagascar, hilltop forests regulate the way water
percolates downhill, giving a more even flow than a hillside
stripped of vegetation, said Frank Hawkins, head of the Africa
division at the non-profit Conservation International, which is
working with the government on that country’s WAVES program.  Rice Crops  “That’s very important for allowing people to have two
crops a year of irrigated rice at the valley bottom,” Hawkins
said in an interview. “That’s a service the forest is
providing. You can quantify the value by showing what it is the
farmers can grow in excess of what they could grow if the forest
wasn’t there.”  Some  developing countries  also are taking steps. Presidents
and ministers from 10 African nations on May 25 signed a
declaration in Gaborone, Botswana, that said they will integrate
the value of natural capital into national accounting and
corporate planning.  If governments have a balance sheet of their natural
assets, including minerals and fossil fuels, they can then be
held accountable for depleting them, said Helm, citing Britain’s
shrinking North Sea oil production.  “We consumed it all, had a party, pretended we were all
better off than we actually were,” said the Oxford academic who
is advising the U.K. “Now the current generation has got the
consequences. You shouldn’t be able to squander the future
without knowing that that’s what you’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  