-- UN Says 45 CEOs, From Coke to Levi’s, Join Water Effort
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-06-18T14:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/un-says-45-companies-from-coke-to-levi-s-to-join-water-effort.html
The  United Nations  has received
support from chief executive officers at 45 companies, from Levi
Strauss & Co. to  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , in an effort to use water more
efficiently.  The companies joined the UN Global Compact in committing to
improve water-management practices during a meeting in Rio de
Janeiro today, according to a statement. The compact is the
world’s biggest organization backing sustainability measures.  About 800 million people worldwide don’t have safe drinking
water and another 2.5 billion lack access to sanitation, the UN
estimated. It cited research from McKinsey & Co. showing water
demand will outstrip supply by 40 percent by 2030.  “Water is a critical issue, and most companies are doing
nothing about it,” Gavin Power, deputy director of the UN
Global Compact, said in an interview in Rio de Janiero. “This
is a market failure.”  The CEOs agreed to work “more actively with governments
and public authorities in responsible and transparent ways to
help solve the global water crisis,” according to a statement
from the UN Compact today.  Levi Strauss, based in San Francisco, is working to ensure
cotton growers who supply materials for its jeans use water
efficiently, and Atlanta-based Coke reduced the amount of water
consumed in the process of making 1 liter (0.26 gallon) of its
product by 13 percent in 2011, according to the UN.  Other companies participating in the program include
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,  Banco do Brasil SA ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) , De Beers
Group,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Unilever NV (UNA)  and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Water Companies  “All companies are water companies because they all rely
on water, whether it’s in pharmaceuticals or for beverages,”
Power said. “The scale of the water problem is so big that
governments can’t solve it alone. They need the help of the
private sector.”  The UN announcement is being made in Rio de Janiero, where
50,000 delegates and 130 heads of state have gathered for the
Rio+20 conference on sustainable development. The UN and other
organizations are hosting conferences across the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  