-- WPP Hawks Soap in Malaysia as Ad Firms Shield From Slump
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-18T07:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/wpp-hawks-soap-in-malaysia-as-ad-firms-shield-from-slump.html
When top advertising executives
gather this week at the  Cannes Lions  festival in France, the
focus of the discussion will be far away from the yachts and
luxury hotels of the Cote d’Azur.  Europe’s slowdown has pushed the ad agencies into faster-
growing markets and led to an acquisition boom in Brazil,
Russia, India and  China , with  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Publicis SA (PUB)  racing to
buy local marketers. Now, with the BRIC economies at risk of
slowing too, the agencies are spreading deeper into  emerging
markets , making deals in Malaysia, Turkey, Indonesia and
Pakistan to boost revenue.  “They are chasing growth where they can find it,” said
Stuart Sparkes, a partner in the corporate-finance advisory at
Deloitte LLP in London. “It’s a good way of the marketing-
services  conglomerates  getting faster profit growth.”  The challenge for the agencies is to identify markets and
takeover targets little affected by the slump caused by Europe’s
debt crisis. WPP and Publicis, the two largest advertising
agencies in the region, also risk overspending after an
acquisition spree in the BRIC countries pushed up prices,
potentially diluting the expansion’s benefits.  WPP Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  and Publicis’s
 Maurice Levy  are betting on emerging-markets demand to revive
the companies’ stocks, which have dropped more than 10 percent
in the past three months as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified and
threatened to weigh on growth globally. Paris-based Publicis
said in April sales growth will slow this quarter as clients cut
spending.  Beer, Spices  WPP, the world’s biggest ad agency, has made more than two
dozen  acquisitions  this year, including expansion into emerging
markets beyond the BRICs, such as Malaysia and Turkey. The
Dublin-based company now sells spices and Downy soap in Malaysia
and last month bought a stake in the Today Group advertising
agency, which handles marketing for Mandalay Beer and City Mart
Supermarkets.  Publicis, the third-largest marketer, acquired United Arab
Emirates-based Flip Media in February, winning access to
customers in the  Middle East .  Developing advertising markets in such countries may keep
growing even if other regions cool. If faced with budget cuts,
advertisers will reduce spending in Western Europe and the U.S.
in favor of faster-growing economies, where advertising has a
better chance of earning a return, said  Claudio Aspesi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London.  Mature Markets  “The bulk of what they will try to save will be saved in
the mature markets where you have an aging population, which has
already made up its mind about what brands it wants,” Aspesi
said. “The money will be preferentially deployed in the
countries where the brands can still be built.”  Still, the smaller growth economies are also at risk of
getting hit by Europe’s debt woes, Aspesi said.  “It would be naive to think that you could have a massive
recession in the developed world and no impact on the BRICs or
even the more nascent, next tiers,” he said. “However they
should still drive faster revenue growth than the mature markets
will.”  Economic growth in  India  during the first quarter was the
slowest in almost a decade as the crisis in Europe, India’s top
trading partner, hurt exports.  Standard & Poor’s  said this month
that it may lower the nation’s credit rating to junk. Deutsche
Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG cut growth forecasts for
China this month on projection that Europe’s debt crisis would
crimp the economy.  ‘Increasingly Wary’  “The slowing growth in emerging markets is definitely a
concern and is front of mind at the moment,” said  Conor O’Shea ,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  WPP gained 0.7 percent to 752.5 pence at 8:48 a.m. London
time. Publicis  added  0.6 percent to 37.59 euros in Paris.  WPP’s Sorrell told investors this month that he is
“increasingly wary” of a slowdown in high-growth countries as
he looks for places to spend as much as 400 million pounds ($626
million) on deals this year.  Sorrell also expressed concern that he may get less bang
for his buck after the rush for ad companies in the emerging
markets drove up valuations.  “ Brazil  and China have been affected, in our view, by
significant overpaying by some of our competitors to catch up,
and have made those markets a little bit less attractive,”
Sorrell said at an investor meeting this month.  Ad agencies rely on acquisitions as the vehicle of
expansion to gain local expertise about products, markets and
customers. Western corporations are viewed with suspicion in
some emerging markets, said  Alex DeGroote , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London.  Acquisition Targets  One challenge for the agencies in their push beyond Europe
and the U.S. is to find acquisition targets that will give them
scale they need to win business, DeGroote said.  Cannes Lions, modeled after the film festival in the same
location, is one of the biggest advertising events and will
judge more than 28,000 entries from all over the world for its
awards. More than 9,000 participants from 90 countries are
expected to attend, according to the conference organizers.  Emerging markets are a theme at the Cannes event this year.
The organizers  named  Lo Sheung Yan, ad agency JWT’s executive
creative director for northeast  Asia , to head the awards jury,
making him the first person from the country to hold that role
at the event, which is now in its 59th year.  Europe Trailing  WPP has said it wants to get about a third of revenue from
these high-growth markets in Asia,  Africa ,  Latin America  and the
Middle East in the next three-to-four years. The company got
more than 29 percent of revenue from those regions last year.
Publicis got about 21 percent of  sales  from countries outside of
Europe and North America.  Global advertising is expected to increase 6.4 percent a
year to $661 billion by 2016, with expansion in emerging markets
topping the average and growth in U.S. and Europe trailing it,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  China will expand an average of 15 percent over that period
to make its ad market, excluding Hong Kong, worth $71.64 billion
by 2016. Indonesia and India will grow at 13 percent.  In Latin America,  Venezuela  and  Argentina  will outpace
Brazil, the region’s biggest economy. European ad growth will be
fastest in  Russia  and Turkey with about 13 percent.  Advertisers “will continue to prioritize investing in
emerging markets just because the growth profile is so much more
attractive,” DeGroote said. “The more mature markets are hard
work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  