-- A Contrarian Fund Manager Bets Against Emerging Markets
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-06-06T21:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/a-contrarian-fund-manager-bets-against-emerging-markets.html
     Given the volatility of stocks in recent years, very few
hedged mutual funds have lived up to their promise of
protecting investors on the downside while generating positive
results on the up. The Icon Long/Short Fund, for example, fell
39.9 percent in 2008, more than the S&P 500's 37.0 percent. It
also lagged during the recovery, rising only 15.4 percent in
2009, compared with the S&P's 26.5 percent. Portfolio manager
Michael Aronstein’s Marketfield Fund, by
contrast, outperformed the S&P in both of those years.  The $1.5 billion fund has delivered a 9.2 percent
annualized return since its August 2007 inception, compared
with a -0.9 percent annualized loss for the average long-short
equity fund and a paltry 1.4 percent gain for the S&P 500. A
dyed-in-the-wool contrarian, Aronstein makes his living buying
what others are selling and shorting or betting against such
beloved sectors as gold and emerging markets.  While his track record speaks for itself, even Aronstein
sometimes runs into trouble. He says he bought energy stocks
at their high last summer, and while he had a bearish view of
commodities overall, he held onto those shares thinking they
would be resilient during a downturn. Problem was, when the
markets fell, so did the energy stocks, putting a dent in his
overall performance. Lewis Braham spoke with Aronstein at his
New York office.  Q: How would you characterize your investment strategy?  A: We’re looking for circumstances where we have an
opinion on the macroeconomic environment that is at odds with
the prevailing consensus and where the market also reflects a
difference of opinion from ours. The room in between those
postures affords an opportunity to make money. It’s like
hitting in baseball, where they say, ‘You hit the pitcher’s
mistakes.’ We profit from conceptual errors in the
marketplace.  Q: What is your macroeconomic outlook right now?  A: I’m pretty positive about the U.S., very concerned
about the emerging markets and the commodity complex. Emerging
markets in the past decade have gone up as much as the Nasdaq
index did between 1991 and 2000. You have too many investors
there with too high expectations, and these markets in my
experience have tremendously wide entrance doors and one
little exit that is sometimes bolted.  Q: There is not a lot of liquidity on your way out?  A: No. People kind of forget that. It worries
me, particularly in China, where the expectations about a
developing middle class are, I think, way off the mark. The
wealth China has developed has been mostly a function of
either demand or capital coming from external sources.  Q: You favor U.S. retailers like TJX and Tractor Supply
instead.  A: The retailers are a long-standing position about the
health of the U.S. consumer. Following the 2008
collapse, there was a general misperception that the consumer
was dead. We felt very strongly that the excess leverage on
the consumer’s balance sheet was the result of excess leverage
on shelter. People had gotten into trouble because of their
affection for real estate, but it wasn’t a generalized overuse
of debt. It was very specific to a particular excess in the
cycle. Once people stopped committing so much of their
discretionary cash flow to property, it would free up their
money for other expenditures. That’s a long-standing position
but recently we started shifting a little bit toward more
consumer cyclical names. We added to the home building sector
back in the fall of last year.  Q: Why did you do that?  We came to the conclusion that house prices bottomed last
summer. We felt that price levels nationally had reached a
point where the annual yield on buying a single-family home
and renting it out had gone well into the mid-teens. That was
a price level where investment demand would start soaking up
the excess housing inventory, particularly in parts of the
country where you had the worst problems -- Florida, Arizona
and some other parts of the Sun Belt and the West. We saw this
process beginning and we thought that most of the negative
sentiment around housing was wrong. So we own housing-related
stocks -- Toll Brothers, DR Horton, Ryland Group, Beacon
Roofing and Sherwin Williams.  Q: On the negative side, you’re shorting an ETF invested
in China, right?  A: Yeah, we’ve been shorting that for a year. The idea
many investors have that China can make a seamless transition
to a consumer-driven economy is ridiculous. There is no
precedence for it. They don’t have a
system, cultural, legal, economic or political, that would
accommodate that kind of transition. The growth they have been
experiencing recently, which is due to state-directed
investment in physical infrastructure, would have to stop to
redirect discretionary funds to consumers through higher wages
or less taxation or less stringent monetary foreign exchange
controls.  Q: You’re also short an emerging markets bond ETF. Is
there a reason why you chose to short bonds over stocks?  A: The bonds have less of a chance of really going up.
Their yields are ridiculously low right now. So there’s not
much room for gains. I think of the position like a free put
option, because if something really bad comes to pass, the
bonds are going to come down in a real hurry, way faster than
people, believe because they are intrinsically very illiquid.
They trade only in dealer markets, and at the first sign of
trouble I would expect that all the dealers are going to run
for the hills.  Q: Despite your negative outlook on emerging
markets, you’re long a Mexico ETF. Why?  A:  We like Mexico’s proximity to the U.S., and the wage
differential between Mexico and China has narrowed to
virtually zero. So given its proximity, Mexico is a good
choice now for U.S. manufacturers. The country does have its
own internal problems, but it is a society with a more general
respect for property law and restraint of arbitrary power than
China. China has no history of fair play. Zero. None. And I
don’t think people understand that foreign participants in
China’s economy have no rights when things get rough.  Q: Money managers who are afraid of economic panics are
usually bullish on gold, but I noticed that you’re short a
gold fund.  A: Yes. We were long gold for a long time, but the
argument that gold can be an effective monetary substitute in
2012 is wrong. And the idea that at $1600 an ounce it’s going
to hold its purchasing power is also suspect. It’s an asset
where people are involved up to their eyeballs based on what I
believe are false premises. You are starting to see the
capital expenditures by all the mining companies bear
fruit, and sometime in the next year or two you will see an
explosion of gold production right at the point when the
biggest holders of physical gold, other than central
banks, are in China and India. The retail ownership in those
two countries is enormous. So it is an asset class very much
tied to the fate of emerging markets. Under any scenario of
economic pressure, I think, you are going to see it for sale.  Q: Are you bullish on the dollar then?  A: Yes, I think the dollar is fine. We’ve been through a
decade where U.S. investors managed to get out of dollar-based
assets.  Alternatives are now the rage among consultants and
institutions. In 2000 everybody had 70 percent of their
portfolios in growth stocks. Now everybody has 70 percent of
their portfolios in something else, whether it’s
forestland, or Chinese Internet companies, or oil and gas
partnerships or European sovereign debt. All these means of
diversification were appropriate in 2000 but are inappropriate
now. 