-- Absa to Buy Edcon’s Store-Cards for 10 Billion Rand
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-06-06T15:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/absa-to-buy-edcon-s-store-card-portfolio-for-10-billion-rand.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  agreed to buy the
private-label store cards of Edcon (Pty) Ltd. in  South Africa 
for about 10 billion rand ($1.2 billion), enabling the bank
controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to provide retail credit to Edcon
customers.  “This is good for Absa as it will boost the bank’s
earnings and return on equity, helping it spend some of its
excess capital,” said Faizal Moolla, an analyst at Avior
Research in  Cape Town . “It will also give Absa the biggest
market share of the local unsecured lending space.” As a
result, Absa may be able to cross sell a “good proportion” of
its products to Edcon customers, Moolla said.  Edcon, South Africa’s largest clothing, footwear and
textiles retailer, has 3.8 million active accounts, it said in
an e-mailed statement today. South African banks are looking to
meet increasing demand for credit, particularly unsecured
credit, while fighting off competition from other lenders,
including  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s largest bank.  Absa will handle “credit, management of fraud, risk,
finance, legal and compliance operations of the store card
business,” while the closely held Johannesburg-based clothing
retailer controlled by private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC will
continue to manage “sales and marketing, customer services and
collections,” Absa said in a statement today. The transaction
is expected to close this year, it said.  Shares Rise  Absa, which is based in Johannesburg, rose as much as 1.8
percent to 153.59 rand, its biggest intraday gain in a week, and
closed at 151.90 rand as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Edcon, which today reported a 9 percent rise in sales to
27.3 billion rand in the year through March, said bad debts
dropped to 6.7 percent, from 10.9 percent a year earlier. Money
raised from the sale will be used to repay debt, invest in the
business and to cover transaction fees and expenses, Edcon said.  “The sale of the credit book today is not an either or
situation in terms of listing,” Lianne Osterberger, a
spokeswoman for Edcon, said in a response to e-mailed questions.
“Bain, as all private-equity companies do, will need an exit
strategy in the future -- selling in a public market or to
another buyer. The sale of the credit book is a strategic move
for Edcon.”  Bain, based in  Boston , bought Edcon in 2007 for 25 billion
rand to tap rising consumer spending in Africa’s largest
economy. Edcon has 1.1 billion euro ($1.4 billion) of bonds due
2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net 
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg on 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  