-- Dangdang Leads Biggest ADR Rally in Eight Weeks: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-06T20:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/adrs-2-day-gain-biggest-in-8-weeks-china-overnight-correct-.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
posted their biggest two-day advance since April as E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc. surged, on prospects a delay by the
government to tighten bank capital rules will support growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 2.7 percent to 90.21 at the
close of trading in New York, resulting in a two-day gain of 4
percent, the most since April 12. Dangdang, owner of China’s
biggest Internet bookseller, jumped the most since January while
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of the country’s biggest real estate
website, advanced for a third day.  Chinese regulators delayed the rules after banks warned
that the change would cut lending capacity at a time the world’s
second-largest economy is growing at the slowest pace in 11
quarters. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said
officials stand ready to act as the region’s growth outlook
worsens while  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said extending the bank’s stimulus program, which
lengthens maturities of debt on its balance sheet, is an option.  “Even though the Chinese haven’t cut rates, they’re in the
process of potentially adding liquidity to the system to keep
growth above that magical, mystical 7.5 percent level,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion as chief investment
officer at Fiduciary Trust in Boston, said in a phone interview.
“We’re also getting more dovish talk from the Federal Reserve
and the ECB which is quelling some of the angst that has been in
the marketplace for the past couple of weeks.”  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced the most in a week,
adding 2.7 percent to $33.49. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index
rose 2.3 percent to 1,315.13 as  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer, climbed 3.4 percent after
raising its stock repurchase plan by $500 million for fiscal
2012. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  posted its biggest gain
of the year, climbing 2.4 percent to 12,414.79.  The ECB is under pressure to lower rates and introduce more
liquidity support for banks as governments struggle to fix a
crisis that’s engulfing Spain and could force Greece out of the
euro. Draghi stopped short of pledging longer-term financing to
address the euro-zone’s debt crisis.  The Fed’s Lockhart indicated that he wouldn’t oppose the
central bank extending the so-called Operation Twist, the
maturity-extension program that’s scheduled to expire at the end
of this month. The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee
meets June 19-20 to consider whether more stimulus is needed
after the U.S. economy added the fewest jobs in a year in May.  Dangdang (DANG)  jumped 11 percent, the most since Jan. 27, to
$5.30 to extend its advance for the week to 16 percent. The
Beijing-based company had fallen 39 percent in April and May.  SouFun, Home Inns  SouFun added 4.8 percent to $16.50, a four-week high, as
the delay in capital rules pointed to the potential for
increased real estate loans. Banks had warned regulators that
tighter rules would restrict lending.  Home Inns & Hotels
Management Inc. (HMIN) , a budget hotel operator based in Shanghai,
climbed 6.6 percent to $22.04, a three-week high.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.1 percent yesterday
to 2,309.56 while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong gained for a second day,
adding 0.4 percent to 9,438.03.  “The growth in China is still significant and we believe
the regime has firm control over the economy and is managing it
well,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at New
York-based Solaris Group, which manages about $2 billion in
assets. “Considering that the government hasn’t had to take
bigger steps such as cutting interest rates, that gives me
confidence in the economy and the potential for stocks to
rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  