-- Ahold First-Quarter Profit Drops as Consumers Spend Less
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-06-06T07:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ahold-first-quarter-profit-drops-as-consumers-spend-less.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop grocery stores, said first-quarter profit
unexpectedly dropped as consumers reined in spending on
groceries amid higher unemployment in  Europe  and the U.S.  Net income declined to 282 million euros ($352 million)
from 291 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based
company said today. Analysts expected profit of 304 million
euros, according to the average of nine estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 5 percent to 9.72 billion euros.  “We expect 2012 to be another challenging year for the
food-retail industry, with intense competitive activity and
 consumer spending  under pressure due to economic uncertainty,
particularly in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said
today.  Profitability fell in the U.S. as the company invested in
price cuts to win market share, Boer said. Shoppers are holding
back on spending as the  European debt crisis  worsens and the
grocer is responding with promotions and cheaper private-label
items. Ahold is also expanding into new countries such as
Belgium to lift revenue and  bought  Internet retailer Bol.com
this year to boost non-food sales.  “This certainly was a weak quarter and results came in
lower than consensus,” said  Richard Withagen , an Amsterdam-
based analyst at SNS Securities with a buy recommendation on the
stock. “Particularly, the U.S. performance was disappointing.”  The  shares  declined as much as 31 cents, or 3.2 percent, to
9.28 euros and traded at 9.34 euros as of 09:55 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, reducing the market value to 10.3 billion
euros. The AEX index rose 1.4 percent.  U.S. Business  In the U.S., where Ahold makes the bulk of its sales,
underlying operating income as a percentage of revenue dropped
to 4.1 percent from 4.6 percent. Revenue increased 2.8 percent
to $7.8 billion.  “We have to play a very aggressive game on promotion in
the U.S.,” Boer said on the call, adding that Ahold has
increased its market share. With U.S. unemployment still at high
levels, Boer said he is cautious for the rest of the year.  In the Netherlands, sales increased 1.2 percent to 3.3
billion euros. Sales growth was affected by a shift in holidays,
mainly as a result of the timing of Easter, the retailer said.
In the second quarter, identical sales growth for the company
will improve from the first, Boer said.  Ahold, which owns Albert Heijn stores in the Netherlands
and  Belgium , has said it plans to cut costs by an additional 350
million euros over three years and increase the proportion of
earnings paid as dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  