-- Ahold Shares Decline as Consumers Hold Back: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-06-06T13:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ahold-shares-decline-as-consumers-hold-back-amsterdam-mover.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the owner of Stop &
Shop grocery stores, dropped the most in more than nine months
as first-quarter earnings missed estimates because U.S. and
European consumers held back on spending.  “In total, people are buying less food than before,”
Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said on a conference call
today.  Net income declined to 282 million euros ($352 million)
from 291 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts expected profit of
304 million euros, according to the average of nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5 percent to 9.72 billion
euros.  The  shares  fell as much as 5.4 percent in Amsterdam
trading, the most since Aug. 25. The stock was down 4.6 percent
at 9.15 euros at 3:22 p.m., reducing the market value to 10.1
billion euros. The AEX Dutch benchmark stock index was up 1.4
percent.  “Most of the shortfall seems to be in the U.S., where
margins declined,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies, said
in a note to clients. He has a hold rating on Ahold.  Profitability in the U.S. fell as the company invested in
price cuts to win market share, Boer said. Consumption is waning
as the  European debt crisis  worsens, and the grocer is
responding with promotions and cheaper private-label items.  Margin Narrows  In the U.S., where Ahold makes the bulk of its sales,
underlying operating income as a percentage of revenue dropped
to 4.1 percent from 4.6 percent. Revenue increased 2.8 percent
to $7.8 billion.  “We have to play a very aggressive game on promotion in
the U.S.,” Boer said on the call, adding that Ahold has
increased its market share. With U.S. unemployment still at high
levels, Boer said he is cautious for the rest of the year.  “We don’t see any scope for margin improvement in the U.S.
in the rest of the year,” Chief Financial Officer Jeff Carr
said. For the Netherlands, where the company runs Albert Heijn
stores, Carr does expect some improvement of its operating
margin, which was 6 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  