-- LaHood Joins Airlines to Protest EU Carbon-Emissions Limits
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-06T19:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lahood-will-join-airlines-to-protest-eu-carbon-emissions-limits.html
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
joined carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  to
protest European Union greenhouse-gas limits the U.S. companies
say may cost them more than $3.1 billion by 2020.  “The U.S. government strongly opposes the EU scheme on
both legal and policy grounds,” LaHood told a Senate Commerce
Committee hearing today on the plan, which would force U.S.
airlines to curb emissions on flights to and from EU airports.
“I have been disappointed by the EU’s response,” he said, and
vowed appropriate action if the measure isn’t repealed.  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 to include flights to and
from European airports as part of its carbon program after
aircraft emissions in the region doubled in two decades. LaHood
and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  sent a letter to the EU
in December saying the program is “the wrong way” to cut the
release of gases scientists tie to  climate change .  The restrictions give  Europe ’s regulators jurisdiction over
global aviation, Nancy Young, vice president of environmental
affairs at Airlines for America, representing U.S. carriers,
said before testifying.  “If a U.S. aircraft touches Europe in any way, they say
they have jurisdiction for the entire flight,” Young said in an
interview. “It’s amazing what the EU thinks it can do.”  Entire Flight  The plan would let Europe collect fees for an entire
flight, even if the time in European airspace is limited, Young
said. The costs might double if the price for carbon credits,
which remain low, increase to levels reached three years ago,
she said. The EU’s emissions caps are to be reviewed in 2014,
and costs may rise further, she said.  The EU’s proposal has drawn opposition from nations such as
China and Russia, which said Europe should let the  United
Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization  determine
greenhouse-gas limits.  The dispute could end up before the  World Trade
Organization , Young said. LaHood said today that the WTO
“doesn’t have much authority” over the EU’s action, and that
the administration is discussing filing a complaint at the
International Civil Aviation Organization instead.  Jos Delbeke, the EU director general for climate, said in
prepared testimony that the measure is part of a shared goal
with the U.S. to cut greenhouse-gas emissions.  ‘No Prospect’  “There is no prospect of suspending the EU legislation,”
Delbeke said in his statement. “There have been some
exceptionally high estimates of costs, which are unfounded.”  In Congress, lawmakers introduced legislation aimed at
shielding U.S. carriers, with the House passing a measure that
would let airlines ignore the requirements. The Senate version,
giving the Transportation secretary discretion to prohibit
compliance, has yet to be taken up.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and
chairman of the Commerce Committee, said he opposes the EU
measure, while supporting its goal. He didn’t say today if he
supports the Senate legislation.  The Obama administration in December said the rule is
inconsistent with international aviation laws.  “Failure to resolve this issue will hamper our efforts to
make progress in reducing emissions from international aviation
and develop transatlantic cooperation,” Clinton and LaHood
wrote.  While first payments aren’t due until April 2013, each
airline is required to start reporting the liability in its
financial reports this year, according to Airlines for America,
which also represents  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   “The administration has been taking a number of diplomatic
steps to see this overturned,” Young said. “It is time to stop
the rhetoric and move to strong action.”  EU representatives say they will not revise their program
unless the U.S. and other nations set up similar programs to
collect fees from domestic carriers as a way to cut emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  