-- Hakkasan New York Stir Fries Dover Sole for $52: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hakkasan-new-york-stir-fries-dover-sole-for-52-review.html
Few dishes outclass the portable
feast that is Peking duck.  The gamy meat, crispy skin, sweet plum sauce and cool
scallions enveloped in mu shu pancakes make for an elegant yet
populist meal. Not surprising, it’s the first item on the menu
at Hakkasan, newly arrived in  Manhattan ’s Theater District.  Price: $345.  The bird isn’t terribly different from the $50 versions
sold around town. Hakkasan justifies the higher price by
including 30 grams of good, farmed Kaluga caviar.  That much roe retails for $125 at  Russ & Daughters , so
throw in $170 worth of those pancakes and I suppose it’s a deal,
if not a very good one.  Hakkasan is a global chain of luxury Chinese restaurants
that debuted in London and spread to Mumbai, Miami,  Abu Dhabi 
and Dubai.  The original has one Michelin star. All the locations share
a more telling trait: No online menu prices, which makes sense,
because if there were any, who’d eat here? People willing to pay
$888 for a portion of truffled abalone.  Jasmine Incense  In New York, the menu currently isn’t on view at the
entrance, so you’ll have to walk down an 80-foot corridor
suffused with jasmine incense before reaching the host stand.
There you’ll discover that a single crispy quail costs $28,
which the average diner can finish off in a minute flat.  Wakiya, New York’s last high profile Chinese import from
 London , closed shortly after it opened. Hakkasan is marginally
better.  Late arrivals are accommodated and drink tabs are always
transferred.  Gosset Rose  ($35 the glass) is served in elegant
L’Atelier du Vin flutes and there are good bottles of Riesling
under $74. Bartenders alternate sugary signature cocktails with
excellent classics, like a negroni amped up with Grand Marnier-
flavored smoke for a pleasant nose.  Such conveniences soften the edges of the overpriced
pedestrian food. Finger bowls might appear with four forgettable
tea-smoked pork ribs ($22) and waiters might give you hand
towels following a course of obscenely chewy ostrich, a false
effort in curried exoticism for $38.  There are also inconveniences. Six-foot-tall diners will
find the bar comfortable; shorter Tom Cruise types will point
their elbows up at odd angles to reach the counter.  Custard Soup  A Hong Kong-born companion was impressed with the $28
steamed dim sum platter. Gossamer sheaths of dough encase barely
cooked-through scallops and shrimp. And five-spice pork belly
($24) sports a Goldilocks ratio of 75 percent soft meat to 25
percent silky fat.  Then you spoon some duck and fish maw soup ($15) thickened
with so much cornstarch it could qualify as pudding. Ma la
chicken ($26), whose name refers to the Sichuanese sensation of
numbing-spiciness, is an epic case of false advertising:
Hakkasan sends out slices of breast meat and crispy skin,
lacking much pop or pizzazz.  Almond-coated soft shell crabs ($22) are gritty and
tasteless. Black bean lobster, with no aromatic shell or stock,
might as well be $59 worth of maritime mystery meat.  Hakkasan is less about exposing  New Yorkers  to traditional
Chinese luxuries, than using expensive Western ingredients in
vaguely Eastern dishes as a DJ plays club music.  Spicy Sole  Australian Wagyu, whose spiderlike marbling makes it the
pinnacle of that country’s beef industry, is wok-fried into
grayish slabs and paired with peanut sauce, a $78 misdemeanor.
The subtlety of Dover sole, prized for its mild flavor, is stir
fried away in a spicy XO sauce ($52). Insane.  Sesame shrimp toast contains a filling of foie gras that
does a fine job of burning your tongue. Black truffle duck ($88)
boasts gorgeous black truffle flavor; too bad the kitchen can’t
render out the bird’s fat correctly. And truffled noodles taste
like any other noodle, a problem when you’re paying $59.  Smart diners will finish with the $15 lemon tart, to be
followed by “free” macaroons, which aren’t quite “free” when
you’re easily spending $200 per person for dinner.  Hakkasan’s excellent service, lumbar-supportive seating and
a respectful reservations policy make you wish for such comforts
at small, ambitious spots like Red Farm or Mission Chinese. If
only Hakkasan’s food wasn’t so stratospherically worse than at
those fine restaurants.  Rating: 1/2 *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: If you have to ask. . .  Sound Level: Often 80 decibels or above, but tolerable.  Date Place: A guy at the bar asked my date out, so maybe
yes, maybe no.  Inside Tip: Skip the sugary signature cocktails.  Special Feature: Chinese-style barbequed whole suckling pig
for $295.  Back on My Own Dime: For cocktails.  Hakkasan is at 311 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-776-
1818;  http://www.hakkasan.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art and Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 