-- Halliburton Sees Margins Lower in Quarter on Guar Gum Cost
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-06-06T20:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/halliburton-north-american-margins-lower-in-quarter-on-gum-cost.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, said North American
profit margins this quarter will shrink more than previously
forecast because of higher material costs.  A potential shortage of guar gum, an agricultural commodity
used to blend materials used in hydraulic fracturing, has driven
up prices more than expected, Houston-based Halliburton said
today in a statement.  Halliburton said second-quarter North American margins will
be 5 to 5.5 percentage points lower than in the first quarter,
compared with a previous forecast of a 2 to 2.5 percentage point
reduction. Halliburton has cited rising guar costs as a reason
to seek higher fees from energy producers. The guar-gel system
can be more than 30 percent of the total price to frack a well,
the company said in April.  “The general belief was that Halliburton was more
insulated based on early purchasing and inventory of guar
supply,” said  Scott Gruber , a New York-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “This announcement runs counter to
that.”  Halliburton will earn 77 cents a share this quarter, 7
cents less than estimated, based on today’s forecast, Gruber
said today in a telephone interview. He rates the shares
“market perform” and owns none.  Gruber had expected Halliburton to earn 84 cents a share in
the second quarter. That also is the average of 28 analysts’
estimates complied by Bloomberg.  Quest for Guar  “The magnitude is actually more than we anticipated,”
said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in
Houston who said he had expected the reduction to be about 1 to
1.5 percentage points more than previously disclosed.  The operating margin in  North America  in the first quarter
climbed to about 25.5 percent from 24.5 percent a year earlier.  Guar is made into a thickening gel used to carry sand down
a well and into the cracks created from hydraulic fracturing.
Sand, which is used to keep fractures propped open so oil and
natural gas can flow out, travels further into the crack with
guar than with thinner fluids.  Guar has been used to increase the viscosity of liquids in
foods including ice cream and fruit drinks as well as consumer
products such as shampoo and hand lotion.  Halliburton said today it thinks the higher costs are
“transitory” until more supplies are available early next
year. The company said it’s seeking “relief” from customers
and to use more synthetic and other guar alternatives.  Missing Jobs  Uhlmer, who has a buy rating on Halliburton shares and
doesn’t own any, said new contracts may include higher prices as
they are negotiated.  “Everybody’s struggling for guar,” Halliburton Chief
Financial Officer Mark McCollum said at a May 22 investor
conference. “We’re aware that there are some of our primary
competitors missing jobs because of the unavailability of
guar.”  Halliburton fell 3.5 percent to $28.10 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 19 percent this year.  The stock has declined amid concern about the level of work
in North America, said Global Hunter’s Uhlmer.  “A shortage of guar means that activity is still remaining
high and people are still out there working,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  