-- Apple Seeks to Block Import of Newest HTC Phones, Tablets
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-06T16:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/apple-seeks-to-block-import-of-newest-htc-phones-tablets.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed an enforcement
action at the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington,
seeking an emergency order that would block imports of  HTC
Corp.’s (2498)  newest phones and tablet computers.  HTC had been ordered by the commission to remove a function
patented by Apple for data-detection technology if it wanted to
continue selling its mobile phones in the U.S. Apple contends
products including the HTC One X, HTC One S, HTC EVO 4G LTE
phones and Flyer tablets continue to infringe its patent even
after an exclusion order was issued in December.  HTC,  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker, is counting on
its One series of phones to improve its share of a market that
reached $312 billion last year, according to Bloomberg
Industries data. The company had 4.5 percent of the global
smartphone market in the first quarter, down from a peak of 10.7
percent in the second quarter of 2011, as it lost to competition
from Apple’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy line.  “HTC has worked long and hard to get itself back on track
and this is aimed at what everyone looks at as a new beginning
with the One series,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst at IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts . “HTC has been having a rough patch
and this is them getting kicked again.”  Stopped at Border  Some HTC products were stopped at the U.S. border last
month, delaying plans by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to sell the HTC EVO
4G.  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  allowed the products,
made in  Taiwan , to enter the U.S. after assurances by HTC that
the devices weren’t infringing the Apple patent.  “HTC has completed the review process with U.S. Customs
and HTC devices have been released, as they are in compliance
with the ITC’s ruling,” the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Apple wants the commission to have all HTC products that
run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating service blocked from the
U.S. until the enforcement case is resolved. It also asks the
agency to force HTC to remove any products from store shelves
that it imported in violation of the exclusion order.  “The commission allowed HTC four months to either
negotiate a license with Apple or to remove the infringing
functionality from its Android devices,” Apple said in the
complaint. “HTC did neither.”  Android Battle  Cupertino, California-based Apple said that if such an
order isn’t imposed, HTC otherwise should be required to post a
bond equal to the value of each imported product, or at least
$290 for each device, Apple said in the filing dated June 4.  “HTC’s market share for Android phones is the most
significant part of their business,” said Makan Delrahim of
Brownstein Hyatt in  Los Angeles , who specializes in patent and
trade issues. “If Apple got an order to remove those from the
shelves, that would be as significant as it comes.”  Apple filed its initial complaint against HTC in March
2010, the first salvo in the iPhone maker’s legal battle against
devices that run on Android. It has since become embroiled in
litigation with Samsung and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
which became a Google unit last month, over their Android
products.  In February, HTC lost a patent-infringement case it filed
against Apple. Both companies have filed new patent complaints
against each other at the trade agency.  The newest case is In the Matter of Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, Complaint
No. 2900. The earlier case is In the Matter of Certain Personal
Data and Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software,
337-710. Both were filed at the U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  