-- As Japan Stops Saving, a Crisis Looms
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-06-06T23:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/as-japan-stops-saving-a-crisis-looms.html
With their declining household-saving
rate, Japanese consumers are no longer both financing government
deficits and sustaining their nation’s  current-account
surpluses . How is the gap being filled?  The current-account balance can be expressed as the
difference between  gross national saving  by consumers, business
and government, and total gross investment by those sectors. In
this context, gross refers to measures before the subtraction of
capital consumption or depreciation. If the balance is positive,
as in  Japan , saving exceeds investment needs and the rest must
be exported. If it is negative, as in the U.S., saving is
insufficient to finance domestic investment and funds need to be
imported.  In Japan, household gross saving in excess of  gross
capital spending  is slipping as the saving rate falls. That
trend is likely to continue as a result of the aging population
and other forces, as discussed in yesterday’s column. The
government persists with its deficit because its gross saving is
negative and gross investment is positive. That leaves the
corporate sector to make up for the shortfall.  Business Saving  Normally, the business sector is a net borrower as capital
spending exceeds  cash flow  from depreciation and retained
earnings. Yet Japanese business  capital spending  has been
falling since the mid-1990s while export-driven cash flow has
climbed. Since then, the business sector has been a saver on
balance, and most of that increase in gross saving has come from
capital-consumption allowances in the nonfinancial corporate
sector. Businesses, then, have seamlessly replaced consumers in
financing chronic government  deficits  and in sustaining current-
account surpluses.  The falling trend in corporate capital spending and its
decline as a share of gross domestic product coincide with
rising  exports . In recent years, Japan has increasingly exported
capital goods to China and other Asian lands, where they are
used to produce U.S.-bound consumer products. That’s an
oversimplification, yet it gets to the essence of the process.
This has made Japanese business very efficient in producing
capital goods to export without increasing capital spending.
Indeed,  core machinery orders  fell 2.8 percent in March 2012
compared with February.  In contrast, in the U.S., there is a negative spread
between gross national saving and investment, which last year
ran at $435 billion, or 3.1 percent of GDP. The household
sector, with a 4.7 percent saving rate last year, had a $446
billion surplus of saving over investment. The U.S. business
sector’s net surplus was $498 billion. The combined total of
$944 billion was overwhelmed by the  government deficit  of $1.38
trillion.  As  U.S. consumers  continue to retrench and delay imports,
 China  will cut its growth in already excessive industrial
capacity, and that will include capital equipment and other
Japanese exports. Absent strong domestic demand, weak exports,
in turn, will keep capital spending subdued and, in time,
Japanese gross corporate saving in the form of capital
consumption and retained earnings will weaken. The net effect
will be to depress the country’s current account, unless the
economy revives thanks to a large increase in  consumer spending 
and the related disappearance of government incentives to run
big deficits by providing fiscal stimulus.  Low Rates  Japan’s current account was 2 percent of GDP in 2011, and
fell 8.6 percent in March 2012 from a year earlier. Low global
interest rates during what is likely to be five to seven more
years of worldwide deleveraging will depress earnings of
Japanese foreign assets, which have supported the current-
account surplus. Furthermore, from 2007 to 2011, Japan cut
holdings of high-yielding euro-area assets by $309 billion, and
probably by much more in the past year.  Except for  government spending , exports have been the only
area of strength in the Japanese economy for years. And there
has been a close link between exports and  GDP growth  since 1990.
That’s why the government in early 2010 began a campaign to spur
exports of infrastructure goods such as bullet trains and
nuclear reactors.  A current-account deficit in Japan would have serious
consequences because the country would be importing money,
instead of exporting. And since this would probably occur in a
moribund economy, few investment opportunities would attract
foreign capital or encourage Japanese with foreign assets to
sell them to bring the money home. So interest rates would need
to rise appreciably from current low levels of less than 1
percent for 10-year Japanese  government bonds .  Furthermore, debt-rating companies are growing weary of
Japan’s huge government deficits and mounting sovereign debt.
That means  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service may
follow Fitch Ratings’ recent downgrades. This would lead to
further increases in Japanese interest rates and bond yields.
Higher rates would also end the yen’s status as a funding
currency for the carry trade that allows investors to borrow in
yen and invest in higher-interest-rate countries.  Then, Japan’s immense government debt, even if almost
entirely domestically owned, would be much more expensive for
the government to finance. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimated that in 2010, Japanese government  interest payments 
amounted to 2 percent of GDP. An  interest rate  that is one
percentage point higher would add 2 percent of GDP to the
government’s interest costs. Then as confidence eroded, the IMF
 wrote , “Authorities could face an adverse feedback loop between
rising yields, falling market confidence, a more vulnerable
financial system, diminishing fiscal policy space and a
contracting real economy.” In other words, a government-debt
death spiral.  Domestic Deflation  Japanese domestic investors may be satisfied with low
nominal interest rates as real returns are much higher because
of domestic deflation, but foreign investors probably compare
yields in Japan with their own price indexes, which are still
rising. That also could initiate a self-feeding debt spiral
unless other  government spending  is slashed. But that action
might so weaken the economy that the government deficit,
excluding interest costs, would end up widening, not shrinking.  Upward pressure on government bond yields will also ensue
as institutional holders such as the Government Pension
Investment Fund, which has two-thirds of its assets in
government debt, and Japan Post Holdings Co. sell their holdings
to pay old-age-related entitlements in coming years. And rising
interest rates will lower the value of those pension assets. To
be sure, the  Bank of Japan , with government approval, could
offset some of the pressure on interest rates with a flood of
money, but in the long run, that could push the yen down so much
as to jeopardize Japan’s international credibility. The central
bank pursued that policy after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami,
but for a limited period.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fourth in a five-part series.
Read Part 1,  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on why  Germany’s
consideration of an economic  union is too late and  medical-
device taxes ;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth of election mandates ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  banning Big Gulps ;  Susan Antilla  on  workplace
discrimination ;  Caroline Baum  on  the nascent economic recovery ;
Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling  at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  