-- Stocks Rise Most This Year as Euro Gains on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-06T20:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-data-spain-aussie-oil-gain.html
Global stocks rallied the most this
year, the euro strengthened and commodities jumped on
speculation policy makers will take steps to revive the slowing
economy.  Australia ’s currency surged after a report showed the
gross domestic product grew at twice the projected rate.  The MSCI All-Country World Index and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index each added 2.3 percent at 4 p.m. New York time, the
biggest gains for both since Dec. 20. The euro strengthened 0.9
percent to $1.2568 and jumped 1.6 percent versus the yen. The
Australian dollar rose 1.8 percent against the U.S. currency.
 Germany ’s 10-year bund yield increased 13 basis points and the
rate on U.S. Treasury note added eight points as investors
pursued riskier assets. The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities gained
1.3 percent as oil rallied.  Global equities erased their losses since last week’s
report showing the weakest U.S. jobs growth in a year. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready
to act as the euro region’s growth outlook worsens. Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said extending
Operation Twist, the central bank’s stimulus program that
lengthen maturities of debt on its balance sheet, is an “option
on the table.”  “There’s always hope that some magic tool would be
found,” Ron Florance, managing director of investment strategy
for Wells Fargo Private Bank, said in a telephone interview from
Phoenix. His firm manages $169 billion. “There’s no sense of
any economic recovery on the near-term horizon for  Europe .
Things could get worse. Investors tend to be optimists. So they
are always hoping for something better.”  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the
world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
the financial turmoil on a conference call yesterday. Officials
said they would work together to help  Spain  and  Greece  put their
public finances on a sustainable footing.  Buffett Speaks  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said he expects the  U.S. economy  to avoid another
recession as long as Europe can contain its debt crisis. There
won’t be a recession “unless events in Europe develop in some
way that spills over here big-time,” Buffett said yesterday at
the Economic Club of  Washington .  The Fed said today that the U.S. economy maintained a
moderate pace of growth as factory output rose and the real-
estate market improved. Its Beige Book survey based on reports
from its 12 district banks used similar language to the previous
report in April.  Market Leaders  Bank of America Corp., United Technologies Corp.,
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Cisco Systems Inc. helped lead gains in all
30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which surged
286.84 points to 12,414.79.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, climbed 3.4 percent after increasing
its stock repurchase plan.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  rallied 7.1 percent as the company
was said to be in advanced talks to sell pipelines to Global
Infrastructure Partners for more than  $4 billion . Monsanto Co.
advanced 3 percent after the largest seed company said it will
repurchase as much as $1 billion of shares as rising profit
boosts the company’s cash hoard to a record.  The  S&P 500  fell as much as  9.9 percent  from this year’s
peak in April through last week amid concern about a global
slowdown. The gauge slid 2.5 percent on June 1 after Labor
Department data showed employers added 69,000 jobs in May,
trailing the median economist estimate for a gain of 150,000.
The index started the week trading at  12.9 times  reported
earnings, the cheapest valuation in six months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year Treasury yield climbed for a third day,
reaching a one-week high of 1.66 percent. The 30-year U.S.
bond’s yield added nine basis points to 2.73 percent. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers, slid 0.8
percent for its biggest drop in five months.  Bond Yields  Ten- and 30-year yields reached record lows of 1.4387
percent and 2.5089 percent on June 1 after the jobs report. The
yields reached their 2012 highs in March, 3.49 percent for long
bonds and 2.40 percent for 10-years.  Sugar, cotton and silver rallied at least 3.2 percent to
lead gains in 20 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI.  Crude oil rose 0.9 percent to $85.02 a barrel in New York.
An indicator known as the relative strength index shows the fuel
may be poised for a rebound. Its 14-day RSI has been below 30
since May 11, the longest stretch in 26 years. The figure, which
identifies possible turning points in markets, dropped to 16.3
on June 1, the lowest level since February 1986.  Stoxx 600  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  surged 2.3 percent, the most in
since Nov. 30, as the  U.K. market reopened after a two-day
public holiday. HSBC Holdings Plc added 4.7 percent as Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. said in a note that impairments are falling
at Britain’s high-street banks.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  jumped 8.2 percent,
its biggest gain since January, Lloyds Banking Group Plc
increased 5.2 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rose
6.7 percent.  Officials in Germany and the European Union are exploring
ways to rescue Spanish banks, Reuters reported, citing unnamed
sources familiar with the discussions. Lawyers are examining
treaties to see if Spain could get money from rescue finds
without being subjected to a full economic-adjustment plan, the
news service reported.  The 17-nation euro rose to a one-week high against the
dollar amid speculation the world’s leading economies will
collaborate on a response to Europe’s crisis, boosting demand
for the region’s assets. The euro briefly pared its gain versus
the American currency as Draghi said there were “increased
downside risks” to the economy.  Euro Economy  The euro had fallen 3.8 percent over the past six months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
gained 4.1 percent, and the yen advanced 2.2 percent.  Reports today showed German industrial output fell more
than economists forecast in April and Spanish production had the
biggest drop in more than two years, adding to signs of a
deepening economic slump across the euro area.  German production declined 2.2 percent from March, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists had forecast a
drop of 1 percent, according to the median estimates. In Spain,
output fell 8.3 percent from a year earlier, when adjusted for
work days, a separate report showed.  The yield on Germany’s five-year note rose 11 basis points
to 0.48 percent today as the government sold 3.98 billion euros
($5 billion) of April 2017 securities.  Portugal ’s two-year yield
dropped 64 basis points to 10.32 percent as borrowing costs
declined at the sale of 1 billion euros of 12-month bills.  Australia’s economic report sent the local currency, bond
yields and stocks higher and prompted traders to pare bets on a
half-point interest-rate cut next month. First-quarter gross
domestic product advanced 1.3 percent from the previous three
months, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent, a Bureau of
Statistics report released in Sydney today showed.  Australia’s 10-year bond yields jumped six basis points to
3 percent, and the S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks reversed declines
and gained 0.3 percent at the close of trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  