-- Asiya Aims to Lure Arab Investments to Tap Asia Growth, CEO Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-06T13:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/asiya-aims-to-lure-arab-investments-to-tap-asia-growth-ceo-says.html
Asiya Investments Dubai Ltd., a newly
set up unit of Kuwait-based  Kuwait China Investment Co. (KCIC) , aims to
persuade Arab sovereign funds and wealthy families to boost
investments in Asia to profit from the region’s economic growth.  Kuwait  China  Investment, in which the country’s sovereign
wealth fund Kuwait Investment Authority owns a 15 percent stake,
currently manages about $500 million and the company wants to
increase that to about $1 billion over the next two years, Chief
Executive Officer Mohab Mufti said in an interview in Dubai
today. Asiya, which means Asia in Arabic, will start a unit in
 Hong Kong  later in 2012 to support its fund management
activities in Asia, he said.  Several Arab funds are boosting investments in Asia as
economic growth in the region gathers pace. China allowed the
 Kuwait Investment Authority  to invest about $300 million in the
country’s yuan-denominated stocks and bonds, the state-run
Kuwait News Agency said in March. Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, one of the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds,
and the Indian government in January agreed to start a joint
working group to explore investment opportunities in India.  The Arab region “is under-allocated to Asia,” Mufti said.
Given Asia’s share of the global gross domestic product, the
region’s investments in Asia “should be growing to 20 percent
of the total from 5 percent” now, he said.  About half of Asiya’s funds are invested in publicly traded
Asian shares and the other half in private equity assets, Mufti
said. Among Asiya’s target markets are China,  India ,  Korea ,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Hong Kong, as well as companies in
infrastructure, real estate and energy industries that rely on
domestic demand, Mufti said.  Asiya, which offers corporate advisory services, investment
opportunities through funds and private equity deals, was set up
in the tax-free Dubai International Financial Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  