-- Latin American Pacific Bloc Rejects Brazil-Led Protectionism
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/latin-american-pacific-bloc-rejects-brazil-led-protectionism.html
Leaders from  Latin America ’s most
open economies will sign a trade accord today to increase
commerce along the Pacific rim of the region, distancing
themselves from countries such as Argentina and  Brazil  that are
raising import restrictions amid the global slowdown.  Chilean President Sebastian Pinera is hosting the meeting
at Paranal, the site of a telescope in the northern desert, to
ratify the Pacific Alliance trade bloc with his counterparts
from Mexico, Peru and Colombia. Representatives from Costa Rica
and  Panama  will attend as observers and eventually say they may
join the bloc, which was created in April last year.  Those attending “are the most outwardly focused and open
economies in the region,” Abraham Lowenthal, a Latin American
expert at The  Brookings Institution  in Washington, said in a
phone interview. “This is in keeping with where these countries
are going in terms of diversifying their international economic
relations.”  The alliance will remove barriers not covered under
existing bilateral free trade agreements, such as the free
movement of people, establishing a bloc that accounts for more
than 35 percent of Latin America’s gross domestic product. The
drive toward free trade contrasts with the slow pace of
integration in the four-nation Mercosur trade bloc led by Brazil
and Argentina, which hasn’t achieved its goal of a common market
more than two decades after its creation.  Open Economies  Chile  has the most open trade policies of any country in
Latin America and ranks 14th in the world, followed in the
region by Uruguay,  Costa Rica , Peru, Panama and Mexico, which is
in position 65, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s 2012
ranking of 132 countries for trade openness. Brazil, Latin
America’s biggest economy, ranks 84 followed by Argentina at 96
and Venezuela at 130.  Pacific Alliance members are seeking ways to further link
financial services after bourses from Lima, Bogota and Santiago
last year formed the integrated exchange known as Mila. Mexico’s
main stock exchange has expressed interest in joining the Andean
exchange, said Rodrigo Contreras, acting director of Chile’s
international economic relations office.  The bloc also will create ties with Asia as Latin America
looks to that region for growth. Latin American exports to  Asia 
Pacific grew three times faster than those to the entire world
between 2006 and 2010, while  China  is on track to overtake the
European Union as the second-biggest source of imports behind
the U.S., according to  United Nations data .  Opportunity for Trade  The alliance is an “opportunity to promote and consolidate
new investments and greater trade between our countries, as well
as a decisive step to consolidating our integration with the
Asian Pacific,” Pinera said in a statement on the Foreign
Ministry’s website.  The Pacific Alliance’s openness contrasts with the
Mercosur, which also includes Uruguay and Paraguay.  After a surge in car imports from China, Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff  this year raised taxes for automakers
that don’t assemble in the country. Along with Argentina, Brazil
also raised Mercosur’s common external tariff on 100 products to
protect manufacturers from foreign competition.  Separately, Brazil raised taxes on foreign investment in a
bid to weaken the real, whose 10 percent rally in the first two
months of the year was the world’s largest.  Defending Industry  The loose monetary policy of the developed world had caused
a “monetary tsunami,” pushing up currencies in  emerging
markets  and making Latin America “easy prey for de-
industrialization,” Rousseff said during a trip to  Colombia 
last month.  Argentina has stepped up its barriers to imports of
everything from glassware to kitty litter to protect its
industry this year, prompting a World Trade Organization
challenge from the European Union. The government says it won’t
backtrack.  “We are determined to continue with import substitution
despite the criticism from some parts that only live from
imports,” Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
said on June 4 in the northern province of Catamarca.  While Mercosur has signed only one free trade agreement
since its creation in 1991, with Israel, Pacific Alliance
members all have deals with the U.S. and all but Colombia has
one with China. The four countries are rated investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Chile Trade  Chile, which has trade agreements with 58 countries, is
considering legislation that would eliminate all import tariffs
by 2015 in a bid to compete with Singapore and Hong Kong as one
of the world’s most open economies.  Chile’s benchmark IPSA stock index is down 13 percent in
the past year, while Mexico’s IPC index is up 7 percent. That
compares with declines of 17 percent in Brazil’s Bovespa index
and 30 percent for  Argentina ’s Merval.  “This alliance isn’t against Brazil or Argentina, but
shows that we believe in a track of openness,”  Mercedes Araoz ,
a former Peruvian finance and trade minister who helped pave the
way to today’s accord, said in a phone interview from Mexico
City. “If you want to be a member you have to believe in that
openness, which we believe really helps us create more jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 