-- Mauritius Tourism Revenue Falls on Currency Gains Against Euro
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-06-06T08:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/mauritius-tourism-revenue-falls-on-currency-gains-against-euro.html
The Mauritian rupee’s gains against
the euro will probably reduce tourism income this year by more
than it did last year, said Jocelyn Kwok, chief executive
officer of the country’s hotel and restaurant association.  Revenue has fallen by about 600 million rupees ($20
million) in the first five months of 2012 due to exchange-rate
losses, Kwok, who heads the Association des Hoteliers et
Restaurateurs de l’Ile Maurice, said in a mobile-phone interview
today. Losses were estimated at 770 million rupees in 2011 and
about 2 billion rupees in 2010, he said.  The euro, which accounts for 62 percent of the industry’s
foreign currency income, has fallen 1.7 percent against the
rupee this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  European debt crisis  has cut the number of people
vacationing on the Indian Ocean island nation. Arrivals were 0.2
percent lower for the four months through April, according to
government data.  Tourism and textile exports are the largest foreign
currency earners in the country.  New Mauritius Hotels Ltd. (NMH) , Sun
Resorts Ltd. and  Lux Island Resorts Ltd. (NRL) , the country’s three
biggest leisure operators, have a combined weight of 10.7
percent in the 38-member  SEMDEX index .  Air Mauritius Ltd. (AML) , sub-
Saharan Africa’s fourth-biggest airline, is the second-worst
performer on the index this year, with a decline of 31 percent.  “The risk looming on the tourism industry has increased
with the euro trading at such low levels against the rupee,”
said Kishen Nadassen, a senior research analyst at the Port
Louis-based Cim Stockbrokers Ltd., in a phone interview. “The
weakness could drive hotel stocks further down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  