-- Australian GDP Expands at More Than Twice Pace Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-06T08:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/australian-gdp-expands-at-more-than-twice-pace-forecast.html
Australia ’s economy expanded at more
than twice the pace economists forecast, sending the local
currency, bond yields and stocks higher and prompting traders to
pare bets on a half-point interest-rate cut next month.  First-quarter  gross domestic product  advanced 1.3 percent
from the previous three months, when it rose a revised 0.6
percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released in Sydney today
showed. The country’s A$1.45 trillion ($1.43 trillion) economy,
the world’s 13th largest, is forecast by the  International
Monetary Fund  to overtake  Spain  as the 12th biggest this year.  The Australian dollar jumped almost 1 percent as concern
eased that Europe’s fiscal crisis and slower growth in  China 
will derail an economy  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  says
is experiencing “modest growth.” An estimated A$500 billion
pipeline of resource projects by companies such as  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  has helped cushion a slump in manufacturing and services
hit by a strong currency.  “We’ve got a mining boom boosting investment
dramatically,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $124 billion
under management. “On the other hand, the non-mining economy is
really struggling.”  The quarterly result exceeded all of the estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of 24 economists that had a median 0.6
percent gain.  Currency Rallies  The local currency climbed to 98.31 U.S. cents at 4:27 p.m.
Sydney time, compared with 97.76 cents immediately before the
data were released. Australia’s 10-year bond yields jumped 8
basis points to 3.02 percent, and the S&P/ASX 200 Index of
stocks reversed declines and gained 0.3 percent to 4,055.30 at
the close of trading in Sydney.  Traders are pricing in a 34 percent chance of a half
percentage-point reduction in the benchmark  interest rate  next
month, down from 50 percent prior to the GDP report, according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Compared with a  year earlier , the economy expanded 4.3
percent in the first quarter, the fastest annual pace since the
third quarter of 2007, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 3.3 percent year-over-year gain.  Australia’s annual growth rate averaged over the past two
quarters is the fastest among countries with Group of 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Political Reaction  “These figures send the loudest possible message to the
world that Australia is the strongest performing developed
economy bar none,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said at a news
conference in Canberra after the release. The government is
aiming to swing the budget back into the black. It last month
forecast a A$1.54 billion surplus for the year starting July 1,
ending four years of deficits.  Today’s report showed household spending rose 1.6 percent
in the first quarter, adding 0.9 percentage point to GDP growth.
Non-dwelling construction soared 12.6 percent, adding 1 point to
growth, it showed. Exports dropped 1.3 percent, shaving 0.2
point from the expansion.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has gained 40 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since
the start of 2009 and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
level since it was floated in 1983.  It has since retreated as signs mount that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will sap global growth. The currency dropped 6.7 percent
last month after the central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
rate by half a percentage point and as data from China,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, indicated a slowing
economy.  Trade Terms  Today’s GDP report showed the terms of trade, or export
prices relative to import prices, declined 4.3 percent in the
first quarter this year from the prior quarter after reaching a
record high in the three months through September.  “A rising terms of trade for much of the past decade has
provided a fair degree of protection for the Aussie economy,”
said  James McIntyre , a senior economist in Sydney at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender.
“That protection is now a little weaker.”  At the  Reserve Bank of Australia  yesterday, Stevens lowered
rates by a quarter-point to a 2 1/2-year low of 3.5 percent,
citing global uncertainty and “a degree of precautionary
behavior” by consumers and businesses. That’s still the highest
policy rate among major developed economies.  Consumer Savings  Today’s report showed the nation’s  household savings  ratio
was little changed at 9.3 percent in the three months through
March from 9.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.  The strength of  household demand  is reflected in Australian
retail sales that rose at more than four times the pace that
economists forecast in the three months through March, capping
the best quarter since 2009 as consumers spent more at
restaurants and clothing stores.  Sales adjusted to remove inflation jumped 1.8 percent in
the first quarter from the prior three months, a government
report showed May 7.  The job market also remained strong, with Australian
payrolls increasing by 71,900 in the first three months this
year, the best quarter since 2010, as the mining investment boom
spurs hiring in Western Australia and Queensland.  “Overall labor market conditions firmed a little,
notwithstanding job shedding in some industries, and the rate of
unemployment remains low,” Stevens said after yesterday’s rate
decision.  Mining Bonanza  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas.  Today’s GDP report showed new engineering construction
soared 19.7 percent in the first quarter from the final three
months of last year, and 53 percent from a year earlier as the
mining bonanza intensifies. In contrast, housing construction
dropped 2.1 percent from the fourth quarter as the industry
struggles.  The RBA said last month that its outlook for lower
inflation relies partly on a pickup in productivity as companies
respond to heightened pressures from the strength of the
 exchange rate .  Today’s report showed productivity growth improved in the
first three months of the year, with GDP per hours worked rising
by 2 percent from the previous quarter and 4 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  