-- Australia’s Dollar Rallies Most in Six Months After GDP Surges
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-06T21:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/australia-s-dollar-rallies-most-in-six-months-after-gdp-surges.html
Australia ’s dollar had its biggest
daily gain versus the yen since November after data showed the
nation’s economy expanded twice as fast as forecast.  The Aussie rose for a third day, its longest win streak
against the dollar since April, as global stocks and commodities
rallied. New Zealand’s dollar rallied as investors speculated
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may signal further
monetary stimulus for the U.S.  “If Australia has good GDP data, people think that means
something about  East Asia , and specifically  China ,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “People are also playing up easing
expectations in the U.S.”  Australia’s dollar advanced 1.9 percent to 99.27 U.S. cents
as of 5 p.m. in  New York , its biggest daily gain since Dec. 20.
It reached as high as 99.33 U.S. cents, the strongest since May
22. The Aussie surged 2.5 percent to 78.61 yen in the biggest
gain since Nov. 30.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 1.9 percent to 77.08 U.S. cents
and rallied 2.5 percent to 61.14 yen.  Australia’s  economy  expanded 1.3 percent in the first three
months of this year, the Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. It
was the fastest pace since the period ended June last year and
compared with the 0.6 percent median estimate from economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed View  Bernanke is scheduled to testify before U.S. lawmakers in
 Washington  today. The excess liquidity from additional asset
purchases may debase the U.S. currency while boosting higher-
yielding assets.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  rallied 2.3 percent in its
biggest daily rally this year. The MSCI World Index of stocks
gained 2.2 percent and the S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
rose 1.3 percent.  Australia and New Zealand’s dollar are the best performers
on the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes in the past week
advancing 1.4 percent. The gauge tracks 10 developed-nation
currencies. The yen is the worst performer with a 1.3 percent
loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  