-- Taxing Medical Devices Will Keep the U.S. Healthy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-06T23:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/taxing-medical-devices-will-keep-the-u-s-healthy.html
Every now and then, a groundswell of
support pushes legislation ahead in Congress, often on the
grounds that it would provide jobs, increase U.S. exports, stop
companies from moving overseas and save small businesses. The
members vote, the news media congratulate them for a rare show
of bipartisanship, and some interest group walks off happily
into the sunset.  That’s how the narrative is playing out for a rapidly
advancing bill to repeal a 2.3 percent tax on the sale of
medical devices. The tax, due to start in January, is part of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reform law. The $116
billion medical-device industry, which makes everything from
artificial limbs to advanced imaging equipment, is hoping to
derail the tax with a classic lobbying and advertising campaign.
It’s been very effective: The House could vote as early as
Thursday to withdraw the tax. With several Democratic senators
backing the measure, the Senate may follow suit.  It shouldn’t. Just about everything the medical-device
industry says about the tax is either untrue or exaggerated.
Lawmakers shouldn’t be so gullible, even when -- perhaps
especially when -- industry lobbyists produce studies seeming to
back their claims.  Moving Offshore  Sure enough, the Advanced Medical Technology Association,
or  AdvaMed , financed one such  study . It concludes the tax would
push manufacturers to move offshore, causing the loss of 43,000
U.S. jobs. An analysis by Bloomberg Government, however, says
the study’s assumptions “conflict with economic research,
overstate companies’ incentives to move jobs offshore, and
ignore the positive effect of new demand” created by the health-
care reform law.  The AdvaMed study cites no evidence for the job-loss claim.
Even if it is an educated guess, it still makes no sense --
unless device makers plan to abandon the world’s most lucrative
health-care market. The tax covers all devices sold in the U.S.,
no matter where they are made. Devices sold outside the U.S.
won’t be taxed. The tax, then, creates exactly zero incentive to
move jobs offshore.  Then there’s the claim that the levy will be passed to
consumers, causing health-care costs to rise and demand for
devices to fall. Industry sales will decline by as much as $6.7
billion, the AdvaMed study says. But as any health-care
economist will tell you, the medical market doesn’t behave like
most other markets. It’s inelastic: When prices go up, demand
falls by only a fraction.  Mathematica Policy Research  has found
that only a 2 percent drop in demand results from a 10 percent
increase in price. The AdvaMed study, by assuming far higher
effects, is off by as much as a factor of 10.  Health-care reform may have the opposite effect than the
industry claims. It extends coverage to 33 million more
Americans. Why wouldn’t that lift demand for medical devices?
The industry says it won’t because older patients, who buy a
disproportionate share of medical devices, are already insured
under Medicare. What’s more, the newly covered who were too poor
to purchase insurance were being treated already in emergency
rooms.  This ignores that the expansion of health coverage will
increase the number of elective medical procedures performed on
those who were previously uninsured and, in turn, their purchase
of medical devices. They might not buy artificial hips; they
almost certainly will require tests, scans and outpatient
surgery.  Harm Innovation  The industry next alleges that the tax will harm innovation
as device makers stint on research to pay the levy. This is
unlikely. The health-care reform law promotes innovation by
calling for more cost-effective ways of delivering care.
 Analysts  at PricewaterhouseCoopers believe that government
pressure to shrink health-care costs could force the U.S. and
other developed nations to make greater use of technology to
achieve better results at lower cost.  Another fallacy is that the tax unfairly singles out the
medical-device industry. Not so. Congress designed the law so it
wouldn’t add to the  budget deficit . To cover those 33 million
uninsured Americans, health-care reform taxes the industries
that will most benefit: hospitals, home health agencies,
clinical labs, insurers, pharmaceutical companies and, yes,
medical-device makers.  The industry’s last refuge is a claim that the tax will
hurt small businesses. On close examination, this doesn’t ring
true, either. A handful of large companies accounts for most of
the industry’s revenue. The 10 largest medical device makers
probably account for 86 percent of sales and therefore will pay
86 percent of the tax.  Repealing the tax would cost almost $30 billion over 10
years and undermine the implicit bargain in the law: In exchange
for millions of new customers, health-care companies agreed to
fund the cost. Repeal would open the gates to other health
sectors seeking to renege on that deal.  The lawmakers most actively pushing repeal are also the
ones who are most dependent on the industry’s campaign
contributions. They come from  California ,  Indiana ,
 Massachusetts ,  Minnesota ,  Pennsylvania  and  Utah  -- the states
where the device industry has the largest presence.  Campaign filings show that employees of pharmaceutical and
health products companies were the single-biggest donors to
Representative Erik Paulsen of Minnesota, who is the main
sponsor of the repeal measure and whose state is home to
Medtronic Inc. and St. Jude Medical Inc.  Filings  by those
working closely with him -- Republican Representatives Todd Rokita of Indiana and Brian Bilbray of California, and Democrat
Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania -- show that health professionals,
pharmaceutical manufacturers and health products companies were
among their top five sources of campaign money.  In the Senate, Republican  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, facing a
June 26 primary, took in $630,000 from drug and device makers
this cycle. Even  Elizabeth Warren , the liberal icon who took on
 Wall Street  and is now running for a U.S. Senate seat in
Massachusetts, home of Boston Scientific Corp., favors repealing
the tax. Health-care providers gave Warren about $102,000, the
No. 2 source of her campaign funds.  Congress may well withdraw the medical-device tax. If it
does, it won’t be because the industry mustered a strong
economic case. It will be because it’s too easy to pull the wool
over lawmakers’ eyes.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Today’s highlights: the View editors on
 Germany’s too-late economic  union;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth of
election mandates ;  Michael Kinsley  on  banning Big Gulps ;  Susan
Antilla  on  workplace discrimination ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
nascent economic recovery ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan’s current
account ; Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 