-- Bank of Baroda Tops Record Dollar Debt Redemptions
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-06-07T04:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bank-of-baroda-tops-record-dollar-debt-redemptions-india-credit.html
Indian companies face rising costs to
refinance record redemptions of U.S. dollar-denominated debt as
yields on their securities  surge  and the rupee declines to an
all-time low.  Bank of Baroda and  Bank of India  lead more than 39
companies with $10.6 billion of debt due this year, more than
double last year’s total, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While
benchmark 10-year Treasury yields fell to record lows and U.S.
corporate notes pay 3.49 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, costs for Indian borrowers are surging.
Yields on dollar-denominated bonds rose 42 basis points to 6.03
percent in May, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Indian companies are being hit by a double whammy as the
rupee’s 6.4 percent tumble last month raises their costs in
dollars to pay off maturing debt. At the same time, the
government is urging companies to boost spending on
infrastructure needed to support the growth of Asia’s third-
largest economy, which has slowed to a nine-year low.  “The rupee’s drop has been unprecedented, and therefore
there’s an unprecedented increase in costs for us to
refinance,” Rajiv Kumar Bakshi,  executive director  at  Bank of
Baroda (BOB) , said in a telephone interview from Mumbai on June 4.
“The high cost structure will have a bearing on performance and
there is little issuers can do in the present global and
domestic macroeconomic conditions.”  Companies ‘Suffering’  The rupee posted the worst performance last month of the 11
most-traded currencies in Asia, as foreign funds  pulled  $262
million from the nation’s stocks in April and May, according to
 data  from the stock market regulator compiled by Bloomberg.  “Risk aversion globally and inflationary pressures at home
have had the biggest bearing on the rupee, and companies are
suffering,” said Jani Kurppa, a  fund manager  in Helsinki at EQ
Asset Management Ltd., which manages $4.7 billion in debt.
“These pressures will persist and corporates will have to pay
more for funds.”  Standard & Poor’s  said on April 25 that  India  needs to cut
its current-account and budget deficits for investors to regain
confidence. The rupee dropped to a record low of 56.515 against
the dollar on May 31 amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow
growth in the South Asian economy.  The  extra yield  investors seek to hold Indian company
dollar-denominated bonds widened to 548 basis points, or 5.48
percentage points, yesterday, from 488 at the start of May, HSBC
indexes show. The spread on comparable U.S. notes increased 30
basis points to 233 in the same period, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Bank of India  Of the borrowers with debt due this year, Bank of Baroda
has $1.36 billion maturing, and Bank of India has $1.18 billion
to refinance, the data show.  State Bank of India  has $1.09
billion due,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  $473 million, and Suzlon Energy
Ltd. $389 million, according to the data.  “There is a significant impact of the rupee’s fall, not
just not on performance but also on sentiment,” N. Seshadri,
executive director of Bank of India, said in telephone interview
from Mumbai June 4. “The increase in costs is going to compel
lenders to re-visit overseas operations.”  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent in the three
months ended March from a year earlier, compared with 6.1
percent in the previous quarter, the government said May 31.  Earnings Estimates  Thirty percent of companies in India’s benchmark  stock
index  posted March-quarter profits below analyst estimates, due
to the highest borrowing costs among the biggest economies in
 Asia . Analysts cut their  earnings forecasts  for the year to
March 2013 by 14 percent since April 2011 to 1,281 rupees per
share, the most since the 2009 financial crisis, according to
1,600 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in the markets, yields on  10-year government
bonds  have dropped 28 basis points since May 1 after the  Reserve
Bank  of India in April lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to 8
percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021
rose two basis points to 8.39 percent as of 10:06 a.m. in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  The cost of protecting State Bank of India debt against
non-payment fell 1.4 basis points yesterday, and has risen 67
basis points in the past month, to 387.9 percentage points,
according to data provider CMA.  State Bank  is regarded as a
proxy for the nation in the credit-default swap market.  Default swaps insuring the sovereign debt of the biggest
emerging-market nations also advanced. The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Brazil, China  Contracts on  Brazil  rose 46 basis points to 168.5 in the
past month, while those on  China  jumped 36 basis points to
140.3, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Russia’s are up 91 to 281.1.  Rising Indian corporate dollar financing costs come as
rupee-denominated bond yields increased, limiting options for
borrowers. The  extra yield  investors seek for top-rated five-
year rupee debt compared with similar-maturity government notes
advanced 17 basis points in May, the biggest gain in at least a
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The availability of funds domestically or overseas is
going to be a constraint for Indian companies,” EQ Asset’s
Kurppa said. He declined to comment on his investments.  Indian companies issued the equivalent of $2.5 billion of
international bonds this year, compared with $7.85 billion in
the same period of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indian Railway  The last borrower to sell dollar-denominated bonds was Axis
Bank Ltd., which raised $500 million in March. Yields on the 5
1/8 percent of September 2017 notes rose 15 basis points to 5.23
percent yesterday, from 5.08 percent at the start of May,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Indian Railway Finance Corp Ltd. plans to sell as much as
$300 million of bonds overseas by July 25 should dollar rates be
favorable, Managing Director Rajiv Datt said in a phone
interview on June 5.  “The premium for funds has increased because the outlook
on fundamentals has weakened in the last few weeks,” said Ganti N. Murthy, head of fixed income at Peerless Mutual Fund, which
oversees the equivalent of $900 million. “Corporates are going
to suffer the most and so will the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  