-- Barclays Battle With Lehman Unit Brings $5.5 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-06T17:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/barclays-battle-with-lehman-unit-brings-5-5-billion.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  has won as much as
$5.5 billion from the liquidator of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s brokerage since buying the defunct investment bank’s
North American business more than three years ago.  A federal judge in  Manhattan  yesterday told the brokerage
to pay Barclays what it owed, saying the final sale documents
showed the parties’ true intent. James Giddens, the brokerage
trustee, originally demanded $7 billion from Barclays, saying he
hadn’t read last-minute changes to the contract in the September
2008 chaos after the Lehman parent filed the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest ordered Giddens to
pay London-based Barclays $1.1 billion and renounce his claim to
$1.5 billion in margin assets backing trading operations that
Barclays took over from Lehman. In confirming part of a lower-
court decision, Forrest cost Giddens a total of
$3.5 billion in margin and $2 billion in clearance-box assets,
held to clear trades, the trustee said yesterday.  Barclays rose 8.2 percent to 187.80 pence in London
trading.  The dueling between the second-biggest U.K. bank and
Giddens, who also is liquidating the MF Global Inc. brokerage,
followed a 2010 court trial before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan. Both sides challenged Peck’s order on the
disputed assets, and Giddens said he plans to appeal Forrest’s
ruling.  ‘Our Duty’  “We strongly believe that the former customers of  Lehman
Brothers Inc . are entitled to these assets,” Giddens said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “Our duty to customers mandates
that we continue to pursue all legal avenues to recover the
assets.”  Barclays’s victory won’t help it in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals , said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at
 Seton Hall University School of Law  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  “Basically, they both start from square one” in a dispute
over contract interpretation, he said. “This won’t be over
until the Second Circuit weighs in.”  Giddens has reserved money for the Barclays litigation and
still intends to pay some money to the brokerage’s creditors by
the end of the year, he said.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision confirming that
Barclays is entitled to the Lehman assets it purchased in
September 2008,” the bank’s litigation lawyer, Jonathan
Schiller of Boies, Schiller  & Flexner LLP, said in an e-mail.  Sole Bidder  Barclays, the sole bidder for Lehman’s business in the 2008
financial crisis, took over most of the brokerage’s retail
customers.  Hedge funds  and other large creditors haven’t been
paid yet.  The Lehman parent is still buying and selling assets after
exiting bankruptcy to pay creditors an average of about 18 cents
on the dollar. The defunct firm had sought an $11 billion
“windfall” it alleged Barclays made on the 2008 purchase. Peck
rejected that demand and Lehman dropped its appeal of his
ruling.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  