-- Belka Says Poland Makes Balanced Soft Landing in First Quarter
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-06-06T15:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/belka-says-poland-makes-balanced-soft-landing-in-first-quarter.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka commented today on the outlook for  interest rates  after
the Monetary Policy Council kept the main interest rate at 4.75
percent, matching the forecast of all 35 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The following are selected comments from Belka at a news
conference in Warsaw following the rate decision.  On first-quarter economic growth slowing to 3.5 percent:  “It hasn’t changed our assessment of the economy. We’re
seeing some weakening in consumption, which could have been
expected due to weaker employment and wage growth. On the other
hand, we have a slowing pace of investment. The first quarter
also saw further fiscal consolidation.  “All in all, it’s not a dramatic, but a balanced soft
landing of the economy.  “It doesn’t smell of a crisis to me.”  On the zloty:  “It’s hard to speculate about zloty depreciation as it’s
totally unpredictable. We could just as easily see weakening due
to market turbulence or strengthening.  “I’m not ready to speculate. What I can say though is that
the zloty has deviated below its fundamental value and we can
expect it to strengthen over the longer term.  “We’ve got a free-floating currency regime. We don’t have
an exchange-rate target or a trading band. What I want to stress
is that when we saw dynamic changes on the market resulting from
some form of speculation, we entered the market, usually in
coordination with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, and that calmed
down markets.”  On interest rate changes:  “We signaled a rate increase in April, even though some of
you didn’t believe us. I don’t read any announcement of a rate
increase into today’s statement.”  “The GDP data have confirmed the Council in its conviction
that the rate increase was at the right time and on the right
scale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  