-- Bezeq Rises Most in Week on Bets Drop Overdone
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-06-06T13:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bezeq-rises-most-in-week-on-bets-drop-overdone-correct-.html
(Corrects estimated earnings ratio in second paragraph.)  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) 
rose the most in almost a week on investor speculation the
country’s largest fixed-line operator is cheap relative to peers
after last month’s drop.  Tel Aviv-based Bezeq  climbed  1.9 percent, the most in since
May 31, to 4.86 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv. Bezeq shares
trade at 6.4 times estimated earnings, after tumbling 22 percent
in May. That compares with an average 12.1 times for the  MSCI
World Telecom Services Index (MXWO0TC)  and 10.4 times the TA-25 index. The
Tel Aviv benchmark advanced 1.3 percent today.  “Even with all the changes in the communications sector,
we are talking about a strong and stable company,” said Gil Dattner, an analyst at Tel Aviv-based  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd.
“The bad news is priced in.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government is forcing
telecommunication providers to cut fees and is encouraging new
players to the market.  Israel ’s Communications Ministry in May
published details of fixed-line market reform that will force
Bezeq and  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  to sell space on
their networks to newcomers. Hot and Golan Telecom Ltd. moved
into Israel’s mobile-phone space on May 14. Bezeq operates in
the wireless industry through a unit.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which owns a stake in
Bezeq via its  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM)  unit, jumped 9.2 percent to
13.55 shekels and B Communications, owner of a 31 percent
interest in Bezeq,  surged  4.4 percent.  Hot, Israel’s second-largest fixed-line operator which also
provides mobile-phone services, advanced 2.2 percent to 36.99
shekels. The shares were trading 9.9 times estimated earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  