-- Bieber Meets Katy Perry, $425 Tracey Emin: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-08T09:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bieber-meets-katy-perry-425-tracey-emin-london-weekend.html
Start your weekend with a shimmy at
the Wah Wah Club tonight.  It’s the main setting in “Wah! Wah! Girls: The Musical.”
Bollywood bling comes to an East  London  area with double-decker
buses, smashed shop fronts, and a Polish handyman named Pavel.  Showgirl Sita wants a job at the club. She heard about it
from her friend Daveena whose cousin Meena remembers her Auntie
Sheena working there once.  Sita does a number in a sequined brassiere. Yet club owner
Soraya (Sophiya Haque), who performs more traditional forms of
dance, finds it all “a little too suggestive.”  The show, which has dazzling sets and lighting and good
dancing, ends June 23 at the Peacock Theatre, London WC2A 2HT.
Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.com  or +44-844-412-4322.  While you’re in Bollywood mode, Moti Mahal -- a short walk
from the Peacock -- is one of London’s best Indian restaurants.
Chef Anirudh Arora’s all-singing, all-dancing gastronomic dishes
aren’t cheap, so surf online for special offers if you’re on a
budget:  http://www.motimahal-uk.com  or +44-20-7240-9329.  Saturday  A signed Tracey Emin could be yours for 275 pounds ($425).  The tiny gravure of a tweeting bird -- one of 300 -- is a
bestseller at the  Royal Academy ’s Summer Exhibition. Visitors
crowd around. (“You wouldn’t think that was her,” an old lady
in a wheelchair said at the preview. “No, it’s not rude
enough,” said the woman with her.)  The open-submission summer show is always a hodgepodge. In
the nice Scottish and Irish room, see the oils by Alison Watt --
are those folds of fabric or of human flesh? -- and a portrait
of redhead  Tilda Swinton  sitting on a pile of unread scripts.  As ever,  Anselm Kiefer  stands out with just one painting.
And on the architecture room’s wall are  Norman Foster ’s study
sketches for Bloomberg LP’s future London headquarters.  The Summer Exhibition, sponsored by Insight Investment
Ltd., ends Aug. 12 at the Royal Academy. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-844-209-0051.  Kitchen Joel Antunes, near the Royal Academy, has tables
outside, weather allowing. While the view across Old Burlington
Street is nothing special, Antunes’s dishes are first-class. The
set lunch is 29 pounds for three courses, or 25 pounds for two:
 http://embassymayfair.com/restaurant/  or +44-20-7494-5660.  Saturday Night  The Capital FM Summer Ball at Wembley will be headlined by
Coldplay. The “Paradise” band, led by  Chris Martin , is midway
through a world tour that included other shows in London.  Tomorrow’s concert has a roster of stars including Katy Perry, Justin Bieber, Jessie J, Usher, the Wanted, Ed Sheeran
and  Kelly Clarkson .  Each act gets a short stint on stage with plenty of pop
rivalry to keep the show going. Those unable to get in can
listen on Capital FM from 4 p.m.  Wembley Stadium, Empire Way, HA9 0WS. Information: +844-
980-8001 or  http://www.wembleystadium.com .  Sunday  With the main events of the Queen’s Jubilee over, you can
celebrate another British tradition: the humble biscuit.  The Brunswick Centre hosts a free weekend-long British
Biscuit Festival. There are baking workshops, tournaments where
you recite sonnets chewing on a biscuit, and a farmer’s market.  You’ll be cookied out by the end. The festival runs June 8
to 10 at the Brunswick, Bloomsbury, WC1. Information:
 http://www.brunswick.co.uk/index.php/events/10-events -
articles/95-biscut-111.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 