-- Biggest Online Retail Loss Driven by B2W Delivery Delays
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-06T15:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/biggest-online-retail-loss-driven-by-b2w-delivery-delays.html
B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  is posting
the biggest losses among major online retailers worldwide as
delivery delays push customers toward competitors.  B2W, the Rio de Janeiro-based unit of  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) ,
reported a net loss of $76.6 million in the 12 months through
March, the worst result of the 20 biggest peers globally, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 13-year-old company lost $3.08
for every $100 in revenue in the period, according to the  data .  Chief Executive Officer Anna Saicali is missing out on a
surge in  consumer spending  in the world’s second-largest
developing economy after authorities ordered sales to be
suspended twice in the past 12 months amid complaints that B2W
failed to fulfill orders on time. The erosion in customers’
confidence comes as competitors lure shoppers away with lower
prices and on-time deliveries, said Leonardo Zanfelicio, an
analyst at brokerage Concordia Corretora.  “B2W didn’t have the logistics it needed to keep up with
the sudden growth we saw in the e-commerce sector in  Brazil  in
the past few years,” Zanfelicio, who rates the stock hold, said
by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The customer can literally go to
a competitor without even leaving the desk. And if the
competitor sells at a lower price and delivers on time, why
would this client go back to B2W?”  The stock dropped 77 percent in Sao Paulo in the 12 months
through yesterday, the biggest plunge on the benchmark Bovespa
index, which fell 17 percent. The MSCI Brazil/Consumer
Discretionary Index sank 47 percent in the same period, with
clothing retailer Cia. Hering’s 8.5 percent gain the  best
performance  on the measure.  B2W jumped 6.5 percent to 5.38 reais at 12:47 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  today, as companies that depend on domestic demand rallied
after a report showing slower inflation in Brazil spurred
speculation policy makers will have more room to lower borrowing
costs.  Washing Machines  B2W said in an e-mailed statement that it is investing to
make its delivery system more reliable.  The company, which owns eight websites that sell everything
from washing machines to theater tickets, trades at a price-to-
book ratio of 0.72, down from 28.5 in October 2007. The ratio
for the MSCI Brazil/Consumer Discretionary Index is 1.92,
compared with 5.96 in December 2007.  B2W was founded in 1999 under the name Submarino SA and
raised 543.9 million reais ($269.5 million) in an initial public
offering in 2005. Lojas Americanas, a Rio de Janeiro-based
retailer that was backed by investors including Brazilian
billionaire Carlos Alberto Sicupira, bought Submarino in
December 2006 and merged it with its own online unit to form
B2W. Shares have tumbled 90 percent since the acquisition.  Competition  “When the company still operated just under the Submarino
brand, it was virtually the only big player in the industry,”
Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Socopa Corretora brokerage, said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Now retailers that
used to sell only through brick-and-mortar units are getting
more aggressive with their  Internet sales , and they have
synergies that B2W doesn’t have, which means they can sell at
lower prices.”  Nine out of 22  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg recommend
selling the stock, while none rate the company a buy. Varejao
doesn’t rate B2W and has a recommendation equivalent to buy for
Lojas Americanas.  Income Gains  Brazil’s biggest retailers are boosting online sales as
consumer income and Internet penetration increases.  Companhia
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s top
retailer by market value, said sales in its online unit
increased 21 percent in the first quarter. Pao de Acucar’s
shares jumped 14 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday.  Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3) , a Brazilian electronics and furniture
retailer, reported its Internet sales increased 43 percent to
249 million reais in the first quarter from a year earlier. Its
shares are down 47 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday.  The increase in competition comes after B2W, which uses
private services and the national postal system to make
deliveries, was forced to suspend sales twice in Brazil’s
biggest states following customer complaints about shipping
delays.  Sao Paulo’s consumer protection agency, known as Procon,
suspended B2W’s sales for 72 hours starting March 15 in Brazil’s
largest state, saying it received 6,233 complaints about the
company, according to a  statement  on the agency’s website. B2W
received a court injunction on the same day lifting the ban, the
company said in an e-mailed statement that day.  Rio de Janeiro Suspension  B2W had faced a similar problem in May 2011, when a Rio de
Janeiro court suspended sales in the state until there was proof
that all issues regarding delivery delays were solved, according
to a statement posted on the public prosecutor office’s  website .
The company received an injunction the next day canceling the
suspension.  “Once consumers lose confidence in a brand, getting them
back is not only expensive, it also takes a lot of time,”
Juliana Rozenbaum and Vitor Paschoal, analysts at Banco Itau BBA
SA in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to clients on May 9. “We still
fail to see the light at the end of the tunnel for B2W.”  The company said in a statement on May 23 that it is
investing in new distribution centers to improve its logistics
system and make deliveries faster and more reliable.  “B2W has continued to invest in optimizing its logistics
system,” the company’s press office said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions. “For the past few months new
equipment in our distribution centers reduced delivery times,
and a closer relationship with Brazil’s top transport companies
will guarantee the best possible service to our customers.”  Earnings Outlook  While the company will report weak earnings this year, in
the longer term the new distribution centers may help B2W to go
back to posting profits, Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW
Corretora brokerage, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  “It takes time for this kind of investment to bear
fruit,” said Pinheiro, who recommends investors sell the
shares. “I don’t expect big improvement in this quarter or the
next. But B2W seems to be taking steps in the right direction.
It acknowledged the problems and it’s trying to correct them.”  A capital infusion from the parent company might help B2W
invest in improving service, said Fausto Gouveia, a portfolio
manager at Sao Paulo-based Legan Administracao de Recursos.  “One thing that could make the stock attractive again is
if some bigger competitor bids for a stake or if Americanas
itself decides to put more money in the company,” Gouveia said.
“Given Americanas already put quite a bit of money in B2W last
year, I don’t know if it’d be willing to do it again soon.”  Lojas Americanas  Shareholders injected 1 billion reais into B2W in 2011,
with 643.5 million reais coming from Lojas Americanas, according
to regulatory filings. SLW’s Pinheiro said “it could make
sense” for Americanas to take B2W private after the stock’s
underperformance in the past year.  Lojas Americanas’s press office didn’t return a phone call
and an e-mail seeking comment.  Brazilian  retail sales  increased 12.5 percent in March from
a year before, the biggest jump in two years. Gross domestic
product expanded at an average annual  rate  of 4.4 percent from
2006 through 2011, while the U.S. grew 0.7 percent a year in the
same period. The country’s middle class, defined as households
with annual incomes of at least 12,000 reais, swelled by 31
million in the past decade, according to a study from Brazil’s
Strategic Affairs Ministry.  “The problem for B2W is not lack of demand, as the outlook
for the retail industry in Brazil is extremely positive,”
Gouveia said. “Unless something very unexpected happens, such
as an acquisition by a bigger player in the industry, I don’t
see shares recovering any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  