-- Blackstone Said to Contact Buyers for Mason's Telus Stake
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-06T20:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/blackstone-is-said-to-approach-buyers-to-sell-mason-telus-stake.html
Mason Capital Management LLC has
enlisted  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to help sell a stake of about 20
percent in  Telus Corp. (T)  and has contacted 20 to 30 potential
investors, a person familiar with the discussions said.  Mason hired Blackstone in mid-May to help it dispose of its
stake in Telus, Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, the
person said, declining to be named because the talks are
private. The New York-based private-equity firm is talking to
strategic buyers in the industry, according to the person.  Mason is trying to unload its Telus investment less than a
month after using its C$1.9 billion ($1.8 billion) stake to
force the Vancouver-based carrier to withdraw a plan to abandon
its dual-class share structure. Telus said on May 9 that it
dropped the plan to convert all nonvoting shares into voting
stock on a one-to-one basis, after it became apparent the
proposal wouldn’t survive a shareholder vote.  Telus wanted to boost the appeal of its stock as the
carrier competes with  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and
industry upstarts for a bigger stake of Canada’s wireless
market. Chief Executive Officer Darren Entwistle said after
withdrawing the proposal that he remains committed to a one-for-
one share conversion and plans to introduce a new proposal “in
due course.”  Telus plans to achieve a one-to-one stock conversion
“regardless of what Mason Capital chooses to do with their
holdings,”  Shawn Hall , a spokesman, said today.  Dan Gagnier, a spokesman for New York-based Mason, declined
to comment, as did Blackstone’s  Peter Rose .  Telus’s voting shares fell 1.5 percent to C$59.53 at the
close in Toronto. The shares  have risen  about 3.3 percent this
year.  Mason’s plan to sell its stake was  reported earlier  by the
Globe and Mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  