-- Blood-Saliva Analysis May Replace Invasive Prenatal Test
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/blood-saliva-analysis-may-replace-invasive-prenatal-test.html
A prenatal test that analyzes a
mother’s blood and father’s saliva may one day be all it takes
to check a fetus for genetic illnesses, replacing one that
requires drawing fluid from the uterus, a study suggests.  Scientists have sequenced the DNA of a fetus at 18 weeks of
pregnancy using the technique. Their analysis found 39 of the
baby’s 44 brand-new mutations, not shared with either parent,
according to the study published today in  Science Translational
Medicine.   Scientists compared their method with a traditional gene
sequence from the umbilical cord once the baby was born and
found the experimental method was 98 percent accurate. The
results may point to a new way to scan a fetus’s genome for
mutations that can cause illness, such as  Huntington’s disease 
and Down syndrome, without inserting a needle into a pregnant
woman’s uterus to draw amniotic fluid, the  current practice .  “Part of what this study does is expand thinking about how
genomics can be relevant,” said  Jay Shendure , one of the study
authors and an associate professor of genome sciences at the
 University of Washington  in  Seattle , in a telephone interview.
“The main advantage is that it’s not invasive.”  The current testing method, called amniocentesis, carries a
risk of miscarriage. Even with no additional risk, though, most
women probably would want a less-invasive test, Shendure said.  About 10 percent of cell-free  DNA  in a pregnant woman’s
blood comes from her fetus, Shendure said. He and fellow
researchers compared groups of the mother’s genes that reside on
the same chromosome. Using these groupings, the researchers were
able to pick out which genes were new to the baby.  Saliva Sample  To determine what role the father played, the researchers
used DNA from a saliva sample. Anything that wasn’t the same as
the mother’s was compared to the father’s.  “The fetal plasma DNA is contaminated with mom’s DNA, so
any time we see a variant that corresponds to something from
dad, we can infer that was transmitted,” he said.  Additionally, his group was able to find so-called  de novo
mutations , which didn’t occur in either parent. Those gene
variants are important because they underlie a number of
illnesses where only one variant is required to sicken a person.  Shendure’s group showed that the idea was possible, and he
expects cheaper, better sequencing will be available in the
future, he said. The project was funded by the  National Human
Genome Research Institute  and the  Washington  Research
Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 