-- Boeing Marks Production Goal on First 787 With No Modifications
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-07T00:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/boeing-meets-787-goal-with-first-jet-to-skip-modification-center.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  produced its first 787
Dreamliner able to leave the factory for flight testing without
going through a modification center, a pivotal step toward
meeting future output goals.  Work on the 66th Dreamliner to be assembled will be
finished outside the plant in a few days before it moves to
preflight operations, said Scott Lefeber, a spokesman. Boeing
now has 50 Dreamliners in or waiting to enter a modification
center near its factory in Everett,  Washington .  Boeing is pushing to boost production after falling more
than three years behind schedule with engineering and supplier
snags on the first all-composite jetliner. Air India Ltd. is due
to get its first 787 soon after agreeing with Boeing on
compensation, India Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said yesterday.  Assembling a 787 that bypasses the modification center
“signals that you’re beyond the period of rework, which is so
costly and has caused so many delays,” Carter Copeland, an
analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a telephone interview. “They
should have higher confidence to be able to ramp production.”  Boeing plans to produce five planes a month by the end of
2012 and 10 by the end of next year, up from 3.5 now. Speedier
production and deliveries would help the company shrink a
backlog of  843 unfilled orders  for the 787, which lists for as
much as $227.8 million. Airlines typically buy at a discount.  Final Work  Lefeber didn’t provide details of what final work is needed
on Plane No. 66, which he said left the factory on June 4, or on
when Boeing will produce a 787 able to go directly from the
plant to the flight line.  Boeing rose 2.1 percent to $69.02 yesterday at the close in
 New York .  The shares  have fallen 5.9 percent this year, as the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index has gained 4.6 percent. Copeland
rates the stock as overweight.  Since last year, Boeing has delivered 11 Dreamliners. Seven
have gone to  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and Japan Airlines Corp. has
received four. The twin-engine 787 is designed to increase
Boeing’s lead in the wide-body market over Airbus SAS, a unit of
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   Air India has been public with its demands for compensation
for delays on its order for 27 Dreamliners. India’s Civil
Aviation Ministry said in March that Boeing had agreed to pay
$500 million in compensation, after demands for $840 million.  Boeing disputed the Indian government’s account at the
time, and has declined to discuss any negotiations with  Air
India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  