-- BofA’s Petrie Joins Former Colleagues at Energy Boutique
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-06-06T20:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bofa-s-petrie-departs-to-join-former-colleagues-at-new-boutique.html
Bank of America Corp.’s  Thomas Petrie, a vice chairman who founded an oil and gas advisory firm
the bank later acquired, is joining his former colleagues at a
new energy boutique after leaving the lender.  Petrie, 67, will become chairman of Strategic Energy
Advisors, said Jon Hughes, a co-founder of the Denver-based
investment bank. Randall King, who left Bank of America this
year, is joining Strategic Energy’s board, Hughes said.  Strategic Energy is reuniting members of the old Petrie
Parkman & Co., founded in 1989 and sold in 2006 to Merrill Lynch
& Co., later acquired by Bank of America. Petrie and King, who
left in April, were the last senior Petrie Parkman bankers still
at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  “There’s an element of putting the band back together,”
Hughes said in a telephone interview today. He co-founded
Strategic Energy last year, along with Michael Bock and Andrew Rapp. All three worked at Petrie Parkman and later Merrill Lynch
and  Bank of America .  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman at Bank of America, declined to
comment.  “We enjoyed our time” at Bank of America, Hughes said.
“But a number of us really enjoyed the boutique format and
preferred that to a bulge-bracket platform,” he said, using a
term for Wall Street’s biggest investment banks.  Loans, Hedges  Small and independent firms may be better suited to
advising on the sale of oil and gas assets, Hughes said. He said
large investment banks often prefer to work with buyers because
they stand to make more money arranging loans and hedges than
they could make from a sale advisory fee.  In one of its first assignments, Strategic Energy is
advising the independent committee of the board of Venoco Inc.,
the Denver-based oil explorer, on its proposed $770 million sale
to majority owner Timothy Marquez. Bank of America is co-adviser
on the transaction, agreed to in January.  Petrie Parkman was founded in 1989 by Petrie, a former
First Boston Corp. oil analyst, and James Parkman, a banker at
the same firm. Parkman left the company in 2006.  Petrie left “to pursue personal interests,” said Purna
Saggurti, Bank of America’s chairman of corporate and
investment banking, in a March internal memorandum announcing
the planned departure. He said Petrie “played a critical
role in positioning Bank of America Merrill Lynch as one of the
world’s leading energy investment banking institutions.”  A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,
Petrie served as an army captain in Germany and  Vietnam . At
First Boston, he was Institutional Investor’s top-ranked oil
analyst for eight straight years.  Acquisition, Divestiture  Petrie Parkman focused in part on “acquisition and
divestiture” work -- helping companies buy and sell oil and gas
fields, often with the help of engineers and geologists. Merrill
Lynch was one of several investment banks to place bets on the
A&D business in recent years.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  in 2005 bought a similar boutique,
known as Randall & Dewey.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  acquired Waterous
& Co. that year, and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  added Richardson Barr
& Co. in 2008. In 2009, Macquarie Group Inc. bought Tristone
Capital Global Inc.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. started A&D businesses by hiring from
competitors.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  last month said it hired an A&D banker,
David Cecil, from Bank of  Nova Scotia .  Merrill Lynch  Merrill Lynch bought Petrie Parkman for an undisclosed
amount that included $111 million in stock, according to a
regulatory filing. In a separate filing before the purchase,
Petrie Parkman said it had 53 employees, about half of them
bankers.  Merrill Lynch promoted A&D services on its website, under
the name “Merrill Lynch Petrie Divestiture Advisors.” The
website has since been discontinued.  Bank of America continues to have a dedicated team handling
A&D assignments, and is working on about a dozen active A&D
deals, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Not all Petrie Parkman bankers ended up at Strategic
Energy. Mark Deverka, who left in 2010, founded ARAD Energy LLC,
an advisory boutique whose clients include billionaire Trevor Rees-Jones’s Chief Oil & Gas. Sylvia Barnes joined KeyCorp,
Timothy Saxman went to  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and Mark Carmain to
Morris Energy Advisors.  Only two Petrie Parkman bankers -- Steve Almrud and Mark Sooby -- remain at Bank of America. Both were recently promoted
to managing director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  