-- Bond Concessions Reach Most Since January: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-06-06T16:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bond-concessions-soar-to-highest-since-january-credit-markets.html
Borrowers are offering the biggest
concessions since the start of the year to sell new corporate
bonds in the U.S. as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil intensifies
and signs emerge that America’s economy is weakening.  Investment-grade companies paid an average of 21 basis
points more in relative yields in the two weeks ended June 1
than investors accepted for their outstanding bonds with similar
maturities, according to Barclays Plc data. The level, the
highest since reaching 26 basis points in the week ended Jan. 6,
has soared from this year’s low of negative 4 in February.  Even with cash on corporate balance sheets at about record
highs, investors are demanding more compensation as speculation
grows that Greece may exit the 17-country euro area and U.S.
employers add the fewest workers in a year. The number of credit
rating downgrades in the U.S. this year exceeds upgrades at
Moody’s Investors Service, reversing the trend a year earlier.  “We are in uncharted waters and investors want to be
compensated for that type of uncertainty,”  Kevin Flanagan ,
chief fixed-income strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney,
said in a telephone interview from Purchase, New York. Europe’s
debt upheaval “has been elevated in terms of concerns and
anxieties. If the situation in Europe were to deteriorate even
further, obviously spread levels would widen, and as an investor
you probably would be demanding more of a concession,” he said.  United Technologies  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Sikorsky
helicopters and Pratt & Whitney engines, offered a 68 basis-
point concession on $2.3 billion of 10-year bonds it sold on May
24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s $6
billion offering on May 30 included $2 billion of 3.5 percent,
10-year notes at a spread of 200 basis points, or 75 more than
where its bonds due February 2020 were quoted.  Company bond offerings worldwide fell behind the pace set
in 2011 last month with issuance of $1.69 trillion in the first
five months of the year compared with $1.76 trillion in the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show. As recently as the end of
April, offerings were ahead of last year and the first quarter
of 2012 was a record for the period.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined for a second
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining by 4.1 basis points to a mid-price
of 121.7 basis points as of 11:52 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Swaps  The index, which has declined from a five-month high on
June 4, typically falls as investor confidence improves and
rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, declined 2.9 basis points to 32.75 basis
points as of 11:55 a.m. in New York. That’s the lowest level on
an intra-day basis since May 11 for the gauge, which narrows
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 81 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:56 a.m. in New
York, Trace data show.  Deere & Co. sold $2.25 billion of bonds yesterday,
including $1 billion of 10-year, 2.6 percent notes that pay a
relative yield of 105 basis points, or a concession of 5 basis
points over where its $500 million of 2.75 percent bonds due
March 2022 were trading on June 4, Trace data show.  ‘Rate Rally’  As concern that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading has
mounted, the average concession that investment-grade corporate
bond issuers in the U.S. are making to sell new debt has climbed
17 basis points since the week ended May 4, Barclays data show.  The shift is occurring as investors seeking safer assets
have pushed the benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield to a
record low of about 1.44 percent on June 1.  “Given the rate rally, the new issue concession is a way
for investors to capture yield they can’t get in the secondary
market,” Justin D’Ercole, head of investment grade syndicate
for the Americas at Barclays in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It has, in a way, become the only game in town for
investors that are yield-oriented. Why buy 10-year paper in the
secondary market at 2.75 percent when you can get 3 percent
buying primary?”  Deal Bids  Investors bid for four times the amount of deals on offer
in the week ended June 1, an increase from 2.4 when concessions
last peaked at similar levels on Jan. 6, according to Barclays.  Relative yields at 233 basis points are the widest since
Jan. 24, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master index. Investors have pushed up yields on the
debt to 3.47 percent from the 3.33 percent record low reached on
May 8, the index shows.  Concessions are still below the 12-month peak of 43 basis
points reached Oct. 7, according to Barclays.  “There isn’t the same urgency to the situation, or the
same tail risk in front of us, as last fall” before the
 European Central Bank  stabilized markets by offering loans to
the region’s lenders, D’Ercole said.  Greece  has at least a one-in-three chance of leaving the
17-country euro area within months of a June 17 election that
could halt its international bailout, S&P said June 4 in a
statement. It’s uncertain how so-called core members of the
currency union would respond, creating a risk of debt
restructuring in other countries and downward pressure on
ratings, the company said.  Faltering Recovery  In the U.S., employers added the smallest number of jobs in
a year in May, stoking concern the economic recovery is
faltering. Payrolls increased by 69,000, below median estimates
of 150,000, while the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent,
according to Labor Department figures released June 1.  When you combine Europe “with some of the economic
numbers, underscored by the employment report on Friday, when
you’re looking to put money to work in the corporate arena,
there probably needs to be a concession due to the uncertain
situation,” Flanagan said.  U.S. companies’ cash reserves are at about the highest on
record. The ratio of cash to total assets for companies in the
 S&P 500 Index  stood at about 9.86 percent yesterday after
reaching a record 10.3 percent in September, Bloomberg data
show. The ratio has risen from 5.6 percent in April 2007.  Debt Growth  At the same time, leverage is increasing and yields for
speculative-grade borrowers at 8.35 percent as of yesterday,
compared with a five-year average of 10.42 percent, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II
index. Yields reached a record low 7.19 percent in May 2011.  “Total debt growth has accelerated, in part as higher
quality companies look to lock in near record low yields,”
Morgan Stanley analysts led by Adam Richmond wrote in a June 1
research report. Leverage for U.S. high-yield companies reached
3.72 times in the first quarter, compared to 3.67 times in the
previous period.  Moody’s has tallied 206 downgrades of long-term debt this
year in the U.S. compared with 195 upgrades, Bloomberg data
show. In the same period last year, the ratings firm had 156
downgrades versus 210 upgrades.  Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies ’ 3.1
percent, 10-year bonds yielded 135 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The spread
compares with its existing $1.25 billion of 4.5 percent
securities due April 2020 that were quoted at 66.8 basis points
before the new deal priced, Trace data show.  Kraft Spread  The 3.1 percent notes traded at a spread of 103.2 basis
points yesterday, Trace data show.  Maureen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman for United Technologies,
declined to comment.  The $2 billion of 3.5 percent, 10-year notes from Kraft’s
grocery spinoff were issued at a relative yield of 200 basis
points compared with the spread of 125 basis points on the
company’s existing $3.75 billion of 5.375 percent bonds due
February 2020 before the new deal priced, Trace data show.  Michael Mitchell , a Kraft spokesman, said executives
weren’t immediately available for comment.  “Market conditions have been weakening of late,” Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “For
deals to get a strong reception from investors, underwriters and
issuers have had to offer larger concessions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 