-- Booming Sweden’s Free-Market Solution
-- B y   A n d e r s   A s l u n d
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/booming-sweden-s-free-market-solution.html
Not so long ago,  Sweden  could claim
world leadership in unmitigated Keynesian economics, with a 90
percent marginal tax rate and a welfare state second to none.  Now Swedes look at the conflict between the U.S. and German
examples over whether more spending or more austerity is the key
to financial salvation, and for them the choice is easy:  Germany 
was right. Northern  Europe  harbors no sympathy for the
spendthrifts of Southern Europe.  Americans still think of Sweden as a tightly regulated
social-welfare state, but in the last two decades the country
has been reformed. Public spending has fallen by no less than
one-fifth of gross domestic product, taxes have dropped and
markets have opened up.  The situation is similar in the other Scandinavian
countries, the Baltic nations and  Poland . But no turnabout has
been as dramatic as Sweden’s.  From 1970 until 1989, taxes rose exorbitantly, killing
private initiative, while entitlements became excessive. Laws
were often altered and became unpredictable. As a consequence,
Sweden endured two decades of  low growth . In 1991-93, the
country suffered a severe crash in real estate and banking that
reduced GDP by 6 percent. Public spending had  surged  to 71.7
percent of GDP in 1993, and the budget deficit reached 11
percent of GDP.  Turning Point  The combination of the crisis and the non-socialist
government under Carl Bildt from 1991 to 1994 broke the trend
and turned the country around. In 1994, the Social Democrats
returned to power and stayed until 2006. Instead of revoking the
changes, they completed the fiscal tightening. In 2006, a non-
socialist government returned, and Finance Minister  Anders Borg ,
with his trademark ponytail and earring, has led further
reforms. Sweden successfully weathered the global financial
crisis that started in 2008, and the Financial Times named Borg
Europe’s best finance minister last year.  Before 2009, Sweden had a  budget surplus , and it has one
again. For the  past two years , economic growth has been 4
percent on average, and the current-account surplus was 6.7
percent in 2011. The only concerns are the depressed demand for
exports caused by the current euro crisis and an  unemployment
rate  that is about 7.5 percent.  Sweden’s traditional scourge is  taxes , which used to be the
highest in the world. The current government has cut them every
year and abolished wealth taxes. Inheritance and gift taxes are
also gone. Until 1990, the maximum marginal income tax rate was
90 percent. Today, it is 56.5 percent. That is still  one of the
world’s highest , after  Belgium ’s 59.4 and there is strong public
support for a cut to 50 percent.  The 26 percent tax on corporate profits may seem reasonable
from an American perspective, but Swedish business leaders want
to  reduce it  to 20 percent. Tax competition is fierce in some
parts of Europe. Most East European countries, for example, have
slashed corporate taxes to 15-19 percent.  In the bad old days, the annual centralized-wage bargaining
between the  Trade Union Confederation  and the Swedish Employers’
Confederation was a prized custom. But in the 1970s, this system
led to both inflation and strikes. Today, it is long gone. Wage
bargaining is still collective, but it is decentralized. Wage
inflation is no longer a concern and strikes are extremely rare.
The employers have won, but real wages are rising with
productivity, so the workers are benefiting, as well. As
everywhere, trade unions are losing members, money and power.  Debt Averse  Sweden has belonged to the European Union since 1995, but
it isn’t a member of the euro area, and the exchange rate of its
krona floats freely. Finance Minister  Borg  argues against a more
expansionary policy in Sweden in case Europe faces a real
meltdown. After the Keynesian financial and monetary stimulus in
the 1970s and ’80s, which led to inflation, repeated
devaluations and low growth, Swedes believe in fiscal
discipline. They are scared of huge national debt and budget
deficits -- especially at the levels they are in the U.S.  Where are the left-wing intellectuals to challenge this new
order? They have disappeared. The old socialist research
organizations have closed down. The Center for Labor Market
Studies was a state institution that generated propaganda, not
research, and the government closed it. The Trade Union
Confederation had a sophisticated research institute, which it
eliminated for not being sufficiently political.  The union economists, who dominated Swedish economic debate
in the 1970s and ’80s, have been replaced by bank economists.
The free-market right has influential research centers in
 Stockholm .  After many years of absence from the debate, I attended a
conference on the Swedish economy in the southern city of Malmo
last month. Swedbank, a large bank, was the organizer, and the
180 speakers represented the full range of Swedish views. I was
amazed to hear how far the consensus had moved to the free-
market right, even among Social Democrats and trade-union
leaders. The values are competition, openness and efficiency,
while social and environmental values remain -- a social-welfare
society without the social-welfare state. The idea is to make it
more efficient through competition among private providers.  The name of the conference said it all: “Growth Days.”
Wanja Lundby-Wedin, the president of the Trade Union
Confederation, declared without hesitation: “We want flexibility
in the labor market.” She complained that the media no longer
pay attention to the labor market. The reason is that it
functions so well.  During the global financial crisis, the metalworkers’ union
quietly agreed to major wage cuts to safeguard their real
incomes in the long run.     The leader of that union,  Stefan
Lofven , has just been elected chairman of the Social Democratic
Workers’ Party.  Moving Right  The Social Democrats haven’t only joined the free-market
consensus, but seem to attack the current government from the
right, pushing for a better business environment. Gone are
demands for the restoration of social benefits. Opinion polls
have rewarded the Social Democrats for their right turn with
sharply improved ratings.  Sweden is still offering good social welfare, but more
efficiently and sensibly and increasingly through the private
sector. This model of falling taxes and public spending is
rapidly proliferating from the north of Europe toward the south,
and the northern Europeans have little tolerance for the statist
conservatism and fiscal negligence of Southern Europe. Nor do
the Swedes understand the fiscal irresponsibility of the U.S.,
while they still admire American research and innovation.  (Anders Aslund is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics and was a professor at the Stockholm
School of Economics from 1989 until 1994. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Germany’s too-late
economic  union and  medical-device taxes ;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth
of election mandates ;  Michael Kinsley  on  banning Big Gulps ;
 Susan Antilla  on  workplace discrimination ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
nascent economic recovery ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan’s current
account ; Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer of this article:
Anders Aslund at  Aaslund@piie.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  