-- Bovespa-Index Futures Advance as Higher Commodities Boost Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-06T12:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/bovespa-index-futures-advance-as-higher-commodities-boost-vale.html
Bovespa (IBOV)  futures rose, a sign the
stock gauge may climb from an eight-month low, as speculation
policy makers in Europe may act to shore up growth lifted
commodities, boosting the outlook for Brazil’s biggest
companies.  Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE) , the heaviest-weighted stock on
the measure, advanced in early U.S. trading, following metals
higher.  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA , the bank that was seized by
Brazil’s central bank after it found “serious” financial
violations, said its shares will resume trading today.  Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest
retailer, may move after it named a new chief financial officer.  Bovespa futures rose 0.9 percent to 53,985 at 9:13 a.m. in
Sao Paulo. The real strengthened 0.3 percent to 2.0167 per U.S.
dollar.  The  European Central Bank  today kept the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 1 percent, as predicted by 49 of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. With European governments
struggling to fix a crisis that’s engulfing Spain and could
force Greece out of the euro, speculation mounted that the ECB
may soon be forced to lower rates and introduce more liquidity
support for banks.  “We expect a day of gains for the Bovespa,” Banco
Bradesco SA’s economic team wrote in a note to clients. “What’s
boosting the markets is the expectation that, despite keeping
the lending rate unchanged, the president of the European
Central Bank,  Mario Draghi , will signal further monetary easing
in Europe.”  G-7 Response  The Group of Seven nations yesterday agreed to coordinate
their response to  Europe ’s turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and damped
European demand for foreign goods.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
The gauge has since extended that drop to 23 percent and trades
at 9 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, which compares with the 9.7 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5 billion reais ($2.5 billion) in stocks
in Sao Paulo yesterday, which compares with a daily average of
7.2 billion reais this year through June 4, according to data
from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  