-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall as Annual Inflation Slows to Below 5%
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-06T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/brazil-futures-yields-fall-as-annual-inflation-slows-to-below-5-.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures dropped after a government report showed annual
inflation unexpectedly slowed to less than 5 percent for the
first time since 2010.  Traders are betting policy makers will cut the benchmark
Selic target lending  rate  by a half-percentage point to 8
percent next month, extending the most aggressive rate
reductions among G-20 nations. The real fell, erasing earlier
gains, a day after the central bank offered currency swap
contracts to support the  exchange rate .  “The inflation statistic was surprising,” said  Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It reinforces the existing
expectations of another cut in the Selic.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 8.28 percent. It was the eighth decrease in nine days. The
real depreciated 0.5 percent to 2.0328 per dollar, after earlier
gaining as much as 0.5 percent.  The annual inflation rate slowed in May to 4.99 percent
from 5.10 percent in the previous month, the government’s
statistics agency said in a report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro 
today. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of 5.06 percent.  The central bank offered swap contracts yesterday for a
sixth day since mid-May to support the exchange rate. The bank
said yesterday it sold 20,300 out of the 40,000 currency swap
contracts it offered.  Policy Reversal  The swaps are a reversal of the bank’s stepped-up dollar
purchases, which reached $7.2 billion in the foreign-exchange
market in April, the most in 13 months, aimed at weakening the
real to support exporters. The real is the worst performer this
year among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
having weakened 8.2 percent.  The currency dropped today as traders bet yesterday’s swap-
triggered gain of 1.8 percent would be hard to sustain,
according to Hideaki Iha, currency trader at Fair Corretora de
Cambio e Valor in  Sao Paulo .  “This is an adjustment,” Iha said in a phone interview.
“The market’s window is very small, and so the market is very
sensitive. People see some room to buy since the real was
hitting 2.05 per dollar the last time the bank intervened.”  The real appreciated earlier today on speculation the
government may expand its stimulus policy amid weakening growth
forecasts, according to Rosa.  Tracking Dollar Index  The central bank began in April using the Dollar Index, an
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. measure of the U.S. currency
against counterparts including the euro and yen, to decide when
to intervene, columnist Cristiano Romero reported in Valor
Economico, citing an anonymous source.  The bank acts when the real strays from the gauge’s
movement, Sao Paulo-based Valor reported, adding that the bank
began focusing on the Dollar Index after the Brazilian
currency’s decline soured foreign investors’ perceptions.  Aloisio Teles, head of fixed-income Latin American trading
for Nomura Holdings Inc., recommended in an e-mailed note that
clients track the real’s movement against the Dollar Index to
help predict the “likelihood” of bank interventions.  Economists trimmed their 2012 economic growth forecast to
2.72 percent from 2.99 percent a week earlier, according to the
median forecast in a weekly central bank survey of about 100
analysts published June 4. The economists cut their outlook for
inflation this year to 5.15 percent from 5.17 percent. The rate
has remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central
bank’s target range for 21 months.  Target Lending Rate  Policy makers reduced the target rate by a half-percentage
point to a record low 8.50 percent last week, citing
“fragility” abroad that is having a “disinflationary” effect
on  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Brazil  has lowered the
target rate by 4 percentage points since August, the most among
Group of 20 nations.  To promote growth, the government has increased subsidized
credit by the state development bank, known as BNDES, and cut
taxes on consumer and industrial goods. The latest round of
stimulus measures last month included tax cuts on vehicles,
whose sales plunged 11 percent in April and 10 percent in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  