-- Brazil Inflation Drops Below 5% for First Time in 20 Months
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-06T14:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/brazil-may-consumer-prices-rise-0-36-from-previous-month.html
Brazil’s  inflation  rate fell more
than economists expected in May, pushing the annual pace below 5
percent for the first time since September 2010 and reinforcing
bets for more rate cuts to shore up economic growth. Interest-
rate futures fell.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 4.99
percent in May from a year earlier, the national  statistics
agency  said in  Rio de Janeiro  today. The increase was less than
predicted by all but one of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median estimate was for a 5.06 percent increase. Monthly
inflation slowed to 0.36 percent from 0.64 percent in April.  Brazil’s growth outlook, until recently a bright spot for
global investors, has deteriorated over the past month, as
economists surveyed by the central bank reduced their median
estimate for expansion this year to 2.72 percent from 3.23
percent. “We’ll be satisfied if we achieve growth in 2012 above
growth in 2011,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week,
following expansion of 0.2 percent in the first quarter. The
economy of the second-biggest emerging market after  China  grew
2.73 percent last year.  “The good news is inflation is falling, it’ll be closer to
4.5 percent than 5 percent,” Rafael Laurindo dos Santos, senior
economist with Porto Seguro Investimentos, said by telephone
from Sao Paulo. “The central bank got it right and will cut
rates more.”  ’Fragile’ Economy  Citing limited inflation risks and a “fragile”
international economy that helps slow consumer price rises,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini last week cut the
benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis points to 8.5 percent. The
bank has lowered the Selic rate by 400 basis points since
August.  Traders expect policy makers to cut the rate to 8 percent
in July before raising it to 9.5 percent by the end of 2013.  The yield on the  interest rate  futures contract maturing in
January 2014, the most-traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell seven
basis points to 8.26 percent at 10:38 a.m. Brasilia time. The
real strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.0179 per  U.S. dollar .  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has increased
subsidized credit by the state development bank BNDES and cut
taxes on consumer and industrial goods. The latest round of
stimulus measures last month included tax cuts on vehicles,
sales of which plunged 11 percent in April.  Services Sector  A slowing services sector will be offset only in part by
faster durable goods inflation, as a weaker real makes imported
goods more expensive,  Tony Volpon , head of  emerging markets 
research for the Americas at Nomura Securities International
Inc., said in a research note today. “This inflation reading
should open the door for further rate cuts by the Central Bank
of  Brazil ,” he said in a separate note after the announcement.  The Brazil Purchasing Managers’ Services  index  declined to
49.7 in May from 54.4 in April. Service price inflation slowed
to 0.21 percent in May from 0.76 percent in April.  Despite Brazil’s weak economic performance over the past
three quarters, inflation has remained above the 4.5 percent
midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 21 months. As
economic stimulus measures, including cuts in taxes and
borrowing costs, take effect later this year, analysts predict
annual inflation will accelerate again to 5.15 percent in 2012
and 5.60 percent next year, according to the latest central bank
survey.  Transportation Costs  Transportation costs fell 0.58 percent in May after an
increase of 0.1 percent in April and were the biggest
contributor to slowing monthly inflation. Communications costs
fell 0.19 percent compared with a rise 0.46 percent a month
earlier. Food and beverage prices rose 0.73 percent, while
housing costs were up 0.8 percent.  A 13 percent depreciation of the real since March has
helped push up the cost of imports, including raw materials for
agricultural and industrial goods. Policy makers have said that
the impact of currency fluctuations on inflation has diminished
in recent years and isn’t a concern.  In the minutes to its April 18 policy meeting the  central
bank  said that any additional monetary easing should be carried
out with “parsimony.” It will publish the minutes to last
week’s Copom meeting on June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  