-- Brazil Sugar Premium Rises as Sellers Deliver to Far East
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-06T09:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/brazil-sugar-premium-rises-as-sellers-deliver-to-far-east.html
The premium buyers have to pay to
obtain raw sugar from  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, is
rising as sellers to the  Far East  deliver the sweetener from the
South American country, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for June loading at the port of Santos was at a
premium of 0.15 cent to 0.2 cent a pound to the price of the
July contract on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York  on
June 3, the broker said in an e-mailed report. That compares
with a premium of 0.12 cent a pound on May 27.  Raw sugar from  Thailand  for June loading was at a premium
of 1.8 cents to 2.5 cents a pound (or 250 points) to the
exchange price on June 3, according to the broker. Thailand is
the world’s second-biggest sugar exporter.  “Some of the strength in the Brazilian cash premium
derives directly from the Thai premium’s strength,” with the
result that sellers to the Far East are now supplying sugar from
Brazil instead of Thailand, said  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the
Rolle, Switzerland-based company.  Delays to harvesting in Brazil and a backlog at one of the
country’s main terminals are also supporting premiums, Beydoun
said. More than 1.7 million metric tons of sugar were waiting to
be loaded at Brazil’s main ports yesterday, according to
consultancy SA Commodities in Santos, Brazil.  “Bad weather and new upcoming ships will increase queues”
mainly at Santos and Paranagua ports, where rains are prevailing
and delaying operations, Luiz Carlos dos Santos Jr., head of
sugar brokerage and operations at SA Commodities, said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. Santos and Paranagua are Brazil’s two
biggest ports.  Raw sugar for July delivery was 2 percent higher at 19.44
cents a pound by 5:34 a.m. on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 