-- BrightSource Warned of Embarrassment to Obama in Loan Delay
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-06T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/brightsource-warned-of-embarrassment-to-obama-from-loan-delays.html
BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE)  warned
Energy Department officials in March 2011 that delays in
approving a $1.6 billion U.S. loan guarantee would embarrass the
White House and force the solar-energy company to close.  In a 19-page PowerPoint presentation reviewed by Bloomberg
News, BrightSource described its cash position at the time as
“precarious” and said the Ivanpah solar project in California
being built with Department of Energy aid was in danger of
collapse. The company won the guarantee a month later.  The 2011 appeal was part of a lobbying push by BrightSource
that included hiring as a lobbyist the former chief of staff for
Senator  Joe Biden , now the vice president, and visits to the
White House by executives.  “Due to the criticality of situation, BrightSource now
holding weekly board meetings to discuss cash position and
status of DOE loan,” according to the presentation the company
said was shown to the department.  The  California  project’s end would threaten the company’s
existence and embarrass an administration that had sought to
showcase its backing of clean-energy projects as a way to create
jobs, the company said.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the lobbying effort in
today’s edition.  ‘Exhaustive Analysis’  The Energy Department in April 2011 approved the guarantee
for BrightSource’s Ivanpah project, the largest made by the
department in the $16 billion clean-energy program financed in
the 2009 economic stimulus.  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman, said in an e-mail
that BrightSource won its award on the merits of its
application.  The award followed an “exhaustive legal, technical and
financial analysis by career officials at the  Department of
Energy  as well as reviews by outside experts,” Jen Stutsman, a
department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republicans in Congress started several investigations into
the loan program following the collapse of solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC in September. The Fremont, California-based company
had received a $535 million loan guarantee from the Energy
Department, two years before it filed for  bankruptcy protection .  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has
focused on awards to other companies, including BrightSource,
highlighting what Republicans have said was a cozy relationship
between executives and investors and the White House.  Anybody Contacted  “To be perfectly clear, we did urge the government to make
a decision on our loan guarantee application,” the company said
in a blog post on its website today in response to the Journal
story. “We spoke to anybody who would listen about this great
project.”  John Bryson , a former chairman of BrightSource, took over
in October as head of Obama’s Commerce Department.  By March 2011, the government had spent four years
reviewing the project, BrightSource said.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG)  have committed to investing $468 million in the
project, giving them a majority stake, BrightSource said.  The project will produce electricity to light 140,000
homes, the company said. It has contracts lined up with
utilities to purchase the power for up to 25 years.  A federal review of the loan program found that the risks
to taxpayers were less than Congress or the Energy Department
anticipated.  Jobs Added  Projects such as Ivanpah with contracts to sell power to
utilities were judged safer bets than manufacturers like
Solyndra, according to review.  Stutsman said the project has been a success, putting about
1,700 people to work at the site and with suppliers in 17
states.  BrightSource also hired Bernard Toon, a chief of staff to
Democrat Biden during the 1990s when he was in the  U.S. Senate ,
as its lobbyist.  White House visitor logs show Toon visited Alan Hoffman,
Vice President Biden’s deputy chief of staff, on March 9, 2011,
three days after Toon registered to lobby for the company.  BrightSource paid Toon’s firm $40,000 to lobby for the
project, part of a total $530,000 it has spent to influence
policy in Washington since 2010, federal records show.  The company said it hired Toon because he had previously
lobbied for BrightSource contractor Bechtel Corp. and was
familiar with the Ivanpah project. Toon said he couldn’t talk
about the work he’s done on behalf of his clients.  No Role  The vice president’s office said today it had no role in
the Ivanpah decision, and didn’t follow up after the meeting by
contacting the Energy Department on the company’s behalf.  After the department referred a list of pending
announcements on solar energy, Biden’s office responded with a
note about interest in events set for mid-April and asked
whether BrightSource’s announcement could be postponed until
then.  The award was announced in April.  While BrightSource says Ivanpah is one-third complete, in
March 2011 a collapse was considered possible, the company
warned.  Given the loan program’s high profile -- President  Barack Obama  mentioned it in a weekly address in 2010 -- failure of the
Ivanpah project will be a “major embarrassment” and White
House policy goals will be “frustrated,” the company said.  Tortoise Relocation  Further delay would cause schedules to slip in part because
the company would lose a window in which it was allowed to
relocate tortoises from the construction area, according to the
briefing to the Energy Department.  The department will be “known as responsible for a very
high-profile failure,” the company said.  Previously released e-mails from BrightSource show that the
company asked the executive director of the loan program to
review a letter that urged the White House to act on the loan.
The letter was to be sent to  William Daley , the White House
chief of staff.  Jonathan Silver , who has since left the department, urged
the company to tone down the letter, in a response sent from his
personal e-mail account.  “The ongoing work does not speak to a lack of urgency; it
speaks to a need to ensure that there is limited risk to
taxpayer exposure,” Silver wrote, according to the e-mail,
which has been reviewed by Bloomberg.  BrightSource Chief Executive Officer John Woolard told
lawmakers at a May 16 House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee hearing that the company didn’t send the letter,
deciding “that it was not appropriate” to write Daley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  