-- Buffett Sees No U.S. Recession Unless Europe Causes It
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/buffett-sees-no-u-s-recession-unless-europe-causes-it.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he expects the  U.S.
economy  to avoid another recession as long as Europe can contain
its debt crisis.  There won’t be a recession “unless events in Europe
develop in some way that spills over here big-time,” Buffett
said yesterday at the Economic Club of  Washington , D.C. He
answered questions from  David Rubenstein , co-chief executive
officer of  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest private
equity firm.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens to destroy the
region’s 17-nation currency union. Finance ministers and central
bank governors from the Group of Seven economies agreed
yesterday to coordinate responses to the crisis as Greece
contemplates leaving the euro. European leaders need to resolve
some of the union’s weaknesses, Buffett said.  “They’re in on a common currency but they’re not in on a
common fiscal policy or a common culture or common labor
practices,” Buffett said. “They have to reconcile some of
these things.”  U.S. employers added the fewest  workers  in a year in May
and the economy expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in the first
quarter, government reports showed last week. Buffett has been
building Berkshire’s stock portfolio and making capital
investments at the company’s railroad and utility units as he
bets on growth in the U.S.  Berkshire’s Leadership  Buffett, 81, who is also CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, has been preparing the firm for his eventual
departure. He told shareholders in his most recent annual letter
that the board has a candidate for CEO and two backups, without
naming the executives. Vice Chairman Charles Munger is 88.  Berkshire is “in perfect shape,” Buffett said at
yesterday’s event. “We’ve got successors that are, in most
ways, better than I am.”  Buffett has said that his roles would be divided upon his
retirement. His son  Howard Buffett , a farmer and Berkshire
director, would be an effective non-executive chairman, Buffett
has said. Berkshire has hired former hedge fund managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler to help oversee investments.  Buffett announced in April that he’d been diagnosed with
stage 1 prostate cancer that is “not remotely life
threatening.” He said he planned to begin a two-month treatment
of daily radiation in July. The regimen will restrict his travel
without otherwise changing his routine, Buffett said.  Buffett’s Deals  Buffett built Berkshire over four decades by acquiring
businesses including car insurer Geico Corp. and betting on
stocks like Coca-Cola Co. His firm has amassed an $89.1 billion
portfolio of equities, including a stake in General Motors Co.
disclosed last month and International Business Machines Corp.
shares acquired last year for more than $10 billion.  Berkshire spent $26.5 billion on the takeover of railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  in 2010, a deal Buffett called an
“all-in wager on the economic future of the  United States .”
His firm acquired engine additive-maker Lubrizol last year for
about $9 billion.  “I’m looking for one good idea a year,” he told
Rubenstein. “We’re in June, incidentally, David, if you want to
help me out.”  Individuals should invest in  index funds  every month and
avoid betting on specific stocks, Buffett said.  “The average person who just consistently buys equities --
which to me are by far the most attractive investment choice
around -- at the end of 20 or 30 years, they’ll do very well,”
he said.  Business at Berkshire’s units can provide Buffett with a
gauge of economic growth. At the end of 2011, Berkshire units,
which range from insurers and retailers to a provider of luxury
air travel, had 270,858  employees . That was up from 260,519 a
year earlier, according to the company’s annual reports.
Employment at Burlington Northern grew by 1,000, while builder
 Clayton Homes  cut 466 jobs amid the deepest housing slump in
seven decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  