-- Buffett, Rubenstein, Eric Schmidt at Economic Club: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-06T15:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/buffett-rubenstein-eric-schmidt-at-economic-club-d-c-.html
Warren Buffett  was the guest of honor
last night for the 25th anniversary dinner of the  Economic Club
of Washington , D.C.  The chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  shared the stage
with  David Rubenstein , chief executive officer of the Carlyle
Group and the club’s president, for its dinner speaker series.
On the small table between their two chairs was Buffett’s ever-
present can of Coca Cola.  Google Inc. Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt ,  MicroStrategy
Inc. (MSTR)  CEO Michael Saylor, and BET Networks CEO Debra Lee were
among the 1,600 at the Washington Marriott Wardman Park hotel.  Rubenstein at one point asked the 81-year-old Buffett about
his likely successor.  “You’re not on the short list, David,” Buffett
deadpanned.  “Am I on the long list?” Rubenstein asked, to applause
and laughter.  “He’s a big flirt,” said Lee about her previous meetings
with Buffett. “He’s really funny.”  Deploying his folksy humor, Buffett regaled the crowd with
stories from his youth in  Washington , as the son of a U.S.
congressman. Rubenstein presented Buffett with a varsity jacket
from his alma mater, Woodrow Wilson High School, an original map
of Washington and a copy of the Declaration of Independence.  More Scholarships  Boosting charitable giving by the club and its 570 members
is one of Rubenstein’s priorities as president, a position he
has held since 2008. Last month, he announced funding to raise
the amount of merit and need-based scholarship awards to local
graduating seniors to $10,000 from $5,000; he also made possible
increasing the number of recipients to 44 from 38.  In honor of its anniversary, last night the club gave
$50,000 in grants to organizations including  E.L. Haynes Public
Charter  School,  Latin American Youth Center  and the  Alexandria
Seaport Foundation , which provides paid apprenticeships in boat
building to disadvantaged youth and young adults.  The primary draw of the club is its speakers, and
Rubenstein’s track record on this count is also impressive.
 Lloyd Blankfein , CEO and chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
is speaking to the club on July 18.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chairman and
co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and President Barack Obama are on his
wish list. The conversations are broadcast on C-SPAN.  Other Clubs  The club was founded in 1986 and is one of the younger
“Economic Clubs” across the U.S. The Economic Club of New York
began in 1907, the Detroit Economic Club in 1934.  Women make up 25 percent of the club, for which the annual
dues are $1,850. A membership committee led by Christopher Simmons, Washington Metro managing partner of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, makes selection decisions.
Membership has grown by 5 percent annually during the past five
years.  Rubenstein’s term has seen the development of smaller
dinners, board meetings and lunches for more intimate
interactions. Lee hosted one of the first lunches on May 7.  Tonight the Friends of Adam Smith will hold its gala at the
Mellon Auditorium and present its Adam Smith Award to Rep.
Harold Rogers, Kentucky Republican.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 