-- HTC Cuts Sales Outlook on Europea Competition, U.S. Delay
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-06T17:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/htc-cuts-sales-outlook-on-europea-competition-u-s-delay.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  cut its sales and
profitability forecast after demand in  Europe  fell short of the
Taiwanese smartphone maker’s own projections and a patent
dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  led to a delay in U.S. shipments.  Second-quarter revenue will be around NT$91 billion ($3
billion), 13 percent lower than an April 24 forecast for NT$105
billion, Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said in a  statement 
yesterday. The company also cut its operating margin forecast to
9 percent from 11 percent.  The slashed forecast is the second time in three quarters
that the maker of One, Desire and Sensation handsets reduced
predictions as it struggles to compete with devices from Apple,
 Samsung Electronics Co., (005930)   Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
In November, HTC cut its sales forecast by 23 percent, less than
a month after predicting a rise in fourth-quarter revenue.  “They’re underplaying the competitive issue because you’ve
got Sony, RIM and Nokia all pricing very aggressively in Europe
while the macroeconomic environment makes it challenging for
everyone,” said Avian Securities LLC analyst Matthew Thornton,
who has a neutral rating on HTC.  HTC dropped 18 percent this year to NT$406 at the close of
Taipei trading yesterday, after declining 42 percent last year.  Weaker-than-expected sales in Europe were the main reason
for the forecast cut while a delay in the U.S., where customs
officials checked for patent-infringements, also hurt revenue,
Chief Financial Officer Chang Chialin said on a conference call.  “Even with the U.S. customs issue over, the window of
opportunity to get sales ahead of Samsung’s Galaxy III U.S.
debut is closing,” Thornton said.  Customs Review  On May 29, HTC said it its products were found to be in
compliance with a U.S. ruling, 13 days after announcing its One
X and EVO 4G LTE devices had been delayed for a customs review
required after an International Trade Commission exclusion
order.  HTC now faces fresh pressure in the U.S. after Apple sought
an emergency enforcement action at the International Trade
Commission in  Washington  to block imports of the Taiwanese
company’s phones, according to a new filing by the maker of
iPhones and iPads.  Chang and investor relations representative Joey Cheng
didn’t immediately respond to questions sent after business
hours requesting comment on whether the new forecast included
the impact of the latest Apple filing.  “The U.S. Customs office has reviewed and approved HTC
devices for import into the U.S., as they are in compliance with
the ITC’s ruling,” HTC said in a separate statement.  Charge  HTC yesterday also said it took a one-time charge of NT$2.6
billion this quarter to clear inventory of unsold phones from
last year. Without that charge, second-quarter sales would reach
NT$93.6 billion with an operating margin of 11.2 percent, it
said.  “In certain areas of Europe, in general, we’re seeing the
competitive environment intensify,” Chang said without
elaborating. “ Asia , north and south, are basically performing
in line while China sales are performing better than expected.”  Roxy Wong, who rates the stock “reduce” at  Mirae Asset
Securities Co.  in  Hong Kong , said Apple’s next iPhone will
further increase pressure on HTC.  “With the iPhone 5 coming, Samsung will cut prices. So HTC
will also have to either cut price and lose profitability, or
maintain its price but lose sales,” Wong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net . 