-- HTC Phone Apple Didn’t Want You to See: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-06-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/htc-phone-apple-didn-t-want-you-to-see-rich-jaroslovsky.html
A downside to the incredible variety
of Android smartphones is that, well, there’s an incredible
variety of Android smartphones. Many are all but
indistinguishable from each other.  Now the Taiwan-based manufacturer  HTC (2498)  has come up with a
phone that cuts through the clutter. It’s called the One X and
it’s a beaut.  While the One X was announced months ago, Apple managed to
delay it in  U.S. Customs  while it sued HTC for patent
infringement. Now the phone is finally arriving in AT&T stores,
while a sister model, the EVO 4G LTE, is going on sale
from  Sprint (S) ; a slightly downscale version, the One S, is
available from  Deutsche Telekom (DTE) ’s T-Mobile. (Apple, meanwhile,
yesterday sought a new order to bar the phones.)  I’ve been using the One X for a couple of weeks. Whatever
the merits of Apple’s complaint, the HTC measures up well even
against the mighty iPhone 4S. At 4.59 ounces and .36 inches
thick, it’s lighter and thinner, while sporting a 4.7-inch
screen considerably larger than the iPhone’s, at 3.5 inches.  The One X costs $200 on a two-year contract for a model
with 16 gigabytes of storage, the same as the comparable iPhone.
But it runs on  AT&T (T) ’s 4G LTE data network, which is far faster
than the plain old “4G” network the Apple runs on. In  San
Francisco  I regularly recorded download speeds in excess of 20
megabits per second, three to five times faster than the 4S.  Minimizing Drain  The tradeoff is that LTE uses more power, and the One X’s
battery is no match for the iPhone’s. (Like the iPhone’s, it
isn’t user-replaceable.) Still, HTC has engineered the One X to
minimize the drain. It has a less power-intensive dual-core
processor from  Qualcomm (QCOM)  in place of the quad-core  Nvidia (NVDA)  chip
used in non-U.S. versions, and aggressive settings to shut down
features not in use. As a result, I was usually able to get
through a full day of normal use.  The One X is physically distinctive, thanks to its
lightweight matte-finish polycarbonate body. My white test model
proved something of a smudge magnet, but usually wiped clean
with little effort. It doesn’t feel as nice in the hand as an
iPhone, but it grew on me over time.  Smoother Sense  Also separating the One X from the pack is HTC’s
proprietary interface, called Sense, which is layered over
 Google (GOOG) ’s Android 4.0 operating system. I haven’t been a huge fan
of Sense, which on previous phones often seemed to be locked in
a struggle with Android over which would control the user
experience. The new version is altogether calmer and smoother.  The larger screen positions the One X as entertainment-
centric. My results were good though not great on that score.  The screen is capable of displaying 720p high-definition
video and on the spec sheet approaches Apple’s vaunted Retina
Display. In actual use, it fell a little short. White
backgrounds had a slightly grayish tint, though colors were rich
and vivid. And while  Netflix (NFLX)  movies streamed flawlessly, even
over LTE, my attempts to use Hulu Plus yielded an error message
that “video playback on this device is not currently
supported.”  Fuller Bottom  The sound was better, thanks to processing technology from
Beats Audio, which HTC now controls. The feature can be turned
on and off from within the One’s music player; I used it mostly
while streaming tunes from Spotify, where it tended to provide a
fuller bottom to the sound without overwhelming the track.  The One X has front- and rear-facing cameras. While there’s
no dedicated shutter button for the latter, it matches the
iPhone 4S with its ability to shoot 1080p high-definition video
and an eight-megapixel sensor for stills. I particularly enjoyed
the burst mode that let me fire off shot after shot -- one more
reason to leave my camera at home. But I found my photos
themselves, while good, to be not quite up to iPhone standards
of clarity and color.  With the iPhone’s edge in number and quality of apps, best-
of-breed camera and screen and the iTunes Store,  Apple (AAPL)  has
little reason to fear any single phone. Still, there’s good
reason why it’s paying attention to the One X. It’s as capable
and pleasurable as any Android device out there.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Mark Beech 
on pop music.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 