-- HTC Said to Be Shut Out of Next Version of Windows
-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-07T01:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/htc-said-to-be-shut-out-of-next-version-of-windows.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  is being shut out of the
introduction of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s next Windows software, people
with knowledge of the matter said, cutting off another source of
revenue after HTC reduced its second-quarter sales forecast by
13 percent. The shares fell to the lowest in two years.   Microsoft locked out HTC from the development of products
using the newest version of its operating system on concern that
HTC doesn’t sell enough devices or have ample experience making
tablets, said the people, who asked not to be named because
negotiations between HTC and other companies are private.  Microsoft’s decision will keep HTC, maker of the first
Google Inc.-branded smartphone, from participating in the
electronics industry’s latest attempt to erode  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lead
in tablets. The Taiwanese company, whose stock has dropped 68
percent in the past year, is also facing shortages from
chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , highlighting the challenge of competing
with Apple and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  -- two companies whose
dominance in manufacturing and software are increasingly
marginalizing smaller rivals like HTC.  “Every consumer knows about Samsung’s Galaxy platform and
the iPhone, and you are starting to see consumers coalesce
around them,” said  Matthew Thornton , an analyst at Avian
Securities LLC, who yesterday cut his rating on HTC to negative.
“Things just get worse from here. It’s a very bleak outlook.”  Windows RT  Microsoft plans to release its next  Windows operating
system , the first to run on chips with technology from  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM) , in time for the  holiday shopping season . The ARM
version of the new software, designed for tablets that compete
with the iPad, is called Windows RT. Other tablets and computers
will be made using chips based on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s technology. The
software, also called Windows 8, will appear in devices from
companies like  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  later
this year.  HTC is a strong partner now and for the future, said  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Microsoft, in an e-mailed statement. He
declined to discuss specifics. HTC intends to support future
versions of Windows and isn’t commenting on the details of its
product plans, said Sally Julien, a U.S.-based spokeswoman at
HTC, in an e-mailed statement.  HTC has been unable to either develop its own software or
hardware or sell enough devices to make it the first in line for
its suppliers, said  Ramon Llamas , an analyst at IDC.  “Controlling the supply chain or influencing the supply
chain is one of the things that takes you to success,” said
Llamas. “It can very quickly turn on you if you’re not
controlling everything in-house.”  Product Delays  HTC said yesterday that second-quarter sales would be NT$91
billion ($3.05 billion), below a previous forecast of NT$105
billion because of product delays in the U.S. and lower-than-
anticipated sales in Europe. Besides smartphones, HTC also makes
tablets with  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  The company’s shares plunged 6.9 percent to NT$378, the
lowest in two years, in Taipei trading today after the guidance.  Microsoft, which has tightly controlled the number of ARM-
based devices it is supporting at first to ensure quality, opted
not to work with HTC after initial discussions with the company,
said the two people familiar with the matter. The world’s
largest software maker decided to work with other vendors that
had greater sales volume and more tablet experience for the
first round of devices, the people said.  HTC engineers wanted to build a Windows device with a
customized home screen that would be distinctive to its devices,
as manufacturers are allowed to do with Android. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft refused, said the people, and HTC was
left off the list of companies the software maker provided with
early versions of the software.  Sales Decline  HTC may release a Windows device later, in a second round
of products to come next year, one of the people said.  After surging 90 percent in 2010 and 65 percent last year,
HTC’s sales will decline 12 percent this year, according to the
average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  In the first quarter, HTC’s  smartphone shipments  dropped 23
percent as Samsung’s more than tripled and Apple’s increased 89
percent, according to IDC. Samsung and Apple account for 53
percent of the market. HTC has a 4.8 percent share, according to
the market researcher, placing it fifth behind  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   Participating in the introduction of Windows RT tablets
would be unlikely to solve all that ails HTC. The machines will
be starting from a zero-market-share position, without the
advantage of popular, older Windows applications that won’t run
on ARM hardware.  Relationship Shift  The situation underlines the shift in the relationship
between Microsoft and HTC, which once relied on each other to
prop up early efforts in the mobile-phone market. The two
companies started working together on Microsoft’s mobile phones
early in the last decade and the first Windows-based phone was
manufactured by HTC. At the time, Microsoft had virtually no
experience in the area, and HTC was a maker of unbranded generic
phones for other companies.  HTC recently has placed more emphasis on its better-selling
Android phones, and Microsoft has forged a closer relationship
with HTC competitor Nokia.  Still, HTC has seven Windows Phone models on sale globally.
The operating system has about  2 percent  share of the market,
according to IDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  