-- California Cigarette Tax Trails as All Precincts Counted
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/california-cigarette-tax-too-close-to-call-ap-reports.html
California ’s ballot measure proposing
a $1-a-pack increase in cigarette taxes trailed by about 63,000
votes out of 3.9 million cast after the tobacco industry led a
campaign that spent $46.8 million to kill it.  Proposition 29  opponents were ahead of supporters about 51
percent to 49 percent with all precincts partially or fully
reporting, according to results posted on the California
Secretary of State’s  website . Some absentee and provisional
ballots remain to be counted, including 135,000 in San Diego.  “The tobacco industry has confused California voters by
leading them to believe that money would be leaving the state,”
David Veneziano, chief executive officer of the Oakland-based
California division of the  American Cancer Society , said
yesterday by telephone. “The money would be used for  cancer
research  in California.”  The plan to more than double the tax to $1.87 a pack pitted
 Lance Armstrong , the cycling champion and cancer survivor, and
groups such as the American Cancer Society against the tobacco
industry, led by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) 
The additional revenue would be steered to cancer research and
anti-smoking programs.  “We are very encouraged by the 63,000 vote lead, but there
remain a number of absentee and provisional ballots to be
counted statewide,” Beth Miller, spokeswoman for No on 29, a
Sacramento, California-based group representing tobacco
companies, retailers and others, said yesterday in a statement.
“We expect to have a better idea of what that universe of
uncounted ballots looks like from the counties later today.”  Another Month  The final results may not be known for at least another
month. County elections officials have until July 3 to ensure
every eligible ballot is counted and until July 6 to report
their certified vote counts, according to the Secretary of
State’s office.  “While Election Day has come and gone, the meticulous
tasks of reviewing signatures on vote-by-mail envelopes and
verifying registrations of people who voted provisionally
continues in each of the 58 counties,” Secretary of State Debra Bowen, the state’s chief elections officer, said in a statement.  A higher tax might influence the payments that states
receive from  tobacco companies  under a 1998 settlement of
smoking-related litigation,  Fitch Ratings  said June 5. States
and counties have about $106 billion of such bonds outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The revenue is tied to
sales, which raising California’s tax might reduce, Fitch said.  Industry Campaign  The tobacco industry dominated campaign  contributions  to
defeat the ballot measure. Two-thirds came from Richmond,
Virginia-based Altria, which put in $31.3 million through its
Philip Morris USA, John Middleton Co. and U.S. Smokeless Tobacco
units, according to data compiled by MapLight, a nonpartisan
research organization based in Berkeley.  Reynolds American’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, American Snuff
and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco units gave $14.1 million, according
to MapLight data. Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina , announced in March that it plans to cut 10 percent of
its U.S. workforce by the end of 2014 as cigarette demand wanes.  Opponents said the tax wouldn’t help reduce the state’s
budget deficit and didn’t require the revenue it would produce
to be spent on research in California.  Supporters, who said the measure would keep children from
smoking and save lives, raised about $12.3 million, with $8.5
million coming from the Cancer Society, according to MapLight.  Tax Backers  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, gave $500,000 to
back the measure. Irwin Mark Jacobs, co-founder of San Diego-
based  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips,
gave $30,000. Laurene Powell Jobs, widow of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-
founder  Steve Jobs , who died of pancreatic cancer, gave $25,000.  Armstrong’s nonprofit cancer charity, Livestrong, gave $1.5
million. Armstrong overcame testicular cancer and won the Tour
de France seven times.  The increase would push the average price of a pack to
about $7.50, said Brian Miller, a spokesman for the California
State Board of Equalization, the state’s tax collector, citing
the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office.  Consumers pay the highest state tax at $4.35 a pack in New
York, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. The average state tax is $1.46.  Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death and
illness in the U.S., according to the CDC. The agency said
California hasn’t raised its 87-cents-a-pack tax since 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 