-- California House Democrats Head to November Showdown
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-06T14:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/california-house-democrats-head-to-november-showdown.html
Two House races in  Southern
California  will match incumbent Democrats running against each
other in November after primary contests yesterday.  Janice Hahn, 60, a freshman lawmaker, will oppose three-
term Representative Laura Richardson, 50, in one of the redrawn
congressional districts. In the other, Howard Berman, 71, who
has served 15 terms in Congress, will be challenged by  Brad Sherman , 57, who is seeking his ninth term.  Thrown together by redistricting, each pair finished one-
two in their respective primaries and qualified for the November
ballot. In California’s open primary system, the top two
finishers move on to the general election regardless of party
affiliation.  Sherman finished first last night with 42 percent of the
vote to Berman’s 32 percent, according to the  Associated Press .
Hahn and Richardson were the only candidates in their district.
Hahn had 60 percent to 40 percent for Richardson, according to
AP.  First elected in 1982, Berman is the senior Democrat on the
House Foreign Relations Committee and is the second-ranking
Democrat on the Judiciary Committee. Sherman, one of a handful
of certified public accountants in Congress, was first elected
in 1996. He also serves on the House Foreign Relations and the
Financial Services panels.  Expensive Race  While the two have similar voting records, there are some
policy differences. Berman “has the majority of the hardcore
pro-Israel crowd on his side,” according to the Cook Political
Report.  He supported the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program,
which Sherman opposed.  Berman and Sherman spent $5.5 million combined through May
16, making their race the most expensive in the nation to pit
one incumbent against another, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign spending.  Allan Hoffenblum, publisher of the California Target Book
of political analysis, predicted there will be as many as 34
congressional and legislative contests in California that
feature candidates from the same party in November. That may
weaken the influence of labor unions in the  Democratic Party  and
anti-tax Tea Party activists in the  Republican Party , he said.  “The candidates selected will be representative of the
district as a whole and not just holding to the far right or far
left of their base party,” Hoffenblum said.  Redrawn Districts  Many California districts were redrawn to comply with the
federal Voting Rights Act, designed to promote representation
for racial minorities.  Democrats view California as vital to their strategy of
picking up seats in the House. In a memo today, the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee said it sees the opportunity to
pick up four to six U.S. House seats representing California
after redistricting caused more Republican-held seats to be
competitive in the Democrat-dominated state. The party is also
seeking to gain seats in  Illinois  and New York.  While 47 percent of the district in which Richardson is
running is composed of her current constituents, Hahn has strong
name recognition as a former Los Angeles City councilwoman and
daughter of a popular former mayor, according to the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report.  Hahn’s former district was chopped into three parts with
areas represented by Richardson and Democratic Representatives
Maxine Waters and  Henry Waxman .  Special Election  Last year, Hahn won a special election to replace  Jane Harman , who resigned from the House to head the Woodrow Wilson
Center for International Scholars, a Washington policy group.
Hahn lost a run for lieutenant governor in 2010 against San
Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom. The new district is 28 percent
black and 49 percent Hispanic. Hahn was endorsed by Los Angeles
Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa .  Richardson is under investigation by the House Ethics
Committee for allegedly requiring some staff members to work on
her 2010 re-election campaign. After the probe was announced
last November, Richardson said the committee was unjustly
targeting her while ignoring similar, well-publicized
allegations against other members of Congress. Richardson has
denied wrongdoing.  Sherman is running in a district that includes about 80
percent of his current constituents compared with 20 percent for
Berman, according to the Cook Political Report.  Republican Mark Reed finished third behind Sherman and
Berman in yesterday’s primary.  Berman’s Support  Berman has the support of California Governor  Jerry Brown ,
Senators  Barbara Boxer  and  Dianne Feinstein , Villaraigosa, the
Service Employees International Union and Hollywood insiders
 Steven Spielberg  and  Jeffrey Katzenberg . Sherman was endorsed by
former President  Bill Clinton  and some smaller unions.  The race, according to the Cook report, could be a test of
how much voters value endorsements at a time when congressional
approval ratings are at historic lows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  