-- Cameron Norway Visit Will See Energy-Company Expansion in U.K.
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-06T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/cameron-norway-visit-will-see-energy-company-expansion-in-u-k-.html
Norwegian energy companies will
announce plans to expand in the U.K. during a visit to Oslo by
Prime Minister  David Cameron , the first by a British leader in
26 years, the premier’s office said.  The plans will lead to the creation of 1,600 jobs in the
U.K. and investment worth tens of billions of pounds, Cameron’s
office said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, without giving
details of the companies involved. Cameron, who arrived in Oslo
last night, and Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will
also reach an agreement today to improve energy ties between the
two nations.  “ Norway  supplies over a quarter of U.K. entire energy
needs and is a major investor right across our energy sector,”
Cameron said in the statement. “I hope that my visit to Oslo
will help secure affordable energy supplies for decades to come
and enhance investment between our two countries.”  Cameron meets executives today from 10 companies including
 Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO) , Norway’s biggest maker of oil platforms,
 Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s biggest oil and gas producer, and
 Fred Olsen Energy ASA. (FOE)  British companies have invested about 13
billion pounds ($20 billion) in the Nordic country’s energy
industry, Cameron’s office said.  Britain, which produced less gas than it imported last year
for the first time, got 21 percent of its fuel through the
Langeled pipeline from Norway last quarter, an all-time high,
 National Grid Plc (NG/)  data show.  ‘Reciprocal Investment’  Today’s agreement will seek to improve “collaboration on
affordable long-term gas supply, more reciprocal investment in
oil, gas and renewable energies and more commercial deals
creating thousands of new jobs and adding billions to our
economies,” Cameron said.  Last year, the U.K. increased tax allowances for some  North
Sea  project investments, prompting Statoil to resume work on the
Mariner field development. Statoil had frozen the $10 billion
plan to develop operations in the North Sea.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised taxes on
oil-production profits to 62 percent from 50 percent in last
year’s budget to pay for a lower duty on gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  