-- Cameron, Obama Call for Immediate Plan to End Euro Crisis
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-06T19:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/cameron-obama-call-for-immediate-plan-to-resolve-euro-crisis.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
President  Barack Obama  called for an immediate plan to resolve
the euro-region debt crisis, adding to pressure on German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to ease the way to a deal.  Cameron travels to Berlin tomorrow for talks with the
German leader as Spain pushes for European money to rescue its
banks. The demand for action comes less than two weeks before
Group of 20 leaders meet in Los Cabos, Mexico.  Obama and Cameron, who spoke by phone yesterday, “agreed
on the need for an immediate plan to tackle the crisis and to
restore market confidence as well as the need for a longer-term
strategy to ensure a stable single currency,” the prime
minister’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters in London
today.  Merkel and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  also spoke
with Obama in separate calls today, the White House said.  Merkel hardened her opposition to joint debt sharing in the
euro region in a speech June 2 after Obama singled out Europe’s
leaders for not doing enough to arrest the financial crisis.
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called on European
institutions yesterday to help overcome Spain’s difficulties
with liquidity.  Merkel, the head of Europe’s largest economy and the
largest contributor to bailouts for Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, is the pivotal player in efforts to resolve the crisis,
now in its third year.  Pressuring Merkel  As Spain struggles to avoid becoming the next country to
call for a rescue, the pressure from Cameron and Obama adds to
that on Merkel from the European Central Bank, France and Italy
to do more to halt the spread of contagion.  In Obama’s conversations with Merkel and Monti, the leaders
talked about the importance of strengthening “resilience of the
euro zone” and boosting growth in  Europe  and globally, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters traveling with
the U.S. president to a political fundraiser in California.  Monti’s office said in a statement that the two men agreed
on the need for stronger action to tame the debt crisis.  Cameron’s spokeswoman gave no details on what sort of steps
the premier and Obama thought euro-region leaders should take to
solve the three year crisis. She said only that “euro-zone
issues were discussed” on the call when asked whether Spain had
had been a topic.  Merkel and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are
urging Rajoy to accept an international bailout as Spain can’t
solve its banking woes alone, the German news magazine Der
Spiegel reported this week, without citing a source for the
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  