-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens for 3rd Day as Risk Assets Climb
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-06T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/canadian-dollar-strengthens-for-3rd-day-as-risk-assets-climb.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated for a
third day versus its U.S. counterpart, the longest streak since
April, as speculation global policy makers will take steps to
spur economic growth propelled equities and commodities.  The currency gained against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said officials stand ready to act as the euro bloc’s growth
outlook worsens. Economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predict
 Statistics Canada  will say on June 8 the nation’s employers
added 5,000 jobs last month.  “A decisive move higher in underlying equities has shown
itself once again to be a big influence in what’s pushing the
Canadian dollar stronger,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, said in
a phone interview. “There’s been a widespread bid to the
markets that are most strongly correlated with the Canadian
dollar,” he said, citing crude oil, gold and equities.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 1 percent to
C$1.0276 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, its biggest
intraday move since April 17. One Canadian dollar buys 97.33
U.S. cents.  Yields on the nation’s two-year government securities
gained six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.06
percent, the third straight gain. They reached 0.86 percent on
June 1, the  lowest  this year, as investors sought refuge in top-
rated sovereign debt. The price of the 2.25 percent bonds due in
August 2014 dropped 14 cents to C$102.54.  Stocks, Commodities  Canadian two-year bonds  yielded  79 basis points more than
equivalent-maturity U.S. securities, up from 63 on June 1. The
 spread  was 117 basis points on April 27, widening on speculation
Canada’s central bank would raise borrowing costs this year to
cool inflation.  Equities and commodities rallied on prospects policy makers
will act to spur economic growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (DXY)  gained 2.3 percent, while the MSCI World Index of equities
in developed nations climbed 2.2 percent. Both increases were
the biggest for their respective indexes since Dec. 20. Crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 1.5 percent and the S&P
GSCI Index of raw materials added 1.5 percent.  The 30-day correlation coefficient between the Canadian
dollar and the  S&P 500  rose to 0.84 today, from 0.76 at the end
of May, Bloomberg data show. A coefficient of 1 means the
measures move in lockstep. The correlation has averaged 0.35
over the past decade, and this year ranged between 0.87 in April
and 0.58 in March.  Fed Speculation  The loonie’s correlation with crude-oil futures was 0.69
today, and was 0.66 with the spread between two-year Canadian
and U.S. government bonds.  Draghi spoke at a news conference in  Frankfurt  after the
ECB left its benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent. He
said policy makers were “ready to act.”  The U.S. Dollar Index fell to its lowest level in more than
a week on an intraday basis as investors bet Federal Reserve
Vice Chairman Janet L. Yellen and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would
signal increased need for stimulus in appearances late today and
tomorrow.  “The market has convinced itself that low rates and free
money are the only solution to a problem that is more complex,”
Firas Askari, head currency trader at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in
Toronto, wrote in an e-mail. “I don’t think the Canadian dollar
will run too far one way or another, barring tape bombs ahead of
employment data on Friday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  