-- Carl Icahn Sued by Pension Funds Over CVR Energy Deal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-06T17:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/carl-icahn-sued-by-pension-funds-over-cvr-energy-deal-1-.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  was sued by
pension funds accusing  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ’s biggest shareholder of
freezing out minority investors and seeking to bar him from
accumulating more stock.  Icahn’s attempt to gain a 90 percent stake in CVR, a level
necessary to forcibly acquire remaining shares through a short-
form merger, will result in CVR’s shareholders being “squeezed-
out of their investment,” according to the complaint made
public today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The plaintiffs are the City of Tamarac Firefighter Pension
Trust Fund and the City of Miami General Employees’ and
Sanitation Employees’ Retirement Trust.  Icahn won an 80 percent stake and control of CVR’s board
last month after offering $30 a share and the right to an
additional payment if he can resell the company by Aug. 18,
2013. CVR’s board has done nothing to protect shareholders in
the deal, the pension funds said.  “The cure is simple -- adopt a poison pill that forces
Icahn to negotiate a buyout price rather than allow him to
conduct an open market scheme to game Delaware law,” the funds
said in the complaint.  Icahn couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the
lawsuit. A phone message left for his assistant wasn’t
immediately returned.  CVR rose 3.3 percent to $24.89 at 1:07 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Icahn Criticism  CVR, based in  Sugar Land ,  Texas , said in a June 4 statement
that there won’t be a short form merger with  Icahn Enterprises .
Icahn didn’t receive 90 percent of CVR’s stock in the tender
offering, CVR said.  CVR owns oil refineries in Kansas and  Oklahoma  capable of
processing a combined 185,000 barrels a day. The company also
controls CVR Partners LP, a fertilizer maker.  Icahn criticized the company in a March 28 statement as too
small and not diversified enough to compete in a cyclical
industry like refining.  The case is City of Tamarac Firefighter Pension Trust Fund
v. Icahn, CA7597, Delaware Court of Chancery (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  