-- CarMax Boosting Asset-Backed Transaction to $940 Million
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-06T17:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/carmax-boosting-asset-backed-transaction-to-940-million.html
CarMax Inc. (KMX)  boosted its sale of bonds
backed by auto loans to $940 million from $750 million as
investors snap up the debt with delinquencies at the lowest
level this year.  A top-ranked slice maturing in 3.78 years will yield 36
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t public. The Richmond, Virginia-based used-
vehicle retailer paid 48 basis points more than the benchmark on
similar debt sold in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. households are staying current on car payments even as
concerns mount that economic growth is slowing. Delinquencies on
auto loans packaged into bonds dropped to the lowest level this
year in April,  New York  and London-based  Fitch Ratings  said in a
May 31 report.  Payments more than 60 days late from borrowers with the
best credit fell 5.7 percent to 0.33 percent last month, Fitch
said in a report today. Losses on the debt slid 50 percent to
0.17 percent, according to the rating company.  Top-ranked debt backed by auto loans yielded 61 basis
points more than Treasuries yesterday, up from 59 basis points
on April 30, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Spreads on consumer asset-backed securities have been
stable even as the European debt crisis roils markets, Wells
Fargo & Co. analysts said in a report last week.  “Our expectation is for various segments of consumer ABS
to outperform in the event of increased market turmoil related
to the situation in  Europe  or other macroeconomic events,”
wrote the analysts led by John McElravey, who is based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  