-- Carmakers Aggravate China Glut as Dealers Struggle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T09:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/carmakers-aggravate-china-glut-as-dealers-struggle.html
China ’s biggest auto-dealer
association said carmakers need to scale back their sales
targets or sweeten incentives because the worsening glut of
vehicles across the nation’s dealerships is unsustainable.  Average inventory carried at Chinese dealerships bloated to
a level exceeding two months of sales by the end of May,
compared with more than 45 days at the end of April, Luo Lei,
deputy secretary general of the state-backed China Automobile
Dealers Association, said in an interview yesterday. That’s
forcing dealers to deepen discounts and sell cars at a loss to
meet mandatory sales targets set by automakers, he said.  “Dealers can’t shoulder the burden anymore,” said Luo,
whose association is authorized by the central government and
represents 2,100 dealership groups. “Their backs are broken.”  Luo’s warning is a contrast to the jump in sales reported
by automakers including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
which only disclose the number of vehicles sold to Chinese
dealers -- instead of consumers. Wholesale passenger-vehicle
deliveries increased 12 percent in May, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after rising more than expected
for two straight months.  “Two months of inventory is pretty dangerous for the
industry,”  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co., said in a telephone interview. “The most
direct way to digest inventory is to cut prices.”  Shares Fall  The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, which
compiles the monthly wholesale figures from automakers, plans to
release the May numbers this week.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , GM’s Chinese partner, declined 1.8
percent to the lowest close in more than two months in Shanghai
trading.  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489)  fell 3.1 percent in  Hong Kong ,
while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.9 percent.  GM, the world’s largest carmaker, doesn’t share Luo’s
concerns.  Kevin Wale , head of China operations, predicted in a
May 31 interview that the country’s auto industry is poised to
rebound from its worst four-month slump in 14 years as consumers
return to  car dealerships  during the second half.  “I can’t see anything in the Chinese environment that’s
leading to an unusual decline in  consumer confidence ,” he said.  GM said this week that vehicle sales in China increased 21
percent last month, driven by demand for its Wuling minivan and
Chevrolet models.  Exiting Dealers  Honda reported a 92 percent surge from a disaster-affected
May last year. Wen Yuzhen, a spokeswoman for Honda’s China joint
venture with  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , said in an e-mailed
response today that its dealer inventories are at “good
levels.”  The company has seen some dealers exiting its network
lately, Wen said. They had been asked to leave as they did not
meet certain standards required by the company, and such dealer
movements are common in the industry, she said.  The difficulties have spread to luxury-car dealers and
carmakers will eventually have to share the burden of the
discounts seen in showrooms, according to analyst at  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s 5 series is seeing a 5
percent to 8 percent discounts and currently much of the price
cuts are being born by the dealers, Ole Hui and Jeremy Yeo, Hong
Kong-based analysts at Mizuho, wrote in a note today.  “The distribution channel is full and dealers must
discount in order to reach the sale targets,” they wrote.  Rising Inventory  Jerry Ma, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Shanghai General
Motors Co., didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone nor respond
to an e-mail.  In the showrooms, surging inventory will lead to intense
price competition, forcing out weaker dealerships that can’t
absorb losses, Luo said. There were about 21,000 dealership
outlets in China as of the end of 2011, compared with 16,000 the
year before, according to Luo.  The association said in a previous interview on May 17 that
dealerships for Honda, Chery Automobile Co.,  BYD Co. (1211)  and  Geely
Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  carried more than 45 days of inventory
as of the end of April, exceeding the threshold that foreshadows
debilitating price cuts.  Dealer checks are showing inventory for foreign joint
venture brands approaching the two-month level, and domestic
brands are carrying about 60 days to 80 days in stock,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
analysts wrote in a report yesterday.  ‘Pretty Dangerous’  Stiff competition and more model choices have led to
falling profits at Chinese vehicle dealers, according to an
annual survey by  J.D. Power  Asia Pacific. A fifth of the 1,605
dealers polled by the industry researcher said they were
unprofitable, versus 9 percent a year ago, J.D. Power said in
April.  Stocks of Chinese auto dealerships have fallen in Hong Kong
trading this year as slowing economic growth weighed on consumer
sentiment.  Zhongsheng Group Holdings Ltd. (881) , a Beijing-based retailer of
luxury auto brands, has declined 13 percent this year, compared
with the 1.3 percent gain in the Hang Seng Index.  China
Zhengtong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  and  Baoxin Auto Group Ltd. (1293) 
have fallen 40 percent and 20 percent respectively.  Last month, China Yongda Automobiles Services Holdings
Ltd., China’s biggest distributor of BMW cars, shelved plans to
raise as much as $430 million in an initial public offering in
Hong Kong.  Automakers should realize the difficulties that dealerships
are facing and not put too much pressure on distributors, said
Luo of the association.  “The picture we have is very different from what the
automakers are painting,” he said. “The sales increases
they’re reporting are achieved by loading dealers with stock.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  