-- Caterpillar Says Demand From U.S. Coal-Mining Industry Slows
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-06-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/caterpillar-says-demand-from-u-s-coal-mining-industry-slows.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining equipment, said demand from the
U.S. coal-mining industry is slowing after a mild winter.  Global demand for the company’s machinery is still at a
“very, very high level,” Steve Wunning, Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar’s group president for resource industries, said
today in a telephone interview from Zhengzhou,  China . “The only
area we’re seeing a bit of a slowdown is in U.S. coal.”  U.S. demand for coal in electricity generation will drop
9.7 percent this year to the lowest level since 1984, according
to the U.S. Energy Department. Some power plants have switched
to using natural gas after surging output from hydraulic
fracturing of shale rock sent prices to the lowest in a decade.  “Global demand for our equipment will offset any slowdown
in the U.S. as it relates to mining,” Wunning said.  Caterpillar completed its tender offer to buy Hong Kong-
based  ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. (8043) , a coal-mining equipment maker,
for as much as HK$5.69 billion ($733 million) to gain sales in
China, the world’s largest producer and user of coal, the
company said in a statement today.  The bid was approved by investors holding 99 percent of
ERA’s shares and Caterpillar plans to complete the acquisition
of the remaining shares of ERA common stock in the third quarter
of 2012, the company said today.  “We don’t see as much growth in the U.S. in coal as we do
in other regions like China and like  India ,” Wunning said.
“The longer-term growth in the U.S. is questionable because the
government is not permitting many new coal mine operations and
not permitting coal-fired power plants.”  Caterpillar  rose  3.6 percent to $86.66 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  