-- Celtics Defeat Heat 94-90 to Move Within One Win of NBA Finals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-06T04:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/celtics-defeat-heat-94-90-to-move-within-one-win-of-nba-finals.html
Paul Pierce  hit a 3-pointer with 52
seconds left to help move the Boston Celtics within one win of
the National Basketball Association Finals with a 94-90 victory
against the host  Miami Heat .  The Celtics, who trailed 42-40 at halftime, can advance to
the championship round with a home victory in Game 6 of the
Eastern Conference finals tomorrow. If the Heat win that game, a
deciding seventh game will be played in Miami two days later.  “We do it together,”  Kevin Garnett , who had 26 points and
11 rebounds last night for the Celtics, said in a televised
interview. “We don’t do it individually, but when we do we look
bad. When we do it together we look pretty darn good.”  Pierce, who had 19 points, gave the Celtics a 90-86 lead
with his 25-foot shot in the final minute of the game at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami. Ray Allen and Garnett followed
with two free throws each to cement the victory.  “They jumped on us at the beginning of the game and I just
told them to hang in there,” said Celtics coach Doc Rivers. “I
asked a lot of our guys -- maybe too much at times -- but they
came through.”  Dwyane Wade  missed a 3-pointer with five seconds left and
Garnett grabbed the rebound, sending the ball down to the other
end of the court as the clock ran out.  “Playoffs are a test of your collective behavior and your
resolve,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said. “It’s a tough one to
lose at home, but it’s over and you have to leave it behind.”  LeBron James  had 30 points and 13 rebounds, and Wade added
27 points for Miami.  Chris Bosh  returned after missing nine
playoff games with a strained lower abdominal muscle and scored
nine points for the Heat in 14 minutes of play.  Bosh Returns  “I feel good, I definitely had more to give,” Bosh told
reporters. “When the time comes, I’ll definitely be ready to
play more than I did tonight. It was good for me to put my
uniform on again.”  The series winner will face the Oklahoma City Thunder or
the  San Antonio Spurs  in the NBA Finals. The Western Conference
finals resume tonight in Oklahoma City, with the Thunder leading
the best-of-seven series 3-2 in games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  