-- Chesapeake Energy Annual Meeting Can Proceed, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/chesapeake-energy-annual-meeting-can-proceed-judge-rules.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s annual
meeting can proceed, a judge ruled, over the objections of
shareholders who sought to delay tomorrow’s event.  U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange in  Oklahoma City 
yesterday denied a shareholders’ request to delay the meeting,
saying additional disclosures about Chief Executive Officer
Aubrey K. McClendon’s compensation and loans weren’t crucial to
investors’ considerations at the gathering.  “The court finds plaintiffs have not met their burden of
showing irreparable injury” if the annual meeting goes forward,
Miles-LaGrange concluded in her 10-page ruling.  The ruling came two days after Chesapeake officials agreed
to replace almost half of the company’s board in the wake of
criticism of directors’ lax oversight of McClendon’s activities.
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  pushed the second-largest U.S.
natural-gas producer to replace four of the company’s eight non-
executive directors.  Chesapeake shareholders are scheduled to vote tomorrow on
whether to re-elect two members of the current board and on a
so-called “say on pay” resolution about McClendon’s
compensation.  ‘Correct Decision’  “We believe the judge made the correct decision and look
forward to holding our annual shareholder meeting as
scheduled,” Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Investor lawyer Matthew Houston of  Manhattan ’s Harwood
Feffer LLP argued for the delay before Miles-LaGrange. He didn’t
immediately reply to after-hours voice-mail and e-mail messages
seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  “This is not a well-functioning board,” Houston told the
court on June 5, referring to the announcement that four of its
directors were being replaced. “Shareholders should not be in
an adversarial position with their board of directors”  The lawyer told LaGrange his clients didn’t want to cancel
the meeting, merely postpone it so they could obtain additional
information.  “What plaintiffs are really asking for,” company attorney
Robert Varian countered, “is that this court erect some sort of
barrier between Chesapeake and its shareholders. It would be an
extraordinary remedy.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had reviewed
and approved Chesapeake’s shareholder proxy, Varian told the
judge.  “You don’t need any more information to vote,” he said.  Shares Rise  The  Oklahoma  City-based  company’s shares  have dropped in
the wake of falling gas prices and media reports that McClendon
was using personal stakes in the company’s wells to obtain
loans. Chesapeake rose more than 7 percent to $18.21 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  As of Dec. 31, McClendon, 52, had $846 million in loans
covering his well-ownership costs. The program, which allowed
him to own as much as 2.5 percent of almost every well the
company drilled, required the CEO to pay development costs
proportionate to his stake.  McClendon’s compensation package also has drawn criticism
from investors. The natural-gas companies cut McClendon’s pay 15
percent last year to $17.86 million in response to concerns that
it was excessive.  The reduced compensation included $13.6 million in stock
awards, a $1.95 million bonus and $975,000 in salary, according
to an April filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  This month, Chesapeake officials cut directors’ pay by 20
percent and halted their personal use of corporate airplanes
amid criticism of the company’s management.  Conflicts Probed  Shareholders sought the delay to gather more data on the
loans, made by EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, Union Bank and
TCW Asset Management, to see if they create any conflicts of
interest, according to court filings.  “It is crucial for plaintiffs to have full information
regarding Defendant McClendon’s financing arrangements and
whether the board had knowledge of these arrangements in order
to determine whether to re-elect certain of those board members
to represent their interests and whether to approve an incentive
plan for members of the board and its officers, including
McClendon,” investors’ lawyers said in a May 29 court filing.  Chesapeake’s lawyers countered in their own filings that
the company had fully disclosed McClendon’s compensation and his
loans secured by interests in the company’s wells in earlier
proxy filings.  Chesapeake officials announced last month that McClendon
will step down as board chairman when a replacement is named.  Largest Holders  Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Chesapeake’s
two largest shareholders, pushed for a board shakeup after
saying that McClendon’s risk-taking and overspending has led to
a $22 billion cash crunch and helped the share price erode by
almost 30 percent this year.  Memphis-based Southeastern’s 13.6 percent stake in
Chesapeake makes it the largest holder, followed by Icahn, who
owns 7.6 percent of the company’s shares. Southeastern will
propose three of the new directors and Icahn will name the
fourth, the company said June 5.  McClendon built Chesapeake into the second-largest U.S. gas
producer by amassing fields that cover an area half the size of
 New York  state.  As one of the first explorers to embrace horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, McClendon helped usher in a
renaissance in U.S. gas and oil production with discoveries such
as the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  and Utica Shale in  Ohio .  Advanced Talks  The company is in advanced talks to sell pipelines to
Global Infrastructure Partners for more than $4 billion, said
two people with knowledge of the matter. The energy explorer is
discussing selling its entire stake in  Chesapeake Midstream
Partners LP (CHKM)  and other pipeline assets, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
The negotiations may lead to a deal within days and could also
fall apart, the people said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. gas producer. As a glut of North American gas drove prices
to a 10-year low in April, Chesapeake warned May 1 that it may
run out of cash to fund drilling projects as early as next year.
Alembic Global Advisors estimates the company’s cash-flow
shortfall may Reach $22 billion by the end of 2013.  The case is Deborah G. Mallow IRA SEP Investment Plan v.
McClendon, 12-cv-436, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  