-- Codelco Opens Door to Settlement in Anglo Copper Feud
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   M a r t y   S c h e n k e r
-- 2012-06-06T23:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/chile-s-codelco-had-10-slump-in-quarterly-copper-output.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, said buyers are delaying metal purchases amid concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow global growth.  Declining prices, including a 12 percent slump last month,
reflect global demand that is falling short of Codelco’s
estimated 3 to 3.5 percent annual growth rate, said  Thomas Keller , the state-owned company’s chief executive officer.  “Everybody is more cautious about making decisions both on
the demand and supply side,” Keller said in an interview in
Santiago yesterday. “The somewhat lower copper price these days
is a reflection of that situation.”  Copper traded at an almost six-month low on June 5 as signs
of faltering growth in countries using the euro adds to concern
that the region’s fiscal woes will hamper global metals demand.
The benchmark futures contract rallied 2.7 percent yesterday
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
officials stand ready to add economic stimulus.  Keller, who took over this month as CEO of  Chile ’s state-
owned copper company, said a continuing supply shortage will
help mitigate the price decline.  “We still believe that the fundamentals are basically
sound but that we are suffering from quite a lot of volatility
in prices as a result of the nervousness of the market,” he
said.  Codelco can still achieve its production target of 1.7
million metric tons this year even as output slumped in the
first quarter, he said.  Codelco plans to spend $26 billion to $27 billion this
decade to revive output at its aging mines, Keller said. With
the investment, the company wants to boost output to more than 2
million tons, he said.  Anglo Dispute  The new CEO signaled he’s willing to discuss a cash payment
as part of a settlement with  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  over the world’s
fifth-largest  copper mine .  Keller is leading an effort to end a dispute over Codelco’s
option to buy 49 percent of Anglo’s Sur unit at a below-market
price. The two companies resumed talks in  London  last week after
halting legal proceedings in Santiago until June 22, he said.  “If one is willing to sit down and negotiate of course
there is always some room for flexibility,” Keller said when
asked if he’d consider monetary compensation as part of a
settlement. “Our strategy continues to be to pursue the 49
percent or the value attached to that 49 percent.”  Anglo is seeking to maintain control of Sur, which includes
the Los Bronces mine, where the London-based company completed
last year a $2.8 billion expansion, and two of the world’s best
undeveloped copper deposits, according to  John MacKenzie , head
of copper at Anglo. Codelco owns the Andina copper mine adjacent
to Los Bronces in the Andean foothills near capital Santiago.  Mitsubishi Deal  Keller, 55, replaced  Diego Hernandez , who resigned last
month in the same week as the companies agreed to seek an out-
of-court settlement.  Hernandez, a former  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  executive, said
Codelco was unwilling to settle for less than 49 percent of the
Sur unit through exercising an option that values the asset at
about $6 billion. Anglo agreed in November to sell 24.5 percent
of the unit to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  for $5.39 billion in a
transaction that Codelco says blocks its option.  Talks under Hernandez broke down in January and Codelco
sued Anglo for breaching terms of a contract that dates back to
1978, when Exxon Mobil Corp. bought the copper mine. Anglo said
it is entitled to sell a stake to a third-party outside of a
window of validity that opens for a month every three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  