-- Chile Peso Extends Gain as ECB Speculation Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-06T15:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/chile-peso-extends-gain-as-ecb-speculation-boosts-export-outlook.html
Chile’s peso gained the most among
major Latin American currencies as speculation that authorities
will act to halt a deepening of the euro-zone crisis eased
concern over slowing demand for Chile’s commodity exports.  The peso appreciated 0.9 percent to 507.53 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 11:42 a.m. in Santiago, extending a recovery from the
four-month low reached on June 1. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin
American Currency Index  rose  0.6 percent.  The  European Central Bank  is ready to act and some policy
makers favor lowering rates, its president  Mario Draghi  told
reporters in Frankfurt today after the bank left the benchmark
rate unchanged at 1 percent. Copper, which accounts for more
than half of Chile’s exports, rebounded from the longest slump
since February.  “The market was prepared for a catastrophe in  Europe ,”
said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “People were overbought in
dollars. Now there’s a sensation that the ECB has to do
something and people are reducing their long dollar positions.”  Copper futures for July delivery climbed 1.9 percent to
$3.3525 a pound on the Comex in  New York . Prices dropped 5
percent over the previous five sessions in the longest slide
since Feb. 17.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $10.2 billion long dollar position against the peso on
June 4, just shy of the record reached on May 24. Local
investors, mostly pension funds, had a $17.7 billion long peso
position, according to data published today by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  