-- China Epidemic of Hard-to-Treat TB Fueled by Deficient Tr
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/china-epidemic-of-hard-to-treat-tb-fueled-by-deficient-treatment.html
China ’s epidemic of drug-resistant
 tuberculosis  is being worsened by inadequate treatment in the
public health system and hospitals, according to the first
nation-wide study of the disease.  One third of new cases and one half of people with
previously treated TB in 2007 had a form of the disease that
didn’t respond to medicine, according to research published in
the  New England Journal of Medicine  today. At 5.7 percent, the
presence of TB that was resistant to multiple therapies among
new cases was almost twice the global average, the study said.  China had an estimated 110,000 cases of multi-drug
resistant TB in 2007, the highest annual number of cases in the
world, and the situation could be much worse today, the study
authors wrote. A fourth of TB patients in the public health
system are receiving inadequate treatment because they are first
given medicines that don’t work against their form of the
disease, the study indicated.  “The situation is already pretty dire,” Daniel Chin, a TB
Program officer at  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  in Beijing
and a co-author of the study, said in an interview. “We have no
reason at all to believe that the situation has gotten any
better in the intervening time. Once you go into the country-
side, TB is everywhere and is one of the major infectious
diseases still afflicting the Chinese population.”  Not Completed  About 44 percent of patients with multi-drug resistant TB
who had received previous treatment had not completed their last
course, which means more continuity of care is needed, the
researchers said.  The survey involved 10 of China’s 31 provinces that have
1.36 billion of the country’s population. Some data in the study
had been reported to the  World Health Organization  and published
in its  report .  The generic medicines rifampin and isoniazid are used to
treat TB, and when drug-resistant bacteria are involved,
patients need to take multi-therapy combinations or newer,
expensive antibiotics.  About 8.8 million people  fell ill  with TB and 1.4 million
people died from the disease in 2010, making it the second-
biggest infectious disease killer behind HIV/AIDS, according to
the WHO.  There were about 650,000 cases of the multi-drug resistant
form, with about 150,000 people dying, the WHO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  