-- China Delays Tighter Bank Capital Rules to 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T06:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/china-delays-tighter-bank-capital-rules-to-2013-as-economy-slows.html
China  delayed tightening bank capital
rules to the beginning of next year, signaling support for loan
growth as policy makers seek to arrest a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy.  New draft rules from the China Banking Regulatory
Commission aim to set “reasonable” schedules for banks to meet
capital targets in a way that helps “maintain appropriate
 credit growth ,” the government  said  on its website yesterday,
without giving a deadline for compliance. The rules, announced
in August, had been set to go into effect on Jan. 1, 2012.  The delay in expanding the risk buffers follows three cuts
since November in the amount of cash that banks are required to
set aside as reserves. The government is propping up credit
after new bank loans in April dropped 33 percent from March,
missing economists’ forecasts, as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped
demand for China’s exports and manufacturing slowed.  “Chinese banks are under a lot of pressure,” Chen Xingyu,
an analyst at Phillip Securities in  Shanghai , said by telephone.
The delay is “not a surprise,” as the government is “helping
banks ease the pressure to raise capital again.”  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest lender, rose 0.5 percent to HK$4.55 as of 1:29 p.m. in
Hong Kong, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 1.4
percent. China  Construction Bank (939)  Corp. climbed 0.6 percent while
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  jumped 1.6 percent.  Slower Expansion  China’s  economy , the world’s second largest, expanded 8.1
percent in the first three months of this year, the slowest pace
in 11 quarters. The nation’s biggest banks may fall short of
their 2012 loan targets for the first time in at least seven
years, three bank officials with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  The People’s Bank of China will probably cut  interest rates 
in June for the first time since 2008 as it tackles the
slowdown, according to China International Capital Corp., the
nation’s largest investment bank. Data this weekend may show
fixed-asset investment expanded at the slowest pace in a decade,
inflation matched a two-year low and industrial output grew by
less than 10 percent for a second month, Bloomberg surveys
indicate.  The economic growth trend may improve in the second half,
strengthening loan demand in some regions, Wang Hongzhang,
chairman of Construction Bank, the country’s second-largest
lender, said in Hong Kong after a shareholders meeting today.  Construction Bank has been preparing for and can meet the
new capital standards, President Zhang Jianguo told reporters.  Capital Adequacy  Systemically important banks must have a capital-adequacy
ratio of 11.5 percent, while others need to maintain a level of
10.5 percent, the government reiterated in yesterday’s
statement. Chinese commercial lenders’ capital adequacy ratio
averaged 12.7 percent as of March 31, according to CBRC  data .  “Capital requirements should be stricter in economic
upturns, but relatively lenient in economic downturns,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists led by Zhu Haibin in  Hong Kong 
wrote in an e-mailed report. Implementing the new rules “will
help Chinese banks to build up loss-absorption capacity and to
improve risk management system.”  Adopting the new capital rules will lower major Chinese
banks’ capital adequacy ratio by as much as 2 percentage points
due to changes in risk weightings, the requirement to cover
operational risks and phasing out unqualified supplementary
capital, Chen Xiaoxian, president of China Citic Bank Corp.,
wrote in the April 16 edition of China Finance magazine, which
is affiliated with the nation’s central bank.  Loan Provisions  The draft rules will allow banks to count excess loan-loss
provisions as capital, the government said yesterday. Risk
weightings for small-company loans and personal credits will be
lowered, while those of interbank liabilities will be increased
“appropriately,” according to the statement, which didn’t give
details.  “We believe the announcement will be incrementally
positive for the sector as the wording does hint at a more
accommodative tone from regulators,” Nan Sheng, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed note. “The deadline for compliance with the new
 capital requirements  may possibly be pushed back along with the
implementation period, which will ease constraints on capital.”  Lenders will have a 10-year grace period to phase out
securities they’ve issued that don’t qualify as capital under
the new rules, the government said.  The banks will get three years to meet the new capital-
adequacy standards, 21st Century Business Herald  reported  today,
citing an unidentified person familiar with matter.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  