-- China’s Stocks Drop on Growth, Property Concerns; Vanke Falls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-06T07:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/china-s-stocks-rise-for-2nd-day-amid-interest-rate-cut-outlook.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index lower for a second time this week, on concern a
slowdown in economic growth is deepening and that the government
will stick to measures to contain real-estate prices.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and China Merchants Property Development
Co. dropped after the Xinhua News Agency said property curbs
will remain in place. China Shenhua Energy Co. led declines for
coal producers on concerns about the nation’s growth prospects
after a former central bank adviser said the economy will have a
“lukewarm” performance.  Shandong Gold Mining Co. (600547) , the second-
largest bullion producer, climbed to a seven-month high after
Morgan Stanley recommended buying gold miners.  “There won’t a big run-up on stocks because the economy
isn’t likely to see a strong V-shaped recovery,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at  Shanghai  River Fund Management Co.
“Cyclical stocks will be under pressure because there isn’t a
clear sign of a strong pick-up in economic growth.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.1 percent to 2,309.56
at the close. Two stocks declined for every one that gained. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.1 percent to 2,557.40. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 1.3 percent at the close in New York yesterday.  The Shanghai index has slid 6.1 percent from this year’s
high set on March 2 on concern the government isn’t doing enough
to stem a decline in economic growth. Stocks in the measure are
valued at 10 times estimated earnings, compared with a record
low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Property Measures  China’s housing ministry will stop local governments from
easing property policies to support “unreasonable” purchases,
Xinhua reported yesterday, citing an unidentified spokesman with
the ministry. The housing ministry will maintain the current
property-price control policy, Xinhua said.  Vanke, the nation’s largest listed property developer,
dropped 1.4 percent to 8.98  yuan . Merchants Property, the third
biggest, sank 0.7 percent to 24.41 yuan. Hangzhou Binjiang Real
Estate Group Co. fell 0.8 percent to 9.70 yuan.  China’s two-year efforts to limit the risk of a real estate
bubble have included higher mortgage and down-payment
requirements and restrictions on home purchases in about 40
cities.  The economy will have a “lukewarm” performance and may
expand 8.2 percent this year,  Li Daokui , a former adviser to the
People’s Bank of China, said in a forum in  Singapore . The growth
rate was 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace in
almost three years.  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, dropped 1.3
percent to 25.04 yuan.  Datong Coal Industry Co. (601001) , the third
biggest, lost 0.7 percent to 12.29 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co., the fourth largest, retreated 1 percent to 21.46 yuan.  Rate Outlook  The Shanghai Composite rose as much as 0.5 percent earlier
today on speculation the central bank will cut borrowing costs
for the first time since 2008. Thirty-day  volatility  in the
Shanghai Composite was at 15.44 today, near a three-week high.
About 6.6 billion shares changed hands in the measure yesterday,
27 percent lower than the daily average this year.  The People’s Bank of China should cut  interest rates  at an
appropriate time to boost confidence in the economy, according
to a commentary on the front page of the  China  Securities
Journal today, which is operated by Xinhua. Second-quarter
economic growth may be less than 7.5 percent and falling
producer prices show some areas face deflation risk, according
to the commentary.  Data this weekend are expected to show fixed-asset
investment expanded at the slowest pace in a decade in May,
inflation matched a two-year low and industrial output grew less
than 10 percent for a second month, Bloomberg economist surveys
show.  Bleak Data  “If the economic data for May still look bleak, we can’t
exclude the possibility that the central bank will cut both
lending and deposit rates,” said Shao Jiamin, the Shanghai-
based head of fixed income at HFT Investment Management Co.,
which oversees some 30 billion yuan ($4.7 billion).  China is expected to enter a period of consecutive reserve
requirement cuts in the second half, the  China Daily  reported
today, citing Ba Shusong, an economist with the State Council’s
Development Research Center. The central bank will need to cut
the ratio continuously in the next one to two years, it said.
The ratio has been reduced three times since November.  Shandong Gold jumped 6.8 percent to 38 yuan, its highest
close since Nov. 17. Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s largest
gold producer, rose 2.2 percent to 4.19 yuan.  The  Federal Reserve  is more likely to buy additional
government-backed mortgage securities, also known as
quantitative easing, after the pace of U.S. job creation slowed,
according to Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Expectations about QE3 and the recent weakness in the
 U.S. dollar  have boosted  gold prices  and the underlying
stocks,” Chen Binghui, a metals analyst at Northeast Securities
Co. in Shanghai, said by phone today. QE3 may fuel inflation,
making gold more attractive as an alternative investment. Morgan
Stanley reiterated its overweight rating for gold miners.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from  Judy Chen  in Shanghai.
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  