-- China National Nuclear IPO Wins Environment Ministry Approval
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-06-06T05:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/china-national-nuclear-ipo-wins-environment-ministry-approval.html
China  National Nuclear Power Co. won
the environment ministry’s permission to sell shares to fund 174
billion  yuan  ($27 billion) of projects in the nation’s first
initial public offering by a developer of atomic energy.  The Ministry of Environmental Protection approved a company
report seeking clearance, according to a  statement  on the
ministry website yesterday that didn’t mention the amount to be
raised. The share sale by the unit of China’s biggest developer
of nuclear energy had been approved by the China Securities
Regulatory Commission in January.  The company may need to raise about 50 billion yuan from
the share sale, Macquarie Group Ltd. said, as initial public
offerings falter in China. The nation, planning to build more
nuclear reactors than any other country, approved a safety
framework June 1 that may help end a ban on approving new atomic
plants imposed after last year’s Fukushima disaster in  Japan .  “Unless China National Nuclear prices its offering
extremely high, investors will like it even though the overall
 market sentiment  may not be ideal,” said Patrick Dai, an
analyst at Macquarie in Hong Kong. “China National Nuclear will
give the market something it has never seen.”  Five Projects  The funds will be used to build and operate five nuclear
power projects in the Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian and Hainan
provinces that will cost 174 billion yuan, the company said in
the report to the environmental protection ministry. The balance
of the funding could come from loans, Dai said.  Compared with equipment makers, operators of nuclear power
will enjoy “decades of steady profits” even after the nuclear
power construction boom cools off, Dai said.  Shanghai Electric
Group Co. (2727) ,  Dongfang Electric Corp. (1072)  and  Harbin Electric Co. (1133) ,
Chinese manufacturers of nuclear-power equipment, have sold
shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  Pan Jianming, Beijing-based spokesman at China National
Nuclear Corp., the parent, didn’t answer two calls to his office
telephone today.  Initial public offerings in China have raised $9.2 billion
this year, down from $22.3 billion in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parent China National Nuclear Corp. also owns Shenzhen-
listed SUFA Technology Industry Co., a nuclear-valve maker, and
Hong Kong-listed  CNNC International Ltd. (2302) , a uranium producer in
Niger.  China suspended new nuclear projects after last year’s
earthquake and tsunami in Japan crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant and prompted a global review of atomic plants. China’s
Cabinet approved “in principle” a proposed plan on nuclear
safety for the five years ending 2015 and long-term targets for
2020, the government said on its website on May 31.  The report didn’t specify when approvals for new plants
would resume or mention capacity goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  