-- China’s $23 Billion Steel Push Seen Igniting Iron Ore
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T15:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/china-23-billion-steel-push-seen-igniting-iron-ore-commodities.html
China is set to jolt  iron ore  off a
six-month low after approving an estimated $23 billion of steel
projects that will use the raw material produced by mining
companies such as  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton (BHP)  Ltd.  The  commodity  will climb to $152 a metric ton in the second
half, according to the average of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.3 percent to $130.6
today, near its year-low reached May 23, according to The Steel
Index Ltd. Coking coal, another key ingredient in making steel,
may gain 7 percent to about $220 a ton, analysts forecast.  “Commodity prices are already close to the bottom and are
set to rebound,” Henry Liu, an analyst at Mirae Assets
Securities Co., said by telephone from  Seoul . “Prices will get
a boost in the short term on speculation China will stimulate
the economy. Real demand for steel depends on what incentives
the government gives to drive investments.”  China approved new  steel mills  in the past two weeks as it
tries to sustain economic growth after April industrial output
rose the least since 2009. New plants of Baosteel Group Corp.
and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group were among the 228 billion  yuan  of
projects approved by China’s main planning agency, of which 65
percent are in the  steel industry , worth the equivalent of $23
billion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a May 30 report.  Top Revenue Generator  Iron ore generates the most revenue for both London-based
Rio Tinto and BHP of  Melbourne . China is the largest customer
for both companies, providing 31 percent of sales to Rio and 28
percent to BHP in their most recent financial years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steel production in China, the world’s largest consumer of
the alloy, may climb to more than 700 million tons this year,
the China Iron and Steel Association said May 29. The nation
produced 683 million tons last year.  Rio shares rose 2.2 percent to A$55.42 and BHP gained 1.5
percent to A$31.58 at the close in Sydney.  Fortescue Metals
Group Ltd. (FMG)  rose 2.9 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
climbed 1.3 percent.  Long-term drivers of iron ore demand remain intact, BHP
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said May 15, saying the
world’s third-biggest shipper of the commodity expects China’s
steel output to climb to 1.1 billion tons by 2025.  Rio Tinto, the second-biggest, is spending at least $15.6
billion to expand its iron ore operations to meet demand from
China. BHP, Vale and Rio Tinto control about 67 percent of the
total seaborne trade of iron ore, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  Rio Tinto Profit  Rio Tinto’s profit may more than double to $13.2 billion
this year and climb to $15.1 billion in 2013 from $5.83 billion
last year, a  Bloomberg survey  of 18 analysts showed. Iron ore
accounted for 78 percent of Rio Tinto’s profit in 2011.  BHP profit may fall to $18.5 billion in the year ended June
30 from $23.6 billion a year ago, a Bloomberg survey of 20
analysts showed.  Iron ore  accounted for 41 percent of BHP’s
operating income in the year ended June 30, 2011.  Not every industry participant forecasts price increases.
Iron ore will fall 19 percent before finding a “long term,
sustainable” level as  China ’s economy slows, said the head of
Fortescue Metals,  Australia ’s third-biggest producer. The price
will drop to about $110 a metric ton, Fortescue Chief Executive
Officer Neville Power said on June 3.  A manufacturing gauge on June 1 grew at the weakest pace
since December, increasing the odds China will boost stimulus.
China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the slowest
pace in more than a year, as export orders declined and weakness
in real estate countered strength in retailing and leasing, an
official survey indicated on June 4.  Baosteel, Wuhan Iron  Baosteel Group, China’s third-biggest mill by output, and
Wuhan Iron, the fourth-largest, won approval to build $21
billion of new plants five days after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on
May 20 he seeks to boost growth.  “Building a new steel factory is something we have to
do,” the company said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
queries. Baosteel would be unable to achieve growth only through
domestic mergers and acquisitions, it said.  China’s top planning authority had delayed Baosteel and
Wuhan’s mills in 2009, citing industry overcapacity. Baosteel’s
project in Zhanjiang port,  Guangdong province , will increase its
production capacity by 2.3 percent to about 53 million tons. The
Wuhan mill in Fangchenggang port, in China’s southwestern
region, will add 8.5 million tons of annual capacity, or 22
percent. The largest steel plants are in the northern, eastern
and western parts of the country.  Steel Supply  “The Zhanjiang and Fangchenggang projects are the last
pieces in the chessboard of China’s steel industry,” Luo Tiejun, head of raw materials at the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology , said at a conference in  Shanghai  on May
29. “The plants will not only supply steel to south China but
also cover the markets of southeast  Asia .”  China’s southern province of Guangdong, home to the Chinese
units of Japanese carmakers including  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , needs more than 50 million tons of steel products a
year, according to Xu Xiangchun, Beijing-based chief analyst
with Mysteel Research Institute.  Flat steel products, used in cars and home appliances, make
up almost half of the demand, he said.  “Iron ore and coal need a bit of a shove, so it’s
certainly useful,” Peter Arden, a Melbourne-based senior
research analyst at Ord Minnett Ltd., said by phone, referring
to the stimulus measures. “Whatever they can do is helpful, the
problem does seem to be quite large. If they don’t put some
meaningful horsepower to it, it won’t turn around.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  