-- Clinton Warns of ‘Disastrous’ Fallout as Armenians, Azeris Clash
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-06-06T15:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/clinton-warns-of-disastrous-fallout-as-armenians-azeris-clash.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned that the deadliest fighting in years between
 Armenia  and Azerbaijan risks “disastrous” consequences as
local clashes overshadowed her visit to the region.  An Armenian soldier was killed early today and two wounded
during an exchange of fire with Azeri troops, which attacked
along the militarized cease-fire line in Nagorno-Karabakh, the
disputed region’s defense forces said in a  statement  on their
website today. That brought the three-day death toll between the
two former Soviet republics to nine.  “There is no military solution to this conflict,” Clinton
told reporters today in the Azeri capital, Baku, following a
June 4 visit to Armenia. “Everybody should work to keep the
peace and comply with the 1994 cease-fire agreement.”  Energy-rich  Azerbaijan  fought a war with Armenia over
Nagorno-Karabakh, a mostly ethnic Armenian-populated region that
broke free of Baku’s control after the disintegration of the
 Soviet Union  in 1991. Clinton, who is visiting the South
Caucasus region this week, said the clashes could have
“disastrous and unpredictable consequences.”  Five Azeri soldiers died during a border clash with
Armenian troops yesterday, according to the Azeri  Defense
Ministry . Armenia’s Defense Ministry said three soldiers were
killed a day earlier by Azeris.  Azeri Foreign Minister Elmar Mammadyarov said he planned to
meet his Armenian counterpart, Eduard Nalbandian, later this
month to try to reach a settlement after recent tensions.  Nagorno-Karabakh remains a potential flash point in a
region where Russia fought a five-day war with Georgia in 2008
after separatist tensions flared up. While the hostilities
between Armenia and Azerbaijan largely ended after a Russia-
brokered cease-fire in 1994, the countries have failed to reach
a peace agreement. Companies led by London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  have
invested about $35 billion in Azerbaijan’s oil and gas fields
since 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net ;
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  