-- Colombia Bond Yields Rise as Accelerating Inflation Saps Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-06T16:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/colombia-bond-yields-rise-as-accelerating-inflation-saps-demand.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields up the most in two weeks, after higher-than-expected
inflation last month curbed demand for fixed-rate securities.  The yield on 10 percent peso-denominated debt due in July
2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.10
percent at 10:45 a.m. in Bogota, according to the central bank.
That is the biggest increase on a closing basis since May 23.
The price fell 0.187 centavo to 123.069 centavos per peso.  Consumer prices rose 0.30 percent in May after a 0.14
percent increase in the prior month, the national statistics
agency said in a report yesterday. The reading was higher than
all except one of the 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The number surprised,” said  Camilo Perez , the head
analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest bank.
“We still don’t see evidence of inflation pressures from the
demand side, so this shouldn’t lead to major changes in interest
rate forecasts.”  The annual inflation rate rose to 3.44 percent last month
from 3.43 percent in April. It was higher than the 3.32 percent
median estimate.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday that
inflation will slow toward the government’s 3 percent midpoint
target this year.  ‘Reasonable Level’  Inflation is at “a reasonable level,” Echeverry told
reporters in Bogota yesterday after a hearing with lawmakers.
“Inflation will slow toward 3 percent during the rest of the
year.”  Colombia’s peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 1,781.75 per
 U.S. dollar . Earlier it touched 1,781.75, its strongest level
since May 15. It is up 8.8 percent this year, the best
performance among all the currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Increased dollar inflows, sparked by companies buying the
local currency before tax payments this month, are probably
driving gains in the peso, Felipe Hernandez, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a report today.  “Additional appreciation in June seems likely as the
deadline for large companies to pay their income tax extends
between June 8 and June 25,” he wrote.  Colombia’s central bank will likely leave  interest rates 
unchanged through year-end,  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York , wrote in a research
report today.  Policy makers left the target overnight lending rate
unchanged last month at 5.25 percent. Banco de la Republica has
raised the benchmark nine times since February 2011, bringing it
up from a record low 3 percent.  “We do not see this information leading to a change in
Colombia’s monetary policy stance,” Rodriguez said. “We see
inflationary pressures as sufficiently subdued, so we view any
impact on the equilibrium of forces within the monetary
authority as unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  