-- Commerzbank Cut as Moody’s Lowers German, Austrian Banks
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-06-06T10:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/commerzbank-cut-as-moody-s-downgrades-german-austrian-banks.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest bank, had its  credit rating  cut one level as Europe’s
deepening debt crisis prompted Moody’s Investors Service to
downgrade seven lenders in the nation and three in Austria.  Commerzbank, based in  Frankfurt , was reduced to A3, Moody’s
said in a statement today. A review of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the
nation’s largest lender, will be concluded later, Moody’s said.  The Group of Seven nations yesterday agreed to coordinate
their response to Europe’s turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and damped
demand for foreign goods. Policy makers at the European Central
Bank meeting today face increasing pressure to lower rates and
introduce more liquidity support for banks.  Moody’s decision is “a bit harsh” given the resilience of
the German banking system and economy, said Sandy Mehta, chief
executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based investment advisory company. “But given the events
in  Europe , unless the authorities and the powers that be are
more decisive and take firmer action, then you do have the risk
that the economic problems will engulf Germany as well.”  Commerzbank shares rose 0.7 percent to 1.33 euros at 12:15
p.m. in Frankfurt trading, valuing the lender at 7.45 billion
euros ($9.3 billion). The stock has gained 2.1 percent this
year, while Deutsche Bank declined 5.3 percent.  Increased Risk  The rating actions were driven by “the increased risk of
further shocks emanating from the euro area debt crisis, in
combination with the banks’ limited loss-absorption capacity,”
Moody’s said. In addition to Commerzbank, five other German
banking groups were reduced, as was the local subsidiary of
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest lender.  Commerzbank, DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale, NordLB, DZ
Bank AG and LBBW declined to comment on the downgrades.
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, known as Helaba, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  In Austria, UniCredit Bank Austria AG and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , Eastern Europe’s third-biggest lender, were
lowered one level to A3 and A2 respectively, Moody’s said in a
separate statement.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , the region’s second-
biggest lender after UniCredit’s Milan-based parent, was cut two
grades to A3.  Austrian Downgrades  The downgrades “reflect their vulnerability to the adverse
operating conditions in some of their core markets” in eastern
Europe, Moody’s said, commenting on the Austrian lenders. They
also face “increased risk of further shocks from the ongoing
euro area debt crisis,” it said.  While Moody’s has a top AAA rating on  Austria ’s sovereign
debt, it said in February it may lower the outlook to negative.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the country’s debt rating to AA from AAA
on Jan. 13.  The rating cut has “limited impact on Erste, since we
benefit from a robust liquidity situation underpinned by very
large and resilient deposit base, committed long-term funding
from institutional and private investors, as well as proven
access to short term refinancing and capital markets for
issuance of unsecured and secured bonds even in challenging
times,”  Michael Mauritz , a spokesman for Erste, said by e-mail.
Erste has already covered its full funding needs for 2012, he
said.  Raiffeisen also doesn’t “expect a significant impact on
funding costs,” spokesman Michael Palzer said by phone. Bank
Austria declined to comment, citing company policy.  China Business  The downgrade won’t affect Commerzbank’s business in  China ,
where it plans to increase revenue by as much as 30 percent this
year, Asian regional board member Michael Kotzbauer said at a
news briefing in Beijing today. He didn’t comment on business
elsewhere.  Figures today may show the euro area’s gross domestic
product stagnated in the latest quarter after dropping 0.3
percent in the previous period, according to a Bloomberg survey.
In Germany,  industrial output  probably declined 1 percent in
April from a month earlier, when it climbed 2.8 percent, a
separate survey showed.  The rating company said many of the German lenders were
downgraded less than European rivals because of factors
including the country’s below-average  unemployment  and low
household and corporate debt.  Spanish Bailout  German banks’ resilience contrasts with those in  Spain ,
where the  Bankia (BKIA)  group was nationalized last month. The Spanish
government is pushing for Europe to channel funds directly to
banks as concern mounts over the country’s ability to support
lenders facing mounting costs of cleaning up souring assets.
Germany opposes Spain’s request for Europe’s bailout fund to be
able to provide money directly to banks.  Yesterday’s G-7 conference call centered on helping Greece
and Spain place their public finances on a sustainable footing,
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said. European officials
“said they will speed up their efforts to resolve those
problems, which was encouraging to us,” Azumi told reporters.  Moody’s said in February that it was putting 114 European
banks and an additional eight non-European firms with large
capital-markets businesses under review to assess the impact of
the region’s debt crisis. Last month, it downgraded 16 Spanish
banks, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and 26 Italian lenders
including UniCredit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  