-- Promigas Trading Suspended After Corficolombiana Stake Bid
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-07T18:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/corficolombiana-may-bid-for-up-to-75-of-promigas-public-float.html
Colombia’s stock market suspended
trading of  Promigas SA (PROMIG)  after  Corp. Financiera Colombiana SA (CORFICOL) 
approved a plan to bid for as much of 75.03 percent of the
natural gas distributor’s shares in circulation.  Promigas received an offer of 25,000 pesos ($14.13) per
share, according to a regulatory filing, a 13 percent discount
to the last closing price of 28,900 pesos. The offer would
represent a bid of as much as 2.5 trillion pesos.
Corficolombiana already owns a 24.97 percent stake in Promigas,
the holding company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The offer doesn’t necessarily have to be above the last
price to be attractive” because Promigas’s shares are illiquid
and trade at low volumes, said Nicolas Pardo, an analyst at
Valores Bancolombia SA.  Corficolombiana, a financial-services and holding company,
seeks to invest in “stable sectors with ample growth
prospects,” the statement said. Promigas’ status as a public
utility with government-regulated prices offers a high and
stable stream of dividends, said Felipe Toro, an analyst at
 Interbolsa SA. (INTBOL)   “This company gives back a lot of its profits to its
shareholders,” Toro said in a telephone interview from
Medellin. “It’s one of the companies with the highest yield in
the Colombian stock market.”  Corficolombiana’s shares dropped 0.1 percent to 31,560
pesos at 1:25 p.m. in Bogota.  Promigas has a  dividend yield  of 4.11 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared to an average 3 percent
yield for the Colcap index. The company’s shares have risen 9.1
percent this year, compared to a 6.9 percent return for the
Colcap.  A Promigas official, who asked not to be named in
accordance with company policy, declined to comment beyond the
regulatory filing. Promigas transports 44 percent of  Colombia ’s
natural gas, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  