-- Corn Advances on Concern Dryness to Reduce U.S. Harvest
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-06T12:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/corn-climbs-on-concern-dry-midwest-weather-may-cut-u-s-harvest.html
Corn rose for the second time this
week as concern persisted that the U.S. harvest may be smaller
than expected by the government because of recent heat and
dryness in the Midwest. Soybeans and wheat also climbed.  About a quarter of the U.S. Corn Belt, including sections
of  Illinois , Missouri and Iowa, will “hold onto dryness
concerns” in the next two weeks as scattered rains miss some
growing areas, Commodity Weather Group said today in a report.
Temperatures next week may top 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees
Celsius). Topsoil moisture in Illinois was 63 percent short as
of May 27, the National Drought Mitigation Center said June 1.  “People are worried about disruption to supply,”  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co., said by phone
from  Tokyo . “If hot, dry weather persists in the next several
weeks, that may cut production in the U.S.”  Corn for July delivery gained 1.2 percent to $5.745 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade by 1:09 p.m.  London  time.
The price is up 3.5 percent this month. Soybeans for November
delivery increased 0.9 percent to $12.88 a bushel.  The U.S., the largest corn grower and exporter, may boost
output to a  record  375.7 million metric tons in the year from
Sept. 1, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicted May 10.
The agency is scheduled to update its supply  forecast  June 12.  Wheat for July delivery rose 0.7 percent to $6.175 a bushel
in Chicago. In Paris, November-delivery milling wheat was little
changed at 205.75 euros ($256.90) a ton on NYSE Liffe after
yesterday touching a two-week low.  Russia ’s wheat exports may plunge to 16 million tons in the
year starting July 1, from 21 million tons a year earlier, as
production declines, the USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service
said in a report posted yesterday. The country was the third-
largest wheat exporter in the 2011-12 crop year.  Rains in the next week in the former  Soviet Union  will ease
dry conditions in eastern growing areas, while heat in western
parts of the region may stress crops, Commodity Weather Group
said.  “The market is very sensitive to production cuts, even
export cuts from Russia,” Emori said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  