-- Cotton Surges Most in 18 Months; Orange Juice Advances
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-06-06T21:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/cotton-surges-most-in-18-months-orange-juice-advances.html
(Corrects to show cotton gained the most in a year in
headline, lead and fourth paragraph.)  Cotton gained the most in a year as
demand rebounded after the price slump this week to a 31-month
low.  Orange juice  also rose as commodities jumped on speculation
that Europe will take steps to spur the economy.  On June 4, cotton touched the lowest price since October
2009 on concern that the faltering world economy would expand a
surplus of the fiber. In the week ended May 29,  hedge funds  and
speculators cut their net-short position, or bets on a price
drop, by 27 percent, government data showed. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as
the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.  “There’s always short covering when there’s a big drop”
in prices, Scott Joss, the president of ClearTrade Commodities
Inc., a broker in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Cotton for December delivery soared 4.6 percent to settle
at 68.36 cents a pound at 3:08 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , the biggest increase since May 31, 2011.  Global equities rallied and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials headed for the biggest gain in two
months.  Cotton is drawing support from “the broader markets’
rally,” while a falling dollar enhanced the appeal of raw
materials as alternative assets,  Andy Ryan , a senior risk
manager at INTL FCStone in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a
telephone interview.  “Demand has picked up a little but not a lot,” Jordan Lea, the chairman of Greenville, South Carolina-based Eastern
Trading Co., an exporter, said in an e-mail. “Technically, the
market looks bad and it is raining in Texas,” bolstering
prospects for the crop in the U.S., the world’s top shipper.  American farmers will probably increase output by 9.2
percent in the year starting Aug. 1 from a year earlier, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said last month. The agency will
issue an update on June 12.  Orange-juice futures for July delivery rose 1.6 percent to
$1.166 a pound in New York, the second straight increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  