-- Cruzeiro Bondholders Say Brazil Seizure Should Be Default
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-06-06T20:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/cruzeiro-bondholders-say-brazil-seizure-should-be-default.html
Brazil ’s seizure of Banco Cruzeiro do
Sul SA should trigger a default that allows bondholders to
demand immediate payment of all debt, investors told the bank’s
overseers.  The central bank took control of Sao Paulo-based Cruzeiro
on June 4, citing “serious” financial violations, and said it
would be run by the privately owned deposit-insurance fund known
as FGC for about 180 days. FGC said that during the intervention
the bank will meet all financial obligations as they come due.  “Any intervention by the central bank or the FGC is an
event of default and therefore gives the bondholders the right
to accelerate” payments they are due, Matthew Campbell, an
emerging-markets trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
yesterday on a conference call Cruzeiro and FGC held with
analysts and investors.  Campbell said allowing the company to operate in the
interim will allow assets to be removed that should go to
bondholders.  “If you are going to continue to honor deposits and
certificates of deposits that are maturing during this time,
essentially letting the assets out of the door before the
bondholders can really make a claim on these assets, it seems
liquidation will be the best alternative for bondholders,”
Campbell said.  Campbell declined to comment beyond his remarks on the
call, said  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs.  Central Bank  Luciana Dias, a commissioner at Brazilian securities
regulator CVM, said in an interview yesterday that her agency
and the central bank have been supervising Cruzeiro do Sul “for
a long time.”  “The market was aware of the fragilities of the
institution,” she said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York .  Cruzeiro do Sul has about 2.8 billion reais ($1.39 billion)
in international debt maturing through 2020, Antonio Carlos Bueno, head of FGC, told reporters in Sao Paulo June 4. The next
maturity will be $175 million in September for a three-year
Eurobond.  Accelerated Payments  The prospectus of Cruzeiro’s bonds due in 2020 says
payments “may be accelerated only in the case of certain events
involving our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or
insolvency proceedings, whether voluntary or involuntary.” The
document also says the bank will be required to accelerate its
obligations after being “declared bankrupt,” liquidated or
dissolved.  “In the event of default it’s very clear,”  Richard Segal ,
director of the emerging-markets group at London-based Jefferies
International Ltd., said in a telephone interview today. “On
the other hand, it doesn’t seem as though they are granted the
right to accelerate right away. It’s kind of in a gray area.”  The fund plans to prepare the bank for sale while
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP concludes an audit, Bueno said. The
period of FGC control may be shorter than 180 days should the
process be concluded in less time, FGC said.  Brazil’s federal police will begin investigating Cruzeiro
do Sul for possible fraud, according to an e-mailed statement.  Disbursing Funds  Debt payments during the intervention period are being
financed by assets Cruzeiro do Sul sold to the FGC in an asset-
backed receivables fund last year. It has 2.3 billion reais
($1.1 billion) to be disbursed during the remainder of the 180-
day period, said Fabio Mentone, an FGC board member.  “We are confident this portfolio is good,” Mentone said.
“We do not have a problem with future disbursements for the
next 180 days.”  The takeover “creates inequality between the creditors
that have short-term maturing debt and the ones that have more
than 180 days maturing debt,” Luis Miguel Santacreu, an analyst
at Austin Rating in Brazil, said in an interview.  That encourages every creditor to call their debt at the
first opportunity, Santacreu said.  “No creditor will take the risk to roll the debt over
because of all the accusations against the bank,” he said. “If
this were a bank liquidation, all the creditors would be treated
the same way according to the law.”  No Preference  Mentone said on the call that no preference is being given
to any creditor during the intervention process. Interest
payments on bonds will be honored when they are due, just like
payments to other creditors, he said.  “We understand that after we have all the data controlled
by the auditing company, we believe that we will be able to have
a solution for the bank and continuity for the bank,” Mentone
said. “But we can’t assure that.”  The bank’s  shares  fell 42 percent to 4.40 reais in  Sao
Paulo , the lowest price since December 2008. Trading resumed
today after being suspended June 4 on the central-bank
intervention.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Cruzeiro’s rating to Caa1
from B2 yesterday, citing “uncertainties” about the bank’s
ability to service its debts.  “The bank’s financial strength and solvency have been
severely impaired by much weakened asset quality and funding
conditions, which present a very high credit risk to
bondholders,” Ceres Lisboa and Maria Celina Vansetti-Hutchins,
analysts at Moody’s, wrote in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  