-- Cruzeiro Shares Post Record Drop After Takeover: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-06-06T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/cruzeiro-do-sul-plunges-as-trading-resumes-after-intervention.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul  SA shares fell
the most on record as trading resumed two days after Brazil’s
central bank ordered the takeover of the lender, saying it found
“serious” financial violations.  The shares dropped 42 percent to 4.40 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo , the lowest level since December 2008. Trading began
late after a two-day halt, then was suspended twice for about
three hours today. The stock plunged 40 percent last week before
the takeover was announced.  The press office of  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the stock exchange
operator, declined to comment on today’s suspension.  “Investors now feel lost, not knowing if the institution
is still good enough to be sold or if it is going to be
liquidated,” Eduardo Machado, an analyst at Amaril Franklin
Corretora, said by phone from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil. “Other
small and medium banks may suffer from this distrust too,
because fear can spread, making it difficult for them to gather
funds.”  Banco Industrial e Comercial SA , the Sao Paulo-based lender
known as BicBanco, closed 0.5 percent higher at 5.87 reais after
reversing a decline of as much as 3.4 percent.  Banco Daycoval SA (DAYC4) 
rose 0.1 percent to 9.65 reais after earlier plunging 5.6
percent.  The central bank said June 4 that Cruzeiro would be run by
the privately owned deposit-insurance fund known as FGC for
about 180 days, during which time the fund will be responsible
for meeting financial obligations as they come due. Cruzeiro
became at least the fifth mid-sized Brazilian bank to require
intervention from regulators since 2010, underscoring strain in
the industry as the lenders seek to refinance debt.  Cruzeiro dollar-denominated bonds that mature in September
rallied on speculation FGC will pay them in full.  Bond Rally  The 8 percent notes due in 2012 jumped 11.8 cents to 71.6
cents on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bonds touched a record low 59.8 cents yesterday.  Brazil ’s federal police will investigate Cruzeiro for
possible fraud, according to an e-mailed statement.  FGC plans to prepare the bank for sale while
PricewaterhouseCoopers concludes an audit, Antonio Carlos Bueno,
head of FGC, said on a conference call yesterday.  The bank’s shares fell 45 percent  this year  through June 1,
the last trading day before the intervention was announced. The
benchmark slipped 5.9 percent in that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  