-- CT Scans in Children May Raise Cancer Risk: Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-06T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ct-scans-in-children-may-raise-cancer-risk-study.html
Multiple exposure to radiation from
computed tomography scans in children may raise the risk of
leukemia and brain tumors a decade later, according to
government-funded  research  published in The Lancet journal.  The additional risk of leukemia or a  brain cancer  10 years
after a 10-milligray dose of radiation from a CT scan is less
than 1 in 10,000, according to an analysis of more than 175,000
patients in  Great Britain  who received a CT scan between 1985
and 2002 when they were younger than 22. That risk may triple in
children after multiple scans accumulate to 60 milligrays,
researchers at Newcastle University and the U.S. National Cancer
Institute wrote in the journal today.  The use of advanced radiology techniques, which provide
more detail than traditional x-rays, is increasing as doctors
seek to detect the onset of diseases at an early stage. CT or
magnetic resonance imaging scans to observe patients with
injuries increased about threefold over the last decade in
emergency rooms in the U.S., according to a 2010 Johns Hopkins
University study.  “CT scans undoubtedly can be life-saving,” Alan Craft,
one of the authors of the study at Newcastle University in
northern  England , told reporters in  London  yesterday. “There’s
a much greater risk of not doing a CT scan where it’s indicated.
Parents should be reassured that this study will push us to be
even more circumspect about using it.”  500 X-Rays  While radiation doses, once limited to a single setting,
can now be adjusted according to body weight, the average
radiation dose of one CT scan roughly equals the amount needed
for 500 chest x-rays, according to the  International Atomic
Energy Agency .  “Use of CT scans continues to rise, generally with good
clinical reasons, so we must redouble our efforts to justify and
optimize every CT scan,”  Andrew Einstein , assistant professor
of medicine in radiology at  Columbia University  in  New York ,
wrote in a commentary accompanying the Lancet publication.  The research was funded by the U.S. National Cancer
Institute and the U.K. Department of Health.  The  Image Gently  Campaign and the Alliance for Radiation
Safety in Pediatric Imaging, based in Cincinnati and funded by
the Society for Pediatric Radiology and other founding
organizations, is pushing for lower radiation doses in children.  In developing countries, guidelines are also needed to
reduce the number of unnecessary CT tests in children, the IAEA
said in a statement yesterday. Frequency of CT scans is twice as
high in Africa and  Asia  compared with eastern and central
 Europe , according to a two-year IAEA study in 40  developing
countries . Exposure levels appropriate for adults are being used
for children in some facilities, the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  