-- Danske Spares Traders as Retail Bankers Targeted in Cuts
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/danske-spares-traders-as-retail-bankers-targeted-in-cuts.html
Danske Bank A/S plans to target
staff-heavy operations such as personal banking for its 2,000
job cuts while divisions with more of a market focus are likely
to be spared, Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said.  “The areas with the most employees will be affected the
most,” Kolding said in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.
“So primarily our personal banking with the high number of
branches are seeing more effects of this than, for instance, our
market operations, which are less people demanding.”  Kolding, who took over as CEO from  Peter Straarup  in
February, last month told investors he’s bringing forward
planned job cuts by one year to 2013 as  Denmark ’s biggest bank
fights to compete with Nordic rivals such as  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  The
lender’s shares have outperformed a benchmark of European peers
this year and Citigroup Inc. this week told investors to buy the
stock on bets its earnings potential may be underestimated.  “If you take a three-year view, the organization has
already been reduced by 10 percent and now it is another 10
percent in terms of staffing,” Kolding said. “Of course, the
effect is normally with a one-year delay so what we reduce this
year, we will only benefit from next year. I’m quite comfortable
that we will meet our targets.”  Danske said May 10 its first-quarter net income rose 10
percent to 783 million kroner ($131 million) after it booked
higher income from lending and reduced costs. The bank is also
winding down its Irish commercial and investment property
portfolio, valued at 35 billion kroner, as it seeks to cauterize
the loss-making unit. Danske would sell its Irish business if it
could, Kolding said.  ‘Excellent Idea’  “Of course, one would say, ‘Why not get rid of the
unhealthy loan book in Ireland?’ Yeah, excellent idea,” he
said. “Who is going to take it? You also have to be realistic.
If you have a poor-performing asset, it is not necessarily the
asset you can shed.”  Kolding, who plans to rebrand the Irish business with the
Danske Bank name by the end of the year, continues to face a
number of hurdles in some of the lender’s main markets. Ireland
is still relying on an international bailout to stay afloat
while  Denmark’s economy  is struggling to emerge from a housing
slump that’s sent prices tumbling 25 percent since a 2007 peak.  The central bank, which uses policy to defend Denmark’s
krone peg to the euro, has cut rates to record lows and warned
borrowing costs can drop below zero to keep speculators at bay.
The bank has responded to a capital influx as investors fleeing
the euro area’s crisis reward Denmark’s fiscal discipline.  Record-low rates are “another challenge,” Kolding said.
“We need to work more on our margins to protect the income we
otherwise would have. Interest rates came down and we raised our
margins so you could say customers are paying the same, they
don’t get the benefit of the extra low  interest rates , but they
are low to begin with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  