-- Default Swaps in U.S. Fall on Central Banks Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-06T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-ecb-keeps-interest-rate-unchanged.html
An index of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined by the most in more than two weeks as investors
anticipate measures from policy makers to stimulate growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 4 basis points to a mid-price of 121.8
basis points at 4:55 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest fall since a decrease
of 5.5 basis points on May 21. Contracts tied to  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  also dropped.  The gauge declined as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as the sovereign-debt
crisis tightens its grip on  Europe . Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said extending Operation
Twist, the bank’s stimulus program, is an option.  “The index seems to be rallying on the hopes of further
action, which seems a bit premature,” said Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP
in New York. “Markets feel that eventually the Europeans will
step in and do something.”  The ECB today announced its decision to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at a record-low 1 percent, resisting
calls for a cut.  “You have to question the sustainability of this rally if
you don’t have more concrete action behind it,” Pinto said.  Chesapeake CDS  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of
Chesapeake Energy fell as the company was said to be in talks to
sell pipelines for more than $4 billion.  Credit-default swaps on the company fell 3.33 percentage
points to 7.43 percent upfront as of about 3:30 p.m., according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The cost of the Chesapeake swaps contracts means buyers of
protection would pay $743,000 initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of debt from default for five years.  Contracts tied to the debt of Wells Fargo declined by 8.8
basis points to a mid-price of 124.1 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  