-- Dexia Obtains More Guarantees as Bund-Yield Drop Adds Stress
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-06-06T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/dexia-seeks-more-guarantees-as-bund-yield-drop-adds-stress-1-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
that is being broken up, obtained European Union approval for a
10 billion-euro ($12.6 billion) increase in state guarantees as
the bank faces margin calls after German bond yields declined.  “The purpose of the guarantee and its current increase is
to preserve the financial stability of the  member states 
concerned, given the systemic importance of Dexia,” the
European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,  said  today in
a statement. “The ceiling is thus raised to a maximal amount of
55 billion euros.”  Dexia, which last week won a four-month extension of the
temporary government backstops until Sept. 30, has tapped almost
44.8 billion euros of the guarantees, according to  data  compiled
by the Belgian central bank. The lender, based in Brussels and
Paris, also still has 21.6 billion euros of  government-backed
debt  outstanding from a 2008 guarantee agreement.  The bank sought additional backstops because it has to put
up more collateral to shield its counterparties in interest-rate
swap contracts from losses following a decline in the benchmark
German 10-year bond yield to a  record low  last week. Dexia’s
outstanding swap contracts have a notional value of 1.5 trillion
euros, underlining the bank’s importance to financial stability
in  Europe , Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani said on Feb.
23.  Margin Calls  EU regulators are probing the guarantees amid “doubts”
that the state support is compatible with EU rules for banks in
crisis because it adds to earlier “massive aid” to rescue the
bank, the commission said in a statement today.  The EU “will take a final decision on the temporary
guarantee as part of its final assessment of the orderly
resolution plan of Dexia,” the regulator said.  The commission must examine large government subsidies to
companies and can order aid to be repaid if it harms
competition.  Benoit Gausseron, a spokesman for Dexia in Paris, declined
to comment about the amount of collateral the bank needs to
pledge to meet so-called margin calls. French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  told reporters in Paris that  France  and  Belgium 
agreed to boost funding guarantees provided to Dexia, echoing
comments his Belgian counterpart, Steven Vanackere, made on
Radio 1 earlier today.  Dexia has used most of the proceeds from issuing guaranteed
debt to redeem unsecured loans provided by its former Belgian
banking unit and to reimburse part of emergency central-bank
loans, which still amounted to about 12 billion euros in early
May, according to Mariani. Under the terms of the temporary
guarantee agreement, the lender needs to post collateral for
most of the government-backed certificates of deposit that are
issued by Paris-based Dexia Credit Local SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  