-- Digital Generation Said to Snub Takeover Bid Topping $20
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-06T21:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/digital-generation-said-to-snub-takeover-bid-topping-20.html
Extreme Reach Inc. recently made an
offer of more than $20 a share for rival  Digital Generation Inc. (DGIT) 
that was rejected by the advertising-management company, said a
person with direct knowledge of the situation. Digital
Generation’s stock surged 26 percent.  Extreme Reach was told that the combination with Digital
Generation might raise antitrust concerns, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the deliberations are private. The
company, which bid with  Providence Equity Partners , has been
excluded from the process, according to the person.  The per-share offer is more than double Digital
Generation’s closing stock price yesterday. The Irving, Texas-
based company, working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on finding
buyers, tried to sell itself a year ago, when its name was DG
FastChannel, people close to the situation said at the time.  That sale process stalled after Digital Generation agreed
to buy MediaMind Technologies Inc. last June, the person said.
The company paid $481.3 million for MediaMind, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Digital Generation’s market value had
sunk by about two-thirds since then through yesterday.  Fellow Suitors  Digital Generation’s sale process also attracted interest
from Hellman & Friedman LLC and other private-equity firms, said
another person with knowledge of the matter. Goldman Sachs sent
out information on the company in recent weeks, that person
said.  The stock  climbed  to $12.13 today in New York, giving the
company a market value of $334.5 million. The market
capitalization as of yesterday was $264.4 million.  Closely held Extreme Reach, based in Needham,
 Massachusetts , operates a network connecting more than 2,000
advertisers and agencies to major broadcast networks and
websites. Co-founder John Roland, who also serves as chairman
and chief executive officer, had served as president of Digital
Generation’s predecessor before starting Extreme Reach.  Representatives at Extreme Reach and Digital Generation
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment. A spokesman at
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Digital Generation generated sales of $92.8 million in the
first quarter, a 46 percent increase from a year earlier.
Reuters reported earlier that Hellman & Friedman was looking at
Digital Generation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  