-- Dollar Is Near Week-Low Before Bernanke Speaks on Economy
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-07T05:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/dollar-is-near-one-week-low-before-bernanke-speaks-on-economy.html
The dollar was within 0.2 percent of
a one-week low against the euro on bets Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke today may signal more stimulus is needed to spur
a recovery in the world’s largest economy.  The yen slid versus most major peers as Asian stocks
extended a global rally, damping demand for refuge assets. The
euro remained higher after its biggest gain in three months
against the yen yesterday amid speculation the  European Central
Bank  will act to rein in the region’s debt crisis after leaving
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low. Australia’s dollar
rose toward parity with the greenback after data showed the
nation’s employers unexpectedly added workers in May.  “The U.S. dollar is certainly susceptible to indications
that the Fed is looking at QE3, considering that long positions
have been built up to near-record levels,”  Mike Jones , a
Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd,
said referring to a third round of debt purchases known as
quantitative easing. “It’s the rhetoric that really matters for
markets.”  The dollar traded at $1.2566 per euro as of 6:47 a.m. in
London from $1.2582 in New York yesterday, when it touched
$1.2586, the weakest since May 28. The U.S. currency added 0.4
percent to 79.48 yen. The 17-nation euro rose 0.2 percent to
99.87 yen from yesterday, when it advanced 1.6 percent, its
biggest gain since Feb. 24.  The Australian dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to 99.58
U.S. cents. The Aussie hasn’t traded at parity with the  U.S.
dollar  since May 15.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke will testify to U.S. lawmakers in Washington
today. He said in April the Fed may provide more easing should
unemployment fail to make “sufficient progress towards its
longer-run normal level.”  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday in Boston
that slowing job growth and deteriorating financial-market
conditions show the U.S. economy “remains vulnerable to
setbacks” and may warrant additional monetary stimulus.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June
19-20 to consider whether to add to its record easing after the
economy created the fewest jobs in a year in May. Two regional
Fed bank presidents who vote on policy this year, San
Francisco’s John Williams and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , said
yesterday the central bank should be prepared to take action if
the economy deteriorates further.  The Fed’s Beige Book business survey showed yesterday that
the  U.S. economy  maintained a moderate pace of growth as factory
output rose and the real-estate market improved.  ECB Decision  The dollar has declined 1.1 percent over the past week, the
second-worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
dropped 2.7 percent, while the euro appreciated 0.7 percent.  The ECB’s decision to leave its key rate at 1 percent
yesterday was predicted by 49 of 60 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Ten forecast a quarter-point reduction, and one
a half-point cut.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in Frankfurt
following the decision. Downside risks to the economic outlook
have increased and “a few” of the ECB’s Governing Council
members called for a rate cut at the meeting, he said.  The yen fell versus the dollar and the euro as stock gains
sapped demand for the relative safety of the Japanese currency.  Strong Equities  “Very strong equity gains in  North America  and some gains
in Europe have bled their way into Asia,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
senior Hong Kong-based strategist at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank
of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “The  Japanese yen  is being sold a little bit,
though it’s fairly restrained selling.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 1.4 percent.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 2.3 percent yesterday,
while the MSCI World Index rose 2.2 percent.  The yen may depreciate towards 80.15 per dollar should it
close weaker than a resistance level at 79.22,  Richard Adcock ,
London-based head of fixed-income technical strategy in London
at UBS AG, wrote in a report yesterday. Resistance is an area on
a chart where sell orders may be clustered.  The 80.15 level is the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement
level of the currency’s strengthening from 84.18 on March 15 to
77.66 on June 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian Jobs  The so-called Aussie gained against all 16 of its major
peers after the country’s statistics office reported payrolls
increased by 38,900 last month after a revised 7,000 gain in
April. That compared with the median estimate for no change in
employment in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the central bank’s key interest rate 25 basis points this week
to 3.5 percent.  Australia’s jobs report was “quite a bullish outcome,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The risks are you see the market
probably price out further RBA rate cuts from here.”  Traders bet the RBA will cut interest rates by 92 basis
points in the next 12 months, down from 156 basis points of
easing signaled on June 4, according to a  gauge  compiled by
Credit Suisse Group AG based on overnight-index swap rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  