-- Draghi Says ECB is Ready to Act as Growth Outlook Worsens
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-06T15:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/draghi-says-ecb-is-ready-to-act-as-growth-outlook-worsens.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers discussed cutting  interest rates  to a
record low today, fueling expectations they will act as soon as
next month as the worsening debt crisis curbs economic growth.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act,” Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt  after the ECB left its
benchmark rate at 1 percent. Downside risks to the economic
outlook have increased and “a few” of the ECB’s Governing
Council members called for rate cut at today’s meeting, he said.  The ECB is under pressure to lower rates and introduce more
liquidity support for banks as governments struggle to fix a
crisis that’s engulfing Spain and could force  Greece  out of the
euro. While the ECB extended into next year its policy of
lending banks as much money as they want for periods of up to
three months, Draghi indicated another round of three-year loans
is not imminent, keeping the pressure on governments to step up
their response to the crisis.  “I don’t think it would be right for the ECB to fill other
institutions’ lack of action,” he said.  The euro fell as Draghi spoke before recouping its losses
to trade at $1.2513 at 5:25 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.5 percent
today. The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond climbed as
much as 6 basis points before slipping back to 6.38 percent.  ‘Wide Open’  “Draghi left the door wide open for a rate cut,” said
Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in
 London . “But policy makers wanted to keep their powder dry
until after the Greek elections and the independent assessment
of the Spanish banking sector.”  Greece will hold fresh elections on June 17 that could hand
more power to parties opposed to the terms of the nation’s
rescue package and precipitate its exit from the monetary union.
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today that reports
on banks’ loan books by two international consultants will be
ready in 10 to 15 days.  The Group of Seven nations yesterday agreed to coordinate
their response to Europe’s turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and is
threatening the global economy.  New Forecasts  The ECB today forecast a 0.1 percent economic contraction
in the euro area this year, unchanged from a March estimate,
while it lowered its prediction for 2013 growth to 1 percent
from 1.1 percent. Inflation forecasts were unchanged at 2.4
percent for 2012 and 1.6 percent for 2013.  Draghi said the projections were finalized before a spate
of “soft” economic data. German industrial output fell more
than economists forecast in April and Spanish production had the
biggest drop in more than two years, two reports showed today.  Euro-area  unemployment  has reached 11 percent, the highest
level on record, and purchasing manager indexes show
manufacturing and  service industries  are contracting at a faster
pace than they were when the ECB last cut rates in December.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an interview with  Sweden ’s Svenska Dagbladet
published June 4 that it’s “clear” the ECB has room for
another rate cut.  At the same time, Draghi said stresses in financial markets
are “far away” from the levels reached after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “We still look for a 25 basis point ECB rate cut in
July,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
London, said in an e-mail. However, “the ECB offered no hint
today that it may re-activate its two most important non-
standard measures, that is the three-year long-term refinancing
operations and the purchases of sovereign bonds,” he said.  Spanish Banks  Spain , which has resisted pressure to become the fourth
euro-area nation to seek a bailout, yesterday called for the
first time for European funds to shore up its banks as it
struggles to recapitalize them.  The spread between Spanish and German 10-year bond yields
widened to a record 5.4 percentage points last week and the cost
of insuring against default on Spanish sovereign debt rose to a
historic high.  With his comments today, Draghi is “delineating the role
of the ECB from that of governments, as he seeks to get leaders
to agree on a roadmap” to shore up the euro, said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Plc in London.  European leaders are due to hold a summit in Brussels on
June 28-29.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cited Europe’s crisis when
cutting its benchmark rate yesterday by a quarter point to 3.5
percent, while the  Bank of Canada  held its key rate at 1
percent. The  Bank of England  will announce its latest policy
decision tomorrow amid speculation it could increase asset
purchases after the U.K. slipped back into recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  