-- Draghi Says a Few ECB Council Members Wanted to Cut Rate
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-06T14:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/draghi-says-a-few-ecb-council-members-wanted-to-cut-rate.html
European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi comments on monetary policy and the euro-region’s debt
crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at a record low of 1 percent.  On monetary policy:  “Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. While
inflation rates are likely to stay above 2 percent for the
remainder of 2012, over the policy-relevant horizon we expect
price developments to remain in line with price stability.
Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro-
area economy continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim
of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent
over the medium term. At the same time, economic growth in the
euro area remains weak, with heightened uncertainty weighing on
confidence and sentiment, giving rise to increased downside
risks to the economic outlook.”  “In previous months we have implemented both standard and
non-standard monetary policy measures. This combination of
measures has supported the transmission of our monetary
policy.”  “Keeping in mind that all our non-standard monetary policy
measures are temporary in nature, we will monitor further
developments closely and ensure medium-term  price stability  for
the euro area by acting in a firm and timely manner.”  “The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the
medium-term outlook for price developments as broadly
balanced.”  On interest rates:  “Price signals in this situation have a relatively limited
immediate effect.”  “The context is one where you have liquidity constraints
and tensions in financial markets, so one has to appreciate the
effectiveness of these conventional measures in this new
context.”  On economic outlook:  “The baseline scenario in our staff projections didn’t
change. At the same time, we have to acknowledge that the
baseline scenario is based on assumptions. After the cut-off
date of these projections” we had “confidence indicators and
they all point in a direction that wasn’t upward.” At the same
time, hard data were more positive. “You have conflicting
signals. We are fully aware that the most recent soft data are
on the downside. We monitor all developments closely and we
stand ready to act.”  “We believe that the potential weakening of the economy
might be due to a credit contraction that really started last
year.”  On today’s decision:  “It was taken, I would say, by very broad consensus.”  “A few members would have preferred to have a rate cut
today. I’d say not many.”  On liquidity operations:  “We think it’s effective but we have to be aware that the
context is one where you have liquidity constraints and tensions
in financial markets. We’ve done two LTROs. These have prevented
other problems, more serious credit crunches, possibly more
serious disruptions in the banking sector. Many of the stress
indicators are now slightly better than they were in November.”  “The issue now is whether these LTROs would actually be
effective. There is plenty of liquidity in some parts of the
euro area and shortages in other parts. I don’t think it would
be right for monetary policy to fill other institutions’ lack of
action.”  “We have to assess exactly what the funding conditions of
the banks are. I don’t think the opportunities provided by the
second LTRO have fully been exploited. We look how the funding
conditions proceed and then we will make up our minds. The ECB
will keep the liquidity lines open to solvent banks and we have
to see the collateral.”  On EU working group on euro future:  “I don’t think this would present any threat to ECB
independence. Work is in progress. This work is the beginning of
a process that would give substance to a European vision for the
medium and long term.”  On bailouts:  “I don’t view it as the ECB’s task to push governments
into doing something. It’s their decision whether they access
the EFSF or not.”  On ECB action after the EU summit:  “There’s never been a quid pro quo. There is no horse
trading here.”  “The fiscal compact is a major important step. Countries
have undertaken an enormous effort and have achieved
considerable progress. Now they have to continue.”  “The benefits would be realized, achieved if we were to
clarify what the euro would be in five, 10 years time. That’s
what the efforts of the leaders are geared to.”  On upcoming G-20 meeting:  “ Europe  may have some responsibility but these countries
have their own problems which are still not addressed. It’s not
balanced to say that only Europe has a responsibility. All
countries have to work together and they first and foremost have
to address their own problems and then they should worry about
the spillover or the lack of spillover to the rest of the
economies.”  On whether the situation resembles that following the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.:  “We are rightly alarmed that there has been stress in the
markets and some indices have pointed to a stabilization of
financial markets until three weeks ago. But I think we’re still
a far way away from that situation.”  On ESM lending directly to banks:  “The ESM could recapitalize banks without the debt of the
country going up. But there are certain other dimensions of this
which should be appreciated. The ESM treaty doesn’t allow this.
The ESM would then take up shares of the banks that it
recapitalizes. Do you really want an ESM that is a shareholder?
Have we designed the ESM to become a shareholder of banks in the
euro area? The ESM wasn’t born for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  