-- Draghi Stresses Limits of ECB Tools as Pressures Mount
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-07T08:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/draghi-stresses-limits-of-ecb-tools-as-pressures-mount.html
The  European Central Bank  may be
running out of options it can stomach.  With the euro area assailed by spreading recession,
financial-market instability and political impasse over the
direction the single currency should take, ECB President Mario Draghi yesterday stressed the limitations of his current policy
tools, from standard interest-rate cuts to bond-buying and
liquidity injections. Moves such as quantitative easing or
capping bond yields to calm markets remain taboo for the ECB,
which says its main job is to ensure stable prices.  “It’s clear that they are very low on, if not completely
out of, ammunition,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “There are options that would have a
more significant effect, but they’re outside of the ECB’s
comfort zone. There’s an element of helplessness.”  Having already cut its  benchmark rate  to a record low of 1
percent, injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) of
three-year loans into the banking system and bought 212 billion
euros of  government bonds , the ECB is reluctant to do more heavy
lifting as governments procrastinate over the reforms it deems
necessary to put the monetary union on a sustainable footing.
Draghi questioned the effectiveness of cutting rates further and
flooding financial market with even more liquidity.  ‘Ready to Act’  Draghi said the ECB stands “ready to act” should the debt
crisis damp the euro-area economy further, and that “a few”
Governing Council members pushed for a rate reduction at
yesterday’s policy meeting.  Still, “we have to be aware that the context is one where
you have liquidity constraints and tensions in financial
markets,” he said after keeping rates on hold. “Price signals
in this situation have a relatively limited immediate effect.”  Draghi also cast doubt on the impact of further longer term
refinancing operations, or LTROs, saying the full effects of
previous loans have yet to be felt. Some of the problems in the
euro area “have nothing to do with monetary policy,” he said.  “Whether they cut interest rates or not, it won’t have
much of an impact,” said Uwe Angenendt, chief economist at BHF
Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “On the liquidity front, the banking
sector is already oversupplied. The ball is in the court of
political players. It’s not for the ECB to fill this vacuum.”  Stocks Climb  Investor concern about political inaction pushed the euro
to a two-year low against the dollar. At least eight of the 17
euro nations are in recession.  Still, European stocks climbed and Spanish bonds rose
today. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s gained 0.3 percent to
240.58, extending yesterday’s biggest rally in six months, amid
speculation global policy makers will take steps to revive
growth. U.S. index futures and Asian shares also advanced.
Spanish bonds rose for a sixth day before the nation auctions as
much as 2 billion euros of debt.  The ECB may be reluctant to cut its benchmark rate much
further because it poses the question of whether to lower the
deposit rate from 0.25 percent. That has served as a floor for
market  interest rates  since the ECB began providing banks with
unlimited liquidity in 2008.  ‘Huge Pressure’  Cutting the deposit rate close to zero may reduce the
incentive for banks to lend to each other at a time when they
are already wary of each others’ balance sheets. At the moment,
banks park money with each other at an overnight rate of 0.31
percent, according to the European Banking Federation. The risk
is that a rate cut will push those overnight rates so low that
banks will chose just to leave their cash with the ECB. That in
turn could freeze money markets, the very phenomenon the ECB is
trying to avoid with its full-allotment policy.  Cutting the benchmark rate to a new record low would also
put the spotlight on the ECB’s other policy tools and take
pressure off governments to implement reforms, said  Ken Wattret ,
chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas in London.  “The ECB fears that the minute it cuts rates below 1
percent it will come under huge pressure to introduce more
unconventional measures, such as more bond buys and more
LTROs,” Wattret said. “I have sympathy as to why they don’t
want to do that, because the ECB has really expanded its  balance
sheet  with limited returns. There is definitely a moral-hazard
issue there.”  Spanish Banks  Concern over  Spain ’s ability to recapitalize its banks has
driven up borrowing costs for the government, which is pushing
for Europe to channel funds directly to its lenders. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro used a radio interview on June 5 to
call for outside support, saying the sums needed to aid Spain’s
banks aren’t “astronomical.”  Draghi repeated the ECB’s call for euro-area governments to
“clarify” their vision for the euro area while denying he’s
refraining from acting until they deliver.  These are “high-level decisions that concern the future of
the European integration and the future of the euro area,” he
said. “There’s no sort of horse trading here.”  Draghi has joined European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  in drafting a program for deeper integration in the
euro area.  Van Rompuy  said on June 4 that he will report on
proposed “building blocks” at the next summit of EU leaders on
June 28-29 in Brussels.  In the meantime, markets are clamoring for immediate action
from the central bank, which said yesterday that risks to the
economic outlook have increased.  Draghi “should start by cutting rates to lower the costs
of the LTRO and primarily to show the market that the ECB is
there, willing to do something,” said Marchel Alexandrovich,
senior European economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London . “The ECB dragging its heels is not a costless
exercise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  