-- Draghi’s Introductory Comments at June 5 Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2012-06-06T12:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/draghi-s-introductory-comments-at-june-5-press-conference-text.html
Following is the text of European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s introductory statement at
a press conference in  Frankfurt .  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which
was also attended by the Commission Vice-President, Mr Rehn.
Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. While inflation
rates are likely to stay above 2% for the remainder of 2012,
over the policy-relevant horizon we expect price developments to
remain in line with price stability. Consistent with this
picture, the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area economy
continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. At the same time, economic growth in the euro area
remains weak, with heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence
and sentiment, giving rise to increased downside risks to the
economic outlook.
In previous months we have implemented both standard and non-
standard monetary policy measures. This combination of measures
has supported the transmission of our monetary policy. Today, we
have decided to continue conducting our main refinancing
operations (MROs) as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment for as long as necessary, and at least until the end
of the 12th maintenance period of 2012 on 15 January 2013. This
procedure will also remain in use for the Eurosystem’s special-
term refinancing operations with a maturity of one maintenance
period, which will continue to be conducted for as long as
needed. The fixed rate in these special-term refinancing
operations will be the same as the MRO rate prevailing at the
time. Furthermore, the Governing Council has decided to conduct
the three-month longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) to be
allotted until the end of 2012 as fixed rate tender procedures
with full allotment. The rates in these three-month operations
will be fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of
the respective LTRO. Keeping in mind that all our non-standard
monetary policy measures are temporary in nature, we will
monitor further developments closely and ensure medium-term
 price stability  for the euro area by acting in a firm and timely
manner.
Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. On a quarterly basis, euro area real
GDP growth was flat in the first quarter of 2012. Available
indicators for the second quarter of the year point to a
weakening of growth and highlight prevailing uncertainty.
Looking beyond the short term, we continue to expect the euro
area economy to recover gradually. However, ongoing tensions in
some euro area sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit
conditions, the process of balance sheet adjustment in the
financial and non-financial sectors and high unemployment are
expected to continue to dampen the underlying growth momentum.
The June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between -
0.5% and 0.3% for 2012 and between 0.0% and 2.0% for 2013.
Compared with the March 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, the range for 2012 remains unchanged, while there
is a slight narrowing of the range for 2013.
In the Governing Council’s assessment, the economic outlook for
the euro area is subject to increased downside risks relating,
in particular, to a further increase in the tensions in several
euro area financial markets and their potential spillover to the
euro area real economy. Downside risks also relate to possibly
renewed increases in commodity prices over the medium term.
Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.4% in May 2012, according
to Eurostat’s flash estimate, after 2.6% in the previous month.
Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for the remainder of the
year, mainly owing to developments in energy prices and indirect
taxes. However, on the basis of current futures prices for
commodities, annual inflation rates should fall below 2% again
in early 2013. Looking ahead, in an environment of modest growth
in the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain subdued.
The June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.3%
and 2.5% for 2012 and between 1.0% and 2.2% for 2013. In
comparison with the March 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, there is a narrowing of the projection ranges for
2012 and 2013.
The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the medium-
term outlook for price developments as broadly balanced. Upside
risks pertain to further increases in indirect taxes, owing to
the need for fiscal consolidation, and higher than expected
commodity prices over the medium term. The main downside risks
relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in the euro
area.
The monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued in the first four months of
2012. The annual growth rate of M3 fell to 2.5% in April, down
from 3.1% in March, following strong inflows into money in the
first quarter of the year. The moderation in annual M3 growth in
April was mainly driven by outflows from overnight deposits
belonging to non-monetary financial intermediaries (which
includes entities like central counterparties, investment funds
and securitisation vehicles).
The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) declined to 0.8% in April
(from 1.2% in March), owing to negative loan flows to non-
monetary financial intermediaries. At the same time, monthly
flows of loans to non-financial corporations and households were
moderately positive in April and the annual rates of growth
(adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) stood at 0.7% and
1.5% respectively in April, broadly unchanged from March.
Money and credit data up to April provide evidence that, as
intended by our policy measures, an abrupt and disorderly
adjustment in the balance sheets of  credit institutions  has not
materialised. Given the current cyclical situation and the
ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises, subdued credit demand is likely to prevail in the
period ahead.
Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience further. The soundness of banks’
balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating both an
appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.
To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.
Let me now make a few remarks relating to fiscal and economic
policies. Significant progress has been achieved with fiscal
consolidation over recent years. It is of crucial importance to
continue with the efforts to restore sound fiscal positions and
to regain competitiveness. These are pre-conditions for stable
economic growth. As a natural complement, the implementation of
the new macroeconomic surveillance framework under the EU
semester is necessary. In several euro area countries, excessive
imbalances exist and need to be corrected. To this end,
comprehensive product, labour and financial sector reforms will
help foster sustainable growth. Competition should be
strengthened in product markets, not least by the completion of
the Single Market, and wages should adjust in a flexible manner,
reflecting labour market conditions and productivity. These
growth-enhancing reforms would accelerate the necessary
adjustment process and enhance  job creation .
Finally, the Governing Council very much welcomes leaders at the
last European Council meeting agreeing to step up their
reflections on the long-term vision for Economic and Monetary
Union. The Governing Council considers this a highly important
step.
We are now at your disposal for questions.  #<505319.2583362.3.0.2.9.25>#
 