-- Drone Strike That Kills Al-Qaeda Leader Leaves Questions
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-06T00:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/drone-strike-that-kills-al-qaeda-leader-leaves-questions.html
The U.S. drone that spotted al-
Qaeda’s second-in-command getting into a car, followed him to a
house in a North Waziristan tribal region and killed him on June
4 dealt another serious blow to the terrorist group’s remaining
core in  Pakistan , administration officials said.  Even with the success of an attack that the officials said
was approved by President  Barack Obama , the dearth of actionable
real-time intelligence on alleged terrorists remains a weak link
in the administration’s intensified campaign of almost 300 drone
strikes in Pakistan,  Afghanistan , Yemen and  Somalia .  Eleven years after the attacks of Sept. 11, the U.S.
still has little human intelligence of its own from terrorist
sanctuaries in northwestern Pakistan and only sporadic and
selective intelligence from Afghan and Pakistani liaison
officers, the officials said -- which helps explain why it took
more than 24 hours to confirm that Abu Yahya al-Libi was dead.  “Intelligence is never going to be 100 percent accurate,”
said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, director of the Homeland Security
and Counterterrorism Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “The president himself has
to decide how much risk he’s willing to take when he approves a
strike. You have to consider the possible benefits -- the value
of a target -- against the risk.”  Confirming Death  Confirming the death of someone such as al-Libi can be as
difficult as locating the terrorist in the first place, the
officials said. Mobile-phone calls,  text messages , e-mails and
jihadist social media and websites are unreliable and sometimes
used to provide false information, they said, noting false
reports of al-Libi’s death after a December 2009 drone strike.  Missile attacks can make photo recognition difficult, said
the officials, who declined to discuss how or in what condition
al-Libi was identified, except to note that he had previously
been in U.S. custody.  The Predator drone’s video camera and sensors spotted al-
Libi getting into his car, and then followed the vehicle to the
house, two U.S. officials said. While Pakistani sources reported
that the subsequent attack had killed his driver and bodyguard,
there was no confirmation of al-Libi’s death until yesterday,
according to the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
to discuss a covert operation.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday
that al-Libi served as al-Qaeda’s “general manager,”
overseeing day-to-day operations in the tribal areas of Pakistan
and working with al-Qaeda’s regional affiliates.  “There is now no clear successor to take on the breadth of
his responsibilities,” Carney said. “This would be a major
blow, we believe, to core al-Qaeda, removing the No. 2 leader
for the second time in less than a year and further damaging the
group’s morale” and “bringing it closer to its ultimate demise
than ever before.”  Al-Libi’s Stature  Al-Libi, arrested in Pakistan in 2002, was among the
prisoners who escaped from the U.S.-run prison at Bagram air
base in Afghanistan three years later, which boosted his
standing among militants. He took over as the core al-Qaeda
group’s No. 2 after U.S. raiders killed  Osama bin Laden  at a
hideout in Pakistan 13 months ago and Egyptian  Ayman al-Zawahiri 
moved up to the top position.  U.S. attacks have killed more than a dozen al-Qaeda
commanders in Pakistan since bin Laden’s death. That has left
fewer than half of the group’s 32 identified leaders -- and only
Zawahiri and one other key figure, Kuwaiti Sulaiman Abu Ghaith -
- believed alive, the two U.S. officials said. The available
intelligence suggests that the group’s dwindling core in
Pakistan has been unable to find equally experienced
replacements, they said.  Limited Intelligence  In al-Libi’s case, targeting the Libyan in the Pakistani
village of Khassu Khel was worth the risk of missing him,
perhaps killing innocent people, and further damaging the frayed
U.S. relationship with Pakistan, which condemned the strike, the
two U.S. officials said.  Al-Libi was among al-Qaeda’s most experienced and versatile
leaders –- an operational trainer and the head of the Central
Shura, or ruling council –- and he played a critical role in the
group’s planning against the West, according to a third U.S.
official.  In addition to his standing as a longtime member of al-
Qaeda’s leadership, al-Libi’s religious credentials gave him the
authority to issue fatwas, or religious orders, to approve
terrorist operations, and to provide guidance to al-Qaeda’s core
in Pakistan and to its regional affiliates, according to the
third official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss an intelligence operation.  Chemistry Student  Al-Libi, an English-speaking Libyan whom U.S. intelligence
officials think was born about 1963 and studied chemistry in
 Libya , appeared often in al-Qaeda videos. He was described on a
U.S. State Department website as “a key motivator in the global
jihadi movement, and his messages convey a clear threat to U.S.
persons or property worldwide.”  The department listed him as one of America’s most wanted
terrorists, and in one announcement for its  Rewards for Justice 
program offered $1 million for information leading to his
capture. Al-Libi, it said, used his Sunni Muslim “religious
training to influence people and legitimize the actions of al-
Qaeda.”  Jarret Brachman, a terrorism expert at  Cronus Global, LLC ,
a security consulting firm, called al-Libi “media-savvy,
ideologically extreme, and masterful at justifying savage acts
of terrorism with esoteric religious arguments” in a September
10, 2009,  article  in Foreign Policy magazine.  Continuing Threat  Even so, the first two U.S. officials said, his death is
unlikely to end the threat posed by al-Qaeda, especially
considering that the group’s regional affiliates and allies in
 Yemen ,  Iraq , Somalia,  Nigeria ,  Mali  and elsewhere in North
Africa are increasingly self-reliant and independent.  What’s more, they said, most of the intelligence on which
the stepped-up drone attacks are based is imperfect at best, so
they risk killing innocent people, fueling anti-American
sentiment, and even recruiting more terrorists -- though less
experienced ones -- than they kill.  In Yemen, for example, a Bloomberg reporter found that the
drone strikes have provoked diverse reactions.  “These strikes are not acceptable, and we should not take
the help of infidels to kill Muslims,” said Mohammed Hamud, a
clothes peddler on Jamal Street in Sanaa, the capital. “Al-
Qaeda might be just an excuse to interfere in our internal
affairs,” he said loudly and angrily.  Spawning Militants?  Drone strikes won’t uproot al-Qaeda militants, but will
increase their number, said Mohammed al-Sabri, a leader of the
Joint Meeting Parties, an opposition coalition that’s taking
more than 50 percent of the seats in a new unity government, in
a May 17 telephone phone interview.  “What we need is to fill up the swamp with earth rather
than fight the mosquitoes,” al-Sabri said.  Other Yemenis supported the drone strikes in their country.
Taha Yassin, 21, a student at Sanaa University, said he isn’t
disturbed that an American sitting at a computer console is
firing missiles at al-Qaeda.  “The recent U.S. drone strikes have been successful, and I
think we need them to crack down on this terrorist
organization,” Yassin said.  At the outset of the  Iraq war , said Nelson at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, the U.S. Air Force used
computer algorithms to help calculate the timing and targeting
of manned air strikes to maximize their effect and minimize
collateral damage and civilian casualties.  ‘No Right Answer’  Now, said Nelson, “we’ve never conducted operations like
this. At the end of the day, there’s no right answer to this.
There’s no way to quantify the risks and benefits, no good
metrics, and there’s no perfect intelligence, so there’s always
going to be a degree of uncertainty.”  With last month’s report in the  New York  Times that Obama
oversees the preparation of the top-secret process his
administration uses to designate suspected terrorists for death
or arrest, calculating the risks and benefits -- and living with
the consequence of miscalculations -- falls to the commander-in-
chief, said Nelson.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in  Washington  at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  