-- Duke-Progress Merger Spread Rises: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-06T17:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/duke-progress-merger-spread-rises-dallas-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects definition of merger spread in first and second
paragraph of story published May 25.)  The  difference  between the value of
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s all-stock offer and  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s
share price widened after the companies said federal regulators
may rule as early as today on a proposal to ease competitive
concerns stemming from Duke’s $17 billion acquisition.  The difference, known as the merger spread, reflects a
greater expectation that the deal may not close. The gap
increased 17 percent to $2.77 at the close in  New York , the most
since May 1. If completed, the merger will create the country’s
largest U.S. power company by market value.  The merger spread has increased 60 percent since a May 22
report by a little-known analyst, Thomas Champion, said staff at
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  held reservations about
the companies’ latest plan to ensure they can’t manipulate
electricity prices in North and  South Carolina .  The commission rejected an earlier proposal Dec. 14 and is
expected to announce between today and June 8 whether the
companies’ latest effort eases its concerns about the merger,
Duke and Progress told employees in a memo overnight.  The companies proposed selling power to third parties
during summer months when demand is greatest and spending $100
million to extend high-voltage transmission lines.  Champion, an independent electric utility regulatory
analyst, said in his May 22 report that commission staff thought
merger concerns could only be resolved if the companies joined a
regional transmission organization, a move that North Carolina
regulators oppose.  Champion didn’t return a phone call or e-mail requesting
comment. His firm, T Champion Consulting LLC, is listed as a
lobbyist for SunZia Southwest Transmission Project, according to
a website run by the  U.S. Senate ’s Office of Public Records.  Wholesale Market  While the commission suggested joining a wholesale
electricity market as a way to ease market-power concerns, “it
was never positioned as a requirement,” said  Mike Hughes , a
spokesman for Raleigh, North Carolina-based Progress. “We
believe the merger mitigation plan we submitted does address
market concentration concerns.”  Progress said it hadn’t heard of Champion or his firm prior
to the report, Hughes said. Champion isn’t included among the 21
analysts who cover Duke and 19 analysts who cover progress,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We still put a relatively high probability that the
merger will close,” Andrew Bischof, Chicago-based equity
analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a phone interview. He has
a three-star rating for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke,
suggesting that investors hold the shares.  The companies told employees they expected the mergers to
gain remaining approvals needed from FERC and utilities
regulators in  North Carolina  and South Carolina. “For internal
planning purposes, we are continuing to target a merger close
date of July 1,” according to the note overnight.  Duke rose 0.7 percent to $21.96 in New York. Progress
increased 2 cents to $54.60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  