-- Earth Approaching Climate Tipping Point, Scientists Say
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-06T17:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/earth-approaching-climate-tipping-point-scientists-say.html
Earth may be nearing an ecological
tipping point that threatens biodiversity,  food production  and
water supplies as humans consume resources at an unsustainable
pace, according to an article to be published tomorrow in the
journal  Nature .  About 43 percent of the Earth’s surface has been built upon
or is being used for agriculture to support the planet’s 7
billion inhabitants, according to  Anthony Barnosky , a professor
of integrated biology at the  University of California , Berkeley.
As that figure approaches 50 percent, there may be irreversible
and significant environmental changes.  “Unless we take note of exactly how we’re changing the
world and what that means in a biological sense, we can’t steer
the ship,” Barnosky said in a phone interview yesterday.
Without policy and behavioral changes, the planet’s environment
will suffer. “When that happens you get a period of societal
adjustment that usually includes economic problems, wars and
famines.”  Humans consume 2.25 acres of resources per capita, and with
the Earth’s population projected to reach 9 billion by 2045,
half of all land may be in use by 2025, Barnosky said. That
includes Antarctica, Greenland and other mostly uninhabitable
regions.  Extinction Risk  Small-scale ecosystems have shown that once 50 percent of
an area is altered, biodiversity is often lost and animal and
plant species are at risk of extinction, he said.  There’s “an urgent need” to reduce  population growth  and
per-capita resource use, grow more food on less land and replace
fossil fuels with renewable-energy sources, according to the
report. Barnosky, the study’s lead author, spent 18 months
working with 21 scientists from the U.S.,  Canada ,  Chile , Finland
and  Spain  researching and writing the article.  “It’s a global society, and these are global problems, and
the only way we can solve them is through global cooperation,”
Barnosky said. “The big winners in the world 50 years from now
will be the nations that have developed new forms of energy.
Those nations and entrepreneurs are going to come out ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  