-- ECB’s Nowotny Says Spanish Aid Request Would Be Sensible
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ecb-s-nowotny-says-spanish-aid-request-would-be-sensible.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said it would make sense for  Spain 
to request a European Union bailout.  “I think it would be a sensible option” for Spain to
request funds from the European rescue fund, Nowotny said in a
live  television interview  with Austrian state broadcaster ORF
yesterday. “Spain de facto already took actions that correspond
with what one would have to do for the rescue fund. This is what
the rescue fund is for and I think this would increase the trust
in Spanish banks again.”  Concern over Spain’s ability to absorb mounting costs of
cleaning up souring assets on the balance sheets of its banks
has driven up the financing costs of the government, which is
pushing for  Europe  to channel funds directly to lenders. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro on June 5 used a radio interview to
call for outside support, saying the sums needed to aid Spain’s
banks aren’t “astronomical.”  “There is a general consensus that one needs to act as
quickly as possible,” Nowotny said, adding that nobody knows
exactly how big the capital requirements of Spain’s banks really
are.  Bankia group , Spain’s third-biggest lender, is being
nationalized and has asked for 19 billion euros ($23.4 billion)
in government support to clean up its books. Santiago Lopez, an
Exane BNP Paribas analyst, said in a May 29 report that “it’s
not unreasonable to assume” that a further 45 billion euros of
taxpayers’ money may be needed to support the banking industry,
based on the level of provisioning requested by Bankia.  Bolster Confidence  EU leaders, including ECB President  Mario Draghi  and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso , have called for a
banking union with more coordination of regulation, as lawmakers
seek to bolster confidence damaged by debt turmoil. EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  plans to report on proposed “building
blocks” for deeper integration in the 17-nation euro area to
the next summit of EU leaders on June 28-29 in Brussels.  Nowotny also said that one shouldn’t speculate on  Greece 
leaving the euro. “One only can provide help if this country is
willing to cooperate. If this doesn’t exist, then Greece has to
bear the consequences,” he said.  Should a newly elected government not be ready to comply
with the rules of the bailout, it would be “very difficult”
for the country to get new funds, he said, adding that he
assumed that the Greek population was aware of what was at
stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  