-- Hedge Funds Shorts Match October With VIX Near 26
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-06-06T16:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hedge-funds-shorts-match-october-with-vix-at-26-options.html
The selloff that erased $1.78
trillion from American equity values has pushed the cost of
options to the highest levels of 2012 and prompted  hedge funds 
to add to short sales at the fastest rate since October.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
surpassed 26 last week, a level not seen since December. The
gain left the gauge near its price just before the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slumped 12 percent in August and September
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. As the VIX has risen, an
International Strategy & Investment Group measure of hedge fund
bullishness has retreated by 7.4 percent.  While the cost of hedges and the amount of short selling
are increasing, they may have further to go before bearishness
is exhausted amid  Europe ’s credit crisis, according to Wayne Lin
of Legg Mason Inc. The  VIX (VIX)  would have to gain 45 percent to
reach its average price in August and September. The ISI gauge
bottomed at 42 last year compared with its level of 45.3 now.  “The concerns about Europe combined with questions about
the robustness of global growth are filtering into markets,”
Lin, who helps oversee $639 billion as a  money manager  at
Baltimore-based Legg Mason, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“These risks make people back out of equities, cause the hedge
funds to go short and push the VIX up.”  ISI’s index, based on a survey of 36 hedge funds with about
$89 billion under management, plots bullish and bearish equity
bets on a zero through 100 scale. Readings of zero show maximum
short selling, while 100 means maximum bullish bets. At 50,
hedge funds are deploying a normal ratio of long to short
investments, according to  ISI .  Bulls Retreat  The measure has declined at the fastest rate since October
during the past nine weeks as gains in American payrolls fell
short of economists’ forecasts in April and May and home sales
slipped, according to ISI. It reached 42 at the end of November,
the lowest level since just before the S&P 500 reached a  12-year
low (SPX)  in March 2009. The index peaked at 48.9 in 2012.  The VIX, as the CBOE index is known, surged 73 percent to
24.68 through yesterday since falling to an almost five-year low
on March 26. The gauge measuring implied volatility for the next
month based on  S&P 500 options  prices is trading 20 percent
above its 22-year average of 20.54, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Volatility has increased before a June 17 election in
 Greece  that may determine whether the nation exits the euro.  “The options market is pricing in fear,” Stephen Solaka,
who oversees about $50 million including options as co-founder
of Belmont Capital Group in  Los Angeles , said in a phone
interview yesterday. “You’re seeing more demand for post-June-
expiration options. People are positioning to protect against
some type of event.”  Whipsawed Investors  Investors who turn bearish now risk getting whipsawed if
stocks rally in response to policy announcements in the U.S. and
Europe, according to  Steve Shafer , chief investment officer at
Covenant Global Investors.  “I’d rather remain long than be hedged or place a bet
towards the downside, and then have the Fed or the ECB come out
with an announcement that sends risk assets up by more than 20
percent like we saw last October,” Shafer, who helps manage
$315 million at the Oklahoma City-based hedge fund, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Hedging is really expensive now
in terms of the cost of the hedge, but it’s also expensive in
terms of the opportunity cost.”  More Stimulus  Morgan Stanley sees increased odds of more Federal Reserve
stimulus once Operation Twist, the program in which the central
bank is replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt with longer
maturities, ends this month. The probability increased to 80
percent from 50 percent before the Labor Department’s June 1
report showing the slowest U.S. jobs growth in a year, according
to Morgan Stanley.  The VIX fell 6.9 percent to 22.99 at 12:11 p.m. in  New York 
today on speculation policy makers will take steps to spur
economic growth. Europe’s VStoxx Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx
50 Index option prices, slipped 8.7 percent, the most since
March 30, to 31.58 today.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today
that officials stand ready to act as the euro region’s growth
outlook worsens. Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said extending Operation Twist, the central bank’s stimulus
program that lengthen maturities of debt on its balance sheet,
is an “option on the table.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange S&P 500 Three-Month
Volatility Index on May 18 reached 27.66, its highest level
since May 2010 relative to the S&P 500’s so-called historical
volatility, a measure of actual price swings during the previous
60 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. Downgrade  The VIX closed at 23.38 on Aug. 3, two days before S&P
downgraded the U.S. government’s credit rating and catapulted
the VIX to 48, the highest level since March 2009. The VIX
averaged 35.75 in August and September as stocks plunged amid
concern about the U.S. and European economies.  The  S&P 500  fell to a one-year low on Oct. 3, extending its
decline since April 29, 2011, to 19 percent. The U.S. equity
gauge has fallen 9.4 percent since its almost four-year high on
April 2 of this year as concern grew that global growth is
slowing and the  European debt crisis  is worsening.  In October, the S&P 500 began a 29 percent surge through
April 2. The rally started less than two weeks after the Fed
announced Operation Twist.  Options traders are paying prices last seen in November to
protect against S&P 500 losses. Puts 10 percent below the U.S.
stocks gauge cost 11.4 points more than calls betting on a 10
percent increase, according to three-month  implied volatility 
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew
on June 1 touched 11.98 points, its highest level since Nov. 17,
and climbed 32 percent since its May 1 low.  No Conviction  S&P 500 June 1,200 puts, priced 6.7 percent below
yesterday’s close, were the  most-owned  contracts, and their open
interest had the biggest increase among all of the index’s
options since May 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Three of
the five most-owned S&P 500 options were bearish.  “It underscores the lack of broad conviction in the market
moving higher,” Steven Blitz, chief economist for ITG
Investment Research Inc., said yesterday in a phone interview,
referring to the increase in volatility and short selling bets.
“Given what the market has done over the previous years, the
hedge funds are going to have a pretty quick trigger finger from
long to short.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  