-- Hedges for Banana Farms as Colombia Seeks to Offset Peso
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-06T18:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hedges-for-banana-farms-as-colombia-seeks-to-offset-peso.html
Colombia ’s government is stepping up
efforts to persuade farmers to protect themselves from the
world’s biggest currency rally, according to the head of the
agency in charge of handling the options contracts for growers.  The government will cover as much as 60 percent of the
expense for agricultural exporters to buy hedges as an 8.7
percent peso rally this year threatens to fuel job losses,
adding to the highest  unemployment rate  in the Americas. The
peso rose against the dollar as the highest benchmark interest
rates in three years draw investors seeking alternatives to the
near-zero rates in the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe .  The government has set aside 85 billion pesos ($48 million)
over the past two years to subsidize options taken out by
flower, banana and sugarcane exporters. The program, which comes
amid a similar effort in  Chile  to get farmers to hedge against
currency gains, seeks to protect jobs in an industry that
accounts for 6.4 percent of the economy and is vulnerable to
peso gains that sap revenue.  “Instead of having the exporter become a victim of the
 exchange rate , we want farmers to learn about hedges and know
how to manage the currency risk,” said Luis Eduardo Gomez, head
of Finagro, the agency handling the contracts for farmers.  Flower growers cut 30,000 jobs in the past seven years
because of the peso’s rally, according to the Association of
Colombian Flower Exporters. The industry employs 90,000 and
creates another 60,000 jobs indirectly, according to the group.  ‘All We Can’  “We’re doing all we can” to ease advances in the peso and
protect farmers, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in a May 30
meeting with palm-oil producers in northeastern Colombia. He
cited the central bank’s daily dollar purchases, the
government’s keeping dollar revenue abroad and subsidies on
currency hedges.  While the deepening  European debt crisis  has driven down
 Brazil ’s real by 8 percent and the Mexican peso by 1.1 percent,
the Colombian peso has gained this year. The peso’s advance to
1,782.92 per dollar is the best performance among 170 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s central bank has raised the overnight lending
 rate  nine times since February 2011 to 5.25 percent, bringing it
up from a record low 3 percent, as domestic demand and record
foreign investment helped power the fastest economic growth
since 2007. Banco de la Republica forecasts  Latin America ’s
fifth-largest economy will grow about 5 percent this year after
expanding 5.9 percent in 2011.  Lower Cost  By negotiating a bundle of currency options with several
banks at the same time, Finagro is able to get a lower cost for
farmers, according to Gomez. In the past two months, $222
million in exports have been covered with the hedges offered by
the program. The government has assumed 11 billion pesos in
costs and farmers 12.6 billion pesos, according to the agency.  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said on Feb. 22
that the increase in borrowing costs was driving gains in the
peso and hurting farm exports and asked policy makers to refrain
from raising  interest rates  further, a sentiment echoed by
flower and banana exporters.  “The peso’s appreciation is an irritating issue,” said
Rafael Mejia, president of the Colombian Agriculture Society.
“We’re trying to get everyone to use” hedges, he said in an
interview in April.  Flower Producers  Hedges are used mostly by flower producers, which accounted
for 72 percent of the contracts taken out under the government
program this year. Banana growers account for 16 percent and
sugar-cane growers 5 percent, according to Finagro. Augura, the
banana association, has organized government-sponsored classes
in the coastal city of Santa Marta and in Medellin for their
growers to learn about the hedges.  Finagro set up a hotline for farmers seeking information
about hedging, and is sending e-mails to growers groups this
year to encourage use of the contracts.  Analibia Lagos, manager of rose-grower Flores Cajica, has
been taking advantage of the government program to hedge against
 currency risk  since 2010. Last year, the hedges brought in 12
million pesos to offset the stronger currency and the contracts
have brought in 13 million pesos this year, she said in a phone
interview from  Cajica , about 30 kilometers (19 miles) north of
Bogota.  Less for Roses  “The price we get for our roses has pretty much stayed put
in the last 10 years, and meanwhile the peso gets stronger and
stronger so we get less money,” Lagos said from the three-
hectare (seven-acre) farm that employs 23 workers and grows
about 200,000 roses monthly that are shipped via a middleman to
Japan,  Russia , the U.S. and  Germany . “We’ve always tried to use
the currency hedges. We see it as a type of insurance against
the peso’s appreciation, which has really hit us hard.”  Starting this month, Flores Cajica is unable to participate
in the government program because the company that exports the
roses can’t provide a certificate needed for the farm to be
eligible. Lagos says she is worried that without the hedges,
sales won’t be enough to pay salaries and bank loans coming due.  “We’ve done all we can to become more efficient, but there
comes a point where it becomes very difficult,” Lagos said. A
peso stronger than 1,800 is “pretty grave,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  