-- Hedge Funds Lose 2.9% in Worst Month Since September
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-06-06T21:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hedge-funds-lose-2-9-in-worst-month-since-september.html
Hedge funds fell 2.9 percent in May,
their worst month since September, as stocks slumped on concern
 Greece  may exit the euro and the global economy is weakening.  The decline was driven by long-short equity, multistrategy
and global  macro (BBHFMCRO)  funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Hedge funds have lost 1.3 percent since the start of the year,
trailing a 0.9 percent gain for equities worldwide, including
reinvested dividends.  “It’s very hard for hedge funds across the board to
generate positive returns if equities around the world are
selling off significantly, the dollar is strengthening,
commodities are selling off significantly,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a
Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge funds and
investors. “It’s definitely the worst month in absolute returns
for hedge funds in 2012.”  Funds including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  William
Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP slumped in May as
the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  sank 8.9 percent, including
dividends. U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast, the
American service sector slowed and euro-region unemployment rose
to a 15-year high.  Paulson Funds  Paulson, the billionaire hedge-fund manager seeking to
reverse record losses in 2011, posted a 13 percent decline last
month in his gold fund as bullion and mining stocks fell, a
person briefed on the returns said today. The loss leaves the
$1.2 billion fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-
related investments, down 23 percent this year.  Paulson & Co., which manages about $24 billion, posted
losses during May in its Advantage funds, Recovery Fund and
Partners Enhanced fund. Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund rose
0.9 percent last month and 5.3 percent in 2012.  Funds that rose in May include Quantitative Investment
Management LLC, the $4.6 billion Charlottesville, Virginia-based
managed futures fund by Jaffray Woodriff. The firm posted a 7.2
percent May advance in its QIM Global fund, bringing yearly
gains to 8 percent, according to a person briefed on the
returns, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. QIM Tactical Aggressive, the firm’s long/short
equity futures strategy, rose 5.9 percent last month and 3.9
percent in 2012. Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for QIM,
declined to comment on the returns.  Long-Short  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,718 funds, 1,236 of which have
reported returns for May. The index is down 14 percent from its
July 2007 peak.  Multistrategy (BBHFMLTI)  hedge funds fell 3.9 percent in May and 3.2
percent this year, according to the Bloomberg index. Long-short
equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising and falling
stocks, declined 3.2 percent last month and 0.2 percent in 2012.  Kingdon Capital, the $2.7 billion hedge fund run by  Mark
Kingdon  in New York, posted a 4.5 percent decline last month in
Kingdon Associates, a global long-short equity fund, reducing
year-to-date gains to 6.6 percent, according to an update to
investors dated May that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Patrick
Clifford , a spokesman for Kingdon Capital, declined to comment
on the returns.  Macro funds, which bet on global economic trends, slumped
2.5 percent last month and 0.9 percent in the first five months
of the year.  Elliott Loss  Elliott Management Corp., the $20 billion New York-based
hedge fund founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer , posted a
1.4 percent decline in its Elliott International Ltd. fund, its
biggest monthly loss since November 2008, according to an update
sent to investors. The decline pares 2012 gains to 3.1 percent.
Elliott Management declined to comment on the returns.  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP, the $10.5 billion
hedge fund run by Ackman, who is known for investing in
companies to press for changes, slumped 7.1 percent in May in
its $6 billion Pershing Square International Ltd. fund, paring
yearly gains to 2.4 percent this year, according to a monthly
performance update to investors that was obtained by Bloomberg
News. Pershing Square, based in New York, declined to comment on
the returns.  Andrew Hall , the former Citigroup Inc. energy trader who
runs $4.4 billion commodities hedge fund Astenbeck Capital
Management LLC, lost 14 percent last month and 6.4 percent this
year, according to an investor. The fund, based in Westport,
 Connecticut , declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  