-- Media Protest U.S. Government Economic Data Restrictions
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-06T14:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/media-protest-u-s-government-economic-data-restrictions.html
News media advocates told Congress
the U.S. Labor Department’s plan to require journalists to use
government equipment for reporting  jobless  figures and other
economic data would violate press freedom.  “The media takes government interference with its work
product very seriously,” Lucy Dalglish, executive director of
the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, told the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee at a hearing today in
Washington.  “Requiring journalists to draft and publish stories using
government-owned computers loaded with government-controlled
software simply crosses a line the First Amendment clearly drew
to separate the press from the government,” Dalglish said.  Bloomberg News and other media organizations have opposed
changes in the Labor Department procedures. Agency officials
plan to tell the committee the new policy is needed to ensure
that sensitive economic figures aren’t released prematurely.  “We take our security responsibilities seriously,” agency
spokesman Carl Fillichio said in prepared testimony. “Today,
fractions of a second can equate to millions or even billions of
dollars in market movements.”  Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  urged the administration to
reverse its plan. “When President Obama took office, he
promised the American people he’d have ‘the most transparent
administration in history,’” said Issa, a California
Republican. “Almost four years later, more and more it seems
that by their own actions, this administration is on the wrong
side of transparency.”  Issa said the Labor Department didn’t release a security
analysis it says justifies the policy changes.  Executives Testify  Under the policy, “the government would literally own
reporters’ notebooks,” Bloomberg News Executive Editor Dan Moss
told lawmakers at the hearing. Requiring journalists to work on
government-owned computers “gives the government unfettered
access to reporters’ notes and drafts,” he said.  The media organizations are in talks with the department
about the policy. Rob Doherty, general manager for the U.S. of
Reuters, the news division of  Thomson Reuters , said he was
optimistic that news organizations would work out an agreement
before the planned July 6 implementation date for the new
policy.  Doherty said his company’s technical staff has said it
would be “nearly impossible” to be ready by then. Moss said
Bloomberg may seek a court order to block the department’s
requirement that media remove their private equipment by June 15
unless an agreement is signed soon.  Longstanding Practice  The policy, devised to improve data security, would change
a longstanding practice that lets news organizations use their
own computers, phone and data lines to file and transmit stories
about  unemployment figures  and consumer prices from so-called
lock-ups at the Labor Department.  Journalists are provided the data on an embargoed basis in
advance to give them time to write and edit stories from the
lock-up room at the department. When the data are released, a
Labor Department official flips a switch to let news
organizations transmit.  The agency has ordered them to remove software, hardware
and communications lines they have installed at the department.
Under the new procedures, reporters would be required to use
government computer equipment, software and Internet
connections.  “The public has benefited enormously from the process the
department currently uses,” Rick Blum, coordinator of the
Sunshine in Government Initiative, wrote May 8 in a letter to
Labor Secretary Hilda Solis. “The practice used to this point
ensures the simultaneous release of information while also
providing time that enables reporters to place the new data in
meaningful context.”  ‘Point of Failure’  Requiring journalists to use government-provided software,
hardware and dedicated lines would inhibit journalistic
independence, and “as the government grows more concerned about
cybersecurity, the proposed policy would create a single point
of failure,” according to the letter.  The initiative’s members include the American Society of
News Editors, the Online News Association and the Society of
Professional Journalists.  Fillichio, in his prepared statement, said the changes are
needed because news organizations have installed “increasingly
more complex computer configurations” that at times have
violated the agency’s security protocols.  Also, he said, “Algorithmic trading introduces new
security variables into a lock-up system not originally designed
to guard against market-moving disruptions that could be caused
by the release of government data to certain traders just
seconds before the rest of the general public.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  