-- Lee Enterprises Jumps After Buffett Discloses Stake
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-06T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lee-enterprises-jumps-after-buffett-discloses-stake.html
Lee Enterprises Inc. (LEE) , the owner of
newspapers in the U.S. Midwest and West Coast, jumped the most
in more than four months after  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  disclosed owning a stake.  Lee climbed 16 percent to $1.33 in New York at the close,
for the biggest gain since Jan. 24. The shares have climbed 89
percent this year.  Berkshire held 1.66 million Lee shares on March 31, valued
at about $2.12 million, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire had withheld
information about the stake on May 15 while disclosing other
holdings in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The company’s request to keep the Lee information
confidential was denied. The stake is 3.2 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett has been increasing investments in newspapers,
buying the Omaha World-Herald last year and striking a deal in
May to acquire 63  Media General Inc. (MEG)  publications, including the
Richmond Times-Dispatch in  Virginia . Lee, based in Davenport,
 Iowa , emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in January
and has more than 40 papers, including the St. Louis Post-
Dispatch.  “Our future depends on remaining the primary source of
information in certain subjects of great importance to our
readers,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to publishers and editors
of Berkshire’s daily papers last month. “Technological change
has caused us to lose primacy in various key areas, including
national news, national sports, stock quotations and employment
opportunities. So be it. Our job is to reign supreme in matters
of local importance.”  Loans Purchased  Berkshire earlier bought $85 million in loans owed by Lee
at discount from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall Street
Journal reported in April.  Buffett didn’t return a message for comment left with an
assistant yesterday.  “Berkshire Hathaway is a very successful, very smart
investor,” Daniel Hayes, a spokesman for Lee, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re gratified he’s taken an interest in
Lee Enterprises and in our industry.”  The SEC sometimes allows companies to withhold data from
the public to limit copycat investing while building or cutting
a position. Buffett’s company also requested confidential
treatment in filings last year, as he spent more than $10
billion amassing a stake in International Business Machines
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  