-- Leica Debuts Own U.S. Shops With $27,000 Digital Camera: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/leica-debuts-own-u-s-shops-with-27-000-digital-camera-retail.html
Selling a $27,000 camera is no snap -
- especially when the lens is sold separately.  For the camera’s maker,  Leica Camera AG (LCA1) , the challenge is
compounded by the fact that it has lost more than a third of its
U.S. dealers to competition from the likes of  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  So, at a time when many brands are moving
online, the German camera maker is opening stores.  The first U.S. location debuted in Washington last month,
and Leica plans one each in Miami and  New York  this summer. By
March, 2016, the company says its current roster of 37 stores
will have grown to 200 worldwide. They stock a range of models
from the entry-level $700 V-Lux 40 point-and-shoot to the top-
of-the-line $27,000 S2.  “It is a high-risk strategy,” Walter Loeb, president of
Loeb Associates Inc., a New York-based retail consulting firm,
said in a telephone interview. “Leica needs to establish itself
more directly in the U.S. but it’s a small market for high-
priced cameras and it’s highly competitive.”  Leica is opening stores at a time when U.S. consumers are
buying fewer cameras because many are using phones such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone to take photos. Last year, Americans spent $6.2
billion on cameras, down 8.3 percent from 2010, the Consumer
Electronics Association estimates. The average price per-camera
was $173. Leica says it has less than 1 percent of the market,
while  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Nikon Corp. (7731)  command 42 percent between
them, according Mintel, a research firm based in  London .  Dodged Bankruptcy  The store rollout is part of Chief Executive Officer Alfred Schopf’s efforts to turn around the Solms, Germany-based
company, which was slow to embrace digital technology. In 2004,
the company dodged bankruptcy; two years later, French luxury
handbag maker  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA sold its 36 percent stake
in Leica, ending a relationship that began in 2000. Since then
sales have recovered, in part because Leica managed to merge its
engineering prowess with new digital technology.  The shares have jumped 82 percent in the past 12 months.  The maker of photo equipment, hunting lenses and nature-
watching products has been developing its new store design for
more than three years. It includes a retail space, a studio area
to demonstrate products and a gallery -- to exhibit photographs
shot with Leica cameras -- that can be converted into a lecture
room for the company’s Leica Akademie photography courses.  “We didn’t want it to be seen like an average store with
Japan brand 1 and Japan brand 2 and Korean brand 1 and Korean
brand 2,” Schopf, 53, said in an interview in  Washington . “We
stand for a certain image of quality and this is something we
wanted to show in this environment. We are showing a dedication
to the quality of photography.”  Rich History  He wouldn’t say how much Leica is spending on the stores.  Leica chose the U.S. capital as its first U.S. location
because the area’s economy has been thriving during the uneven
U.S. recovery, has strong unmet local demand, and has a rich
history of photojournalism, said Roland Wolff, director of
corporate retail for Leica’s U.S. arm.  The stores -- some operated by Leica; some by authorized
dealers under a joint investment arrangement -- are luxurious
and minimalist like the cameras. They feature black leather
furniture from  Germany  and gray tiles from  Italy . The sole color
accent: the red of the Leica logo.  Leica’s compact cameras, introduced in the 1920s,
revolutionized photography. They were developed by German
optical engineer Oskar Barnack, who had worked in microscope
research and was employed by an optician called Ernst Leitz in
Wetzlar, Germany.  Photographer Founder  Barnack was an avid photographer who suffered from asthma
and wanted equipment for outdoor photography that was easier to
use than the heavy plate cameras of the day. He introduced a
small-format 35mm-camera in 1925, using a brand name that was a
combination of the name Leitz and the word “camera.”  In 1932, about 90,000 Leicas were in use; by 1961, a
million. Milestones include the rangefinder cameras such as the
Leica M3 introduced in 1954 and the M6 in 1984. The R-System
debuted in 1976 with the R3, which was the company’s first
electronic model. Leica cameras have captured many an indelible
image, from Alberto Korda’s portrait of Che Guevara to Huynh
Cong Ut’s “Napalm Girl” to Jim Marshall’s photo of  Janis
Joplin  with a bottle of Southern Comfort.  In 1998, the company introduced the Digilux, its first
digital compact camera. By then, however, Leica had lost
customers to Canon and Nikon.  Candid Shots  Sales rallied after it introduced digital versions of its
iconic 1950s-era M camera. The M series is the “best tool” for
photojournalists because it’s quiet -- making it ideal for
close-up, candid shots -- and highly durable, Wolff said. The
company still makes film cameras, though digital models generate
more than 90 percent of sales.  Sales surged 57 percent to 248.8 million euros ($309.7
million) in Leica’s most recent year, and the company’s
improving prospects prompted Blackstone Group LP to take an
indirect 44 percent stake. In the year ended March 2011,
consolidated income grew more than tenfold to 36.3 million euros
($45.2 million).  While revenue doubled in the past two years, it will rise
just 10 percent this year because demand is outstripping
manufacturing capacity, according to Schopf. The company is
working to expand output, he said. On April 25, Leica broke
ground on a new headquarters in Wetzlar, where visiting Leica
buffs will be able to watch the cameras being made.  Besides opening its own stores, Leica also has built 54
boutiques inside authorized dealers.  “It is a way to make sure your brand is presented the way
you want,” Wolff said. “We want to offer more than just
product. We want to inspire with the photographs, we want to
share what people can do with the product.”  For some Leica aficionados that means taking photos the
old-fashioned way. The first camera sold at the new Washington
store: one that uses film.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  