-- El-Erian Says Financial Regulatory Efforts Slowing Growth
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-06T19:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/el-erian-says-financial-regulatory-efforts-slowing-growth.html
Global attempts to overhaul financial
regulation are exacerbating a synchronized slowdown of the world
economy, in part because they are poorly coordinated and not
fully defined, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California .  The “incomplete and often faltering regulatory effort”
has heightened uncertainty in financial markets, constraining
the flow of credit and inhibiting the growth of the global
economy, he said in prepared remarks to a seminar in Washington.
The economic impact of the “patchwork” of at times differing
reforms worldwide “may well be consequential,” he added.  “At Pimco, our periodic assessment of the regulatory
landscape now always includes recognition of how much is still
in flux and, essentially, both unknowable and unquantifiable at
this stage,” said El-Erian, whose company manages the world’s
largest bond fund. “The result is yet another uncertainty and
complexity risk premium” built into financial markets.  Stocks tumbled last week amid signs of slowing growth
around the world. U.S. employers added 69,000 workers in May,
the least in a year. A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation
 euro zone  fell to a three-year low, while unemployment reached a
record 11 percent. And China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
dropped to its lowest since December.  El-Erian said that he’s not calling on regulators to
slacken their efforts to transform oversight of financial
markets and institutions.  ‘Proper Response’  “The response to this is not -- and I stress not -- to
slow regulatory reform,” he planned to tell the seminar,
jointly sponsored by the  International Monetary Fund , the  World
Bank  and the  Federal Reserve . “Instead, the proper response is
to proceed in a more coherent and coordinated fashion.”  While the U.S. and other countries have pledged to work
together on financial reform, “the reality is disappointing,”
he said.  El-Erian took some financial institutions to task for what
he called “excessive lobbying” aimed at influencing the shape
of the regulatory changes. He did not specify to which companies
he was referring.  “Some of today’s lobbying practices go well beyond the
legitimate objective of bringing better data and analysis to the
table,” he said. “In several cases, excessive lobbying has
created disruptive tangents and made the desirable overhaul of
regulation hostage to very specific micro issues that are of
relevance to only a small group of institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  