-- Telkom Will Battle to Lure Investors as S. Africa Meddles
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-06-07T15:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/telkom-will-battle-to-lure-investors-as-s-africa-meddles.html
Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG) ,  South Africa ’s  worst-
performing  stock over the past five days, will struggle to
persuade investors to pump more money into the company with
government as its main shareholder.  The Cabinet last week blocked the sale of 20 percent of
Telkom to  KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s biggest phone and Internet
provider, for 2.7 billion rand ($324 million). The government,
which owns 40 percent of Telkom, is considering a rights issue
or an increase in debt to help fund a return to profit for
 Africa ’s largest fixed-line operator, Communications Minister
Dina Pule said on June 5.  “There has been so much political interference that the
necessary steps” for Telkom to “become economical have not
been taken,” said Omri Thomas, a  fund manager  at Cape Town-
based  Abax Investments (Pty) Ltd. , which helps manage 14 billion
rand for Nedgroup Investments’  Rainmaker Fund (AHRAINM)  and does not hold
Telkom. “Investors may not want to put further capital in the
hands of management.”  Increased competition in South Africa and a failed
expansion into  Nigeria  has cut  profit  excluding one-time items
at Pretoria-based Telkom every year since 2006. South Africa’s
Competition Tribunal will in October begin hearings into an
eight-year-old complaint that Telkom abused its domestic market
dominance, which could result in a 3.25 billion rand  antitrust 
fine. Telkom has denied the allegations.  ‘Helping Hand’  “Telkom needs a helping hand but we are not convinced of
government as a shareholder,” Johan Snyman, an analyst at
 Renaissance Capital ’s South African unit, said in a June 4 note.
“If government remains a shareholder we argue it would be
better for Telkom to be delisted and recapitalized by
government.”  Telkom  sold  shares at 28 rand each in a March 2003 initial
public offering on the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange , the only IPO
of a state-owned company since the end of apartheid, with the
securities peaking at 90.42 rand on Sept. 3, 2007. Pinky Moholi
last March became Telkom’s fifth chief executive officer since
its IPO. In February it asked Chairman Lazarus Zim, the
company’s fourth since listing, to stay until Aug. 31, 2013.  “Telkom has been so horrendously managed over the years
that the KT deal was seen as a way to ensure more competent
management was put in place,” Thomas said in a June 5 phone
interview. A rights offer will dilute shareholders and probably
be at a “huge discount,” he said. “Because of Telkom’s
current cash restrictions, the option of raising  debt  would
probably mean Telkom has to pay high interest costs.”  Shares to Fall Further  The stock gained 0.9 percent to 20.68 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, paring its  decline  over the past five days to 9.7
percent, the worst performer in the 162-member FTSE/JSE Africa
All Share Index, which has gained 2.3 percent. Earnings per
share from continuing operations in the year through March
probably fell as much as 100 percent, Telkom said on June 4.
Three days earlier, Telkom was removed from the  MSCI South
African Index. (MXZA)   Telkom’s shares have slid 46 percent since May 25, 2009,
when it spun off its stake in  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of wireless services to South Africans. Vodacom, based
in Johannesburg, has gained 73 percent over the same period.  “The share will probably decline further,” Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital,
which manages about 20 billion rand, said June 5.  The company may need to consider selling off parts of its
businesses to become more focused, he said.  Diminished Interest  “If it cut its dividend, investor interest in the business
would diminish more,” Dlamini said. “Even if Telkom used its
cash flows as funding, a sizable amount of money would have to
come from equity or bondholders.”  The company has paid dividends each year since 2004 with
special cash payments in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010. It may
pay a 1.50 rand final  dividend , according to Bloomberg dividend
estimates.  Telkom must inform government of its funding needs, Pule
said in an interview in  Cape Town  on June 5, adding that KT’s
offer was too low to meet the company’s needs.  Telkom will speak with the communications minister to
discuss the decision not to back the KT offer, Pynee Chetty, a
Telkom spokesman, said by phone on June 4. He didn’t respond to
an e-mailed request for comment yesterday. Government spokesman
Jimmy Manyi didn’t return a mobile-phone text message seeking
comment yesterday.  Urgent Turn-Around  KT on May 8 offered to pay 25.60 rand a share for the
Telkom stake, a reduced price from an Oct. 14 offer of 36.06
rand a share. KT isn’t discussing raising the price, Yung Kim,
senior executive vice president for strategy planning and
investment at Seongnam, South Korea-based KT, said June 5.  Telkom needs an urgent turn-around strategy to fulfill the
country’s goal of rolling out broadband infrastructure to all
citizens in the next seven years, the government said June 1.  Telkom’s fixed-line traffic, measured in millions of
minutes, dropped 70 percent from September 2003 to September
2011, according to Bloomberg calculations from Telkom earnings
statements, while the number of fixed-lines declined 15 percent.
Vodacom and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the nation’s largest mobile-phone
operators, were last year increasing data revenue three times
faster than Telkom, which in 2010 started its 8ta mobile-phone
unit.  The fixed-line operator may need to turn itself into a
wholesaler that sells Internet and voice packages to other
companies that then package these for retail and business
customers, Dlamini said.  It may need to reduce capital expenditure or cut spending
on its mobile offering, said Thomas.  “The unbundling from Vodacom and attempt to establish its
own mobile company in a highly competitive market showed a lack
of vision,” Sameera Cassim, an analyst at Afrifocus, who has a
hold recommendation on Telkom, said by phone from Cape Town.
“The company has been like a greedy child that tried to grab
too much and ends up with nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  