-- Embrace the Power of Foxy Thinking: Mansharamani
-- B y   V i k r a m   M a n s h a r a m a n i
-- 2012-06-06T12:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/embrace-the-power-of-foxy-thinking-mansharamani.html
     We have become a society of specialists. Business
thinkers point to "domain expertise" as an enduring source of
advantage in today's competitive environment. The logic is
straightforward: learn more about your function, acquire
"expert" status, and you'll go further in your career.  But what if this approach is no longer valid?
Corporations around the world have come to value
expertise, and in so doing, have created a collection of
individuals studying bark. There are many who have deeply
studied its nooks, grooves, coloration, and texture. Few have
developed the understanding that the bark is merely the
outermost layer of a tree. Fewer still understand the tree is
embedded in a forest.  Approximately 2,700 years ago, the Greek poet Archilochus
wrote that "The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows
one big thing." Isaiah Berlin's 1953 essay "The Fox and the
Hedgehog" contrasts hedgehogs that "relate everything to a
single, central vision" with foxes who "pursue many ends
connected...if at all, only in some de facto way." It's really
a story of specialists vs. generalists.  In the six decades since Berlin's essay was
published, hedgehogs have come to dominate
academia, medicine, finance, law, and many other professional
domains. Specialists with deep expertise have ruled the
roost, climbing to higher and higher positions. To advance in
one's career, it was most efficient to specialize.  For various reasons, though, the specialist era is
waning. The future may belong to the generalist. Why's that?
To begin, our highly interconnected and global economy means
that seemingly unrelated developments can affect each other.
Consider the Miami condo market, which has rebounded quite
nicely since 2008 on the back of strong demand from Latin
American buyers. But perhaps a slowdown in China, which can
take away the "bid" for certain industrial commodities, might
adversely affect many of the Latin American extraction-based
companies, countries, and economies. How many real estate
professionals in Miami are closely watching Chinese economic
developments?  Secondly, specialists toil within a singular tradition
and apply formulaic solutions to situations that are rarely
well-defined. This often results in intellectual acrobatics to
justify one's perspective in the face of conflicting data.
Think about Alan Greenspan's public admission of "finding a
flaw" in his worldview. Academics and serious economists were
dogmatically dedicated to the efficient market hypothesis —
contributing to the inflation of an unprecedented credit
bubble between 2001 and 2007.  Finally, there appears to be reasonable and robust data
suggesting that generalists are better at navigating
uncertainty. Professor Phillip
Tetlock conducted a 20+ year study of 284 professional
forecasters. He asked them to predict the probability of
various occurrences both within and outside of their areas of
expertise. Analysis of the 80,000+ forecasts found that
experts are less accurate predictors than non-experts in their
area of expertise. Tetlock's conclusion: when seeking accuracy
of predictions, it is better to turn to those like "Berlin's
prototypical fox, those who know many little things, draw from
an eclectic array of traditions, and accept ambiguity and
contradictions." Ideological reliance on a single perspective
appears detrimental to one's ability to successfully navigate
vague or poorly-defined situations (which are more prevalent
today than ever before).  The future has always been uncertain, but our ability to
navigate it has been impaired by an increasing focus on
studying bark. The closer you are to the material, the more
likely you are to believe it. In psychology jargon, you anchor
on your own beliefs and insufficiently adjust from them. In
more straightforward language, a man with a hammer is more
likely to see nails than one without a hammer. Expertise means
being closer to the bark, and less likely to see ways in which
your perspective may warrant adjustment. In today's uncertain
environment, breadth of perspective trumps depth of knowledge.  The declining returns to expertise have implications at
the national, company, and even individual level. A collection
of specialists creates a less flexible labor force, one that
requires "retraining" with technological developments creating
constantly shifting human resource needs. In this regard, the
recent emphasis in American education on "job-specific" skills
is disturbing. Within a company, employees skilled in numerous
functions are more valuable as management can dynamically
adjust their roles. Many forward-looking companies are
specifically mandating multi-functional experience as a
requirement for career progress. Finally, individuals should
manage their careers around obtaining a diversity of
geographic and functional experiences. Professionals armed
with the analytical capabilities (e.g. basic statistical
skills, critical reasoning, etc.) developed via these
experiences will fare particularly well when competing against
others more focused on domain-specific skill development.  The time has come to acknowledge expertise as overvalued.
There is no question that expertise and hedgehog logic are
appropriate in certain domains (i.e. hard sciences), but they
certainly appear less fitting for domains plagued with
uncertainty, ambiguity, and poorly-defined dynamics (i.e.
social sciences, business, etc.). The time has come for
leaders to embrace the power of foxy thinking.  Vikram Mansharamani is a lecturer at Yale
University, a Tiger21 Scholar, and author
ofBoombustology: Spotting Financial Bubbles Before They Burst
(Wiley, 2011).  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the
latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and
global business. 