-- Emerging Stocks Gain Most Since January on Euro Stimulus Bets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-06T22:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/emerging-market-stocks-gain-most-in-a-week-after-australia-gdp.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied the
most since January on speculation European policy makers will
help spur growth in the region, boosting the outlook for
exporters in developing nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 1.8 percent to
902.57 at the close in New York, the biggest jump since Jan. 17,
as  utility companies  rose the most since November and  energy
companies  rallied from an eight-month low. OAO MRSK Holding rose
the most since 2009, lifting  Russia ’s Micex Index 1.2 percent.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa added 3.2 percent on gains for  MMX Mineracao e
Metalicos SA .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials
stand ready to act as the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.
ECB officials meeting in  Frankfurt  today kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, as predicted by 49
of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said extending the
central bank’s stimulus program that lengthen maturities of debt
on its balance sheet was an option.  “There is a growing sense of hope that policy makers
aren’t going to sit idly by and watch the euro zone spiral out
of control and that helps demand for risky assets,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging market economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said by phone from  London  today. “The U.S. holding up
relatively well still is good for some emerging economy export
markets.”  Energy Advance  The MSCI EM Utility Index climbed 2.6 percent, the most
since Nov. 30, to lead advances for the 10 industry groups in
the MSCI Emerging Market Index. Energy companies on the gauge
added 2.5 percent, rising from an eight-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 1.3 percent to 593.06, the biggest advance since April 2,
as oil for July delivery climbed 0.9 percent to settle at $85.02
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Stocks rose today amid speculation developing nations’
shipments to the U.S. and  Europe  will increase. The two account
for 35 percent of  China ’s exports, according to Shenyin Wanguo
Securities Co. The European Union took in 17.2 percent of Indian
exports in the six months to September 2011, while the U.S.
accounted for 11 percent, government data show.  Russia’s Micex Index advanced to the highest in a week as
OAO MRSK Holding, a utility company in Moscow, jumped 9.4
percent, the most since September 2009. Federal Grid Co. added
8.5 percent, the biggest jump in five months.  MMX, an iron ore producer in Brazil, rose 8.2 percent,
snapping a five-day decline in  Sao Paulo .  Operation Twist  Atlanta Fed President Lockhart said extending Operation
Twist is an “option on the table.” Finance ministers and
central bank governors from the world’s leading economies agreed
to coordinate their response to the financial turmoil on a
conference call yesterday. Officials said they would work
together to help Spain and  Greece  put their public finances on a
sustainable footing.  “The  U.S. economy  has shown signs of steady recovery,
easing concern that its slowdown will worsen global growth,”
Vattana Vongseenin, chief executive officer of Phillip Asset
Management Co. in Bangkok, said by phone today. “Cooperation
among leaders of major economies in Europe will be positive news
because inaction would risk the spread of the debt crisis to
other countries.”  Poland ’s WIG20 Index rose 3.5 percent while the Budapest
Stock Exchange added 3.3 percent.  Turkey ’s benchmark gauge rose
0.8 percent, rising for a fourth day, the longest winning streak
since March 19.  Anglo American  South Africa ’s  benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index 
increased 1.5 percent.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the diversified miner
that makes up more than 7 percent of the index, advanced for a
fourth day, adding 2.9 percent. The Jakarta Stock Exchange
Composite Index added 3.3 percent, the most since Oct. 6.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index grew 0.4 percent as
BYD Company Limited, a manufacturer and seller of automobiles,
added 3.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 401, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  