-- Merkel Must Pool Debt and Look to Versailles, CDU’s Lauk Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-06T15:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/merkel-must-pool-debt-and-look-to-versailles-cdu-s-lauk-says.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will have to
drop her resistance to pooling European debt and look toward the
1919 Treaty of Versailles as inspiration for a payment plan,
according to the head of her party’s business caucus.  Kurt Lauk, president of the Christian Democratic Union’s
 Economic Council , said he would support pooling debt under
certain conditions and establishing a time frame of as much as
half a century to pay it off. Germany’s Versailles reparations
payments weren’t completed for almost a century after the
country signed the treaty following its defeat in World War I,
he said.  “We have to find something equivalent for the European
debt situation,” Lauk said today by phone from Stuttgart,
adding that Merkel will have to agree to a debt-sharing
arrangement to save the euro. “The German government will move
before the European monetary union hits the wall.”  Merkel has decried proposals such as jointly issued euro
bonds as a “collectivization” of debt that would revoke
indebted states’ incentive to balance their budgets. Lauk said
the German government won’t be able to avoid taking a step in
that direction if it wants to overcome the two-year crisis.  Lauk suggested placing debt that exceeds 60 percent of a
nation’s output into a centralized fund that would issue bonds
with long-term maturity. The plan resembles one already put
forward by Merkel’s council of economic advisers, a so-called
European Redemption Fund, that would set up such a program in
return for constitutional commitments on economic reforms.  ‘Significant Concerns’  Germany ’s opposition last month demanded Merkel reconsider
the idea in return for their support in endorsing a euro-area
fiscal treaty. The government has “significant concerns” about
the legal viability of the plan and its accordance with EU
treaties, Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said today.  Lauk said debt sharing would be acceptable to German voters
as long as the cost it entails is placed in context with saving
the single currency and ensuring its future.  Still, “if you present the German people with an open-
ended bill -- let’s support these guys -- there will be a
decisive ’no,’” Lauk said.  The CDU  Economic Council ’s website says it has 12,000
members and represents business interests to the German
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  