-- Merkel Allies Signal Progress on Fund to Pool Debts
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-07T08:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/merkel-advisory-panel-reworks-debt-sharing-plan-to-win-support.html
Opposition in German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government to debt sharing to counter the euro
region financial crisis is weakening, two of her allies said.  “I see some movement in the government” toward a proposed
debt-redemption fund, Lars Feld, a professor of economics at
Freiburg University and a member of Merkel’s council of economic
advisers, said in an interview in Berlin yesterday.  Kurt Lauk, a former European lawmaker who heads a business
group in Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said he would
support euro countries pooling debt with a repayment period of
as much as half a century.  Germany ’s World War I obligations
weren’t paid up for almost a century, he said in an interview.  “We have to find something equivalent for the European
debt situation,” Lauk said by phone from Stuttgart, adding that
Merkel will have to agree to a debt-sharing arrangement to save
the euro. “The German government will move before the European
monetary union hits the wall.”  The comments illustrate the growing pressure on Merkel as
bond yields surge in Spain and  Italy  and concerns mount that
 Greece  may be headed out of the 17-nation currency union. U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and President  Barack Obama  called
for an immediate plan to “tackle the crisis,” Cameron
spokeswoman Vickie Sheriff said yesterday.  European stocks rose while the euro dropped today. The
currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.2547 as of 10:06 a.m. in Berlin.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was up 0.3 percent at 240.73.  Yields Drop  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond fell 14 basis points to
6.11 percent, down from a euro-era record of 6.78 percent on
Nov. 17, amid speculation that European policy makers are
working on a bailout for the country’s banks.  European officials are weighing a plan that would allow aid
for  Spain ’s banks without the same austerity measures imposed on
other rescued countries in a proposal that might make it easier
for Spanish government to accept outside help, the Financial
Times reported today, citing sources it didn’t name.  Merkel is reconsidering a proposal she rejected last year
for a so-called European Redemption Fund. The plan was developed
by her five-member economic council and is backed by opposition
parties. Feld is now canvassing government ministries on the
proposals, he said.  Government Meeting  The opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens met with
government officials today to discuss the the fund, which is one
of three conditions the opposition is placing on their support
in parliament for the fiscal pact and associated legislation to
set up the permanent rescue fund.  The panel is focusing on three areas to broaden acceptance
of the plan, Feld said in the interview. These include
addressing “opposition to its sheer size;” concerns it might
not comply with German constitution and international treaties;
and the scope of its proposals on member states’ liability.  The fund, backed by euro member states’ gold reserves,
would be worth 2.3 trillion euros, according to the advisers’
panel estimates. Countries would be able to transfer debt
exceeding the 60 percent of gross domestic product threshold
into the fund for which participating member countries are
“jointly and severally liable,” according to the council’s
policy paper.  Merkel’s government has “considerable reservations”
because the fund may violate the German constitution and
international treaties, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, told reporters in Berlin.  Legal Scope  Feld said there is greater scope for the fund’s acceptance
in Germany if “joint and several liability” for the fund’s
bonds are substituted by “several liability,” limiting the
potential fallout to states on a scale based on the size of
their economies.  If, like the permanent rescue fund that European leaders
aim to have up and running by July 9, the redemption fund can be
created without amending European Union treaties, “then the new
fund could be set up quickly,” Feld said.  The group of Liberal parties in the European Parliament,
including its leader, former Belgian Prime Minister  Guy Verhofstadt , back the fund, said Feld. That includes Alexander
Graf Lambsdorff, chairman of the Free Democratic group that is
Merkel’s coalition partner in Berlin, who outlined his support
on May 27 in a guest editorial for Spiegel Online.  While resting on the resale of portions of debt, the
redemption fund does not entail euro bonds, the council says on
its website, thus removing a form of debt sharing opposed by
Merkel. In addition, states servicing debt excluded from
inclusion in the fund need to follow stringent new fiscal rules
or be punished by markets.  Limited Duration  “The decisive difference from the idea of euro bonds, in
addition to its limited duration, lies in the strings attached
to the participation,” the council said.  While Merkel has so far balked at the  plan , she may be
prepared to look at it more closely amid signs that bolder steps
are needed to tame the crisis, Feld said.  “We’ve gained traction among mid-level officials but still
face a flat ‘no’ at the highest echelons,” Feld said. “With
the  European Central Bank  tiring of acting as fire fighters in
the crisis, Merkel may need a plan with the sweep of the
redemption fund.”  Lauk said debt sharing would be acceptable to Germans as
long as the cost is explained as ensuring the single currency’s
future.  Still, “if you present the German people with an open-
ended bill -- let’s support these guys -- there will be a
decisive ‘no,’” Lauk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  