-- Hero Seeks Ethanol Engine Partners to Tap Brazil, Kenya
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-06-06T11:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hero-seeks-ethanol-engine-partners-for-brazil-corporate-india.html
Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s biggest
motorcycle maker, is seeking partners for products such as
blended-fuel compatible engines as it prepares to tap customers
in  Brazil  and  Kenya  to combat sliding sales growth at home.  “We continue to look for more tie-ups,” Managing Director
Pawan Kant Munjal said in an interview in  New Delhi  June 4. “We
are trying to build our own technology, our own capability
through partnerships.”  Hero, which in 2010 decided to  exit  a 26-year partnership
with  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , aims to more than triple exports by 2017
as sales growth slows in its home market amid intensifying
competition from Honda, Yamaha Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor Corp.
The Indian motorcycle maker plans to start selling vehicles in
 Latin America  and Africa by September, Munjal said.  Tuning engines to run on gasoline combined with ethanol
will enable Hero to benefit from rising demand in overseas
markets including Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, and
Kenya,  East Africa ’s biggest, two countries where local
requirements mandate the use of the blended fuel. Hero posted
its  slowest sales growth  in 13 quarters in the three months
through March, as  Asia ’s third-largest economy decelerated,
expanding 5.3 percent, the least since 2003.  Hero will also set up assembly plants in overseas markets
either on its own or through local ventures, Munjal said.  ‘Saturation Point’  “Targeting exports would be the next line of growth for
Hero as the Indian market reaches a saturation point,” said
Ronak Sarda, an analyst at MSFL Institutional Research in
Mumbai. “It will be a gradual process but if they get a good
distribution network, they can be successful.”  Hero, which had declined 2.1 percent to yesterday’s close
in Mumbai trading this year, climbed 4.8 percent to 1,955.05
rupees at the close in Mumbai, its biggest gain since Sept. 5.
The benchmark Sensitive Index rose 2.7 percent.  Munjal plans to raise the share of overseas sales volume to
10 percent from 2.7 percent in the 12 months ended March in line
with his ambition to make Hero one of the biggest global two-
wheeler manufacturers. The 57-year-old mechanical engineering
graduate said he will seek more partnerships after Hero struck
tie-ups with U.S.-based Erik Buell Racing and Austria-based AVL
for motorcycle design and engine knowhow.  The motorcycle maker last month reported fourth-quarter
profit that  missed analysts’ estimates  as rising raw material
costs damped gains from record sales.  Net income  rose 20 percent to 6.04 billion rupees ($109
million) in the quarter ended March 31, from 5.02 billion rupees
a year earlier, Hero said May 2. Profit trailed the 6.2 billion-
rupee median of 48 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 11 percent to 59.6 billion rupees.  Following Bajaj  New Delhi-based Hero also plans to offer its vehicles in
Argentina and Nigeria this year, Chief Financial Officer Ravi Sud said in January as the motorcycle maker tries to mimic the
strategy of its nearest domestic competitor, Bajaj Auto Ltd.  In August, Hero said that it would target sales of 10
million units a year in five to six years, with 10 percent of
that volume coming from overseas. It took Bajaj almost 10 years
to build its overseas business, according to Basudeb Banerjee,
an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt.  “I don’t see exports being a big game changer for Hero,”
Banerjee, an analyst with a reduce  recommendation  on Hero, said.
“Hero will also begin to lose market share to rising
competition, and margins will also be under pressure” at home.  Bajaj, which already sells more than 35 percent of its
products overseas, has set itself a goal of winning 70 percent
of sales from exports as it challenges global industry leader
Honda in Latin America,  Africa  and Asia.  New Factories  “Exports should have better  margins  due to export
incentives,” MSFL’s Sarda said. “Further, the depreciating
currency also supports” exports, he said, referring to the
rupee’s decline against the dollar.  The Indian currency has slumped 19.5 percent against the
dollar in the past year making it the worst performer among the
11 most-traded Asian currencies. The rupee’s drop makes the
nation’s exports less expensive and boosts the value of
repatriated sales.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG last month said growth in
demand from Brazil, the U.S. and  Germany  had helped offset
declines in other European markets and boosted first-quarter
motorcycle sales by almost 8 percent.  Hero, which had been interested in Ducati Motor Holding SpA
before the Italian luxury-bike maker’s acquisition by Volkswagen
AG’s Audi, is stepping up  capital spending  to add capacity and
will invest 25.8 billion rupees to build two new plants and
expand existing factories, the company said June 4. Hero, which
has internal cash reserves of about 40 billion rupees, seeks to
expand annual capacity to more than 9 million units by 2014,
from about 7 million units at present.  Two-wheeler sales in  India , the world’s biggest market
after  China , may climb by as much as 13 percent in the 12 months
ending March 31, slowing from a 14 percent pace a year earlier,
according to the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .
Industrywide sales was 13.4 million units in the year ended
March 31, according to the industry group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  