-- Estonian Parliament Approves Natural-Gas Unbundling Bill
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-06T13:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/estonian-parliament-approves-natural-gas-unbundling-bill-1-.html
Estonia ’s parliament approved
legislation to separate ownership of natural-gas sales and
transmission operations to reduce dependence on  Russia ’s OAO
Gazprom, the only supplier of the fuel to the Baltic nation.  Lawmakers in the capital, Tallinn, voted 52-28 today in
favor of the bill, which would force energy company AS Eesti
Gaas to sell its pipeline unit by 2015 or risk a fine and
nationalization of the business.  Eesti Gaas, whose biggest shareholder is Gazprom, will ask
President Toomas Ilves to reject the bill as unconstitutional,
board member Raul Kotov said in an e-mailed statement. Russia’s
gas export monopoly has a 37 percent stake in Eesti Gaas, while
 Germany ’s  E.ON AG (EOAN)  has 33.7 percent,  Finland ’s  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  has
17.7 percent and Latvia’s Itera Latvija owns 10 percent.  Estonia’s ruling Reform Party published plans in 2010 to
unbundle the gas industry and lower dependence on Gazprom, the
sole supplier of gas to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The three
countries are seeking European Union support to build a
liquefied natural gas terminal in the region, saying they’re
being charged more for Russian gas imports than western European
countries and citing supply risks.  Foreign shareholders in Lithuania’s gas utility,  Lietuvos
Dujos AB (LDJ1L) , including Gazprom, agreed last month to split gas
transmission and sales ownership as part of the EU’s drive to
force dominant energy companies to improve access for
competitors. Gazprom initially threatened to take the Lithuanian
government to international arbitration over the breakup in
March.  ‘Complex’ Talks                        European Union Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  last
month sent a letter supporting Estonia’s move to Economy
Minister Juhan Parts, the  Postimees  newspaper reported May 31.
Still, it would involve “complex” talks with investors that
need to get a fair price for the transmission network, he said.  The shareholders’ estimate for the value of the pipelines
“significantly” exceeds the Competition Board’s estimate of
120 million euros ($150 million), according to a letter to the
government by Eesti Gaas Chief Executive Officer Tiit Kullerkupp
on Jan. 2, published on the State Chancellery’s website.  Eesti Gaas shareholders will use all options to protect
their interests, including courts, if needed, public broadcaster
 Eesti Rahvusringhaeaeling  cited Kotov as saying yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  