-- EU Banking Union, Syria Sanctions, TARP Stock: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-06T12:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/eu-banking-union-syria-sanctions-tarp-stock-compliance.html
European Union leaders’ calls for
banking union lack concrete proposals for funding a new joint
financial-sector backstop, as showcased in the debate on whether
the euro area’s firewall could provide direct aid to banks.  Broadening the European Stability Mechanism’s scope joins a
list of proposals to protect depositors and deepen ties among
banking supervisors, which have coalesced into elements of a
banking union envisioned by leaders such as European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi. As currently designed, the bailout
fund will only be able to recapitalize banks if their home
governments request an aid package and accept the accompanying
conditions.  Calls to move toward “banking union” are growing in the
17-nation currency region and in the 27-nation European Union,
which this week is unveiling new proposals for handling cross-
border bank failures. Without more coordination, euro-area
governments may be forced into a series of costly bailouts to
avoid financial meltdown, said Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at
Bruegel, a Brussels-based research organization.  The ESM, the euro area’s 500 billion-euro ($621 billion)
permanent rescue fund, is under renewed pressure to help banks
directly after Spain called on the EU for aid, even before the
17 participating nations have finished setting up the new
firewall.  For more, click here.  Senior unsecured creditors will be put in the firing line
to cover costs from failing lenders under European Union plans
unveiled today, as the bloc seeks to end an era of bank bailouts
and move toward more unified financial supervision.  Michel Barnier , the 27-nation bloc’s financial services
chief, said the plans, which also include the setting up of a
network of national bank-financed funds to stabilize crisis-hit
lenders, are a necessary step to curb excessive risk taking and
take taxpayers off the hook for rescues.  EU leaders, including European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi and European Commission President  Jose Barroso , have
called for a banking union with more coordination of regulation,
as lawmakers seek to bolster confidence damaged by debt turmoil.
EU President Herman Van Rompuy plans to report on proposed
“building blocks” for deeper integration in the 17-nation euro
area to the next summit of EU leaders on June 28-29 in Brussels.  Barroso said in a statement that today’s proposal is “an
essential step towards banking union in the EU.”  For more, click here.  Separately, Barnier said he will meet next week with Former
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker as part of discussions
with U.S. regulators.  Compliance Policy  Bill Boosting Checks of Retail Investment Advisers Gets Hearing  The  House Financial Services Committee  will meet at 10 a.m.
today on H.R. 4624, known as the Investment Adviser Oversight
Act of 2012. The bill authorizes one or more self-regulatory
organizations for investment advisers.  The panel chairman,  Spencer Bachus , a Republican from
Alabama, and Carolyn McCarthy, a New York Democrat, introduced
the legislation. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
examines 10 percent of the nation’s 12,000 investment advisers
annually. The agency says that 38 percent of the advisers have
never been examined.  Investment advisers opposed to the House measure say the
outfit they presume will get the regulatory assignment isn’t up
to the task. They will make their case at today’s hearing.  The presumed self-regulatory organization, or SRO, is the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which has come under
fire recently for fee increases on the brokers it currently
oversees and for the compensation paid to its top executives.
Investment advisers’ industry groups intend to use that
criticism to discredit the organization.  In light of Bernard Madoff’s fraud, lawmakers say oversight
of investment advisers must be strengthened.  For more, click here.  House Panel Proposes $25 Million Cut to CFTC Funding  The House Appropriations Committee proposed a $25 million
cut from last year’s level to spending by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Funding for the CFTC is included in the
$140.7 billion Agriculture Appropriations Bill for fiscal year
2013. The bill will be considered by a subcommittee today.  CFTC funding of $180 million is $128 million below the
budget request made by President Barack Obama, the committee
said in e-mailed statement.  Funding for overall discretionary spending of
$19.4 billion is $365 million below the current level and is
$1.7 billion below Obama’s budget request.  Istanbul Stock Exchange Is Seeking Alliances, Babacan Says  The Istanbul Stock Exchange is seeking alliances and is
interested in buying shares in “quite a few stock exchanges
around the region,” Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan
said.  Turkey won’t increase corporate and financial taxes
“anytime soon” as it seeks to attract more financial investors
as part of its plan to make Istanbul a financial center, Babacan
said at a meeting of the World Economic Forum in Istanbul
yesterday.  Britain’s FSA Eases Tests for Non-Executive Board Roles, FT Says  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is relaxing scrutiny
of financial companies’ recruitment of non-executive directors,
after complaints that tests imposed four years ago have led to a
drop in the number of candidates for such appointments, the
Financial Times said.  Hector Sants, the regulator’s chief executive officer, said
candidates for non-executive positions will be interviewed only
in exceptional circumstances, unless the intention is to give
them key roles such as audit or risk committee chairmanships,
the newspaper said.  Compliance Action  U.S. Treasury Announces Auction of Stock in Seven TARP Banks  The U.S. Treasury Department announced an auction to sell
stock from seven banks in the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The Treasury said in a statement it would conduct auctions
on  Ameris Bancorp (ABCB)  of Moultrie, Georgia;  Farmers Capital Bank
Corp. (FFKT)  of Frankfort, Kentucky; First Capital Bancorp Inc. of Glen
Allen, Virginia;  First Defiance Financial Corp. (FDEF)  of Defiance,
Ohio;  LNB Bancorp Inc. (LNBB)  of Lorain, Ohio;  Taylor Capital Group,
Inc. (TAYC)  of Rosemont, Illinois; and United Bancorp Inc. of Ann
Arbor, Michigan. The Treasury said it expects the auctions to
begin on June 11.  The Treasury has capital investments outstanding in 343
banks.  Syrian Islamic Bank Says It’s Unaffected by U.S. Sanctions  The  Syria International Islamic Bank (SIIB) , placed under
sanctions by the U.S. last week, said the measure hasn’t
affected operations because the bank has no assets in the U.S.  The bank said on its website June 5 that its transactions
are legally “flawless” and it has the documents to prove that.
The U.S. designated the bank on May 30 as “acting for or on
behalf of” the Commercial Bank of Syria and providing services
to the Syrian Lebanese Commercial bank, both of which are
subject to U.S. sanctions.  David Cohen, the Treasury’s undersecretary for terrorism
and financial intelligence, said last week the action will add
to economic pressure on the government of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad “by closing off a key evasion route.”  Assad is trying to quell a 15-month uprising against his
rule. The crackdown has killed more than 10,000 people,
according to United Nations estimates.  Deutsche Bank Gets IRS Approval to Boost Private-Fund Auctions  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said the IRS will allow the company to
handle more trading between buyers and sellers of stakes in
private buyout and hedge funds.  The bank’s year-old dbRemarket platform was designated a
Qualified Matching Service by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
according to a statement yesterday. The designation means money
managers can approve the sale of stakes accounting for as much
as 10 percent of their funds through the exchange each year, up
from 2 percent.  Private-equity investors including pensions, endowments and
sovereign funds are seeking more flexibility to trade their
stakes in funds that lock up money for 10 years or more. About
$25 billion of so-called secondary transactions occurred in
2011, according to a January report by Cogent Partners.  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley Will Pay $5 Million to Resolve CFTC Trade Claims  Morgan Stanley (MS)  agreed to pay $5 million to resolve U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission claims that its future
brokerage unlawfully traded positions off exchanges owned by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)   The futures trades in 2008 and 2009 were executed non-
competitively and constituted “fictitious sales” in violation
of commodity market regulations, the CFTC said yesterday in a
statement announcing the fine. Morgan Stanley also had
supervisory and record-keeping violations, the CFTC said.  “Morgan Stanley is pleased to settle this matter,” Mary
Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said
in an e-mailed statement. “As stated in the orders issued by
the CFTC and exchanges, the settlements relate to trades
initiated by a single former salesperson.”  Courts  JPMorgan Wins Preliminary Approval of Municipal Bond Accord  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won preliminary court approval of a
$44.6 million settlement of a lawsuit in which it was accused of
conspiring to rig bids on municipal bond deals.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York ruled June 4
in a 2008 class-action antitrust case against JPMorgan and other
banks. This settlement applies to only JPMorgan and its Bear
Stearns unit. Other banks have settled, and state attorneys
general have entered into accords with banks.  Justin Perras, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the ruling. Investors who brought the
suit include the city of Baltimore and the University of
Mississippi Medical Center.  Michael D. Hausfeld, a lawyer for the investors, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the approval. The
judge scheduled a hearing in the case for Dec. 14. As part of
his ruling, Marrero agreed that certification of the case as a
class-action suit was warranted.  The case is In Re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust
Litigation, 08-cv-2516, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Middleman Robinson Gets 27 Months for Insider-Trading Scheme  Kenneth T. Robinson, a middleman in an insider-trading
scheme that generated $37 million in illicit profits, was
sentenced to 27 months in prison by a U.S. judge who credited
him for cooperating with authorities.  Robinson, 46, pleaded guilty in April 2011 after helping
authorities describe how he passed corporate merger tips for 17
years from attorney Matthew Kluger to trader Garrett Bauer.
Robinson then secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.  Kluger was sentenced June 4 to 12 years in prison, the
longest term ever for insider trading.  Robinson, a mortgage broker, faced a sentence of 70 to 87
months under advisory guidelines. He had admitted he knew both
men before he began funneling tips from Kluger to Bauer in 1994.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Hayden said yesterday that
she wanted to send a strong message about the loss of confidence
in the market caused by insider trading.  At yesterday’s hearing, Robinson’s attorney, Francis
Murray, said Hayden should send a different message that would
encourage offenders to approach the government in insider-
trading cases.  The case is U.S. v. Robinson, 11-cr-223, U.S. District
Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  For more, click here.  Akzo Nobel’s ICI Loses 91.4 Million-Euro Cartel Fine Appeal  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ’s Imperial Chemical Industries lost a court
challenge seeking to overturn a 91.4 million-euro
($114 million) European Union cartel fine.  The EU’s General Court dismissed the company’s appeal in a
ruling yesterday, rejecting ICI’s arguments that the European
Commission set the fine too high and should have reduced it
because the company voluntarily submitted evidence to
investigators.  ICI, which makes Dulux paints, was one of four chemical
makers fined 344.5 million euros by the EU’s antitrust regulator
in 2006 for fixing the price of acrylic glass, used to make
DVDs, car parts and household appliances.  Akzo Nobel hasn’t decided whether to appeal yesterday’s
court ruling, Oskar Bosson, a spokesman for the company, said in
a telephone interview. The company has already fully provided
for the fine, he said.  Arkema SA (AKE)  was also fined for
participating in the cartel.  Akzo Nobel, the world’s largest paint maker, bought London-
based ICI in 2008.  The case is:  T-214/06  Imperial Chemical Industries v
Commission.  Interviews/Panels  Ritholtz, Barofsky on FDIC, Financial Regulations  Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, and Barry Ritholtz, chief
executive officer of FusionIQ, participated in a roundtable
discussion about the role of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and financial regulations.  They spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Canada Must Relax Carrier Foreign-Ownership Rule, Telus Says  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, said
the nation must further liberalize rules that restrict foreign
ownership of telephone companies.  The federal government should allow non-Canadian investment
for all companies in the telecommunications industry, not just
for any with a market share of less than
10 percent, Telus Chief Financial Officer Robert McFarlane said
in a speech yesterday at the Canadian Telecom Summit.  “We need to move towards the necessary second phase of
liberalization of foreign-ownership restrictions for all
carriers regardless of size,” McFarlane said.  Telus,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  BCE Inc. (BCE) , which
together account for more than 90 percent of Canada’s wireless
subscribers, are lobbying the government to ensure that they
aren’t handicapped after Industry Minister Christian Paradis in
March allowed companies with less than 10 percent market share
to be as much as fully owned by foreign investors.  Paradis said the move would help the smaller players get
financing to spur competition and lower costs for Canadian
consumers.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Two Deputies to Help Lead Hedge Fund Enforcement Unit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s asset
management unit named two new deputies to help manage
investigations into possible misconduct at hedge funds and
private equity firms.  Julie Riewe and Marshall Sprung, who have both worked in
the 75-person group since it was formed in 2010, will jointly
fill a vacancy left by the departure of a senior attorney
announced last week, according to Bruce Karpati, chief of the
asset management enforcement group.  Riewe, 41, joined the SEC in 2005 from law firm  Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP . Sprung, 40, came to the SEC
from law firm  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP  in 2003.  The deputy positions were created to replace Robert Kaplan,
who had been co-chief of the unit with Karpati before joining
law firm  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  