-- EU Fighting Total Lack of Trust in Aid Models, Fitch Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-07T09:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/eu-fighting-total-lack-of-trust-in-aid-models-fitch-says.html
European policy makers are fighting a
“complete lack of confidence” in their ability to resolve the
crisis after failing to persuade investors they’re united in
their choice of tools to handle the turmoil, Fitch Ratings
President  Paul Taylor  said.  “The key issue in European markets is very much about
confidence,” Taylor said in an interview in Copenhagen
yesterday. “There is a complete lack of confidence in the
system, in the use of tools that could be available and even in
the ones that have been announced. The problem through this
crisis is that there has been the lack of a central view
point.”  Officials inside the currency union remain divided on how
to support  Spain  as its undercapitalized banks threaten to
destabilize the euro area’s fourth-largest economy. The European
Commission last month lent support to Spanish calls for direct
aid from the European Stability Mechanism, while  Germany  remains
opposed to such a model. It’s the latest example underscoring
divisions in the 17-member currency bloc that have plagued
decision making and prolonged the crisis.  “There is clearly pressure on countries within the
eurozone that require some form of response,” according to
Taylor, who spoke while attending a meeting of the  Institute of
International Finance  in the Danish capital. “I sympathize,
somewhat, with the position that you aren’t going to put short-
term market fixes in place while the medium-term structural
challenges haven’t been fixed.”  Yields  German borrowing costs rose today, with the yield on the
10-year note gaining three basis points to 1.37 percent. Yields
on similar-maturity Dutch, Belgian and Austrian notes also rose.
Spain sold 2.07 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in bonds today,
receiving bids for more than three times that amount. Spanish
10-year yields fell 14 basis points today to 6.14 percent.  Spanish borrowing costs approached 7 percent last week, the
level that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts. Spain is struggling to avoid an international loan
that would add to its debt burden and wants any aid to go
directly to its financial industry. Germany, which is backed by
AAA rated Finland in its stance, argues any aid must come with
austerity strings attached.  ‘The System’  “It needs to be the system,  Europe  as a whole coming
together, probably using the European institutions to form a
solution,” Taylor said. “It can’t be individual countries. It
needs to be through the European institutions.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
policy makers discussed cutting  interest rates  to a record low
as they respond to a worsening debt crisis. The ECB, which left
its main rate at 1 percent, has been under pressure to help ease
the turmoil after political efforts fell short.  While the ECB yesterday extended into next year its policy
of lending banks as much money as they want for periods of up to
three months, Draghi indicated another round of three-year loans
is not imminent, keeping up pressure on governments to improve
their response to the crisis.  “I don’t think it would be right for the ECB to fill other
institutions’ lack of action,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  