-- European Stocks Gain After ECB Keeps Rate at Record Low
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-06-06T16:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/european-stock-index-futures-rise-ahead-of-ecb-rate-call.html
European stocks surged the most in
six months after the  European Central Bank  held its benchmark
interest rate at a record low and said it’s ready to act if
necessary as the growth outlook dims.  Diageo Plc, the maker of  Johnnie Walker , J&B and Buchanan’s
Scotch whiskys, climbed 4.3 percent after saying it will invest
1 billion pounds ($1.54 billion) in production.  Petropavlovsk
Plc (POG)  gained 9.7 percent after  UBS (UBSN)  AG recommended increasing
holdings of the stock. UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s largest lenders, also advanced.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 2.3 percent to 239.95 at
the close of trade, the biggest gain since Nov. 30. The gauge
has  declined 12 percent from its 2012 high  on March 16 amid
growing concern that  Greece  will be forced to leave the euro
currency union.  “While not cutting rates or setting up a new bazooka, the
ECB keeps the door open for further measures if warranted,
confirming what investors consider the most likely scenario,”
said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55 billion. “The bank is
keeping its gunpowder dry for now and sustains the pressure on
euro-zone politicians.”  ECB official today kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent, as predicted by 49 of 60 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ten forecast a quarter-point
reduction and one a half-point cut.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 17 western
European markets that were open. Germany’s DAX rose 2.1 percent,
while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 2.4 percent in its first day of
trading this week after a two-day holiday for the royal jubilee.
France’s CAC 40 also rallied 2.4 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said officials are ready to add
more stimulus to the euro region’s economy if necessary, while
damping expectations that another round of three-year funding
for banks is imminent.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act” as the economy faces “increased downside risks,” Draghi
told reporters in Frankfurt today.  “Investors are weighing Draghi’s warning of economic risks
against the chance of another round of monetary easing,” said
Graham Bishop, an equity strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in
London. “Though judging any such intervention is dependent on
whether conditions get worse before they get better.”  Spanish Credit Line  Spain may receive a precautionary credit line from the
European Financial Stability Facility, Germany’s Die Welt
newspaper reported, citing unidentified people familiar with
talks about the possible option.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  issues its Beige Book
survey of business conditions in 12 national districts, two
weeks before the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set
monetary policy. The  U.S. economy  grew at a “modest to
moderate” pace, according to the April survey.  The euro-area economy stalled in the first quarter as
companies cut spending to weather the sovereign-debt crisis,
offsetting a gain in exports. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation euro area was unchanged from the fourth quarter, when it
declined 0.3 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today, confirming an initial estimate published
on May 15.  Industrial Output  German industrial output fell more than economists forecast
in April and Spanish production had the biggest drop in more
than two years, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump
across the euro area.  German production declined 2.2 percent from March, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists had forecast a
drop of 1 percent, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. In Spain, output fell 8.3 percent from a
year earlier, when adjusted for work days, a separate report
showed.  Diageo (DGE)  rose 4.3 percent to 1,581 pence as the company said
it plans to invest in the production of Scotch whisky, including
expanding some existing distilleries.  Petropavlovsk climbed 9.7 percent to 425.6 pence after UBS
recommended clients to increase holdings of the stock following
a recent selloff.  UBS and Credit Suisse added 4.2 percent to 11.15 Swiss
francs, and 3.3 percent to 19.10 francs, respectively. A  gauge 
of European banks made the biggest contribution to the Stoxx
600’s advance.  Miners Rise  A measure of mining companies climbed the most of the
 industry groups  on the Stoxx 600 after copper rose in London.
Copper miners  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  advanced
7.4 percent to 714.5 pence, and 9.1 percent to 963.5 pence,
respectively.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rose 5.2 percent to 27.05 pence
after agreeing to sell 809 million pounds of Australian
corporate real estate loans to a Morgan Stanley and Blackstone
Group LP joint venture for about 388 million pounds in cash.  The London-based lender said it would use the proceeds to
repay debt. “This transaction further de-risks the Australian
business,” removing 92 percent of the non-performing real-
estate loans, Dave Smith, chief executive officer of Lloyds
International Pty Ltd., said in the statement.  Barclay’s Plc (BARC)  gained 8.2 percent to 187.8 pence after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said impairments in the loan books of
U.K. lenders are stabilizing.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  jumped 7.4 percent to 353.2 pence after the
British explorer said it encountered oil in its 50 percent-owned
Carnaby 28/09-5A well in the North Sea.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) , which
owns 15 percent of the Carnaby well, rose 5 percent to 289.7
pence.  Royal Ahold NV paced declining shares, falling 4.2 percent
to 9.18 euros after the owner of Stop & Shop grocery stores
reported first-quarter earnings that missed estimates.  Net income declined to 282 million euros ($352 million)
from 291 million euros a year earlier. Analysts expected profit
of 304 million euros, according to the average of nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  