-- Euro-Area Investment Drop Offsets Export Gains
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-06T10:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/euro-area-investment-drop-offset-export-gains-in-1st-quarter-1-.html
The  euro-area economy  stalled in the
first quarter as companies cut spending to weather the
sovereign-debt crisis, offsetting a gain in exports.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation  euro area  was
unchanged from the fourth quarter, when it fell 0.3 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on May 15. Exports rose
1 percent in that period, while  corporate investment  declined
1.4 percent. Construction dropped 1.1 percent.  The euro-area economy may struggle to gather strength after
the need for new Greek elections and Spain’s worsening banking
crisis heightened concerns that the euro could splinter. Spanish
industrial output had the biggest annual drop in more than two
years in April and German production declined from the previous
month, reports showed today. European economic confidence
slumped to the lowest in 1 1/2 years last month.  “The  euro zone  escaped technically moving into recession
by the skin of its teeth,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “There can be little
doubt that the euro zone will suffer renewed, appreciable
contraction in the second quarter and prospects for the third
quarter hardly look encouraging.”  The euro has dropped 6.4 percent against the dollar over
the past month, bringing the decline this year to 4.3 percent.
The common currency traded at $1.2502 at 11:54 a.m. in Brussels,
up 0.4 percent on the day.  Government Spending  Government spending  rose 0.2 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, when it fell 0.1 percent,
today’s report showed. Household consumption stagnated and
imports rose 0.1 percent from the fourth quarter.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven economies yesterday agreed to coordinate their response
to the fiscal crisis, which already has pushed eight euro-area
nations into recessions, commonly defined as two consecutive
quarters of contraction. The G-7 officials discussed “progress
toward financial and fiscal union in  Europe ” on a conference
call focused on Spain and  Greece , officials said.  German Exports  The European Commission said on May 11 that the euro-area
economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year before returning to
growth in 2013. The euro area emerged from its last economic
slump in the third quarter of 2009 after the  European Central
Bank  cut borrowing costs to a record low. The  German economy ,
whose expansion of 0.5 percent helped avert a euro-area
recession in the first quarter, may grow 0.7 percent in 2012,
the Brussels-based commission said.  While rising German exports helped drive growth in that
nation in the first three months of 2012, indicators show that
Europe’s largest economy has since weakened. German  business
confidence  fell more than economists forecast in May, investors
grew more pessimistic and manufacturing output declined. German
industrial output fell 2.2 percent in April from the previous
month, the Economics Ministry in Berlin said today.  In  Spain , industrial output plunged 8.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, when adjusted for the number of working
days, the National Statistics Institute said. That was the
steepest decline since October 2009 and followed a 7.5 percent
drop in March.  Spain yesterday called for outside support for the first
time to battle the financial crisis as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said EU institutions should help shore up the nation’s
lenders.  Concern about Greece’s future in the euro mounted after
elections last month failed to produce a government and saw
support grow for parties opposed to austerity measures. A second
ballot will be held on June 17.  ‘Helicopter Drop’  Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services
Ltd. in  London , said while the ECB may consider “another
helicopter drop” of unlimited cash to fight the turmoil, the
measure would just “buy a little time.”  “Europe’s sovereign debt and banking crisis has now
reached the point of no return,” Derks wrote in an e-mailed
note ahead of today’s report. “Recently, it has become
abundantly clear that both Spain and Greece are now in a
depression, which given their respective debt mountains, renders
servicing and repaying their debt impossible.”  ECB Decision  The ECB has shouldered the main burden of fighting the
turmoil by flooding the banking system with over 1 trillion
euros ($1.25 trillion) in cash, cutting  borrowing costs  and
buying  government bonds . The Frankfurt-based central bank today
will probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent,
matching a record low, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on May 31 that it’s “not
our mandate” to “fill the vacuum left by the lack of action by
national governments.” ECB council member  Andres Lipstok  said
in an interview on May 22 that “now it’s not very necessary to
present any new measures.”  “Given the growing worries over the future of the euro
zone, markets will be looking to the ECB for reassurance and
guidance,” ING Bank in Amsterdam said in an e-mailed note ahead
of today’s report. “The latest macro-economic data have clearly
given the ECB more room for a possible rate cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  