-- Hewlett-Packard CEO Whitman Seeks Starbucks-Like Turnaround
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-06T16:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hewlett-packard-ceo-whitman-seeking-starbucks-like-turnaround.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  is drawing inspiration from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
CEO Howard Schultz as she steps up a turnaround effort at the
world’s biggest computer maker.  Whitman, CEO since September, said in an interview
yesterday that getting Hewlett-Packard back on track could take
as long as half a decade. She compared her task to the one
facing Schultz in 2008 when he resumed his role as CEO of
Starbucks, the largest coffee-shop operator, and A.G. Lafley,
who ran  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  for almost a decade.  Reviving Hewlett-Packard, buffeted by accelerating
competition in mobile devices and cloud computing, will be as
challenging as rejuvenating some of the world’s most recognized
consumer brands, Whitman said. Schultz was on the board of  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) , the online retailer she ran for a decade, and Whitman
served as a P&G director while Lafley was CEO.  “Usually these kinds of turnarounds take anywhere between
four or five years,” Whitman said at the company’s Discover
 conference  in Las Vegas, which began June 4. “To have HP
humming exactly the way I envision it -- this is a big
undertaking.”  Whitman, racing to reverse the sales and share-price slump
that led to the ouster of her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , is
eliminating about 27,000 jobs while working to cut debt. She’s
also trying to boost  cash flow  by better managing inventory
levels and more quickly collecting payments from customers of a
company that  generated  $127.2 billion last year by selling
everything from handheld calculators to supercomputers.  Nothing ‘Fancy’  As CEO of P&G starting in 2000, Lafley injected new
technology into household brands such as Tide and Crest and
acquired Gillette for $57 billion to control more retail shelf
space. Schultz shuttered hundreds of cafes after an
overexpansion and he’s concentrated on improving the quality of
Starbucks’s coffee and food.  “There’s nothing fancy about these turnarounds,” Whitman
said. “This is not advanced business, this is 101.”  At the Las Vegas meeting, which drew almost 11,000
attendees, Hewlett-Packard announced a cloud computing service
for airlines, as well as new hardware and software for data
security and analysis.  Whitman’s challenge may be more comparable to the one Lou Gerstner faced in the 1990s at  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the computer maker then struggling amid heightened
competition, said  Jeff Matthews , founder of hedge fund Ram
Partners in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Kodak, IBM  Another prospect, Matthews said, is that Hewlett-Packard
ends up resembling the once iconic Eastman Kodak Co., which
collapsed into bankruptcy in January.  “It could break either way,” said Matthews, whose firm
has in the past sold Hewlett-Packard shares short, meaning it
would benefit from a decline in the stock. “It could be Kodak,
which was long and drawn out. Or maybe it can be like IBM.”  Ram Partners isn’t currently shorting Hewlett-Packard
stock, Matthews said.  Whichever path Whitman follows, the climb will probably be
steep. Hewlett-Packard has  tumbled  16 percent this year through
yesterday, and sales have declined three straight quarters. The
company has lost market share in personal computers as more
consumers flock to tablet-style devices such as Apple Inc.’s
iPad. It was slow to embrace cloud computing, or delivery of
software, storage and other technology services over the
Internet.  The shares increased 2.7 percent to $22.26 at 11:22 a.m. in
New York.  Stock ‘Disgust’  Hewlett-Packard has also been wracked by management
upheaval.  Mark Hurd , who proceeded Apotheker, resigned in August
2010 after a company investigation said that he violated the
company’s standards of business conduct.  “We left the stock in disgust,” said  Dan Morris ,  chief
investment officer  at Morris Capital Advisors LLC in Malvern,
Pennsylvania, who manages $200 million and sold the last of its
Hewlett-Packard shares last year. “The management missteps that
have occurred there are just unbelievable.”  Whitman said she is trying to bolster profit by
concentrating on a smaller number of “bigger bets” in
technology, directing spending toward server, storage and
networking technology, and mobile devices that are “fun to
carry” as well as secure. She plans a foray into the tablet
market with a device running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8
operating system this fall.  “If we can bridge the consumer with the enterprise and
create desirable devices, that’s a big opportunity for HP,” she
said. “Ultimately we have to solve the mobility challenge.”  SAP Meeting  Bondholders are showing concern over the company’s ability
to repay debt that  totaled  $25.8 billion as of April 30. The
price of five-year  credit-default swaps  on Hewlett-Packard debt
-- bought to protect investors against the risk of default --are
near their highest point in five years. It cost holders of the
contracts $204,520 to protect each $10 million in debt as of
June 5. That compares with a five-year average price of $58,819.  “Those are an early-warning sign,” said Matthews. “They
tell you that debt buyers are nervous.”  At least one of Hewlett-Packard’s biggest partners is also
concerned about the company’s turnaround prospects.  SAP AG (SAP)  co-
CEO  Bill McDermott , Chief Technology Officer Vishal Sikka and
President Sanjay Poonen met with Whitman and members of her team
at the computer maker’s Palo Alto, California, headquarters in
early April to address the SAP executives’ concerns about
Hewlett-Packard’s declining sales of servers and services,
according to a person who attended the meeting.  Rising Competition  Thousands of companies run SAP on Hewlett-Packard machines.
If those customers switch to IBM or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , that would
jeopardize sales at SAP, the largest business applications
maker, this person said. The 90-minute meeting was also attended
by Hewlett-Packard Chief Operating Officer Bill Veghte and the
company’s head of enterprise products,  Dave Donatelli . Whitman
brought a sense of urgency to the proceedings, at one point
pressing Donatelli to quickly resolve slow delivery of Hewlett-
Packard gear to an SAP customer, this person said.  While Whitman declined to discuss details of the meeting,
she said she’s “bullish” that Hewlett-Packard can work more
closely with SAP, while cementing ties with other partners, such
as Microsoft Corp.  Whitman said she would like to improve relations with
Oracle, which hired Hurd as co-president one month after his
ouster from Hewlett-Packard.  Oracle Lawsuit  Hewlett-Packard last year sued to force Oracle to continue
making software for the Itanium chips used in some of the
computer-maker’s servers. The two companies are wrangling over
the decision in a  San Jose , California court.  “I would like very much for Oracle and HP to have a
productive, good relationship,” Whitman said, adding that she
hasn’t spoken to Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  since she took the
reins. “It’s a shame, really, where we are.”  Hewlett-Packard is reckoning with competition on many
fronts. These include a larger, nimbler IBM and server buyers
like Facebook Inc. and Google Inc., which are assembling their
own systems with inexpensive hardware made in China. Amazon.com
Inc.’s Web Services have also become a go-to platform for
developers building new applications.  Hewlett-Packard has failed to capitalize on major
technology waves, including the Internet boom and the onslaught
of social media that gave rise to Facebook and Twitter Inc.  Acquisition Prospects  “HP’s a little overwhelmed and lost in the wilderness,”
said Tod Nielsen, co-president of data-center software maker
 VMware Inc. (VMW)  “I haven’t had a clear sense of what they’re going
to bet on.”  Hewlett-Packard also has a history of acquisitions that
have turned out poorly, including Java server-software company
Bluestone Software under Carly Fiorina and Palm and Electronic
Data Systems by Hurd, said Phil McKinney, who retired as chief
technology officer for the company’s PC group in December.  “There hasn’t been any institutionalized process of
bringing in acquisitions and nurturing them,” McKinney said.  The company lacks a strong, central M&A team, instead
“stuffing” deals into its various product groups, which can
stifle growth, he said.  “The biggest challenge at HP is just navigating the
organization,” McKinney said. “You kept on seeing the M&A
failures.”  Whitman’s Focus  Hewlett-Packard has considered acquisitions that could
vault it into new markets. It weighed buying EMC Corp. and its
majority-owned VMware, the leader in “virtualization” software
for servers, people familiar with the matter have said. It has
also considered buying  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) , the top seller of Linux
software to businesses. Both were deemed too large and expensive
and the company didn’t make approaches, these people said.  “These are enormous companies,” Whitman said.  She reiterated that Hewlett-Packard would avoid the type of
large takeovers her three predecessors undertook.  “I don’t see the need for a big, transformative
acquisition,” she said. “In the near term we’re focusing on
what we have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  