-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Worker Claims Sex Bias Over Lower Bonus
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-06-06T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ex-deutsche-bank-worker-claims-sex-bias-over-lower-bonus.html
A former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  director
sued the German lender for sexual discrimination in London
claiming male colleagues were promoted ahead of her and received
bonuses as much as three times higher for the same work.  Latifa Bouabdillah, who was a vice president and director
in the bank’s equity-structuring group, did “the same work as
people who were being promoted around her” between 2008 and
2010, her lawyer  Michael Duggan  said yesterday at an initial
hearing ahead of a trial to be held later this year. Those
colleagues “were paid bonuses double or triple that of the
claimant.”  Bouabdillah is claiming damages of more than 1 million
pounds ($1.5 million), said another lawyer representing her,
Hina Belitz of Partners Employment Lawyers.  “Compensation did not seem to be in any way linked to the
revenues generated nor the quality of these revenues, but to
relationships,” Belitz said in an e-mailed statement.  Bruce Carr , a lawyer representing Deutsche Bank, said some
of the bankers Bouabdillah was comparing herself with had
different job titles and more responsibility.  The Frankfurt-based bank’s effort to stop Bouabdillah, who
now works at Commerzbank AG, from using those employees’
compensation figures in the suit was rejected. Judge Andrew
Glennie ruled yesterday that Bouabdillah could use some Deutsche
Bank employees for comparison, while those who received
contractually guaranteed bonuses would be excluded.  He also rejected an application by the bank to make her pay
a deposit for information about compensation at her unit.  “We believe the claim is without merit,” Libby Young, a
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  