-- Ex-Goldman Executive Yoon Starts Private-Equity Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-06T20:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ex-goldman-executive-yoon-starts-private-equity-fund.html
Gene Yoon, who left  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in March after five years at the firm, won backing
for a $500 million fund that plans to make private-equity
investments similar to those he oversaw at his former company.  The money for Bregal Sagemount’s first pool was provided by
Bregal Investments and the fund’s management team, Yoon said in
a telephone interview today. Bregal Investments, the private-
equity division of Zug, Switzerland-based Cofra Holding AG, has
invested more than $9 billion since it was created a decade ago,
according to a statement today.  “I do have a bit of an entrepreneurial bug in me and if
there’s an opportunity go out and start your own fund that’s a
tough thing to say no to,” Yoon said.  At Goldman Sachs, Yoon helped found the private-capital
investing unit within the bank’s special situations group. That
business invested the firm’s own money in growth sectors such as
software by purchasing equity or debt in public or private
companies.  Yoon said the unit is unaffected by the so-called Volcker
rule, which is designed to limit banks from making speculative
investments with their own money. He said it will continue at
Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets.  “Everything we were doing in my business was completely
Volcker compliant,” Yoon said. “There’s not a structural
reason why I left or why that business can’t continue to succeed
at Goldman.”  Investment Plans  Yoon, 37, said his two partners at New York-based Bregal
Sagemount are Philip Yates, previously at private-equity firm
Great Hill Partners LLC, and Daniel Kim, who was a vice
president in Goldman Sachs’s special situations group. Bregal
Sagemount also has two vice presidents and two associates with
plans to have a total of nine or 10 people by the end of the
year, Yoon said.  Bregal Sagemount plans to focus on investments of between
$15 million and $75 million in areas such as business services,
software, information and media, financial services and health
care. The fund can make investments of as much as $150 million
in partnership with Bregal Investments.  The fund will be more flexible in its investing style than
some traditional private-equity funds, Yoon said.  “It’s not always going to be in a leveraged buyout, it’s
not always going to be a minority investment, it’s not always
going to look like equity, sometimes it could look like debt,”
Yoon said. “And we want the flexibility to look at public and
private situations.”  Wharton MBA  He declined to disclose the fee structure, other than to
say it’s “industry standard economics.”  Goldman Sachs’s special situations group, a business that
makes some loans in addition to investing the firm’s own money,
has been led by Hong Kong-based Jason Brown since early last
year. It reports most results as part of Goldman Sachs’s
investing and lending segment, where  revenue  dropped 72 percent
to $2.14 billion in 2011.  Yoon joined Goldman Sachs in 2007, after working at Boston-
based Great Hill Partners. He received his bachelor’s degree and
MBA from the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Cofra is the holding company for the Brenninkmeijer family,
which founded the closely held C&A Group clothing retailer in
the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  