-- Ex-Singapore Civil Defence Chief Charged With Corruption
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-06-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ex-singapore-civil-defence-chief-charged-with-corruption.html
Former Singapore Civil Defence Force
commissioner Peter Benedict Lim Sin Pang was charged yesterday
with 10 counts of corruption in the city’s subordinates courts.  Lim, 52, allegedly obtained “sexual gratification” from
three women between May 2010 and November 2011 in exchange for
favoring their companies in awarding contracts, according to
charge sheets filed by the Corrupt Practices Investigation
Bureau. The events took place at locations ranging from parking
lots in the city to a Paris hotel, the documents showed.  Singapore reviewed its public sector financial procedures
after uncovering a S$12.5 million ($9.8 million) fraud in
September 2010 by two former workers at its land authority. The
two men were jailed for 22 years and 15 years respectively for
cheating government agencies in an incident prosecutors said
severely shook public confidence in the internal controls at
government agencies.  “The government wants to stamp out corruption,” said
 Bridget Welsh , a political science professor at the  Singapore
Management University , adding that “someone at a senior rank
being charged is an indication” of that move.  Lim didn’t enter a plea, according to the  Straits Times . He
didn’t answer calls to his home number.  Lim was investigated in December along with the head of the
Central Narcotics Bureau on allegations of “serious personal
misconduct,” the government  said  earlier this year.  Glenn Knight, a former director of the Commercial Affairs
Department was sentenced to a day’s jail in 1998 and suspended
from legal practice on corruption charges in 1991. The Straits
Times said the investigations this year rank among the highest-
level probes of civil servants since Knight’s case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  