-- Texas Teachers Taking Alternative Investing to New Risks
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/texas-teachers-taking-alternative-investing-to-new-risks.html
After working for almost two decades
as a  money manager , Britt Harris at age 45 was what most people
would consider a success. Bridgewater Associates LP’s  Ray Dalio 
and Bob Prince had just tapped him to be chief executive officer
of the world’s largest hedge fund.  A father of four, Harris also found time to coach his kids’
baseball teams and teach Bible classes at his church. Still,
something was gnawing at him. “I didn’t sleep for one night,”
the Texas native recalls. “I didn’t sleep for a week. Then,
after not having slept for three months, I told Bob and Ray I
wanted to resign.”  Although Prince and Dalio urged Harris to remain, he quit
Bridgewater in June 2005 after just six months, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its July issue. Harris says he felt
that he wasn’t contributing enough to the firm or the wider
world, so he embarked on an 18-month-long search for meaning. He
traveled to Asia and New Zealand. He tried teaching, setting up
a class on investing at  Texas A&M University , his alma mater.  Then, in late 2006, a headhunter approached him about
taking the top investing job at the Teacher Retirement System of
Texas.  It was a place where he could make an impact. With $110.3
billion under management as of March 31, TRS is the fifth-
largest public  pension plan  in the U.S.  When Harris joined in 2007, the teachers fund wanted
someone who could boost returns without making risky bets that
could jeopardize the pensions of its 1.3 million public school
teachers and state university employees. “It’s a plan I really
care about,” says Harris, who’s now 54. “It’s my home state, a
place I love.”  Double Squeeze  Pension funds across the U.S. are facing an unprecedented
double squeeze: Baby boomers entering retirement are placing
growing demands on resources, while investment returns during
the past decade have dropped. Nationwide, public pensions faced
more than  $4 trillion  in unfunded liabilities as of October,
according to Joshua Rauh of  Northwestern University .  At TRS, Harris is reacting by ramping up stakes in so-
called alternative assets ranging from private equity to real
estate to hedge funds. The Texas fund had about a third of its
money in these investments at the end of March -- more than any
of the 10 largest public pension funds, according to London
researcher Preqin Ltd. The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  has 25 percent of its $237.6 billion of assets
in such investments.  Bridgewater Stake  Harris, a devout Christian with a taste for Texas barbecue,
is also forming partnerships with  Wall Street  firms. He has
pledged $3 billion each to two private-equity joint ventures,
with  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  He’ll be
investing in individual deals with them rather than solely
placing money in their funds, as other pension plans do.
And in February, the Texas fund bought a 2.5 percent private-
equity stake in Bridgewater, Harris’s former employer, for $250
million.  The moves are controversial. “Are they in the business of
managing employee pensions or are they in the business of
running hedge funds on Wall Street?” says Edward Siedle, a
former Securities and Exchange Commission attorney who’s now in
the private sector investigating pension fraud. “When you look
at public pension partnerships with Wall Street, generally they
end up bad for the public pensions and good for Wall Street.”  Returns Improve  Harris, who recused himself from decision making on the
Bridgewater investment, says the hedge fund has consistently
made high returns and is an attractive investment.  Overall, returns at TRS have improved compared with its
peers since the arrival of Harris, who in 2011 earned $480,000
of base salary and $396,950 in bonus pay. In 2007, the fund
ranked behind 61 percent of other public pension funds in terms
of returns, he says. Since then, it has been mostly in the top
25 percent. And in the three years ended on March 31, TRS gained
an average of 17.8 percent annually compared with 16.1 percent
for its peers, according to the Wilshire Trust Universe
Comparison Service.  The average doesn’t tell the whole story, though. Last
year, the fund gained only 4.5 percent. Harris needs to earn at
least 8 percent each year or the state and members will have to
contribute more money to the fund to pay out pensions. The
shortfall increased 5 percent to $24 billion last year from
$22.9 billion in 2010. In the next five years, almost 200,000
Texas teachers will reach  retirement age .  10-Year Cycle  It may take another five years to determine whether
Harris’s strategy of adding more alternative investments works,
says Brian Guthrie, the fund’s executive director and Harris’s
boss.  “To date, it hasn’t generated returns that we expected over
time,” Guthrie says. “We expect the returns to reveal themselves
as we get closer to the end of the 10-year cycle.”  The Texas fund’s size could be a handicap in meeting its
goals. “The struggle with very large pension plans is, it takes
time to allocate capital like that,” says Jim Hille, Harris’s
predecessor, who now runs Texas Christian University’s $1.2
billion endowment in  Fort Worth . “I was CIO for four years. It
would take another six, and it’s taken Britt six, to get them
where they want to be.”  Size as Handicap  TRS can’t be as nimble as smaller funds, says  Bruce Zimmerman , chief investment officer of the University of Texas
Investment Management Co., which manages the state university
system’s  $27.4 billion  endowment. “The challenge is, you’re
painting with a broad brush,” says Zimmerman, who previously ran
Citigroup Inc.’s pension fund.  Harris has brought some of the trappings of Wall Street to
Austin. When he arrived, the investment office’s 70 employees
were housed on three different floors at TRS’s fortresslike
headquarters, where thick columns run down the sides of the
building to conserve energy. Space was so tight that some
traders sat in a closet, while others spilled into the lobby.  Harris moved everyone to a sleek and airy 20,000-square-
foot (1,900-square-meter) space on the 13th floor of a
 skyscraper  on Congress Avenue, downtown Austin’s main drag,
where a row of office buildings towers over the flat surrounding
area. He increased total staff to 120 people, adding
capabilities in private equity, real estate and risk management,
and also boosted base salaries by an average of 24 percent.  George W. Bush  Harris’s office has a tank of tropical fish and a view of
the pink-granite state capitol. On his bookshelves are pictures
of his four children, a black-and-white shot of his grandparents
on horseback and a photo of him with  George W. Bush .  “People said, ‘Why in the world will you go to this fund?
You’re not going to learn anything,’” Harris says. He cites an
aphorism by fellow Texan Bob Buford, a former cable TV executive
and management consultant: “The first half of the career is
about achieving success; the second is about achieving
significance. People who do not make the shift struggle.”  Harris’s midcareer transition echoes that of his father, a
sales executive at what was then  Mobil Corp. (XOM)  who became a pastor
at age 33 following a brush with cancer. After stints for the
 oil company  in Turkey and Connecticut, Tom Harris moved his
family to Fort Worth, Texas, where he attended a seminary.  When Britt Harris enrolled at  Texas A&M , he became a
fourth-generation Aggie, as the school’s students are known.
After graduating in 1980 with a degree in finance, he joined
Texas Utilities in Dallas in the accounting department and
eventually was promoted to managing the company’s $300 million
in investments.  Verizon Post  The job led him to a series of positions as a money
manager, culminating in 13 years overseeing the pension fund of
GTE Corp., the predecessor company to mobile-phone-service
provider  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , in Stamford, Connecticut.
At the fund’s peak in 2000, Harris managed $80 billion.  At GTE, instead of buying products that outside fund
managers were selling, he forged customized deals with specific
performance, risk and fee guidelines. That was a novel idea at
the time, says Afsaneh Beschloss, CEO of Rock Creek Group in
Washington, which manages $7 billion in investments for
institutions including TRS. Beschloss says she emulated his
strategy in her previous position managing $65 billion in assets
at the  World Bank  in the late 1990s.  ‘Natural Leader’  Harris was one of the first corporate pension managers to
buy into hedge funds in the early 2000s, says Prince, who met
Harris through their children’s school in Connecticut. “Britt’s
a natural leader,” Prince says. “He’s what we call a shaper: a
person who forms an independent view about how things should be
and makes it happen.”  Westport, Connecticut-based Bridgewater encouraged all
employees to express their views: Meetings of senior executives
are taped, and junior staff are welcome to criticize decisions.
Harris’s job was to oversee customer service and strategy, not
to help manage Bridgewater’s $124 billion in assets. “They had
all the customers and customer service they could possibly
want,” Harris says. “I doubt Bridgewater needed me.” Many of
Bridgewater’s hires leave within two years.  Back in Texas, Harris is relishing the chance to lead
again, whether at the men’s Bible class he teaches on Monday
nights or at Texas A&M. His own experience forms part of the
curriculum one late March evening in  College Station , where 16
students attend his Titans of Investing class. Harris lumbers to
the front of the room and begins describing the behemoth where
he works.  Barbecue and Jalapenos  “We are the strongest hands that exist,” he tells the
class, his voice rising and his arms waving. “We’re large, we’re
long term, we’re liquid and we’re not levered. You cannot knock
us out.”  Afterward, he joins the class for a dinner of brisket and
creamed corn at  Rudy’s , a local barbecue joint. Harris is
smiling and confident, ambling from table to table, telling
tales of his youth, such as the time he won a jalapeno-eating
competition at age 17, downing 50 chilies.  Even though the outcome of his investment strategy remains
to be seen, Harris says he’s now sleeping at night. “I am
blessed to be here at Texas Teachers,” he says. Future
pensioners hope that they will be as fortunate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  