-- Facebook Investor Usmanov Said to Acquire Wide-Body A340 Jet
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-06-06T20:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/facebook-investor-usmanov-said-to-acquire-wide-body-airbus-jet.html
Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  received
the biggest private jet in Russia, a wide-body Airbus A340-300,
as he was selling $1.4 billion of stock in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
initial public offering, two people familiar with the matter
said.  Usmanov named the long-range, four-engine craft after his
father, Bourkhan, according to one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is private. Airbus
stopped producing A340-300s last year, according to its press
office.  The A340 has a range of as far as 9,000 miles and can seat
as many as 375 people, according to the website of the
manufacturer, Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS. The plane’s
catalog price was $238 million, though the final cost could
swell to $350 million or even $500 million depending on how it’s
decorated and outfitted, said Oleg Panteleyev, an editor at
 Aviaport.ru , a website that tracks the aviation industry.  “It’s definitely the largest business jet in Russia and
maybe even the largest in  Europe ,” Panteleyev said by phone
from Moscow today. Billionaire  Roman Abramovich  has a Boeing 767
and President  Vladimir Putin  uses a Russian-made Ilyushin Il-96,
both of which are smaller than the A340, he said.  Usmanov also commissioned the construction of a $100
million yacht that he plans to name Dilbar, after his mother,
the Izvestia newspaper reported last week, without saying where
it got the information.  Billionaire Index  Usmanov is ranked 34th in the daily Bloomberg Billionaire
Index of the world’s richest people, with a fortune of $15.8
billion, the same as  Lakshmi Mittal , the largest shareholder in
steelmaker  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  Usmanov is the largest shareholder of
Metalloinvest, Russia’s biggest iron-ore producer, and owns
stakes in mobile operator OAO MegaFon, the Mail.ru Group
Internet company and London soccer club Arsenal.  Usmanov is also a major investor in the DST group of funds,
which sold about $1.7 billion of Facebook shares in the social-
networking site last month, $1.4 billion of which went to
Usmanov, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Facebook rose 3.6 percent to $26.81 in  New York . The  shares 
have lost 29 percent since they began trading at $38 on May 18,
cutting the company’s market value to about $64 billion.  Usmanov’s press service declined to comment on personal
acquisitions by the investor, as did Metalloinvest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  