-- Facebook is Top Short-Seller Target Among Large Stocks
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-06-06T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/facebook-is-top-short-seller-target-among-large-stocks.html
No large U.S. company is attracting
more attention from short sellers than  Facebook Inc. (FB) , amid bets
the world’s biggest social-networking company will keep falling
after losing $27 billion since its initial public offering.  Short interest on the  Menlo Park , California-based company
reached 5.9 percent of shares outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and  Data Explorers  Ltd., a New York-based
research firm. None of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
with at least $50 billion in market capitalization has short
interest higher than 3 percent, the data show. Facebook, which
has a market value of about $63.8 billion, isn’t in the S&P 500.  Shares of Facebook have slumped 29 percent since they began
trading on May 18 amid concern that the IPO was overvalued and
the company will struggle to increase profit from its 901
million users. At the time of its debut, underwriters led by
Morgan Stanley set a price that valued Facebook at 107 times
reported earnings in the past 12 months, more than every  S&P 500 
stock except two.  “Facebook is one of those companies whose future potential
is unknown and unknowable,” said Robert Stimpson, a  money
manager  at Akron, Ohio-based Oak Associates Ltd., which oversees
about $900 million and doesn’t own Facebook. “The stock is
expensive. The short interest might also reflect a bet that
there is more bad news to come and Facebook will be punished.”  Short sellers borrow shares and sell them, hoping to profit
from a decline by repaying the loan with cheaper stock. About
37.5 million Facebook shares were sold short as of June 4,
compared with an average daily  volume  of 72.6 million shares
excluding the first day of trading, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Data Explorers.  Average Interest  Short interest among the 52 biggest S&P 500 companies
averaged 0.73 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Visa Inc., (V)  the world’s biggest payments network has the highest
ratio at 2.95 percent, followed by entertainment company Walt
Disney Co., at 2.56 percent, the data show.  The eight-year-old social-network’s debut of trading
produced the worst five-day return among the largest U.S. IPOs
of the past decade. The 13 percent plunge through May 24
exceeded the 10 percent drop by MF Global Holdings Inc. in its
first five sessions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Facebook, which went public at $38, rose 3.6 percent to $26.81
at 4 p.m. New York time. At that price it’s valued at 58.3 times
reported earnings, compared with a multiple of 13.3 for the S&P
500.  ‘Somewhat Dangerous’  Facebook and Morgan Stanley have faced criticism for
increasing the number of shares to be sold in the IPO by 25
percent to 421.2 million days before the offering and pushing up
the asking price.  “It makes a lot of sense to short it, from a valuation
standpoint and all the controversy surrounding the company every
day and what happened pre-IPO,” Jeffrey Sica, who oversees more
than $1 billion as president and chief investment officer at
Sica Wealth Management LLC in Morristown,  New Jersey , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a double-edged sword because there’s
so much short interest that the littlest positive could propel
the stock up. You could get annihilated on it. It’s somewhat
dangerous right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  