-- Fairfax Media at 59% Discount Seen Ripe for Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-07T09:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fairfax-media-at-59-discount-seen-ripe-for-lbo-real-m-a.html
For potential buyers still willing to
bet on the newspaper business, no publisher is offering a
cheaper entry than  Australia ’s  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)   The owner of the Sydney Morning Herald and the  Australian
Financial Review  trades at  0.3 times  its book value, the lowest
among media companies worldwide with market capitalizations
exceeding $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Even after Australia’s richest woman,  Gina Rinehart , raised her
stake to 13 percent, Fairfax is still trading close to its least
expensive versus net asset value on record.  With Fairfax shares slumping  87 percent  in the past five
years as newspaper readers defected to the Internet and falling
consumer spending curbed advertising, the company trades at a 59
percent discount to the A$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) value of
its six units, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
The Sydney-based publisher, which controls New Zealand online
auction site  Trade Me Ltd. (TME) , as well as four of Australia’s 10
biggest papers and the country’s top dating site, may now be
cheap enough to attract leveraged buyout firms, Platypus Asset
Management Pty and Tribeca Investment Partners Pty said.  “Clearly private equity would have interest in it,” said
Prasad Patkar, who helps oversee the equivalent of $1 billion at
Platypus in Sydney. “They’ve shown interest in a lot of things
that can be broken up. The share price decline has probably been
too aggressive.”  English Immigrant  Brad Hatch, a Sydney-based spokesman for Fairfax, said in
an e-mail that the company had no comment on the subject.  Fairfax takes its name from English immigrant John Fairfax,
who bought the Sydney Morning Herald in 1841. It publishes more
than 430 newspapers and magazines including the Dungog Chronicle
and the Southern Highland News, according to the company’s
annual report and website.  Earnings peaked in 2008 before Fairfax last year posted its
biggest loss as advertising revenue dwindled. Sales are
projected to decline for a fourth consecutive 12-month period in
the year to June 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After building a portfolio of hundreds of titles, Fairfax
is now funding a traditional print business at a time when
readers are switching to free Internet content.  At the same time, the advertising for jobs and homes that
traditionally drove earnings at the Sydney Morning Herald and
 the Age  in Melbourne are now on specialty websites such as  Seek
Ltd. (SEK)  and the  realestate.com.au  unit of  REA Group Ltd. (REA)   Slumping Stock  In the most recent six-month period, publishing sales
dropped 8 percent, while digital revenue jumped 14 percent,
Fairfax said Feb. 23.  Worth more than A$7.5 billion in 2007, Fairfax today rose
for the first time in seven sessions, closing 1.7 percent higher
at 59 Australian cents in Sydney. That gives the company a
market capitalization of about A$1.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P/ASX 200 index rose 1.3 percent.  The slump has left the share priced at just 0.3 times the
value of Fairfax’s net assets, which totaled A$4.7 billion on
Dec. 25. That’s the cheapest level since at least 1999, and
compares with an average of 4.2 for media companies with market
capitalizations of more than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg yesterday show.  The valuation could make Fairfax attractive for a buyer
willing to bet the company can offset declines in print revenue
with online advertising gains, said Peter Esho, the Sydney-based
chief market analyst at City Index Ltd., a London-based provider
of trading services in bonds, stocks and commodities.  Billionaire’s Investment  “It’s extremely cheap,” he said by telephone. “They do
have some very dominant publications. They just haven’t found a
way to monetize them. Anybody with a longer-term horizon,
someone who could wait for that monetization to pan out, could
be a buyer.”  Rinehart, the Australian mining magnate worth $18.6 billion
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , owns about 13
percent of Fairfax, the company said Feb. 3. She has also sought
support from fellow investors for two board seats, according to
the Australian newspaper. Rinehart told the Sydney Morning
Herald last month that Fairfax needs to say how it will address
its share-price drop and falling newspaper circulation.  Mark Bickerton, a Perth-based spokesman for Rinehart’s
closely held Hancock Prospecting Pty, said by phone that he
couldn’t make any comment on Fairfax.  The publisher’s  66 percent stake  in Trade Me, the publicly
traded Wellington-based company where New Zealanders can buy and
sell anything from bicycles to boat engines, was worth NZ$1.02
billion ($786 million) at yesterday’s closing price. That’s the
equivalent of about A$790 million, more than half Fairfax’s
market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyout Appeal  The most valuable Fairfax business, at A$1.38 billion, is
Regional Media, publisher of titles such as the Cootamundra
Herald and the Port Stephens Examiner, RBS said in a May 4 note.
Those titles are typically local newspaper monopolies with
little competition from online outlets.  Fairfax “could be an attraction for private equity but
anyone willing to buy it would have to be looking for more than
Trade Me,” said Sean Fenton, who oversees about A$900 million
including Fairfax shares at Tribeca Investment in Sydney. “They
need to be willing to manage that business through a
transformation and hold it until the domestic economy looks
better.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia on June 5 cut its benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 3.5 percent, the
lowest since 2009, after  consumer confidence  stagnated near the
worst level this year and Europe’s debt crisis deteriorated.  Pacific Brands  Australia’s economic outlook hasn’t deterred buyout firms.
KKR & Co. approached  Pacific Brands Ltd. (PBG) , Australia’s biggest
underwear maker, in January. TPG Capital in February offered to
buy surfwear maker  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , one of only two
consumer discretionary companies in Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index to post a bigger drop than Fairfax in the past five years.  Total advertising spending in Australia will accelerate for
three straight years after shrinking in 2011, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Spending will rise 0.6 percent in 2012, 2.5
percent the following year and 2.7 percent in 2014, the New
York-based bank said in a May 24 report. The largest gains will
be online, with the biggest declines at newspapers, Jarrod McDonald, a Sydney-based analyst at JPMorgan, said.  In the U.S., billionaire  Warren Buffett  last month backed
regional publishers when his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to
pay $142 million for most of  Media General Inc. (MEG) ’s newspapers,
betting community-focused publications will weather an
advertising slump. Berkshire on June 5 also disclosed a stake in
Lee Enterprises Inc., the Davenport, Iowa-based owner of
newspapers such as the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  Safety Margin  Fairfax’s  current valuation  still isn’t low enough to
attract leveraged buyout firms, according to Tim Montague-Jones,
senior equity analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The stock would have
to sink to 30 cents before an LBO firm would make a bid, he
said.  “Private equity would want a bigger margin of safety,”
Sydney-based Montague-Jones said. “There’s obviously value in
the parts in the business but it would take a brave person to go
in there and rearrange it. It’s just too difficult to
dismantle.”  While the  Sydney Morning Herald  website is “one of the
jewels” of Fairfax, according to Montague-Jones, he said the
cost of closing unwanted titles would be prohibitive.  Fairfax had A$5.3 billion of intangible assets, including
mastheads and trade names, last fiscal year, the 2011 annual
report shows. After Fairfax proposed shifting certain editorial
roles to  New Zealand , journalists at some Australian newspapers
 voted May 30  to strike in protest.  Cutting Costs  Still, Fairfax’s online assets such as Australian property
website Domain, holiday rental site  Stayz  and dating service
RSVP aren’t fully valued by investors, while newspaper printing
costs, central to Fairfax’s recovery, are falling, according to
Fraser McLeish, an analyst at RBS in Sydney.  “Fairfax still has some good growth assets,” he said.
“The market is assuming they can’t get the costs down and they
can’t monetize any of that. It is having some success in getting
those costs down.”  In the six months ended Dec. 25, publishing expenses
dropped 4 percent and online revenue rose to a record,
accounting for 14 percent of total sales. Fairfax plans to cut
A$170 million of costs over three years by sharing content
across radio, newspapers and the web, and centralizing
advertising sales activities.  Rupert Murdoch  Fairfax has assets that  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , which
controls 70 percent of Australia’s newspapers including the
 Daily Telegraph  and The Australian, would covet, according to
Platypus’s Patkar.  Stephen Browning, a Sydney-based spokesman for News Corp.’s
Australian unit, said he doesn’t comment on mergers and
acquisitions speculation.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and Fairfax units in providing financial news and
information.  “Would Rupert Murdoch like to own these assets?” said
Patkar, in reference to Fairfax. “Absolutely. Would he be
allowed? I’m not sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 