-- Fatty Acids in Brain May Help Multiple Sclerosis Patients
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-06T21:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fatty-acids-in-brain-may-help-multiple-sclerosis-patients.html
Fatty acids that occur naturally in
the brain may reduce inflammation associated with multiple
sclerosis, a  Stanford University  study suggests, a finding that
may lead to a new approach to treat the disease.  Researchers showed that injecting high doses of the fatty
acids, or lipids, into paralyzed mice with MS symptoms reduced
inflammation in their brains and allowed them to regain movement
within 24 to 36 hours, said Lawrence Steinman, an author of the
paper published today in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine .  Multiple sclerosis  is caused by an abnormal immune response
that attacks the protective covering that surrounds nerve cells
in the brain and spinal cord. The assault stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.
Today’s findings hold promise as a new way to safeguard
vulnerable nerves in MS patients, Steinman said.  “There is a very real possibility that we can convert
these observations into new drugs that could protect the brains
of people with MS against damage,” said  Steinman , a professor
of neurology at Stanford University in  California , in a June 4
telephone interview. “It opens up a whole new medicine cabinet
of natural lipid compounds that are quite complex and no one had
noticed them before. Certainly, unexpectedly, they have these
protective guardian-like qualities.”  The first human tests of the treatment are still about two
years away as toxicology tests are done and the researchers
raise money, he said.  Current Treatments  Current treatments for multiple sclerosis include
injectable drugs Bayer AG’s Betaseron,  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s
Avonex, Merck KGaA’s Rebif and Copaxone by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  More recent drugs to reach the market include
Tysabri by Biogen and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Gilenya, the first oral
treatment for the disease sold by  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   Steinman, who invented Tysabri, said the fatty acids tune
down the inflammatory pathways after the damage to the brain has
occurred, while Tysabri and Gilenya help block more harm from
happening. Both drugs also come with serious, rare side effects.  Tysabri faced safety questions after being approved by the
FDA in 2004. The treatment was suspended in 2005 after some
patients developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy,
or PML, an infection in the brain that usually leads to death or
severe disability. Tysabri returned to the market in 2006 with a
risk-management program for patients who didn’t benefit from
other medicines.  Gilenya Review  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  and European
Medicines Agency put new safety precautions on the use of
Gilenya after a three-month review touched off by the deaths of
15 patients. The regulators said patients with a history of
 heart disease  shouldn’t be given the medicine, which was
approved in 2010.  Steinman said the new approach with fatty acids may be
safer than Tysabri, which generated $1.1 billion in  sales  last
year.  Kate Niazi-Sai, a spokeswoman for Weston, Massachusetts-
based Biogen, said she couldn’t comment on the study findings.  “Any new, additional research is good for patients,” she
said in a June 4 telephone interview. “We all have the same
goal, which is to find a cure for the disease.”  Researchers in the study looked at the fatty acids in the
brains of patients with multiple sclerosis and found that those
with the disease have fewer fatty acids than those who are
healthy, which suggested that lipids serve as a natural anti-
inflammatory.  They injected fatty acid molecules into mice to test
whether high doses of lipids reduce inflammation and ease
symptoms, which they found.  Natural Class  “We hope that if we keep along this track we can help
develop drugs based on this to help patients with MS,” Steinman
said. “This could be a natural class of anti-inflammatory
compounds. Our bodies may have a lot of natural products that
are tremendously beneficial that can be mined and harvested into
new drugs.”  Stanford University has filed a patent with the researchers
as inventors, Steinman said.  The study was sponsored in part by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health, the Department of  Veterans Affairs  and the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  