-- Fed's Alix Says Bank Boards Must Step Up Risk Oversight
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-06T11:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fed-s-alix-says-bank-boards-must-step-up-risk-oversight.html
Bank boards must work more closely
with top management to ensure risk taking matches a lender’s
corporate strategy, said Michael Alix, senior vice president at
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  “The ultimate responsibility of the board is to oversee
management, and their ability to do that will depend on their
own skills and experiences, and their ability to ask the right
questions and to challenge management where they aren’t getting
good answers,” Alix said at an Institute of International
Finance conference in Copenhagen today. Boards must do more to
have a “clear understanding” of the risk their bank takes on,
he said.  Alix warned that “excessive” profits in a particular
business segment could be one signal to boards to take a closer
look at the risk their institutions are taking on. Speaking to
reporters after the panel, he declined to comment on how that
principle might have applied to JPMorgan Chase & Co., which last
month revealed a trading loss of more than $2 billion.  “I can’t comment on our supervisory response to an
individual institution,” he said.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, faces regulatory
scrutiny and even criminal probes after the trading losses at
its chief investment office. The unit’s drive to make bigger and
riskier bets with the bank’s money in recent years had been
backed by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon . He has since
called the positions that led to the loss “poorly monitored”
amid calls in Congress for tighter regulation.  ‘Open, Trusting’  Overall, U.S. financial supervisors are working more
closely with bank boards, particularly their risk and audit
committees, Alix said.  Closer cooperation between supervisors and boards of
directors could help prevent future financial shocks across the
banking system, according to Alix. That relationship should “be
an open and trusting one, as opposed to an adversarial one, and
I think there’s still more work to be done in that direction,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  