-- Fed Stimulus More Likely Than ECB, Merk Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-06T19:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fed-stimulus-more-likely-than-ecb-merk-says-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  is more likely to
provide additional stimulus than the  European Central Bank  after
ECB President Mario Draghi put pressure on political leaders to
address the region’s debt crisis, according Axel Merk, founder
and president of Merk Investments LLC.  ECB policy makers discussed cutting  interest rates  to a
record low today after leaving their target rate at 1 percent,
fueling expectations they will act as soon as next month as the
worsening debt crisis curbs economic growth. While the ECB
extended into next year its policy of lending banks as much
money as they want for periods of up to three months, Draghi
indicated another round of three-year loans is not imminent.  Draghi’s “not going to print much more money, so all eyes
are on another round of quantitative easing, and that is why the
market is moving,” Merk, of the  Palo Alto , California-based
firm, said in a Bloomberg television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. “Today’s rally isn’t a Draghi rally,
it’s a Bernanke rally,” he said, referring to Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke .  Bernanke said in April the Fed may ease further should
unemployment fail to make “sufficient progress towards its
longer-run normal level.” Since then, the  unemployment rate 
rose to 8.2 percent in May after the economy added the fewest
jobs in a year. A measure of  manufacturing  in the U.S. grew at a
slower pace last month, a report showed today, before the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June 19-20 to
consider whether more economic stimulus is needed.  “There is capacity to do more,” Fed Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said today in a speech in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida.  ‘Patching Up’  The dollar fell against all of its most-traded counterparts
excluding the yen today as investors bet Bernanke would signal a
third round of stimulus. The excess liquidity from asset
purchases may debase the U.S. currency while boosting higher-
yielding assets.  Draghi sees Europe as having adequate liquidity and is
putting pressure on Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel to figure out a political
solution to Europe’s debt crisis, Merk said. This sort of
incentive doesn’t exist in the U.S., where the financial system
is “patching up” problems instead of engaging in fiscal
reform, he said.  Cooperation across national banks will be key to fixing
Europe’s debt crisis, according to Merk. The Group of Seven
nations yesterday agreed to coordinate their response to
Europe’s turmoil, which has tipped at least eight of the 17
euro-area economies into recession and is threatening the global
economy.  “What differentiates Draghi from his predecessor, and
other central banks, is he makes it very clear that he’s going
to support the banking system, not the sovereigns,” Merk said,
referring to previous ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet. “If we
get this banking union, we’re finally going to be able to allow
sovereign defaults without crippling the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  