-- Fed Says Expansion Was ‘Moderate’ in May, Hiring Steady
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-06T21:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fed-says-expansion-was-moderate-in-may-with-steady-hiring.html
The  Federal Reserve  said today that
the U.S. economy maintained a moderate pace of growth as factory
output rose and the real-estate market improved.  “Overall economic activity expanded at a moderate pace”
from early April to late May, the Fed said in its Beige Book
business survey, which is based on reports from its 12 district
banks. “Hiring was steady or increased slightly.”  The report, which gives central bankers anecdotal evidence
on the health of the economy two weeks before they meet in
Washington, contrasts with recent data showing payrolls grew at
the slowest pace in a year in May and manufacturing cooled.
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that an
extension of the central bank’s Operation Twist program to
reduce borrowing costs is “on the table” following last week’s
payrolls figures.  The Beige Book “is clearly at odds with the hard data
we’ve been seeing,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S.
strategist at TD Securities in  New York . “We’ve seen a dramatic
slowdown in economic growth momentum that you’d think would be
reflected in a few, if not the majority, of districts.”  The leadership of the Fed will probably provide more
clarity on their views before the June 19-20 meeting. Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  will speak tonight in  Boston  about the
economic outlook, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will testify
before Congress tomorrow.  Prepared to Act  John Williams , president of the San Francisco Fed, said
today that policy makers should be prepared to step up stimulus
in case growth slows and threatens to delay improvement in the
labor market.  The Fed must “stand ready to do even more if needed to best
achieve our statutory goals of maximum employment and price
stability,” Williams said today in a speech in Bellevue,
Washington. If growth worsened or the inflation outlook fell
below the Fed’s goal of 2 percent, “additional monetary
accommodation would be warranted.”  U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes toward their
biggest gains this year, on speculation global policy makers
will act to revive a slowing economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 2.3 percent to 1,315.13 at the close of trading
in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed for
a third day, to 1.66 percent from 1.58 percent late yesterday.  Today’s  Beige Book  used language similar to the previous
report in April, which said the economy “continued to expand at
a modest to moderate pace” in all 12 Fed districts. That report
also said that “hiring was steady or showed a modest increase
across many districts.”  Survey of Economists  A Bloomberg News survey of economists shows the economy is
likely to weather slumping stocks, a slowdown in hiring and the
European debt crisis. The  S&P 500  is down 7.3 percent since its
2012 peak on April 2.  Gross domestic product will increase by 2.2 percent in 2012
and by 2.4 percent in 2013, the median of 70 economists surveyed
from June 1 to June 5 shows. The estimates are down 0.1
percentage point from those issued last month.  While the Beige Book said hiring was “steady,” a Labor
Department report last week showed that employers added 69,000
workers to payrolls in May, less than half the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists and down from 275,000 in
January.  “We’re getting a lot of conflicting information here, and
that usually means reality is somewhere in the middle,”  Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage”
with  Kathleen Hays .  Today’s Beige Book reflects information collected on or
before May 25 and summarized by the Dallas Fed.  Vehicle Sales  Manufacturing “continued to expand in most districts” and
vehicle sales “remained strong,” the Beige Book said. Most
districts reported gains in production or new orders, except for
Philadelphia, Richmond and  St. Louis .  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew at a slower pace in May as
factories tempered production and pared inventories in response
to weakness in the global economy, according to a report last
week from the  Institute for Supply Management .  The ISM’s factory index fell to 53.5 after reaching a 10-
month high of 54.8 in April, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
reported June 1. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Service Industries  Service industries  sustained their pace of growth in May,
showing the biggest part of the  U.S. economy  is withstanding the
impact of the European crisis, the Institute said in a separate
report yesterday. Their index of non-manufacturing businesses,
which covers about 90 percent of the economy, unexpectedly rose
to 53.7 last month from April’s 53.5.  “Retail spending was flat to modestly positive in nearly
all districts,” the Fed said today, and “demand for
nonfinancial services was generally stable to slightly stronger
since the previous report.”  Consumer spending  rose in April, according to a Commerce
Department report last week. Purchases increased 0.3 percent as
incomes rose 0.2 percent.  “We still see a consumer out there who is making some
tough choices,” Timothy A. Johnson, senior vice president of
finance at Columbus, Ohio-based retailed Big Lots Inc., said in
an earnings call yesterday. “He is concerned about where the
economy currently sits.”  The Fed said that “economic outlooks remain positive, but
contacts were slightly more guarded in their optimism.”
Manufacturers were concerned “that a slowdown in Europe and
domestic political uncertainty may affect future business
decisions.”  Housing Recovery  Several districts noted “consistent indications of
recovery in the single-family housing market, although the
recovery was characterized as fragile.”  The housing market, a laggard in the expansion, may be
reviving after a six-year slump in which  home prices , sales and
construction collapsed.  Starts through the first four months of this year were 24
percent higher than the comparable 2011 period, and home values
in 20 cities fell in the 12 months ended March at the slowest
pace in more than a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  