-- Fewer Recent High School Graduates Finding Full-Time Work
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-06T18:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fewer-recent-high-school-graduates-finding-full-time-work.html
Fewer than two in 10 recent high
school graduates in the U.S. have a full-time job, a survey
found, highlighting the difficulties young workers without a
college degree are facing as the economic expansion enters its
fourth year.  Among students who graduated in 2009 through 2011, 16
percent are employed full time compared with 37 percent for
those who earned a high school diploma from 2006 through 2008, a
study released by the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce
Development at  Rutgers University  showed.  The figures show the youngest, least-educated workers are
still  suffering  after the end of the last recession in June
2009. Pessimism is widespread among high school graduates today,
with 56 percent saying they will probably be less financially
successful than the previous generation, while 14 percent said
they will be more successful, the study said.  High school graduates earned a median $7.50 per hour, or 25
cents above the federal  minimum wage , in their first job, the
report found. Almost half of those without work have been
actively seeking work for more than six months, with 29 percent
reporting that they have been looking for a job for longer than
a year, according to the survey.  “With this combination of temporary, low-wage work, it is
likely that few of the recent high school graduates would have
been able to earn an annual income of $10,890 to exceed the
official federal poverty level for a single household,” Carl E.
Van Horn, Cliff Zukin, Mark Szeltner and Charley Stone wrote in
the study. “There is tremendous pessimism among high school
graduates about what the future holds for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  