-- Finland’s Katainen Says U.S. Worried About Europe Banks
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-06T23:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/finnish-leader-says-u-s-worried-about-europe-banks.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
concerned about the European banking industry, Finnish Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said after meeting the two U.S.
officials.  “They were very worried about what was going on,”
Katainen said in a Bloomberg News telephone interview yesterday.
Katainen said he discussed with Geithner and Bernanke the
options for recapitalizing banks in trouble.  European Union leaders, including European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso , have called for a banking union with more coordination
of regulation, as lawmakers seek to bolster confidence damaged
by debt turmoil. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  plans to report
on proposed “building blocks” for deeper integration in the
17-nation euro area at the next summit of EU leaders on June 28-
29 in Brussels.  “One of the issues which we talked most was how to deal
with the banking sector in  Spain  or in some other European
countries because we should avoid a new banking crisis,”
Katainen said. “This is an issue which we are considering right
now.”  Under new EU plans unveiled by  Michel Barnier , the 27-
nation bloc’s financial services chief, national governments
would impose annual levies on banks to ensure that a minimum
amount of money, a so-called resolution fund, is immediately
available to stabilize a crisis-hit lender. This would allow
regulators to buy time while other steps, such as creditor
writedowns, are enacted.  U.S.’s Statement  Earlier yesterday, the Treasury said in a written statement
that Katainen and Geithner “discussed the global economy,
including the  United States ’ economic recovery and the plans of
European leaders to reinforce the institutions of the euro
area.”  Treasury spokeswoman Kara Alaimo said she didn’t “have
anything” beyond the written statement, when asked about
Katainen’s remarks.  The Fed said in its April policy statement that “strains
in global financial markets” pose “significant downside
risks” to the U.S. economic outlook. In his April 25 press
conference Bernanke said that risks and uncertainties regarding
“the European situation” are one reason U.S. central bankers
are planning to hold their target interest rate near zero
through at least late 2014.  ‘Clear Picture’  “It’s such a difficult issue that I don’t have right now a
clear picture what should be done but it’s obviously an issue we
have to decide very soon,” Katainen said in reference to
European banks.  Katainen rejected the notion of joint debt sales as an
immediate solution to the worsening crisis. While the European
Commission has kept alive the debate over common borrowing by
euro-area governments, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
rejected euro-area debt sharing, telling members of her party
that “under no circumstances” would she agree to euro bonds.  “A euro bond would take a few years to implement because
there are lots of technical issues to solve and also
implementation of the euro bond procedure would take several
years, so euro bond is not a solution for this current crisis,”
Katainen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  