-- Fitch Tells Lawmakers to Back Off as Tougher Rules Loom
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-06T12:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fitch-tells-politicians-regulators-to-leave-rating-firms-alone.html
Politicians should limit discussion
of the merits of rating companies and scale back proposals for
further regulation of the industry if it’s to stay competitive,
said Fitch Ratings President  Paul Taylor .  “There are too many politicians talking about ratings from
my point of view at the moment,” Taylor said at a meeting of
the  Institute of International Finance  in Copenhagen today.
“There must be some advisers around that should be talking to
some politicians about being less vocal about ratings.”  Governments have started to criticize the role of raters as
downgrades executed in the middle of the euro area’s worst
crisis risk raising borrowing costs and hampering efforts to
restore stability. In  Denmark , which holds the rotating European
Union presidency, the government said last month it won backing
in the 27-member bloc to reduce the dominance of rating
companies in financial markets. Measures being considered
include giving investors and issuers better access to suing
raters, a prospect condemned by the industry itself.  Placing the burden of proof on the raters would
“completely blow up the system,” Taylor said in the question
and answer session following his prepared comments.  Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded seven German
banks and three lenders in  Austria  today, rejected concerns its
actions are exacerbating the crisis.  ‘More Pessimistic’  “Markets have a much more pessimistic view of risk than we
do,” Moody’s President Michel Madelain said today in
Copenhagen. To blame rating companies for being pro-cyclical
“goes beyond what is actually taking place,” he said.  The impact of ratings on markets is showing signs of
fading. The bonds and stocks of some of  Sweden ’s largest lenders
including Nordea Bank AB rose last month after being downgrade
by Moody’s. Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-largest bank, saw
its shares gain as much as 2 percent today after it was cut one
level by the rater.  Still, rating companies are needed to restore stability to
markets as record funding needs loom, Standard & Poor’s
President Douglas Peterson said. S&P estimates that more than
$46 trillion in funds will be needed through 2016 to help
refinance debt coming due and pay for infrastructure needed for
global growth.  Raters’ Role  “The rating agencies can play a role in ensuring that
there continues to be transparent information provided by those
securities in a way that is done under strict standards of
governance and control,” Peterson said. Relying on rating
companies will help provide “consistency,” he said.  Raters also reject political calls to tighten regulation of
the industry, Taylor said.  “We’re not really a financial institution,” he said.
“We’re more like a publishing house.” He urged the industry to
coordinate its actions globally and think more “holistically.”  “Is someone thinking about the totality of the regulations
that need to be put in place, and the eventual outcome of those
regulations?” Taylor said. “Who’s at the top of the global
pile?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  