-- Mortgage Settlement Monitor Asks for Consumer Feedback
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-06T20:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/foreclosure-settlement-with-banks-filed-in-federal-court.html
The court-appointed monitor of a $25
billion U.S. settlement with five banks over abusive foreclosure
practices said he’s hoping consumer advocates will let him know
if banks aren’t complying.  Joseph A. Smith Jr., who left his position as  North
Carolina ’s banking commissioner to take the monitoring job, said
he’s set up a  website  where housing counselors, bankruptcy
lawyers and other advocates can report problems.  “I am hopeful that we will get additional input in terms
of our review of the banks’ work from out in the field,” he
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Smith said he’s working on setting up uniform standards for
monitoring compliance at each bank, and has hired BDO
Consulting, a division of New York-based BDO USA LLP, to help.
He said he plans to hire additional outside consultants to track
each bank’s progress.  The settlement agreement, filed in federal court in
Washington in February, was reached after attorneys general from
all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure practices
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seize homes.  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- negotiated the
agreement with federal agencies, including the Justice
Department, and 49 states.  Borrower Relief  The banks have committed $20 billion in relief for
borrowers plus payments of $5 billion to states and the federal
government.  About $17 billion of the agreement will pay for mortgage
debt forgiveness, forbearance, short sales and other assistance
to homeowners. Servicers will also provide $3 billion in
refinancing to lower homeowners’ interest rates. The settlement
also sets new standards for servicing loans aimed at preventing
foreclosure abuses.  Smith said he expects to get reports on the banks’ consumer
relief efforts later this year. Progress reports on servicing
standards will come at the beginning of next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  