-- Hungary Default Swaps Fall Most in Month as Forint Gains on IMF
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-06T13:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/forint-gains-third-day-as-hungary-takes-steps-toward-aid-talks.html
The cost of protecting  Hungary ’s debt
against default fell the most in more than a month and the
forint gained as a vote was set for next week on central bank
law changes needed to start aid talks.  Hungary’s credit-default swaps fell 21 basis points to 609
basis points, the biggest decline since May 1. The forint
appreciated 0.9 percent to 299.95 per euro by 2:33 p.m. in
Budapest, strengthening for a third day.  The benchmark BUX
stock  index  rallied 1.7 percent, heading for the highest in more
than two weeks, as  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , Hungary’s biggest refiner, jumped
2.6 percent.  The vote on the central bank law, postponed from June 4 to
allow time for changes requested by the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union, is slated for parliament’s June 11-
13 session, according to an agenda posted on its website. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government, which requested the aid more
than six months ago, is willing to compromise on the law to help
start the talks, Nepszabadsag reported today, citing
unidentified government and ruling-party officials.  “If the central bank law completely met the international
organizations’ expectations, then the aid talks may even start
in the first half of the year,” Peter Karsai, a Budapest-based
trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  Data showing  Australia ’s economy grew at twice the rate
economists estimated improved global sentiment and lifted the
forint, Karsai added.  The government’s benchmark 10-year forint-denominated notes
advanced, cutting yields 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage
point, to 8.781 percent.  ‘More Conciliatory’  The government’s “more conciliatory” attitude on the IMF
and EU request to guarantee the central bank’s independence
showed a “breakthrough is now possible” in getting the bailout
talks started,  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based economist at
Barclays Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Hungary won’t “necessarily” need to sell foreign-currency
debt before obtaining a  credit line  from the IMF, Laszlo Andras
Borbely, deputy chief executive officer of the Debt Management
Agency, said in an online interview on news website portfolio.hu
today. Funding reserves and the structure of Hungary’s debt
maturities allow the government to delay a Eurobond sale until
the autumn, Borbely said.  The euro-denominated bonds maturing in 2019 sold in
Hungary’s last foreign-currency issuance May 2011 rallied,
cutting yields 17 basis points to 8.459 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  