-- Frazier’s Gym, Ellis Hospital Make 2012 Endangered Sites
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/frazier-s-gym-ellis-hospital-make-2012-endangered-sites.html
The gym where boxing champion  Joe Frazier  trained, the hospital at New York’s Ellis Island and
Martin Luther King Jr.’s childhood neighborhood made the
 National Trust for Historic Preservation ’s 2012 list of the Most
Endangered Historic Places.  Also on the list are  Theodore Roosevelt ’s Elkhorn Ranch in
Billings County, North Dakota, the landscape of which is being
threatened by a proposed road and bridge; and former Nation of
Islam leader Malcolm X’s boyhood home in Boston, which was built
in 1874.  Frazier’s gym in Philadelphia was selected partly because
the National Trust wants to encourage the preservation of all
types of historic sites beyond large buildings. The former
heavyweight champion died last year of  liver cancer .  “Joe Frazier was an iconic person during a very colorful
chapter in our history, and it’s a place that the people and
community of Philadelphia should think about protecting,”
Stephanie Meeks, the National Trust’s president, said by phone.  The  Sweet Auburn  district of Atlanta, where civil-rights
leader  Martin Luther King Jr . was born, was first listed in
1992. It was relisted this year to encourage the local community
to continue its restorative work.  “There has been excellent progress on the residential
areas, but the commercial districts are crying out for
revitalization,” Meeks said.  Ellis Island  The  Ellis Island  Hospital Complex was also relisted after
its designation in 1992. The hospital’s 29 buildings, located on
the south side of Ellis Island, have been abandoned since 1954.
The hospital’s administration building has been restored, and
work continues on the contagious-disease wards, according to
 Save Ellis Island Inc. , which is helping the U.S. National Park
Service raise money for the project.  The Ellis Island hospital provided medical care to
immigrants who couldn’t enter the U.S. because they were sick,
mentally ill or pregnant.  Since 1988, the Washington-based National Trust has listed
for preservation 242 buildings, sites, neighborhoods and
structures considered “historic treasures.” Anyone can
nominate a site to the endangered list.  The public attention the list receives can give a boost to
a restoration project.  “In the past 25 years, only 10 of the 242 buildings have
been lost, so we’ve had a good track record,” Meeks said.  Zoar Village  The Trust also listed the  Princeton Battlefield  State Park in
 New Jersey , where  George Washington  surprised and defeated
British soldiers in 1777 during the U.S. Revolution. A housing
development proposed for part of the site would alter the
landscape.  The National Trust’s list of endangered sites includes
several U.S. Post Office buildings and the  village of Zoar , in
northeast  Ohio , which was founded by religious separatists in
1817 and is being threatened by the removal of a levee.  Other at-risk sites are Terminal Island at the Port of  Los
Angeles , the site of the forced removal of about 3,000 Japanese
residents in 1942; more than 240 deteriorating courthouses in
 Texas  and a number of “ Rustic  Style” bridges in California’s
Yosemite National Park that are in danger of being removed.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 