-- Freeport’s Indonesian Workers Threaten Strike Action
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E k o   L i s t y o r i n i
-- 2012-06-06T01:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/freeport-s-indonesian-workers-threaten-strike-action-correct-.html
(Corrects name of Ramdani Sirait in fourth paragraph in
the story published yesterday.)  Workers at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  threatened to return to
strike as tensions grow following the dismissal of three union
members this month, a union official said.  “There’s discrimination against workers who participated
in last year’s strike that is creating a lot of problems and the
sacking of three of our members is making it worse,” union
spokesman Juli Parorrongan said today by phone from Timika, near
the mine in Indonesia’s Papua province. “We are in talks with
the management. Hopefully we’ll reach an agreement within two
weeks otherwise I can’t rule out another strike.”  Freeport halted production at Grasberg, which has the
world’s largest recoverable copper reserves, for more than two
weeks in February and March after violence flared following a
three-month strike last year over pay that hurt global supply
and boosted copper prices. Disruptions at Grasberg cut first-
quarter output by 80 million pounds (36,287 metric tons) and
125,000 ounces of gold, Freeport said in April.  Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman for Freeport,
said yesterday management isn’t aware of any strike plan this
month, while acknowledging tensions between employees who took
part in the strike and those who didn’t.  “The dialog between the two parties is taking place to try
and solve the problem,” Sirait said in an interview in Jakarta
yesterday.  The company set up a crisis management unit to deal with
the labor dispute, said Sirait. He declined to say whether
shipments from Grasberg have returned to normal after production
resumed in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  