-- French Nuclear Watchdog Says Orders Won at Too-Low Prices
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-06-06T15:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/french-nuclear-watchdog-says-orders-won-at-too-low-prices.html
Nuclear-reactor makers are offering
prices too low to cover costs to win orders abroad in a strategy
that puts earnings at risk, the head of the industry’s watchdog
in  France  said.  “Export contracts for nuclear plants are being obtained at
pure dumping-level prices,” Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the
 Autorite de Surete Nucleaire  regulator, said today at a
conference organized by L’Usine Nouvelle magazine in Paris.  “Prices accepted by vendors and obtained by buyers are
unsustainable,” Lacoste said. “There aren’t many tenders,
which is why competitors are ripping each other off. It’s
already a serious matter, and we need to make sure that there’s
no dumping on safety on top of that.”  Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest provider of nuclear equipment
and services, has booked more than 2.8 billion euros ($3.5
billion) of costs since 2005 because of delays and cost overruns
at an atomic plant it’s building in Finland. The Paris-based
company and  General Electric Co. (GE)  were beaten in 2009 on a four-
reactor order in the United Arab Emirates by  Korea Electric
Power Corp. (KEP)  in the Seoul-based company’s first export contract.  “We’re not doing dumping” on prices, Tarik Choho, vice-
chief commercial officer at Areva, said in an interview at the
conference. “We may be making errors on estimates when we’re
doing something for the first time abroad, and we can be
surprised by reactions of the nuclear regulator or the supply
chain.”  Areva is preparing bids or in talks to sell reactors in
countries including China, India, the U.K., the Czech Republic
and Poland. In Finland, Areva faces GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy,
Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  in a  tender  next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  