-- Fungi Gone Awry in Gut May Contribute to Intestinal Diseases
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-06-06T18:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/fungi-gone-awry-in-gut-may-contribute-to-intestinal-diseases.html
The intestinal  tract , home to 100
trillion bacteria, also hosts a bevy of fungi that may
contribute to inflammatory bowel ailments like Crohn’s disease
and colitis, a study suggests.  Researchers at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los Angeles 
found 200 different types of fungi in the guts of mice, half of
which they couldn’t name, according to a report in the journal
 Science . They also uncovered a genetic variation in a protein
called Dectin-1 that helps white blood cells recognize and kill
fungi. Mice with the variation had more inflammation.  Future research may yield similar results in people, said
David Underhill, director of  Cedars-Sinai Medical Center ’s
graduate program in biomedical science and translational
medicine. The researchers suggested the fungi may also play a
role in ulcerative colitis, a disease marked by ulcers in the
lining of the large intestine. Patients with a variant in the
Dectin-1 gene had more severe disease, the study found.  “We can speculate wildly about whether immunity to the
fungi in the gut, or altered immunity to fungi in the gut, is
playing a role in the severity of the disease,” Underhill said
in a telephone interview. “Further studies are required to
determine in humans if that’s the case.”  The research shows the gene is important for controlling
inflammation in animals like mice, said Underhill, the paper’s
lead author. It may take years to figure out if it’s really a
defective version of the gene of if something else is going on.  “We have recently developed a rich and growing
understanding of how the immune system interacts with bacteria
in the gut,” Underhill said. “This study will encourage folks
to consider as well how the immune system is interacting with
the fungal community in the gut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  