-- Heating Oil Gains on Speculation ECB May Act to Stem Debt Crisis
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-06T19:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/gasoline-gains-on-speculation-ecb-may-act-to-stem-debt-crisis.html
Heating oil rose the most in almost
eight weeks after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said officials stand ready to act as the growth outlook for the
euro region worsens.  Heating oil, traded as a substitute for diesel, gained 1.5
percent after Draghi said the bank is “monitoring all
developments,” as the economy faces “increased downside
risks.” The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent.  “There’s chatter that Europe will try to do something to
address the crisis even though the ECB left rates unchanged,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut.  July-delivery heating oil rose 3.81 cents to settle at
$2.6717 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the
largest gain since April 12.  Gasoline for July delivery advanced 0.56 cent to settle at
$2.6903 a gallon.  Draghi was speaking to reporters today in  Frankfurt  as the
ECB faced pressure to help contain a crisis that could result in
Greece exiting the euro and that has threatened the region’s
economy and fuel demand.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve ’s policy-making committee
meets June 19-20 to discuss whether more stimulus for America’s
economy is needed. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said
today that an extension of the central bank’s Operation Twist
program to reduce borrowing costs is “on the table” following
data that showed job growth in May was the weakest in a year.  Stimulus Talk  “It’s talk of more stimulus coming that is boosting the
market today,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels
analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Prices also advanced as  Brent crude  rose after  Iran  vowed
never to suspend  uranium enrichment , raising concern about a
supply disruption because of conflict over its nuclear program.  Brent crude for July settlement gained $1.80 to $100.64 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Higher
Brent prices can raise the cost of gasoline imported from Europe
and oil from West Africa that’s refined in the U.S.  “Products still seem to take their cues from Brent,”
McGillian said.  Iran accused the United Nations nuclear inspectorate of
spying, casting doubt on whether a deal allowing wider atomic
inspections is possible.  Iran, the No. 2 producer in the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries , says its nuclear program is peaceful.
Russia will host the next round of nuclear talks between Iran
and the so-called 5+1 countries -- the five permanent members of
the  United Nations Security Council  and Germany -- in Moscow on
June 18-19.  Heating Up  “It seems the situation with Iran is heating up again and
there’s concern there would be further conflict that would cut
off supplies,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “People just don’t want to be
short in that situation.”  The Energy Department reported that gasoline inventories
rose for the first time in 16 weeks and demand fell last week.
Gasoline  supplies  rose 3.35 million barrels last week to 203.5
million, according to department data. Inventories previously
shrank 14 percent in 15 weeks to the lowest level since November
2008.  Demand fell 3.2 percent to 8.65 million barrels a day, and
over the past four weeks was 4 percent below a year earlier.
 Total product supplied  slipped 0.5 percent last week to 18.2
million barrels a day, the lowest level in nine weeks.  Refinery Rates  Refinery utilization rates rose to the highest level since
July 2010, up 2.1 percentage points to 91 percent. Gasoline
production slipped 1.1 percent while distillate output increased
1.3 percent to the highest level since Jan. 6.  “Contrary to it being summer, what’s pushing fundamentals
around is distillates,” Cohan said. “The story is distillate
export demand, which is still over 1 million barrels.”  Distillate exports  totaled 1.07 million barrels a day last
week, 59 percent above year-earlier levels.  Inventories diesel and heating oil rose for the first time
in nine weeks, gaining 2.25 million barrels to 120 million.
Demand slid 12 percent to 3.38 million barrels a day, an 11-week
low. Consumption over the past four weeks was 5 percent below a
year earlier.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.5
cent to $3.565 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest price since Feb. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  