-- GE Plans to Double Asia Oil, Gas Business, Grow Floating LNG
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-06-06T09:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ge-plans-to-double-asian-oil-gas-business-expand-floating-lng.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is seeking to
double its oil and gas business in Asia in three to five years,
driven by about $40 billion in projects in Indonesia, Vietnam
and  Malaysia , two of its senior executives in the region said.  “This is where we see a lot of dynamism in the future,”
Visal Leng, general manager of GE’s oil and gas division in
Asia, said in an interview today in Kuala Lumpur, where he’s
attending a natural-gas industry conference.  GE, whose technology is used to cool gas to liquid, is
seeking contracts to supply floating LNG ventures, designed to
tap reserves too small or too far from coasts to be profitably
developed through onshore plants, Kenji Uenishi, president of
GE’s energy unit in  Asia , said in the same interview.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company is focusing on
international markets and plans to boost sales outside the U.S.
to 65 percent of total industrial revenue by 2020 from 59
percent, the company said in a March presentation. GE has said
it projects that revenue in resource-rich nations such as
 Australia  will rise as much as 25 percent a year through 2016.  Potential exists to supply a floating LNG project approved
by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. following a 2011 agreement
to supply technology to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Prelude project
off Australia, Uenishi said. Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas,
has decided to build its first floating LNG venture and targets
exports in 2015, it said June 4.  GE said today it won a $150 million contract to supply
technology to Petronas to add 3.6 million metric tons of
capacity a year to an LNG project at Bintulu in the country’s
Sarawak region.  “I don’t see any slowdown in demand for gas in Asia,”
Uenishi said. “But it’s getting more difficult, technically
challenging, to develop” oil and gas fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  