-- Geithner Hosts U.S. Bailout Reunion With Predecessor Paulson
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-06-06T00:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/geithner-hosts-u-s-bailout-reunion-with-predecessor-paulson.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who’s been prodding Europeans to get on top of their
banking crisis, hosted a dinner for key players in Wall Street’s
2008 bailout, including his predecessor Henry Paulson and
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  Former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  and Neel Kashkari, the
first administrator of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program, also were among the June 4 reunion’s attendees. A
Treasury official, asking not to be identified, confirmed the
event and said Geithner has long wanted to acknowledge the
former officials’ public service.  The meal, described as the government’s standard chicken or
salmon and vegetables, was served in a conference room at the
Treasury, said two attendees who billed the event as social and
not focused on policy. Geithner and Paulson made brief remarks
to the group of about 20, the attendees said.  Paulson aides who helped craft the bailout programs also
were at the dinner, including David Nason, who is now at GE
Capital Corp.; David McCormick, now with hedge-fund manager
Bridgewater Associates LP; James Lambright, who works in
renewable energy in  California ; and Kevin Fromer, now at HSBC
Holdings Plc. Kashkari is now head of global equities at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  Geithner, who took over as Treasury chief in January 2009,
was president of the New York Fed when TARP was enacted under
the Bush administration, working closely with Paulson and
Bernanke. The three, along with Kashkari and Paulson’s
spokeswoman, Michele Davis, who also attended the reunion, were
lionized in the book and HBO movie “Too Big to Fail.”  Banks, Automakers  Timothy Massad, the current overseer of the TARP program,
was at the dinner along with former Geithner Treasury aides Lee
Sachs and Matthew Kabaker, both of whom played roles in the
bailout for the Obama administration, according to the
attendees.  Because the event was private, guests declined to discuss
it publicly.  “I’m not going to talk about it,” said Kohn, reached by
phone at the  Brookings Institution , where he is now a senior
fellow. Other attendees either couldn’t be reached or like Kohn,
said they couldn’t comment.  The Treasury under Paulson drew on TARP money to inject
capital into banks, taking an equity stake in return. The
government has also used the funds to rescue insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC and to support programs for helping consumers
with mortgages.  The Treasury estimates taxpayers will make a $20 billion
profit from the bank portion of TARP. Most of that gain comes
from funds repaid by firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  All together, TARP is
projected to lose about $60 billion, Treasury officials said in
a press briefing in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 