-- Geithner Said to Seek U.S. Bankers’ Dodd-Frank Objections
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/geithner-said-to-seek-u-s-bankers-dodd-frank-objections.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has challenged bankers to give him specifics on their
longstanding complaint that the Dodd-Frank Act is imposing
costly, confusing and burdensome regulations on them, according
to four people familiar with the matter.  The  Federal Advisory Council , a group of bank executives
from each of the 12 Federal Reserve districts, complained to
Geithner at a May 10 meeting about overlapping and duplicative
rules, according to the people. Geithner urged the bankers to
prepare a study with examples of regulatory burden, said the
people, who are preparing the report.  Geithner offered to use his ability to reach across
agencies to better coordinate and streamline rules if he found
the report convincing, according to the people, who asked not to
be identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
study. The complaints include the handling of so-called stress
tests of banks’ ability to weather a crisis,  capital
requirements  and restrictions on mortgage servicing.  “It’s a helpful step,” said Joe Engelhard, senior vice
president of Washington-based investment advisory firm Capital
Alpha Partners LLC and a former Treasury official. Dodd-Frank is
“overly complicated and excessive in certain areas, but I like
what Geithner is saying of identifying where it is overly
complicated and we’ll work on that.”  Treasury Spokesman  Treasury spokesman  Anthony Coley  declined to comment on the
May 10 meeting or the report.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act ushered in the most sweeping
overhaul of financial rules since the 1930s in a bid to prevent
a repeat of the crisis that prompted taxpayer-funded bailouts of
firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Bankers have complained that Dodd-Frank will crimp credit
while slowing economic growth and job creation. U.S. Bancorp
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis  said in an April 17
earnings call the “big majority” of Dodd-Frank for the company 
will involve paperwork transactions and managing details.  The act imposes nearly 400 new rule-making requirements on
regulators, of which 110 have been finalized and 144 have been
proposed, according to a June 1 report from law firm Davis Polk
& Wardwell LLP, which advises many of the world’s largest
financial institutions.  Increased Regulation  “The quantity and quality of regulation has been increased
so dramatically that it makes it difficult to do business in the
financial services area, and a lot of those huge costs are going
to be passed on to consumers,” said Tom Vartanian, a
Washington-based partner at the law firm Dechert LLP. “The
question is, ‘Where’s the balance?”’  Wayne Abernathy , executive vice president of the  American
Bankers Association  and former Treasury assistant secretary,
said he welcomed Geithner’s proposal.  “I don’t blame them at all with their response of ‘Show us
the facts,”’ he said. “That’s a response we should embrace.”  Among the members of the Federal Advisory Council are
Joseph Hooley, chief executive officer of Boston-based  State
Street Corp. (STT) ;  Vikram Pandit , CEO of Citigroup in New York; James Rohr, chairman and CEO of PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh; and U.S. Bancorp’s Davis.  Bank Shares  The KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks shares of 24 financial
institutions, has dropped 9.3 percent since July 21, 2010, the
day Dodd-Frank was signed into law, compared with a 20 percent
gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index.  U.S. economic growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in
the first quarter, and employers added 69,000 workers in May,
the fewest in a year. The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent
last month from 8.1 percent in April.  Bank executives held a conference call on May 29 to solicit
assistance on the white paper from other institutions and trade
groups, including the Clearing House Association. The bankers
plan to deliver the report to the Treasury by the end of this
month, according to the people preparing it.  Bankers are seeking to persuade Geithner to use his
position as chairman of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council to encourage greater coordination among the agencies
that enforce Dodd-Frank.  The oversight council’s 10 voting members include Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ; Comptroller of the Currency
 Thomas Curry ; Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Acting
Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg.  Mortgage Lending  “If you took mortgage lending, you have anywhere from six
to seven federal, state agencies involved in the creation of new
rules or servicing standards,” said Vartanian, who has
represented banks including Capital One Financial Corp. and Bank
of America. “There is substantive overlap in terms of the
requirements of regulations and jurisdictional overlap in terms
of how many agencies you have to deal with.”  The Fed, OCC, FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau all have authority over mortgage servicing standards, for
example. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  is also reviewing
mortgage servicing standards for the government-sponsored
enterprises. The  Justice Department  and the 50 state attorneys
general are requiring the largest banks to implement mortgage
servicing underwriting procedures as part of an industry
settlement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  