-- German Industrial Output Fell More Than Forecast in April
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/german-industrial-output-declined-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
German  industrial output  fell more
than economists forecast in April, adding to signs that growth
in  Europe ’s largest economy is slowing as the sovereign debt
crisis curbs demand.  Production declined 2.2 percent from March, when it rose a
revised 2.2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a drop of 1 percent, the median of 37
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  shows. In the year,
production fell 0.7 percent when adjusted for working days.  “The growing momentum in the euro-area crisis is hurting
confidence,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “We are moving toward another period of
contraction in the German industrial sector. We are back where
we started last autumn.”  Germany  helped the euro area avoid recession in the first
quarter by posting growth of 0.5 percent, driven by exports to
countries outside the currency bloc. Since then, business and
investor sentiment has retreated as  Spain ’s banking woes and the
possibility of  Greece  exiting the euro damp the economic
outlook. German factory orders dropped 1.9 percent in April, the
Economy Ministry said yesterday.  Construction output fell 6 percent from March, when it
surged 26 percent, today’s report showed. Production of
investment goods such as machines declined 3.6 percent, while
energy output advanced 2.4 percent. The ministry revised the
gain in March industrial production down from 2.8 percent.  ‘Very Robust’  April’s decline was a correction after the March increase,
and a public holiday on May 1 also damped output as many workers
took April 30 off, the ministry said. “Industrial production
remains very robust,” it said.  German exports rose 1.7 percent in the first quarter as
companies tapped faster-growing markets outside the euro area.
Still, factory orders from outside the 17 nation currency bloc
fell 4.7 percent in April, yesterday’s report showed.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s head of sales and marketing
in Germany, Karsten Engel, told reporters on May 31 that
Germany’s car market won’t grow in 2012 as the debt crisis
weighs on  consumer spending .  The European Commission predicts German economic growth of
0.7 percent this year compared with a 0.3 percent contraction
for the euro area as a whole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  