-- German Stocks Rise as ECB Extends Refinancing
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-06T15:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/german-stocks-gain-before-ecb-rate-decision.html
German stocks  advanced the most in
seven weeks as the  European Central Bank  extended its short-term
refinancing facility and said officials stand ready to act as
the euro-area’s economic outlook worsens.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Germany’s largest airline, gained
2.6 percent after a report said its catering business may
receive acquisition interest.  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , the
German maker of machines for the solar industry, fell 1 percent
to 5.57 euros.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 2.1 percent to 6,093.99 at the close in
Frankfurt, after ECB President  Mario Draghi  refrained from
cutting the benchmark interest rate or announcing a fresh round
of three-year loans. The DAX has still tumbled 15 percent from
its 2012 high on March 16 on growing concern that Greece may be
forced to leave the euro currency union. The broader HDAX Index
climbed 2.2 percent.  “Markets are fixated on the ECB’s response to dealing with
the market environment,” said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of
research at Charles Stanley & Co. in London. “There has also
been speculation of further unconventional policy measures from
the  Federal Reserve .”  Draghi said officials will extend their offerings of
unlimited cash until the start of 2013 for periods of up to
three months.  “We have decided to continue our main refinancing at fixed
rate, full allotment for as long as necessary” and at least
until January, Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt today.  Debt Sharing Plan  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic
advisers is reworking proposals on debt sharing in the euro
region in a bid to address government concerns over the plan,
said council member Lars Feld.  “I see some movement in the government” favorable to the
council’s proposal for a European redemption fund since the
proposed amendments were aired, said Feld, a professor of
economics at Freiburg University. The five-member council,
backed by opposition parties, is now canvassing government
ministries on the proposals for the fund, he said.  The ECB today left its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent. Draghi also said today that the economy faces
“increased downside risks.”  The Group of Seven nations yesterday agreed to coordinate
their response to the euro-area crisis.  Germany sold 3.98 billion euros of five-year government
notes at a yield of 0.41 percent, the lowest on record, the
Bundesbank said today. The government received bids for 6.2
billion euros, compared with a maximum sales target of 5 billion
euros.  Manufacturing Slides  A report showed German  industrial output  fell more than
economists forecast in April. Production declined 2.2 percent
from March, when it rose a revised 2.2 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast a drop of 1 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  gained 2.6 percent to 8.27 euros. Do
& Co Restaurants & Catering AG may look at Lufthansa’s catering
unit LSG Sky Chefs if it’s invited, Austrian daily  Der Standard 
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Attila Dogudan.  HeidelbergCement, which derives almost a  fourth of its
revenue  from North America, rose 4.8 percent to 33.92 euros.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  advanced 4.4 percent to 38.18 euros.  Centrotherm Photovoltaics fell 1 percent to 5.57 euros,
after  Deutsche Boerse  said the stock will be removed from the
TecDax Index, to be replaced by Cancom, an IT services provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  