-- Google Pushes Back at Apple, Adds Features to Mobile Maps
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/google-pushes-back-against-apple-adding-features-to-mobile-maps.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is upgrading mapping
services to woo users and swipe back at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which is
nudging aside the location tools on its own mobile devices.  Apple plans to unveil a mapping application next week that
will come pre-installed on its iPhones and iPad tablets,
replacing Google Maps, said a person with knowledge of the
matter who isn’t authorized to speak publicly about it.  Google, whose mapping app has been on the iPhone since its
unveiling in 2007, today announced a feature that gives users
access to maps even when they’re offline. The feature initially
is only available on devices using Google’s Android software.  “I’m very proud of Google Maps services and they’re
available basically on all devices today,” Brian McClendon,
vice president of engineering for  Google Maps , said at an event
today in  San Francisco . “We’ll continue to make Google Maps
services as widely available as possible.”  Google and Apple have increasingly clashed as the two
companies compete for users of mobile devices and related
services, such as music and movies. Google’s Android operating
system has emerged as the most widely used smartphone software,
and will command 61 percent of the market this year, while
Apple’s iOS will rank second, with 20.5 percent this year,
according to IDC.  With the new mapping option, users can select a portion of
a map when the device is online that can later be used when the
device is no longer connected to the Web, Rita Chen, product
manager for Google Maps for Mobile, said today at the event.  Street View Upgrades  The company offered the service as an experimental feature
for Android last year.  “This has been one of the most requested features, and is
coming soon,” Chen said.  McClendon said an Apple version of the service could be
added in the future.  Google also  announced  improvements for Street View, which
features photos of roads and byways around the world.  The company, which has mainly relied on people in autos to
capture the images, said today that it will incorporate images
taken with other devices. Google photographers will begin using
backpack-like machines to take pictures of more obscure places -
- say, castles or ancient ruins.  In another upgrade, Google said it added more detail to the
satellite images that are part of its Earth for Mobile tools.
The service will give more nuanced and accurate images for
places as varied as highways and baseball parks.  Map services are part of Google’s effort to widen its lead
as the largest U.S. provider of online mapping. Google had 75.1
million map users in April, up 29 percent from a year earlier.
That put it ahead of MapQuest, which had a 7 percent decline,
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing, which had 8.59 million, a 10 percent
gain, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Google generates sales of
advertisements that appear on map-search results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ; or
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  