-- Green Mountain Shows One-Cup Brew Never Cheaper: Real M&A
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-06T20:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/green-mountain-shows-one-cup-brew-never-cheaper-real-m-a.html
Single-serve coffee has never been
more affordable.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , the maker of Keurig
one-cup brewing machines and coffee pods, has tumbled 71 percent
in the past year amid slowing sales growth, inquiries into
accounting practices and criticism from hedge fund manager  David Einhorn . Its  price-earnings ratio , which at last year’s peak was
six times more expensive than the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
fell to 11.2 on June 1, the lowest since the company went public
in 1993, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Green Mountain is now cheaper than the benchmark gauge for
U.S. stocks and traded last week at the steepest discount to
 Starbucks (SBUX)  Corp. in almost eight years. While the $3.6 billion
brewer’s overestimation of K-cup sales led to a second-quarter
revenue disappointment that wiped out 48 percent of its market
value in one day, analysts are still  projecting  net income will
rise 79 percent this year. The Waterbury, Vermont-based
company’s profitability and depressed valuation may now be
enough to lure private-equity bids, said Detwiler Fenton & Co.  “ Green Mountain  is the undisputed leader in the U.S. in
single-serve coffee,” Marc Riddick, an analyst at Williams
Capital Group LP in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s certainly a lot less expensive than it was a year or so
ago. If you want to participate in that marketplace in the U.S.,
then yes, it would be attractive.”  Board Turmoil  Today, Green Mountain rose 6.9 percent to $24.52, the
largest gain in almost a month. It was also the fifth-biggest
advance in the  S&P Midcap 400 Index. (MID)   “We don’t comment on speculation,” Suzanne DuLong, a
spokeswoman for Green Mountain, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are focused on continuing to capitalize on our leadership
position in the single serve market and believe we are well-
placed to deliver growth and new innovation that will drive
value creation for our shareholders.”  Green Mountain has faced turmoil within its  board  of
directors as founder Robert P. Stiller on May 8 was stripped of
his chairmanship after he violated company policy when he sold
stock to meet a margin call. On May 24, director Douglas N. Daft
resigned from the board for personal reasons.  Einhorn, the founder of Greenlight Capital Inc., has
criticized the company about its lack of transparency and
“litany of accounting questions” and said the market for its
single-cup brewers is limited. Jonathan Doorley, a spokesman for
Greenlight Capital, said yesterday that Einhorn declined to
comment further.  Valuation Discount  Green Mountain is also the subject of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation, first disclosed in September
2010, according to regulatory filings. Two months later, the
company restated earnings dating back to 2007.  The issues led to a  79 percent drop  in Green Mountain’s
shares since its market capitalization reached $17.1 billion in
September. The decline was the second steepest in the  Russell
1000 Index (RIY)  through yesterday.  At its peak last year, Green Mountain had an earnings
multiple of 81.5, six times higher than the S&P 500 and three
times more expensive than Seattle-based Starbucks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Green Mountain’s price-earnings ratio closed at a record
low of 11.2 on June 1, less than the  S&P 500’s valuation  of 12.9
times profit and Starbucks at 30.7, the data show.  Shares of Green Mountain closed at $22.95 yesterday,
valuing the company at 11.4 times earnings.  Leveraged Buyout  A leveraged buyout is “definitely possible” if a private-
equity firm thinks Green Mountain’s valuation is reaching its
bottom, Jim Sanderson, a Boston-based analyst at Detwiler
Fenton, said in a phone interview.  While Green Mountain’s second-quarter  revenue  of $885.1
million trailed analysts’ estimates for $971.7 million as K-cup
sales fell short, an acquirer would still be getting a company
that’s projected to grow faster than U.S. equities on average.  Green Mountain’s  revenue  this fiscal year, which ends in
September, is expected to increase 46 percent to $3.9 billion,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. While
that’s a slowdown from last year’s gain of 95 percent, it would
be more than 8 times the average estimated rate of 5.3 percent
for the  S&P 500 , the data show.  The coffee brewer is also projected to post record  net
income  of $527.8 million in fiscal 2013 as its profit margin
expands to an all-time annual high of 10.2 percent, analysts’
estimates show.  Coffee Leader  “The growth numbers have made people very interested,”
said Riddick of Williams Capital. “The biggest, most attractive
thing about the company is the fact that U.S. consumers are very
happy with them.”  Still, “you’re not talking about a stable marketplace”
because the single-serve coffee industry is still changing
rapidly, Riddick said.  A buyer of Green Mountain would gain the leader in the U.S.
single-serve coffee market and the fourth-largest company in the
coffee production industry, which is worth about $7 billion
annually in the U.S., according to researcher IBISWorld Inc.  There are as many as  12.2 million  Keurig machines in use,
accounting for almost 14 percent of all U.S. households with a
coffee maker or brewer, Green Mountain Chief Executive Officer
Lawrence J. Blanford said last month. A potential acquirer would
also get access to the company’s deals to sell Starbucks,
 Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  and  Caribou Coffee Co. (CBOU)  branded K-Cups
portion packs.  Patent Expirations  Buyout firms would be interested “because Green Mountain
is the perfect type of company that you hold for a couple of
years,” Rick Munarriz, a Miami-based analyst at the Motley
Fool, said in a phone interview. “It’s definitely an attractive
acquisition target.”  Still, Green Mountain’s profitability may decline as
competition increases when its main patents for K-Cups expire in
September, said  Mark Astrachan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in New York, who advises selling the shares. Closely held
Rogers Family Co. and Esio Beverage Co. are already starting to
compete.  “You’re going to see earnings be further pressured,”
Astrachan said. “There’s a ton of discounting going on right
now with K-Cups. You’re going to see pricing come down even in
advance of the patent expirations.”  Green Mountain’s negative free cash flow of $143 million in
the last 12 months may also deter private-equity firms from
making a bid, according to Sachin Shah, a  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based special situations and merger arbitrage strategist
at Tullett Prebon Plc. Financial suitors need cash to help pay
down debt assumed in a buyout, he said.  ‘Dicey Situation’  “It’s a dicey situation,” Shah said in a phone interview.
Right now, buyers “don’t know all the facts.”  Another company in the industry may eventually be
interested in acquiring Green Mountain after the accounting
concerns are cleared up and management improves its ability to
accurately  forecast  growth, Shah said.  “As a public company, it has been a disaster in the past
few months,” the Motley Fool’s Munarriz said. Some investors
“want Green Mountain hitched at this point because it’s not
working too good as a bachelor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 