-- Greek Tax Collections Decline Ahead of Election: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-06-06T11:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/greek-tax-collections-decline-ahead-of-election-euro-credit.html
The prolonged campaign season is
worsening  Greece ’s chronic difficulties with tax evasion that
has helped wreak havoc on the country’s finances.  Greece, which Bank of America Merrill Lynch says may run
out of money in early July, fell short of revenue goals by 495
million euros ($615 million) in the first four months of 2012,
according to the  Finance Ministry . Tax collections dropped 20
percent during the first 20 days of May from the same year-
earlier period, Kathimerini newspaper reported May 25, without
saying where it got the information.  After the June 17 election, the so-called troika -- the
European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  -- will “almost certainly find that Greece has
slipped far behind targets in May and June,”  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank, said in an e-mail. “If
Greece gets a cooperative government, the troika will likely
recalibrate the program for Greece to take account of the new
starting position for the new government.”  Greece is preparing for its second national election in six
weeks, a vote that may determine whether the country stays in
the 17-nation euro. The inconclusive May 6 ballot showed gains
for parties, led by Syriza, that oppose terms of the country’s
bailouts from the European Union and the IMF.  The  Athens Stock Exchange (ASE)  index has fallen 25 percent since
May 6 and the  euro  has weakened 4.2 percent against the dollar.
The yield on its 2 percent bond due in 2023 was down 174 basis
points at 28.81 percent at 2:10 p.m. today  Athens  time.  Election Effect  Tax evasion increases by an average 0.2 percent of annual
gross domestic product in periods around Greek elections, as the
bureaucracy that relies heavily on day-to-day control by
politicians slows and tax collectors perform fewer audits,
according to a study published last year by Spyros Skouras and
Nicos Christodoulakis, a former finance minister, from the
Athens University of Economics and Business. The study looked at
13 elections between 1974 and 2009.  “I don’t think anything has changed in essence in how the
public sector works in the last two years,” Skouras said in an
interview. “People respond to incentives, and when they know
the likelihood of being punished for  tax evasion  is low, they
will evade more.”  The European Financial Stability Facility confirmed May 9
that a total of 5.2 billion euros will be released to Greece by
the end of June. Of that, Greece received 4.2 billion euros last
month to repay funds to the ECB. The remaining 1 billion euros
is to be paid depending on the country’s financing needs.  National Duty  Even if a government emerges from Greece’s parliamentary
elections on June 17, its first challenge will be fixing the
damage caused by the campaign.  Since last month’s appointment, Greece’s caretaker Finance
Minister Giorgios Zanias has held meetings with the heads of tax
offices to urge them to step up collection.  “It is a national duty to pay taxes,” he told reporters
on May 21 after a visit to the offices of the financial crimes
squad in Athens. Revenue collection would be his top priority as
finance minister, he said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  caused an outcry in
Greece after she said in an interview with  London ’s Guardian
newspaper that many in the country were “trying to escape tax
all the time.”  The specter of a return of the drachma may be dissuading
some debtors from paying taxes in euros that they might be able
to pay in drachma if they wait, according to Skouras.  Deficit Targets  Under the country’s bailout program, it has to reduce its
 budget deficit  to 7.3 percent of GDP this year from 9.3 percent
in 2011, and cut its primary deficit, which excludes interest
payments, to 1 percent from 2.4 percent. Greece sparked  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis in 2009 after saying its deficit was
bigger than previously thought, reaching a euro region record of
15.8 percent of GDP that year.  While revenue collection was behind estimates before May,
the central government beat the overall deficit target for the
period by 1.9 billion euros, which bodes well for its ability to
recover from revenue slippages, according to  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  Chief Economist Platon Monokroussos.  “Unless we have a significantly quicker pace of GDP
contraction in 2012 or prolonged political uncertainty following
the elections, effectively an inability of the political parties
to create a new government, then I think this slippage can to a
good degree be covered in the second half of the year,”
Monokroussos said.  While combating tax evasion represents the most pressing
problem in realizing the country’s budget targets, in the long-
run the country needs to return to growth for revenues to
recover, according to Yannos Papantoniou, a former finance
minister from the socialist Pasok party.  “The problem is not easily solvable,” he said. “It will
represent one of the major challenges for the government that
will emerge after the June 17 elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  