-- GVK Seeks $3.5 Billion From Venture: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-06-06T23:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/gvk-seeks-3-5-billion-from-rinehart-venture-corporate-india.html
(Corrects Rinehart’s wealth ranking in first paragraph.)  India ’s GVK Group will raise $3.5
billion by December selling stakes in a unit and coal assets
jointly held by  Asia ’s richest woman  Gina Rinehart .  The builder of highways, airports and  power plants  expects
$1.2 billion for a stake in its Australian mines and a similar
amount from its rail and port projects in Queensland state, said
G.V. Sanjay Reddy, vice chairman of  GVK Power & Infrastructure
Ltd. (GVKP) , the group’s publicly traded unit. The sale of part of its
unit that owns 79 percent of these assets may fetch a further
$1 billion, he said.  “We’re in advanced stages of discussion with investors and
plan to close the deals well before December,” Reddy said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’ll bring in minority
investors at a significant premium.”  Billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy, the chairman of GVK, is
raising debt and equity to meet a $10 billion expenditure plan
to develop three mines, and build a rail road and a port after
purchasing some coal assets from Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting
Pty. last year. GVK is among Indian electricity producers
securing resources in countries including  Australia  and
 Indonesia  to counter a domestic shortage of the fuel.  GVK agreed in September to pay $1.26 billion for the 79
percent stake in the Alpha and Alpha West projects of Hancock
Prospecting, all of Kevin’s Corner project as well as the 495-
kilometer (308-mile) rail line and the port project at Abbot
Point. Reddy expects to tie up borrowings of about $7 billion by
December to fund the development.  Halting Review  GVK Coal Developers ( Singapore ) Pte. is the unit that owns
the majority stake, while Rinehart owns the remaining 21
percent. She is ranked the 29th richest person in the world, and
the richest woman in Asia, with a net worth of $18.6 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  A delay in environmental approvals by Australia’s federal
government may impede GVK’s plans, said Vibhor Singhal, an
analyst at MF Global Equities Research in Mumbai. Authorities in
Canberra halted a review of the project this week on concern
unchecked development of ports will damage the Great Barrier
Reef.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  sent a letter to the state
government of Queensland, saying the conditional approval
granted by the state on May 29 “put at risk community and
business confidence,” the  Press Trust of India  reported
yesterday.  No Issues  The  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization  said in a June 1 report that the 3,000-kilometer
marine park, which flanks the coast of Queensland, may be
endangered within a year without better protection. It urged
blocking new ports, saying the scale of development poses
“serious concerns.”  “The intervention might delay the project, but it’s not
unusual,” Singhal said. “The government will do its bit to
ensure the environment isn’t harmed.”  The Indian group, based in the southern city of Hyderabad,
has provided all information about the coal mine project to win
an environmental approval. “We don’t foresee any issues,”
Reddy said, adding he expects to get the mining lease and all
environmental clearances for the projects by September.  Share Slump  Shares of GVK Power & Infrastructure jumped 6 percent
yesterday, the most in seven weeks, after Reddy said the
authorities had granted permits to build the rail line from
Galilee Basin, where the mines are located, to Abbot Point.  Still, the  stock  is approaching a record low reached on
Dec. 16 on concern rising debt at the group will weigh on the
shares. GVK has slumped 37 percent from this year’s high and
traded at 12.45 rupees yesterday in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The publicly traded company has the option of raising its
ownership of GVK Coal Developers to 49 percent from 10 percent.  “The biggest concern is its stretched balance sheet,
leading to  interest costs ,” MF Global’s Singhal said. “The
Australian acquisition is also an overhang on the stock.”  GVK Power’s  loss  in the quarter ended March 31 widened 44
percent to 208.8 million rupees ($3.8 million) from the previous
three months, while interest payments more than tripled to 1.7
billion rupees from a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  GVK Power plans to add 5,000 megawatts of power generation
capacity to the current 915 megawatts, according to its  website ,
which doesn’t elaborate on a timeline. The company aims to
secure coal from overseas to run its planned 1,860 megawatts of
coal-fired generation projects in the northern state of Punjab.  Scouring Overseas  At full capacity, the Australian mines may produce 84
million metric tons of coal annually, GVK said in September.
Production is scheduled to start in 2014 at a rate of 30 million
tons of power-station coal a year, the company said.  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) ,  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  have
bought coal assets in Australia and Indonesia to secure supplies
as the state monopoly Coal India Ltd. grapples with slowing
production at its mines in India.  “Having invested in generation capacities, these companies
have little choice but to go overseas,” Deven Choksey, managing
director at Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.,
said by telephone from Mumbai. “I don’t see India’s coal output
meeting the country’s demand for some years to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  