-- I’ll Have Another Jockey Knew Horse Was Special After First Ride
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/i-ll-have-another-jockey-knew-horse-was-special-after-first-ride.html
Mario Gutierrez has ridden thousands
of horses in 11 years as a jockey. None impressed him as quickly
as the unfamiliar chestnut colt that trainer Doug O’Neill
invited him to work out this year at  Hollywood Park  in
 California .  “I did not know at the time that it was I’ll Have Another,
but right afterwards I said, ‘Oh my God, this is an unbelievable
horse,”’ Gutierrez said yesterday in an interview at the Empire
State Building in midtown  Manhattan .  In the four months since that first ride, the 25-year-old
jockey and the 3-year-old colt have won the  Kentucky Derby  and
Preakness Stakes, the first two legs of thoroughbred racing’s
Triple Crown. Gutierrez will be in the saddle on June 9 at the
Belmont Stakes in Elmont, New York, when I’ll Have Another tries
to become the 12th horse to complete the sport’s most
prestigious accomplishment, and the first since Affirmed in
1978.  I’ll Have Another is the favorite at 3-2 to win the 11-
horse race, followed by Dullahan at 7-2 and Union Rags at 4-1,
according to online oddsmaker  Bovada.lv . Bodemeister, who
finished second in both the  Kentucky  Derby and  Preakness Stakes ,
isn’t entered in the 1 1/2-mile Belmont.  Gutierrez earned $202,500 for winning the first two legs of
the Triple Crown, 10 percent of the horse’s overall take, and
will make an additional $60,000 should I’ll Have Another
complete the Triple Crown sweep. In his career, the jockey’s
purse earnings total over $12.7 million, according to the  Daily
Racing Forum .  Special Horse  Since Affirmed’s victory, which came a decade before
Gutierrez was born, 11 horses have won the Triple Crown’s first
two legs before losing at Belmont Park. Gutierrez said it takes
a very specific type of horse to have success in the longest
race in the series.  “It’s such a difficult race, that’s why nobody has done it
for 34 years,” Gutierrez said. “I don’t see a reason why not
us. I believe so much in this horse, it has so much potential.”  The jockey credits his success atop I’ll Have Another to
the horse fulfilling that potential and what he calls an
indescribable connection he said he feels with many of his
mounts.  “I can communicate with them,” Gutierrez said. “A lot of
people may think I’m crazy saying that, but I just feel a
connection with the horses.”  This year’s racing season has been a series of firsts for
Gutierrez, who grew up racing in Veracruz,  Mexico , before moving
to Western Canada when he was 19. He had never raced at
Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, before preparing to
ride I’ll Have Another there at the Kentucky Derby last month;
had never ridden at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore prior to
the week of the Preakness; and is yet to lead a horse onto the
track at Belmont Park.  Lengthy Preparation  O’Neill said that Gutierrez will have a number of mounts at
the track leading up to Saturday’s race, including the 1 1/2-
mile Brooklyn Handicap on June 8.  “The race starts at the spot the Belmont does, and I think
it will be a great help to Mario to get that under his belt,”
O’Neill told reporters on June 2 following the horse’s first
workout after arriving in Elmont.  In the weeks after winning the Kentucky Derby, Gutierrez
threw out the first pitch at a Los Angeles Dodgers game,
attended a Los Angeles Lakers basketball playoff game and
conducted dozens of interviews in English and Spanish. After
winning the Preakness, he travelled back to his “second home”
in  Canada  for a relaxing week with friends away from the
spotlight.  Two Homes  “I’m always going to be a Mexican, there’s no doubt about
it in my heart,” Gutierrez said in his first formal event since
landing in New York on June 4. “ Vancouver  will always be my
second home. Thanks to them I finally got the opportunity to
give my family a better life, a better living.”  At both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness, I’ll Have
Another waited until after the final turn to take the lead.
Gutierrez said the strategy won’t change this weekend in the
longest leg.  “I’ll Have Another will race his race,” the jockey said.
“We’re going to go out there and we’re going to fight for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  