-- I’ll Have Another Installed as Favorite to Win Triple Crown
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-06T16:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/i-ll-have-another-installed-as-4-5-favorite-to-win-triple-crown.html
I’ll Have Another was installed as
the 4-5 morning-line favorite to win the Belmont Stakes and
become thoroughbred racing’s first Triple Crown champion since
1978.  I’ll Have Another, trained by Doug O’Neill, won the
 Kentucky Derby  and the  Preakness Stakes , the first two legs of
the racing trio. The 3-year-old colt would become the first
Triple Crown winner since Affirmed if he wins the 1 1/2-mile
race at Belmont Park in Elmont,  New York , on June 9.  I’ll Have Another will start from the 11th post position in
the 12-horse field. The colt won from the 19th post in the Derby
and the ninth gate in the Preakness.  “It’s been an unbelievable ride,” O’Neill said after the
post draw. “He’s doing great, gallops great, energy is good,
appetite is strong and his coat continues to shine. I can’t ask
him to come in any better.”  O’Neill said the 11th post position gives jockey Mario
Guttierez a chance to see where the other horses are during the
race. In previous races, I’ll Have Another has laid back until
the colt neared the stretch before making the move to victory.  “If they’re not going real fast, we’re going to try to be
the fifth to go wire-to-wire,” O’Neill said when told four
other Triple Crown winners shot out and held on to the lead
until the finish.  Dullahan, the third-place runner in the Derby last month,
was the second favorite, starting from the fifth gate with 5-1
odds, and Union Rags, seventh place finisher in the Derby, will
leave from the third post position with 6-1 odds.  Strong Challenge  “Any horse is going to have to run the race of his life to
beat I’ll Have Another,” said Chad Brown, who trains Street
Life, a 12-1 entry leaving from gate No. 1.  D. Wayne Lukas, who is seeking his fifth Belmont Stakes win
with sixth-place Preakness finisher Optimizer, returned to
Belmont today with stitches in his left forehead for a large
horseshoe-shaped cut. The 76-year-old trainer was injured
yesterday when one of his horses reared and came down with a
hoof on his head.  “I got a severe headache,” said Lukas, whose horse was
given 20-1 odds from the 10th post position in the Belmont.
“It’s not a stretch to run this horse.”  Big Brown was the last Triple Crown contender in 2008 and
came in last on a hot day at Belmont Park. Affirmed was the most
recent Triple Crown champion in 1978.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  