-- Mickelson’s Complaint Won’t Change Tour’s On-Course Phone Policy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-06T18:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/mickelson-s-complaint-won-t-change-tour-s-on-course-phone-policy.html
U.S. PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said the world’s top golf circuit is committed to its
mobile-phone policy after  Phil Mickelson  and other players
complained about excessive use during last week’s Memorial
Tournament in Ohio.  Mickelson left the Jack Nicklaus-hosted event following the
first round after texting Finchem from the sixth fairway during
play to complain about the lack of control of phone use by fans,
said T.R. Reinman, a spokesman for the player, confirming an
Associated Press report.  “It’s in the past for Phil,” Reinman said in a telephone
interview. He declined further comment and said Mickelson
wouldn’t address the issue any more. Mickelson had cited
exhaustion in announcing his withdrawal. Finchem refused to say
whether he spoke with Mickelson.  Rickie Fowler , who played with Mickelson and Masters
Tournament champion  Bubba Watson  in the opening round at
Memorial in Dublin,  Ohio , said the mobile-phone use that day was
the “worst I’ve seen.”  Finchem still said the tour has no plans to abandon its
policy of allowing fans to bring phones into tournaments.
Guidelines limit the use of phones to designated areas and
prohibit photos or videos being taken during play. At the
Memorial, fans weren’t following the rules and marshals weren’t
actively policing the crowd, the commissioner said today.  “We’re committed to making it work,” Finchem said in an
interview while playing in a pro-am round at the Champions
Tour’s Tradition event in Birmingham, Alabama. “If we get to a
point where we don’t have an acceptable competitive environment,
we’ll do whatever we need to do, but I don’t see that
happening.”  Popular Players  The issue seems to become more apparent when a group
includes several marquee players, such as Mickelson, a four-time
major winner, and Fowler and Watson, who partnered with fellow
 PGA Tour  player  Ben Crane  in a popular 2011 “Golf Boys” video,
Finchem said.  After testing mobile-phone use by fans at five events in
2010, the PGA Tour began allowing fans to bring them to
tournaments in 2011. Phones must be on vibrate or silent in
designated areas.  “We know, by virtue of the fact that we don’t get many
ringers, that the vast majority of fans will use good
etiquette,” Finchem said. “We have to be aggressive to some
extent when the policy is violated.”  With fans using their phones to access statistics and keep
in touch with players through social media, Finchem, said the
benefits of allowing the devices on the course are too great to
ignore.  Fans’ Help  “It is incumbent upon the fans to help us out here so we
can maintain this policy and make the experience very
positive,” he said. “Being able to keep their phones with them
is part of that.”  Not all tournaments share that enthusiasm for mobile-phone
use. The  Masters Tournament , golf’s first of four majors, bans
phones as does the  U.S. Open , which will be played next week at
the Olympic Club in  San Francisco .  Mickelson has five runner-up finishes at the U.S. Open to
go with his three Masters wins and the 2005  PGA Championship .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  