-- Microsoft Loses Round on Google's Motorola Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-06T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/microsoft-loses-round-on-google-s-motorola-patent-case.html
Microsoft Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit are headed to a trial in a dispute over
royalty rates on the Xbox gaming system and Windows products,
after a judge refused to end the case in Microsoft’s favor.  The dispute revolves around patents owned by Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility that are used in standards that
all electronics, including the Microsoft products, follow for
WiFi and video coding technology.  U.S. District Judge James Robart in  Seattle  declined today
to find that Motorola Mobility breached obligations to license
those patents to Microsoft on fair terms, saying the issue must
be resolved at a November trial. Microsoft is also seeking to
prevent Motorola Mobility from winning a ban on sales or U.S.
imports of the Xbox.  “While the court will not at this time set forth a legal
standard with respect to Motorola’s duty to offer its patents in
good faith, it is likely that any analysis of Motorola’s duty
will involve, at least in part, an examination of the intent
behind Motorola’s offers,” the judge ruled.  Robart rejected the handset maker’s claim that Microsoft
lost the right to complain by filing suit instead of responding
to early royalty demands. At this stage in the case, he said,
Microsoft hasn’t proven Motorola Mobility acted dishonestly in
making its demands.  Added Royalties  Motorola Mobility sent letters to Microsoft with what it
said was a standard demand for a 2.25 percent royalty on the end
price of products that use the inventions, including the Xbox
and Windows products. Microsoft contends that would add as much
as $4 billion in annual royalties, a figure Motorola Mobility
disputes.  “Motorola Mobility has acted in good faith and we will
prove that at trial,” spokeswoman  Jennifer Erickson  said in an
e-mail. “We are pleased that the court is holding Microsoft to
its word -- to license our essential patents just as the vast
majority of the industry has done.”  Microsoft’s entertainment unit that includes Xbox sales
generated $8.9 billion in revenue last year, and the Windows
unit garnered $19 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The Redmond, Washington-based company is trying to prevent
the U.S. International Trade Commission from blocking imports of
the Xbox from  Asia , where it is built.  An ITC judge in April said the Xbox infringed four Motorola
Mobility patents, including three related to industry standards.
The commission is scheduled to announce June 25 whether it will
review the infringement finding, and any exclusion order would
be announced in August.  Patent Leverage  “This case is about Motorola breaking its promise to make
its standard essential patents available on reasonable terms and
putting the price and availability of consumer technology in
jeopardy,” Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said
in a statement. “Today’s decision underscores that Motorola
made a promise to the industry which it now must keep, and we
look forward to the November trial to determine the appropriate
licensing royalty.”  Motorola Mobility, which became a Google unit last month,
said that Microsoft refuses to pay royalties on the standard
patents. Motorola Mobility has sued the software maker in the
U.S. and  Europe .  Robart has prevented Motorola Mobility from taking action
to ban sales of Microsoft products in  Germany . Motorola Mobility
officials had no immediate comment on today’s decision.  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition.  The U.S. case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the District of  Washington 
(Seattle). The ITC case is In the Matter of Gaming and
Entertainment Consoles, 337-752, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  