-- Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of a Big Gulp
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/life-liberty-and-the-pursuit-of-a-big-gulp.html
The basic case against New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s  latest crusade , to outlaw the sale of extra-
large sugared soft drinks, is Libertarianism 101: In a free
country, people should have the right to do what they want, even
if it’s bad for them.  The major exceptions and complications to this basic
principle don’t seem to apply. Unlike secondhand smoke, my
consumption of a Pepsi does no direct harm to anyone else.
Unlike marijuana, sugary drinks have a perfectly adequate and
legal substitute: sugar-free drinks. (Even if you can tell the
difference between Coke and  Diet Coke , you can’t claim that the
difference is very large.) And unlike a regulated pharmaceutical
drug, a single dose of Coca-Cola won’t kill you.  Furthermore, there are less intrusive alternatives to an
outright ban: You could require more prominent labeling of all
soft drinks with their calorie counts and let people decide for
themselves. Or you could apply the rule only to children.  The basic case  in favor  of Bloomberg’s proposal is in some
ways even more compelling: Bloomberg is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News’s parent, Bloomberg LP, and therefore my
boss. In all likelihood, therefore, he is right about soft
drinks and sugar, just as he is right about almost everything.
(And even that “almost” is only there as a sop to my dignity.)  As if that weren’t enough -- which, of course, it is --
there are other important factors arguing in favor of Bloomberg.
We have a serious obesity epidemic, especially among children,
and desperate times call for desperate measures, not for
philosophical niceties.  Another consideration: The law,  as currently proposed ,
would be comically easy to evade. It wouldn’t apply to sugary
drinks bought in supermarkets, rather than restaurants and
entertainment venues; or to sugary drinks made with (at least 51
percent!) milk, such as a Starbucks Frappuccino or a milkshake;
or to large amounts of soda purchased in separate containers.  A law with so many easy ways to get around it almost surely
won’t be effective. I’m not sure whether this goes into the
“good” column or the “bad” one. You can argue it both ways.  With so many loopholes, a law like this is no real threat
to our liberty to guzzle flavored sugar water. Nevertheless, it
sends a powerful message of social disapproval. So that’s good.
On the other hand, it’s not a very persuasive argument to defend
a restriction of liberty on the grounds that it won’t really
work. So that’s bad.  Soda Scofflaws  One final consideration: It’s not quite true that your bad
habit of guzzling sugary soft drinks has no effect on me. Under
the national health-care reform law, insurance companies must
accept all comers. They cannot discriminate against you simply
because you have terrible dietary habits and are almost sure to
develop complications such as diabetes as you guzzle your way
through life. Thanks to worthless bums like you, my insurance
rates will be higher. So this is one in favor of the mayor.  A few months ago I went to dinner at a steakhouse in  New
York  specializing in huge hunks of aged beef that violate every
precept of healthy eating. Let’s not even discuss the fries or
the desserts. Because the restaurant is part of a chain, it is
required, under one of Bloomberg’s other mandates, to indicate
the calorie count for each dish on the menu.  It was a revelation. A hamburger turns out to have 1,800
calories! I’ve been off beef pretty much ever since.  So nannying does work. It has worked as well in the case of
banning cigarette smoking in public spaces. I was initially
opposed to this, on libertarian grounds. The secondhand smoke
argument seemed far-fetched in an outdoor open space like a
public plaza, and the intention seemed clearly just to
stigmatize smoking in general, in order to get people to quit
(or not to start) for their own sake.  But  the results  have been so dramatic that my libertarian
instincts have been overwhelmed. During the 1990s, about 70
percent of high school students said they had tried smoking a
cigarette. By 2009 the percentage was down to less than half.
Regular users peaked at 36 percent in 1997 and were below 20
percent by 2009. Frequent users went from 12 percent in 1991 to
7 percent in 2009. Thousands of lives have been saved.  In the end, whether you support Bloomberg’s crusade or
oppose it depends on how you weigh the various factors.
 Libertarian absolutists  will have no problem rejecting all the
above considerations, most of which are pretty trivial, and
concluding that freedom is freedom. At the  other extreme , health
policy types (many of them authoritarian in habits of thought)
will have no problem saying that sugary drinks are bad for you
and therefore you shouldn’t be allowed to guzzle them in excess,
especially if you are a child or young person.  Finally, there are those primarily concerned with keeping
their jobs. These people feel that even if Mike Bloomberg
happens to be wrong in this particular case, he is so
overwhelmingly right about everything else that he deserves a
pass on this one.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed may be completely wrong, but they are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on why  Germany’s
consideration of a deeper economic  union is too late and
 medical-device taxes ;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth of election
mandates ; Michael Kinsley on  banning Big Gulps ;  Susan Antilla  on
 workplace discrimination ;  Caroline Baum  on  the nascent economic
recovery ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan’s current account ; Anders
Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 