-- LightSquared Lenderes Say It Can Use Cash on Their Terms
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-06T15:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lightsquared-lenderes-say-it-can-use-cash-on-their-terms.html
A group of LightSquared Inc.’s
lenders said the company can use their cash collateral to
operate in bankruptcy if it agrees to their terms, which include
a budget and a 90-day limit.  The bankrupt maker of wireless broadband technology backed
by  Philip Falcone  has been in dispute with the lenders since the
outset of its Chapter 11 case. Lenders said in court papers
filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  New York  that they
still object to the company’s use of their cash collateral, but
will agree to it on certain terms.  If LightSquared rejects their terms, the company “may not
use the LP Lenders’ cash collateral because the debtors have not
and cannot satisfy their evidentiary burden of demonstrating
that the LP Lenders’ interest in their cash collateral is
adequately protected,” the group wrote.  The group of lenders, which owns $1.1 billion of the
company’s secured debt at its “LP” unit, includes Capital
Research & Management Co., Appaloosa Management LP and Fortress
Investment Group LLC. The so-called ad-hoc group also demanded
that any use of cash be classified as a debtor-in-possession
loan, meaning that the group will then have a higher-priority to
be repaid than other lenders.  Priority Liens  The priority liens would apply to all assets of the
company’s LP unit, as well as LightSquared’s “Inc.” unit,
which has borrowed $322.3 million from other lenders through
agent U.S. Bank NA.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in May permitted the
company to use $15 million of cash the company said didn’t have
claims from its lenders, which LightSquared said should last it
until the first week of July.  The lender group said in its proposed restrictions on cash
use that without limits such as a budget, there is not enough
evidence that the company won’t waste its assets, because
LightSquared still needs approval from the  Federal
Communications Commission  to move forward with its plan to offer
wireless broadband and have a viable business.  Even if it gets that approval, the company will “still
have to raise billions of dollars in financing, build out or
lease a terrestrial network and then sign up enough customers
(or embark on some other business plan, which would entail its
own costs, risks and delay) before they could generate
sufficient income,” the lenders said.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy May 14, saying it will
seek a resolution with U.S. regulators who thwarted the
company’s plan to deliver high-speed wireless to as many as
260 million people over concerns that it interferes with GPS
networks.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , listed assets of
$4.48 billion and debt of $2.29 billion as of Feb. 29 in its
Chapter 11 filing. The filing followed intense negotiations with
creditors, who had requested that Falcone step aside.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 