-- Import Ban Too Strong as Patent Case Remedy, FTC Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-07T18:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/import-ban-too-strong-as-patent-case-remedy-u-s-ftc-say.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s bid to block imports of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox gaming system and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
based on patents owned by its Motorola Mobility unit may hurt
competition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said.  Weighing in on cases before another U.S. agency, the
International Trade Commission, the FTC said in filings
yesterday that companies should be limited in their ability to
win orders blocking imports of competitors’ products over the
use of patents built into industrywide standards.  Motorola Mobility is citing its standard-essential patents
to persuade the ITC to stop imports of Apple and Microsoft
devices made in  Asia . The ITC is gathering comments on whether
such an import ban would be in the public interest. Final
decisions in the cases are scheduled for August.  “We are concerned that it might be hindering innovation,”
FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in an interview with Bloomberg
Government yesterday in  Washington .  An import ban on the iPhone would affect sales of a product
that generated $47 billion in sales last year, or 43 percent of
Apple’s revenue. Microsoft’s  entertainment division , which
includes sales of the Xbox, generated $8.9 billion in global
sales in fiscal 2011, about 13 percent of Microsoft’s revenue.  Patent Disputes  The FTC’s position would limit the power of companies like
Motorola Mobility, Samsung Electronics Co. and  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) 
to use the international trade agency as a forum in patent
disputes. Each company has asserted patents that cover aspects
of industry standards they helped establish.  Companies participating in standard-setting groups pledge
to license patents that cover aspects of the standards on
“reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms. Such patents should
be treated differently than other patents, Leibowitz said.
Patents convey the power to exclude others from using an
invention.  “A royalty negotiation that occurs under threat of an
exclusion order may be weighted heavily in favor of the patentee
in a way that is in tension with the  RAND  commitment,” the FTC
wrote.  The result could be royalty rates that would lead to higher
prices for consumers and less participation in standard-setting
groups, the agency said. It suggested the ITC refrain from
imposing an import ban or delay imposition until both sides
mediate in good faith.  Good-Faith Talks  Google, in filings with European and U.S. regulators in
February, said it wouldn’t seek to block the use of standard-
essential patents as long as good-faith licensing talks are
under way. Motorola Mobility said it “would welcome having
Apple and Microsoft join the more than 50 other companies” who
have licensed the company’s portfolio.  “To date, however, neither party has been willing to enter
into a cross-license on reasonable terms and thus we all find
ourselves in seemingly endless litigation,” Motorola Mobility
said in an e-mailed statement.  An ITC judge in April said Microsoft’s Xbox infringes four
Motorola Mobility patents, including three related to industry
standards covering Wi-Fi technology and video decoding. Another
judge said Apple’s iPhone and iPad tablet computer infringed a
patent related to 3G technology.  ‘Growing Chorus’  “The FTC joins a growing chorus of regulators from around
the world who recognize the danger posed by companies who try to
use standard-essential patents to block the sale of products,”
 David Howard , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition. Samsung also is being
probed by the EU. Huawei Technologies Co. filed a complaint over
royalty demands by InterDigital over third-generation technology
on mobile phones.  There’s no clear definition of fair and reasonable, said
Andrew Updegrove, a lawyer with Gesmer Updegrove in  Boston  who
advises standards boards.  “If people knew what RAND meant, there’d be a lot less to
argue about,” Updegrove said. “What the big patent owners want
to do is retain complete flexibility of negotiation.”  The  Business Software Alliance , a trade group whose members
include Apple and Microsoft, and computer maker  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  also filed comments saying there shouldn’t be an import ban.  Android Challenge  Motorola Mobility filed its ITC case against Cupertino,
California-based Apple after the iPhone maker challenged other
makers of phones running on Google’s Android operating system.  The dispute over Xbox began after Microsoft approached
Motorola Mobility and demanded patent royalties on smartphones
that run on Android. Motorola Mobility responded by claiming it
was entitled to royalties on the Xbox.  Motorola Mobility sent letters to Microsoft with what it
said was a standard demand for a 2.25 percent royalty on the end
price of products that use the inventions, including the Xbox
and Windows products. Microsoft contends that would add up to as
much as $4 billion in annual royalties, a figure Motorola
Mobility disputes.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, filed a lawsuit
accusing Motorola Mobility of breaching its contractual
obligations.  Company Pledges  Apple and Microsoft have pledged that they wouldn’t use
their own standard-essential patents to block products.  “We think it’s an abuse of the patent system to use an
essential patent to block the import and sale of a competitor’s
product, and Apple has never used standards-essential patents in
that way,” Apple said in February. Kristin Huguet, an Apple
spokeswoman, said the company stood by that statement.  The ITC has more than a dozen pending cases involving
smartphones and tablet computers, and lawsuits have spanned four
continents with Apple and Microsoft going against makers of
Android devices. Most don’t involve standard-essential patents.  The case against Microsoft is In the Matter of Gaming and
Entertainment Consoles, 337-752 and the case against Apple is In
the Matter of Wireless Communication Devices, 337-745. Both are
at the U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 