-- LinkedIn Confirms Some User Passwords Were Compromised
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-06-06T20:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/linkedin-is-looking-into-unconfirmed-reports-of-stolen-passwords.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , owner of the world’s
biggest professional-networking website, confirmed reports that
some user passwords were compromised in a security breach.  The  Mountain View , California-based company apologized to
customers in a  blog post  and said that members will know if
their accounts were affected because their passwords will no
longer be valid.  “We take the security of our members very seriously,” the
company said. The service has more than 160 million users.  LinkedIn said on its Twitter Inc. micro-blogging  site 
earlier today that it was investigating reports of stolen
passwords. The company cites security issues as a risk for
investors in regulatory filings, and disclosed as recently as
last month that it has experienced website disruptions and
outages for reasons including “denial of service or fraud or
security attacks.”  Future disruptions were possible, according to the May 7
filing. Breaches demonstrate a need for U.S. legislation to help
safeguard data, a member of Congress said.  “How many times is this going to happen before Congress
finally wakes up and takes action?” said U.S. Representative
 Mary Bono Mack , a California Republican who heads a House Energy
and Commerce subcommittee that has looked at online-privacy
issues, in a statement. “This latest incident once again brings
into sharp focus the need to pass data protection legislation.”  LinkedIn sent its first Twitter message, or tweet, this
morning telling users that it was looking into the issue and
followed up at about 11:20 a.m.  New York  time, saying nothing
was confirmed. A spokeswoman, Erin O’Harra, said LinkedIn would
continue to update users on Twitter.  Password Tips  LinkedIn advised users never to change passwords by
following an e-mail link, as “those links might be compromised
and redirect you to the wrong place.” The company’s website has
a “Settings” page where changes can be made.  “In order for passwords to be effective, you should update
your online account passwords every few months or at least once
a quarter,” the company said on Twitter, while listing tips on
password creation.  While the company didn’t mention any specific attacks in
its regulatory filings, Reuters reported in May 2011 that the
website had “security flaws” that made accounts vulnerable to
hackers, citing a security researcher who identified the
problem.  LinkedIn  rose  less than 1 percent to $93.08 at the close in
New York, after earlier falling as much as 1.5 percent. The
stock has more than doubled since the company’s initial public
offering in May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  