-- Lira Heads for Longest Winning Streak in a Month; Bonds Gain
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-06T13:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lira-heads-for-longest-winning-streak-in-a-month-bonds-gain.html
The lira strengthened for a fourth
day, the longest winning streak since May 1, after policy makers
in leading economies said they will collaborate to respond to
 Europe ’s crisis, bolstering demand for riskier assets.  The lira advanced 0.4 percent to 1.8388 per dollar at 4:43
p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.20 percent,
extending the lowest level since March.  Group of Seven officials will work together to help Spain
and Greece place public finances on a sustainable footing,
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters yesterday
after a conference call between finance ministers and central
bank governors of the G-7. European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as the euro region’s
growth outlook worsens. Atlanta Federal Reserve President  Dennis
Lockhart  said that extending the central bank’s Operation Twist
stimulus program is an “option on the table.”  “All risky assets are having a good ride at the moment,”
Esther Law, the London-based director of emerging-markets
strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by phone. “Turkish
investors in general are just moving in line with global risk
appetite.”  Emerging-market stocks rose, driving a benchmark  index  to a
second day of gains. The ECB today left its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent as the debt crisis tightens its grip on the
euro-area economy, increasing pressure on policy makers to
deliver further stimulus. Draghi said that the euro region
economy faces “increased downside risks.”  Bonds advanced as investors bet the Turkish central bank’s
pledge to defend the lira will slow inflation, Law said.  “This feeds through to the bond market, particularly the
long end, as defending the currency is good for inflation,” Law
said. “People see the central bank’s active defense as a
reassurance especially given the uncertainty we still have ahead
in terms of growth and the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  