-- Why Can’t Anyone Explain This Economy?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hiring-hiccup-sets-off-alarms-in-lousy-recovery.html
What went wrong? The  U.S. economy 
seemed to have finally reached a cruising altitude, albeit a low
one, almost three years after the end of the  2007-2009
recession . Growth was hardly strong at 2 percent, and monthly
payroll increases of 250,000 during the winter were nothing to
get excited about. Still, the idea that the U.S. economy might
finally be able to walk on its own got tripped up by anemic job
growth of 69,000 in May.  The usual suspects -- unseasonal weather, faulty seasonal-
adjustment factors,  Europe ’s financial crisis, the year-end
fiscal cliff and that staple, uncertainty -- showed up on cue to
explain why the early-year momentum in the labor market was
petering out once again, as it had in 2010 and 2011. None was
satisfying.  Economies are buffeted by external events all the time.
Financial markets react; often they overreact. I’m reminded of
this every time I get together with friends from other
professions and trades and realize that what seemed like a
critical piece of news in my day is a non-event for them.
 Spain ’s troubled banks? An ocean away, both literally and
figuratively. What resonates is the quarterly 401(k) statement.  Economic statistics sometimes give the impression that a
$15.5 trillion economy shifts course from one quarter or one
month to the next. Data revisions tend to smooth out what
originally looked like a trend shift. I suspect that May’s
alarming  employment report , complete with downward revisions to
March and April, will turn out to be part of the ebb and flow in
an otherwise lousy recovery, not a prelude to a new recession.  Wither Weather  For starters, the pattern of early-year strength tapering
off “has been much clearer in the employment data than in other
statistics for a variety of reasons,” says Steven Wieting, U.S.
economist at Citigroup Inc.  Last year, first-quarter job growth averaging almost
200,000 a month corresponded with growth in gross domestic
product of 0.4 percent, the weakest since the recession ended.  This year, an unusually warm winter boosted employment in
certain sectors, such as construction, other goods-producing
industries and real estate, when the seasonal-adjustment factors
anticipate softer hiring. The atypical weather and  labor
turnover  at 80 percent of pre-crisis levels give “undue power
to seasonal adjustment,” Wieting says.  A good way to eliminate the month-to-month volatility is to
look at year-over-year changes. Using private payrolls to avoid
the distortions from  U.S. Census  hiring in 2010, the year-over-
year increase has fluctuated between 1.8 percent and 2 percent
for 14 months. That was the range in 2005, as well, which was
seen as a pretty good year. Compare these tepid figures with
year-over-year employment growth of 5 percent to 6 percent in
1984, when a strong recovery followed a deep recession.  Remember, too, that the Bureau of Labor Statistics
considers a monthly change in employment of plus or minus
100,000  statistically insignificant .  What else could explain the sudden shift in the pace of
hiring?  High among the suspects are Europe, the year-end fiscal
cliff and, when all else fails, uncertainty.  Ever since  Greece’s debt problems  came to light in October
2009, there have been many crises within a crisis, followed by a
euro-zone summit and an array of Band-Aids to fix the inherent
conflicts of 17 sovereign nations living with a single currency.  When Spain, the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, joined
 Greece  on the very-troubled-country list, it sent stock markets
plunging around the globe.  Europe’s crisis is neither new nor solved. With U.S.
exports to the region amounting to less than 2 percent of GDP,
it’s hard to understand why domestic employers would cut back
all of a sudden, save for the fear that Europe’s problems would
ricochet through the U.S. financial system.  Fiscal Cliffhanger  That leaves the fiscal cliff and uncertainty. To the extent
that “employment is a proxy for business confidence,” and
business has no particular reason to have confidence in
 Washington , “it makes sense to sit on their hands until the
November election,” says  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s a
crisis of confidence rather than a deterioration in the
fundamentals.”  A lame-duck Congress will have to make decisions about the
expiring Bush tax cuts and an array of tax-and-spending
initiatives put in place under President  Barack Obama . That was
as true in February, when employment increased by 259,000, as it
was in May. But it’s the best we’ve got: a fallback position, a
default explanation.  Friday’s employment report sent the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down 2.2 percent, its  biggest decline  in six months. It
set off a PR storm in Washington, where Obama’s chances of re-
election are directly tied to the state of the economy. And as
far as the public is concerned, nothing reflects that state as
succinctly as job growth and the  unemployment rate , which has
been above 8 percent for 40 months.  While economists are trying to understand what went wrong
to reduce job growth in April and May, the president is faced
with a more difficult task. Obama has to explain to voters
what’s gone right these past four years to convince them he
deserves another term.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  why Germany’s 
consideration of a deeper union is too late  and  medical-device 
taxes ;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth of election mandates ; Michael 
Kinsley on  banning Big Gulps ;  Susan Antilla  on  workplace 
discrimination ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan’s current account ; 
Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  