-- Iron Mountain Soars Most Since Market Debut on REIT Plan
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-06-06T20:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/iron-mountain-soars-on-reit-plan-and-dividend-increase.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  soared the most
since its public offering 16 years ago after approving a plan to
convert to a real estate investment trust following pressure
from activist investor Elliott Management Corp.  The stock advanced 14 percent to $32.32 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since its  market debut  in Feb. 1996.
The Boston-based company, up 4.9 percent this year, was the  top
performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Elliott Management, a New York-based hedge fund, pushed the
company to review its strategy and consider conversion to a REIT
in March 2011. Iron Mountain generates the biggest portion of
its income from renting storage space to customers in more than
64 million square feet of real estate around the world, Iron
Mountain said in a statement yesterday.  “The REIT structure provides stockholders with dividends
from U.S. tax savings and other increases in distributable
income that will enhance stockholder returns,” Chief Executive
Officer Richard Reese said in the statement. “Over time the new
structure will facilitate distribution of profits covering
approximately 90 percent of our global storage operations.”  REITs in the U.S. must distribute at least 90 percent of
their taxable income to shareholders, and don’t pay corporate
taxes on that amount.  Separately, Iron Mountain increased its quarterly dividend
to 27 cents, from 25 cents, for the next six payments.  Elliott Management had about a 5 percent stake in Iron
Mountain as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Digital Businesses  Iron Mountain provides business storage and maintains
documents including records, electronic files, medical data and
e-mail. The company’s efforts to expand its international and
digital businesses hadn’t generated enough returns, Elliott
Management said last year.  Reese became CEO in April 2011, replacing  Bob Brennan , who
resigned. The management shakeup came a month after Elliott
Management called for a strategic review and nominated a slate
of four directors to the company’s board.  Iron Mountain instituted a so-called poison pill during the
proxy fight, which the company resolved with an agreement to
nominate Allan Loren, one of Elliott’s selections, to the board,
and work with the hedge fund to select a replacement for
Constantin Boden, a director planning retirement.  The company sold its digital business to Autonomy Corp. in
June 2011 for $380 million cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  