-- Issa Urges Halt to Labor Department Data Policy Changes
-- B y   J i m   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/issa-urges-halt-to-labor-department-data-policy-changes.html
A U.S. Labor Department plan to bar
news organizations from using their own equipment and phone
lines to distribute government economic data is “wrongheaded”
and President  Barack Obama  should intervene if necessary to
scrap the idea, Representative  Darrell Issa  said.  Issa, a California Republican, issued the statement last
night on the eve of today’s hearing before the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee that he heads.  “The Department of Labor needs to reverse course on this
wrongheaded policy change,” Issa said. “And if they fail to do
so, the White House must intervene.”  Bloomberg News and other media organizations have opposed
changes in the Labor Department procedures. The groups are in
talks with the department about the policy, and a representative
of Bloomberg News will testify at today’s hearing.  The policy, which was devised to improve data security,
would change a longstanding practice that lets news
organizations use their own computers, phone and data lines to
file and transmit stories about unemployment figures and
consumer prices from so-called lock-ups at the Labor Department.  Journalists are provided the data on an embargoed basis to
give them time to write and edit stories from the lock-up room
at the department. When the data are released, a Labor
Department official flips a switch to let news organizations
transmit. The agency has ordered them to remove software,
hardware and communications lines they have installed at the
department. Under the new procedures, reporters would be
required to use government computer equipment, software and
Internet connections.  Enormous Benefit  “The public has benefited enormously from the process the
department currently uses,” Rick Blum, coordinator of the
Sunshine in Government Initiative, wrote May 8 in a letter to
Labor Secretary Hilda Solis. “The practice used to this point
ensures the simultaneous release of information while also
providing time that enables reporters to place the new data in
meaningful context.”  Requiring all journalists to use government-provided
software, hardware and dedicated lines would inhibit
journalistic independence, and, “as the government grows more
concerned about cybersecurity, the proposed policy would create
a single point of failure,” according to the letter.  The initiative’s members include the American Society of
News Editors, the Online News Association and the Society of
Professional Journalists.  Media Coverage  The Labor Department has said the changes would protect the
security of market-moving data before it is released to the
public. At the time the policy was announced, Labor Department
spokesman Carl A. Fillichio cited “violations of the embargo
and the use of equipment in the lockups” as a rationale for the
changes. He is scheduled to testify today along with the Bureau
of Labor Statistics’ acting head.  Maine Senator  Susan Collins , the ranking Republican on the
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, asked the
Labor Department last month to investigate what she termed
unusual trading activity before the agency released its report
on employment in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Rubin in Washington at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  