-- Italy Must Avoid VAT Rise as Slump Deepens, Official Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-06T12:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/italy-must-avoid-vat-rise-as-slump-deepens-official-says.html
Italy  must avoid a planned increase
in the value-added tax this year as waning consumer demand helps
push the nation deeper into its fourth recession since 2001,
Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said.  “The economy shows signs of strong deterioration,”
Polillo told the Senate in Rome today. “In light of the fall in
domestic demand, betting on a further VAT increase would be
incomprehensible and even wrong.”  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government is trying to
achieve a structurally balanced budget by 2014 to convince
investors it can tame  Europe ’s second-biggest debt. Following
two  fatal earthquakes  last month, the Cabinet  decided  to pay for
relief work with funds from an ongoing review of state spending
that were originally earmarked for avoiding a VAT rate increase
to 23 percent from 21 percent later this year.  Tax revenue in the four months through April was 2.9
percent lower than government forecasts, the office of the
Treasury’s General Accountant said in a  report  posted on its
website yesterday. Commenting on the data late last night, the
Treasury said in a statement that it’s too early to say if the
tax targets were missed and it expects higher revenue in coming
months as a result of increased levies.  Weighing on Spending  The government raised taxes on property, gasoline and
luxury items such as yachts as part of a 20 billion-euro ($25
billion) austerity package passed in December. The plan was
aimed at balancing the budget in 2013, a target that was
postponed by one year in April as the economy sank deeper into a
recession.  The accountant’s report said that proceeds from VAT in the
first four months of the year were 9.6 percent less than
estimated by the government, based on projections in the
Treasury’s economic and financial plan published on April 18.  “The problem is that VAT revenue is declining because
because domestic spending is falling,” Giorgio Squinzi, the new
leader of the country’s main employer lobby Confindustria, told
reporters in  Rome  today. “If we raise the VAT rate further, we
should expect a further decline in consumption.”  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Piero Giarda, who is in
charge of the spending review due to be completed by July,
declined yesterday to rule out a VAT increase, saying the
earthquakes will make it “more difficult” to cut taxes.  The quakes will hurt industrial output in the Emilia
Romagna region for as long as six months, Squinzi also said
today. The affected area in the north “makes up for more than 1
percent of Italy’s gross domestic product, thus we risk an
additional contraction of GDP just because of the quakes.”  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  