-- Tivo, Apple, Yahoo, Coca-Cola: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-06T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/tivo-apple-yahoo-coca-cola-intellectual-property.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  filed a lawsuit claiming
that television set-top boxes made by Cisco Systems Inc.
infringe patents related to digital-video recording services.  Cisco supplies equipment to companies including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The boxes, which
have DVR functions, infringe TiVo’s patents, according to the
complaint filed June 4 in federal court in Marshall, Texas.  Cisco filed a preemptive suit against TiVo May 30 in
federal court in its hometown of San Jose, California, seeking a
ruling that it doesn’t infringe four TiVo patents.  TiVo, which pioneered the DVR market before rivals grabbed
more customers, has waged more than seven years of litigation to
get compensation for its inventions. The company provides DVR
services to Comcast Corp. and  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  Legal
costs are projected to create a wider loss this quarter than
analysts expected, the company said May 31.  Cisco knew of the patents and the infringement because it
has been subpoenaed in TiVo’s patent suits against Verizon and
AT&T Inc., TiVo said in the complaint. Dallas-based AT&T agreed
to pay at least $215 million to settle its case, and Alviso,
California-based TiVo got more than $500 million from  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  in a suit first filed in 2004.  The dueling suits set up a battle as to where the dispute
will be heard. Trial in the case against Verizon could be held
in October in Marshall, based on a joint schedule proposal
submitted by the two sides yesterday.  The new case is TiVo Inc. v.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , 12cv311,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall). Cisco’s case is Cisco v. TiVo, 12cv2766, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California (San
Jose).  Apple Denied Ban on Samsung Galaxy Tab During U.S. Patent Trial  Apple Inc. was denied its renewed request for a ban on U.S.
sales of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
computer while the case is still before a federal court of
appeals.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, said
June 4 that she doesn’t have jurisdiction to issue a preliminary
injunction because the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in Washington hasn’t issued a mandate yet. The judge
said Apple can renew its request once the court in Washington
issues its ruling.  Koh in December rejected Apple’s initial request, which is
part of a broader patent dispute over smartphones and tablets.
Apple’s renewed request was based on the Federal Circuit’s
finding that it will probably win its patent infringement claim
relating to the Tab 10.1 tablet.  The appeals court said May 14 that Apple can pursue its
efforts to halt sales of the Samsung tablet while the
infringement case is awaiting trial. The appeals court disagreed
with Koh’s finding that Apple failed to show it was likely to
win its case on the merits, according to court filings.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said last month that
Apple’s renewed request for the injunction is “premature”
because Samsung would request a rehearing of the appeals court
decision.  Representatives of Cupertino, California-based Apple didn’t
respond to an e-mail after regular business hours seeking
comment on the June 4 ruling.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-
01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  Yahoo Said to Be in Talks to Resolve Facebook Patent Litigation  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is in negotiations to resolve a legal dispute
with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which it accused of infringing patents,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  Yahoo has undergone board and management change since it
filed the lawsuit in March and is engaged in the talks to help
improve ties with Facebook, said the person, who didn’t want to
be identified because the matter is private.  Under former Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson, Yahoo
alleged that social-networking provider Facebook infringes
patents covering such functions as Internet privacy, advertising
and information sharing. Facebook countersued in April, accusing
Yahoo of infringing 10 of its patents. Thompson resigned the
following month, amid pressure from investors, after failing to
correct misstatements in his academic record.  Caryn Marooney, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-
based Facebook, declined to comment June 4, as did Dana
Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo.  Facebook bulked up on intellectual property in the wake of
the Yahoo lawsuit. It said in April that it’s paying $550
million for some of the patents that  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to
buy from AOL Inc. Facebook also acquired patents from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person with knowledge
of the matter said in March.  Yahoo, in the lawsuit filed March 12 in federal court in
San Jose, California, sought an order barring Facebook from
infringing the 10 patents. It also sought triple damages.
Facebook later accused Yahoo of infringing 10 patents through
its home page and the Flickr-photo sharing service.  The settlement talks were reported earlier this week in the
AllThingsD blog.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Merck Sues Sandoz, Intas Over Proposed Generic Copy of Emend  Merck & Co. (MRK)  sued the Sandoz unit of Swiss drugmaker
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (INTAS)  to block them from
selling generic forms of Emend, which prevents nausea and
vomiting from chemotherapy.  Sandoz, the generic-drug maker, and Intas’s Accord
Healthcare unit seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval
to sell intravenous forms of Emend, according to the lawsuits,
filed in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, said the Sandoz
and Accord drugs would infringe two patents and seeks a court
order to prevent sales until they expire in February 2015 and
March 2019. Emend in all forms generated $419 million in sales
last year, an 11 percent increase from 2010, Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based Merck said in its annual report.  The Sandoz case was filed May 31, and the Accord complaint
was filed June 1. A spokeswoman for Sandoz had no immediate
comment on the litigation. Samir Mehta, the president of Durham,
North Carolina-based Accord, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The cases are Merck v. Accord Healthcare, 12-cv-3324 and
Merck v. Sandoz Inc., 12-cv-3289, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Trenton).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Coca-Cola Loses German Trademark Bid Against PepsiCo on Bottle  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  lost a German court bid it filed against
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  over the form of bottles used to sell beverages.
PepsiCo’s “Carolina” bottle doesn’t illicitly resemble a form
Coca-Cola had registered as a European trademark, the Hamburg
Regional Court said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is: LG Hamburg, 315 O 310/11.  SABMiller Unit in Trademark Dispute Over Old Aussie Beer Brands  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , brewer of Peroni, Foster’s, Pilsner Urquell
and Miller Genuine Draft, is involved in a dispute over defunct
beer brands with an Australian craft brewer, the Sydney Morning
Herald  reported .  Thunder Road Brewing Co.  is challenging SABMiller’s
Foster’s unit’s use of the brand names under a provision of
Australian trademark law specifying that a trademark must be
used or risk being lost, according to the newspaper.  Philip Withers, Thunder Road’s chief executive officer,
told the Sydney Morning Herald that the historic brands are
important to the revival of Australia’s brewing industry.  Foster’s told the newspaper it would defend the marks and
they continue to be part of its business.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Medvedev’s Uploads Removed From Social Network Over Copyright  Russia’s Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  had four of the
videos he uploaded to the Vkontakte social network site removed
over copyright issues, the Russian News Service  reported .  The disputed videos were excerpts from an interview with
Russian journalist Vladimir Pozner that originally aired on
state-owned Channel One on June 4, according to the news
service.  A Vkontakte spokesman said a moderator from Channel One
scanned the social-network site in search of unauthorized
content and didn’t realize what he had banned, the news service
reported.  Medvedev obtained the videos legally from Channel One, the
Vkontakte spokesman said, and the Russian News Service reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Quinn Emanuel Hires Patent Litigator from Latham & Watkins  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  hired Yury Kapgan
for its intellectual-property practice, the Los Angeles-based
firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Kapgan, a litigator, joins from Latham & Watkins LLP, also
of Los Angeles. He has represented clients in patent and other
IP-related disputes involving computer software and hardware,
automotive technology, digital-rights management and industry
standards.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
California  at Los Angeles and a law degree from the University
of California, Berkeley, School of Law.  Fish & Richardson Hires Former ITC Attorney Fusco  Fish & Richardson PC hired Thomas S. “Monty” Fusco, the
Boston-based IP specialty firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Fusco  was formerly a supervisory attorney at the  U.S.
International Trade Commission , a Washington-based governmental
body with the power to bar entry to items that infringe U.S.
patents.  He has 23 years of experience with the trade commission,
which has increasingly become the forum of choice for technology
companies’ patent disputes.  Fusco has an undergraduate degree in history from the
University of Maryland, a master’s degree in African-American
studies from the University of California at Los Angeles, and a
law degree from American University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  