-- Japan Confronts Flight to Quality With Brutal Yen
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 2012-06-07T06:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/japan-confronts-flight-to-quality-with-brutal-yen-repeating-1995.html
Investors seek the yen as a haven
from turmoil sparked by a debt crisis, sending it to a postwar
high against the dollar and threatening to deepen  Japan ’s
economic stagnation. The year: 1995.  It’s deja-vu for Japanese policy makers, who 17 years ago
countered the surge in the yen with record intervention in the
foreign-exchange market, driving it down by about 30 percent
within five months. Like then, the currency is again trading at
postwar highs, undermining Japan’s recovery from last year’s
earthquake and tsunami as investors seek refuge from Europe.  The one difference is intervention may not be effective, as
U.S. opposition contrasts with the American and European
cooperation in yen sales that helped make the 1995 operations a
success. Also making the task tougher is a strengthening in
Japan’s status as the world’s largest net creditor, bolstering
the yen’s allure in times of global financial stress as
investors gird for a potential Greek exit from the euro.  “It’s very, very difficult for the authorities in Japan to
dilute the currency as a safe-haven instrument,” said  Paul Mackel , head of Asia-Pacific currency research at HSBC Holdings
Plc in  Hong Kong . “The periodic moves to create shock and awe
have only worked very temporarily.”  Unilateral Sales  Two rounds of unilateral yen sales last year failed to have
a lasting impact, with the currency at 79.45 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in Tokyo, up from this year’s low of 84.18 in March. Acting
at the Ministry of Finance’s behest, the  Bank of Japan  spent a
record 8.07 trillion yen ($103 billion) Oct. 31 to bring the
currency down from the record 75.35 yen that day. Japan sold at
least 14.3 trillion yen in last year’s interventions.  Backing the yen’s haven status is Japan’s increase in net
foreign assets, which amounted to 54 percent of gross domestic
product in December, up from 13 percent at the end of 1994,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from  Finance Ministry 
figures released May 22. Current-account surpluses mean Japan
doesn’t need to rely on overseas investors to fund a public  debt
load  that’s more than twice the size of the economy.  “The yen will remain strong,” Tomoya Masanao, head of
 portfolio management  for Japan at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said at a  Tokyo 
conference June 1. “Any large-scale intervention by MOF would
need to be paired with　large-scale monetary easing by the BOJ
for the move to be a game　changer,” which is unlikely, he said.  BOJ Policy  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has given little indication of
willingness to add to the central bank’s 20 trillion yen bump in
its asset-purchase program this year. Minutes of the BOJ board’s
April 27 meeting released last week showed that “members made
note of some misunderstanding that the bank would continue to
increase the size of its program in an automatic manner.”  The central bank chief says excess monetary loosening
raises the risk of asset-price bubbles, and told lawmakers at
the Diet on May 31 that the foreign-exchange market has been
affected by swings in investor appetite for risk. He said at a
forum in Tokyo June 4 that the bank is monitoring the impact of
yen gains on the economy. The BOJ next gathers June 14-15.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  explained to his Group of Seven
counterparts on a June 5 conference call the yen’s jump is
causing “serious damage” to Japan’s economy. He told reporters
in Tokyo after the call that he wanted members to observe past
G-7 statements against “disorderly movements” in currencies.
He said “there was no particular response” to his comments.  Rubin’s Dollar  Seventeen years ago, it was the danger of a Mexican
financial collapse contaminating the  U.S. economy  that propelled
the yen. What helped secure coordinated intervention was U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin ’s effort to enforce his policy
of having a “strong” dollar. Rubin said the stance could help
contain inflation, with the  jobless rate  at about 5.5 percent,
compared with more than 8 percent now.  With Germany also joining in, interventions by August 1995
were “quite effective,” according to a 2002  study  by Takatoshi Ito, a former Finance Ministry official who is now a professor
at Tokyo University. The yen, having started the year at 100.20
per dollar and soared to as high as 79.75, ended 1995 at 103.52,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This time round, with the euro falling against the dollar
and U.S. policy makers seeking to spur growth and job gains
rather than to quell inflation, there’s a reduced case for
cooperation as countries welcome lower currencies to spur
exports and bolster their economies.  U.S. Opposed  “The United States did not support” Japan’s unilateral
yen sales in August and October, which took place when markets
were orderly and global economic developments were affecting
other major currencies as well, the Treasury Department said in
its semiannual foreign-exchange report in December. The U.S. did
join in coordinated yen sales on March 18, seven days after
Japan was struck by its most powerful temblor on record.  Eisuke Sakakibara, known as Mr. Yen when he ran currency
operations at the Finance Ministry in the 1990s, said at a
conference in Singapore today that “intervention could only be
effective when two parties agree to intervene.” Without American
support, “intervention couldn’t be effective,” he said, adding
that “it’s a waste of time and waste of money.”  Exports made up 15 percent of the world’s third-largest
economy in the first three months of 2012, up from 9 percent in
the first quarter of 1995, amplifying the impact on Japan of
competitiveness-sapping  exchange-rate  strengthening.  Impact on Profits  Each one-yen advance in Japan’s currency against the dollar
leads to declines in operating profit of 2.4 percent at  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , 3.3 percent at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and 2.9 percent at
Honda Motor Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated in an April
report. Yokohama-based Nissan has responded in part by shifting
production to countries including Thailand.  The yen remains stronger than the 82 level at which the
nation’s companies said they can remain profitable in an annual
government survey released in February.  Currency appreciation contributed to Japan having a record
 trade deficit  in 2011, along with factory shutdowns and
electricity shortages in the aftermath of the record March 11
earthquake and ensuing tsunami. Because of income from overseas
assets, Japan’s current account remained in surplus.  Economists have differed this year on whether the current-
account surplus will remain, with UBS AG analysts seeing it
lasting until 2050, and those at JPMorgan Chase & Co. citing the
risk of a shift to deficit in 2015.  Japan’s Assets  Deficits would need to be large to offset Japan’s net
overseas assets, which totaled 253 trillion yen at the end of
last year. Past intervention in the yen contributed to the total,
leaving Japanese investors as the second-largest foreign holders
behind China of  U.S. government debt , with $1.1 trillion as of
March, Treasury Department data show.  Japan’s exchange rate has soared 52 percent against the
dollar since the start of August 2007, when the U.S. housing
depression began contaminating world money markets, triggering
the global financial crisis. The Swiss franc has been the No. 2
beneficiary of the flight from risk, advancing 25 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Switzerland’s decision in September to cap its exchange
rate diminishes the franc’s ability to serve as a global harbor,
HSBC analysts said in a report last month. While the dollar’s
liquidity means “it can sometimes behave” like a haven,
American reliance on foreign investors to hold almost half of
the U.S. government’s marketable debt means it’s sensitive to
any loss of overseas confidence, according to HSBC.  ‘Overvalued’ Measure  The currency still has room to appreciate before it becomes
“overvalued,” when measured in inflation-adjusted terms,
according to Morgan Stanley. The equivalent competitive position
of the mid-1990s would be a value for the yen in the “mid 50s”
per dollar, Ronald Leven, an executive director and strategist
at the bank in New York, said in a May 31 report.  The yen’s advance and the euro crisis have hammered Japan’s
stock market, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  falling the past
nine weeks, the longest losing streak since 1992.  Sony Corp. (6758)  saw
its shares on June 4 slide below 1,000 yen in Tokyo trading for
the first time since 1980.  Equities aren’t reflecting the state of the economy, Azumi
told reporters in Tokyo June 4.  A report on June 8 will show GDP rose a revised 4.5 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, at an annualized
pace, according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The government’s initial estimate was 4.1 percent.
GDP shrank 2.8 percent last year, hurt by the record quake and
ensuing tsunami that devastated the northeast.  GDP Outlook  The yen’s appreciation raises risks for the strength of the
economic recovery, JPMorgan economists said in a June 1 report.
The bank currently projects 2.5 percent growth this year and a
1.3 percent expansion next year, and plans to review its outlook
after this week’s GDP report.  Officials’ tolerance of the yen’s climb may be tested
around 76 per dollar, according to HSBC and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts. So-called “stealth interventions,”
where Finance Ministry officials refrain from confirming the yen
sales on the day they were executed, may begin if the yen
strengthens beyond the previous start level of 75.65, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a June 1 report.  After the Treasury’s criticism, the pace of any break past
76 may decide whether Japan enters the market, according to
Tohru Sasaki, head of Japan rates and currency research in Tokyo
at JPMorgan, who previously worked as a senior dealer at the
BOJ’s foreign-exchange division.  “I see a low chance that Japan will intervene when dollar-
yen breaks below 76, provided the move is slow,” Sasaki said.  Another argument for holding off is the lack of a
resolution in  Greece , said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency
strategist in Tokyo at  Barclays Capital , and a former BOJ
official.  Europe ’s woes have deepened as concern rose that
Greece may exit the euro region after its June 17 election and
that Spain will need a bailout after rescuing its banks.  “The Greek situation may negate the impact of any
intervention even if Japan spends a lot of money to weaken the
yen against the dollar,” Yamamoto said. “The timing isn’t
right yet to ensure maximum impact for intervention.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  