-- JBS Buying Illegal Amazon Cattle, Greenpeace Says
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-06-06T18:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/jbs-buying-illegal-amazon-cattle-greenpeace-says.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, has failed to meet a commitment to stop buying cattle
from farms accused of illegal logging in the Amazon, ranching in
protected indigenous land or using slave-like labor, Greenpeace
International said.  JBS bought 687 head of cattle from farms in breach of
environment or labor regulation between June and December of
last year, the group said in an e-mailed statement today. The
Sao Paulo-based company also bought 9,742 head of cattle from
suppliers that got some of their livestock from such farms,
Greenpeace said.  JBS denied the accusations and said it will seek
compensation for damages caused by the Greenpeace report.  “The information mentioning JBS in the report is false,
misleading, incorrect and leads the public to an erroneous
conclusion,” JBS said in a regulatory filing today. “The
company will challenge Greenpeace in court and will seek every
conceivable legal means to rectify material damage to its
image.”  Logging and fires to clear land for ranching in the Amazon,
the world’s largest rain forest, destroyed 6,418 square
kilometers (2,478 square miles) of vegetation in the 12 months
through July 2011, about eight times the area of New York,
according to Brazilian government data.  Brazil  is the world’s
second-largest exporter of beef after  Australia .  In 2009, JBS,  Minerva SA (BEEF3)  and  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  signed an
agreement with Brazilian prosecutors to stop buying livestock
raised in protected areas or ranches that didn’t comply with
labor regulations.  Greenpeace hasn’t found any evidence that Marfrig or
Minerva failed to comply with the agreement, according to an e-
mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  