-- Jefferson County Creditors Denied Bankruptcy Committee
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-06T15:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/jefferson-county-creditors-denied-bankruptcy-committee-1-.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama ’s creditors
can’t form an official committee until they find new members
willing to serve on the panel, the judge overseeing the county’s
bankruptcy ruled today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett agreed with the
county, which argued that two of the three currently proposed
committee members aren’t eligible to serve on a panel. Bennett
said an unsecured bondholder pushing for an official committee,
 Bayerische Landesbank , can try as early as next month to win
approval for a panel should new, qualified members agree to
participate.  “It is important to get a date on as soon as possible,”
said bankruptcy attorney Craig A. Wolfe, referring to the next
available hearing when the creditors could seek official
recognition as a committee. Wolfe represents the three
creditors, including BayernLB, who were requesting the panel.  Thomas Corbett, bankruptcy administrator for the federal
court in Birmingham, Alabama, had asked Bennett to appoint a
panel that would participate in the case. The creditors are
Beckman Coulter Inc., a biomedical testing company, BayernLB of
 New York  and UAB Health System, the medical center that is part
of the  University of Alabama  in Birmingham.  In corporate Chapter 11 bankruptcies, such committees are
routine and their bills are paid by the bankrupt company. In
municipal Chapter 9 bankruptcies, like Jefferson County’s,
committees are rarer and their bills aren’t automatically
reimbursed.  Municipal Bankruptcy  Jefferson County entered the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in November after local and state officials and
creditors failed to implement an agreement to cut the county’s
sewer debt by about $1 billion. The county owes creditors about
$4.2 billion, including more than $3 billion in bonds related to
the sewage system, according to court records.  Beckman and UAB have either been paid in full or will be
paid in full before the case is over, so they wouldn’t qualify
as unsecured creditors, the county argued.  The three companies were the only creditors to respond to
Corbett’s request to form an official committee of unsecured
creditors. Corbett said he would try again to solicit members to
serve on a panel.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  