-- Kazakh Central Bank Reduces Euro’s Share in Reserves to 25%
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-06-06T11:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/kazakh-reserves-fell-2-in-may-to-34-3-billion-as-euro-weakened.html
Kazakhstan  cut the euro’s share in
its reserves by 5 percentage points this year, joining other
central banks in pulling money out of the currency amid a
deepening debt crisis in  Europe .  The common currency’s portion was decreased to 25 percent,
from 30 percent last year, and “we are not moving further” to
reduce euro-denominated holdings, central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko told reporters today in the Kazakh commercial capital
of Almaty. The bank added other currencies after dumping some of
its investments in the euro, according to Marchenko.  Europe’s turmoil, which has tipped at least eight of the 17
euro-area countries into recession, is damping demand for euro
assets as central banks expand into currencies from other
economies. Russia and the  Czech Republic  cut the share of their
reserves held in the euro last year, while Hungary’s central
bank said it will diversify its stockpile, currently invested
exclusively in euro-denominated securities, to include dollars,
yen and British pounds. Azerbaijan’s State Oil Fund said last
November it may add the Russian ruble and the Turkish lira to
its holdings.  Kazakhstan’s National Oil Fund may replace some of its
holdings in euros with Danish kroner, Marchenko said in April.
The central bank may add the ruble,  South Korea ’s won and the
Brazilian real to its reserves, he said Sept. 7.  Euro’s Share  The euro’s share of global reserves fell to 26.7 percent as
of the end of last June from a peak of 27.9 percent in September
2009, a month before  Greece ’s new government sparked the debt
crisis by revealing that its predecessor had understated the
 budget deficit , International Monetary Fund data on Sept. 30
showed.  Central banks and other wealth managers raised allocations
to a group the IMF calls “other currencies,” which Citigroup
Inc. says likely includes equal amounts of Australian and
Canadian dollars and the Swedish krona, to 4.9 percent from 3
percent.  Kazakhstan’s gross international currency and  gold reserves 
fell 2 percent to $34.3 billion in May from a month earlier as
the euro lost value, according to the National Bank of
Kazakhstan.  The National Oil Fund’s assets rose to $51.6 billion at the
end of May, the central bank said today on its website. The fund
is managed by the country’s central bank.  The regulator bought $600 million last month on the
 currency market  to curb appreciation of the tenge, raising total
purchases this year to more than $2 billion, Marchenko said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  