-- Kenya Shilling Gains for Fifth Day as Central Bank Curbs Supply
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-06T10:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/kenya-shilling-gains-for-fifth-day-as-central-bank-curbs-supply.html
Kenya ’s shilling gained for the fifth
day, the longest winning streak in four months, as the central
bank curbed  money supply .  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.8 percent to 85.03 per dollar and was trading 0.4
percent stronger at 85.40 by 12:57 p.m., the longest series of
gains since Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya accepted 4 billion shillings ($46 million) of 7.05
billion shillings of bids received for longer-term auction
deposits, at a weighted average rate of 17.964 percent, a
central bank official, who declined to be named in line with
policy, said by phone from the capital, Nairobi. The bank had
offered 4 billion shillings of the securities, the official
said.  Kenya’s central bank introduced “longer tenor Term Auction
Deposits as an additional instrument for liquidity management,”
it said in in its monetary policy committee statement yesterday.
The committee retained its benchmark rate unchanged at a record-
high 18 percent, where it’s been since December.  “Despite the enhanced Open Market Operations undertaken in
May 2012, excess liquidity conditions have persisted in the
market thereby posing a risk to demand driven inflation pressure
and exchange rate stability,” the central bank said. “The MPC
will continue to monitor closely foreign exchange activities in
the market and take appropriate measures to sustain exchange
rate stability.”  The central bank has reduced money supply through about 95
billion shillings of  repurchase agreements  since May 2, while
selling an unspecified amount of dollars in the market.  International Loan  Kenya received the first $240 million of a $600 million
syndicated loan agreed with three international lenders last
month,  Joseph Kinyua , permanent secretary at the  Finance
Ministry , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The remaining
$360 million will be drawn down after one month, he said.  Kenya’s trade deficit widened in March as fuel imports rose
to the highest in seven months, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said on May 30 on its website. The gap increased 22
percent from a year earlier to 80.3 billion shillings ($938
million). The  inflation  rate fell to the lowest for more than a
year in May, slowing for a sixth month, to 12.2 percent from
13.1 percent a month earlier, the Nairobi-based Kenya National
Bureau of Statistics said in an e-mailed statement on May 30.  The Ugandan shilling gained 0.1 percent to 2,487.50 per
dollar, while Tanzania’s shilling remained unchanged at 1,588
per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  