-- Keystone Supporters See Weak Jobs Data Boosting Project
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/keystone-supporters-see-weak-jobs-data-boosting-project.html
A sputtering U.S. job market is
encouraging supporters seeking to force President  Barack Obama 
to approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline before
the November election.  A report last week that U.S. employers added in May the
fewest workers in a year underscores the need for the $5.3
billion pipeline, which would carry heavy crude from  Alberta  to
Nebraska, according to Senator  John Hoeven , a Republican from
North Dakota. Hoeven is lobbying to include a measure in a
transportation spending bill that would fast track the project.  The House and Senate have until the end of June to
reconcile different versions of the $109 billion highway bill
when the current law expires.  The prospect of thousands of construction jobs to build the
project is tipping the political scales in Keystone XL’s favor,
according to David Bookbinder, an environmental attorney and
former chief climate counsel for the  Sierra Club  who opposes the
project. Some Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail
have joined Republicans in questioning Obama’s decision in
January to reject the company’s first proposed route due to
environmental concerns, inviting TransCanada to reapply with an
alternate.  “The political considerations both domestic and
international outweigh the environmental ones,” Bookbinder said
in an interview. “The president has explicitly put other
concerns ahead of environmental ones. I think this will be
another example of that sort of calculus.”  Obama Veto  White House spokesman  Clark Stevens  referred questions to
the State Department, where spokeswoman Wendy Nassmacher
declined to comment. Obama has said he will veto the
transportation bill if it includes the Keystone XL provision.  “What that last economic report made crystal clear is that
we need more jobs,” Hoeven said in an interview. “I absolutely
think it helps makes the case,” for Keystone XL.  Protests last year in  Nebraska  and at the White House
focused on the risks of a spill tainting the Ogallala aquifer in
Nebraska, a drinking-water source for 1.5 million people. Obama
said the pipeline shouldn’t threaten water supplies and in
November, the State Department, which has jurisdiction over the
project because it crosses an international border, said it
would delay a decision until early next year.  Republicans say that move contributed to a Labor Department
report June 1 that payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Construction Jobs  Obama’s economy “isn’t working for the 28,000 construction
workers who lost their jobs in the month of May,” Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, said in a statement after the
jobs report. “Yet President Obama continues to block job-
creating projects like the Keystone XL pipeline, which would
create 20,000 jobs, many in the  construction industry .”  The project would have created 20,000 U.S. construction
jobs, according to TransCanada. Permanent jobs to operate the
pipeline may be as few as 20, according to the State Department.  Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat and former North Dakota attorney
general who is running for  U.S. Senate , said Keystone XL is a
“jobs program” that will also reduce U.S. dependence on Middle
East oil.  “The pipeline is going to get approved eventually,”
Heitkamp said in an interview. “It’s a missed opportunity to
put Americans to work.”  Obama rejected the pipeline Jan. 18 after Congress set a
deadline for a decision. In April, TransCanada proposed a new
route through Nebraska and, in May, filed a new permit
application with the State Department.  Senate Vote  Republicans have seized on Obama’s decision, claiming it
cost jobs and led to higher gasoline prices. In March, Hoeven
sponsored an amendment that would have authorized construction
of the project and deemed it in compliance with environmental
regulations.  Eleven Democrats joined 44 Republicans in support of the
measure, which won 56 votes, falling short of the 60 needed for
approval.  “At a time when we’re trying desperately to create more
jobs and get America working again, there’s no reason for us to
drag our feet on this,” Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri
Democrat who voted with Republicans on the March amendment, said
in an e-mail.  Meanwhile, polls show support for the project. In a March 8
through March 11 telephone survey of 1,024 adults by Gallup, 57
percent said the government should approve Keystone XL compared
to 29 percent who said it should not.  Review Schedule  It’s unclear whether environmental reviews can be completed
before the November presidential election. The Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality is reviewing the new
pipeline route and is expected to release its findings around
October, according to department spokesman Jim Bunstock.  The State Department has said its review of the new route
may be complete by the first quarter of 2013. The department
last year found that the original plan posed “no significant
impacts to most resources” along its route. TransCanada
initially applied for a permit in 2008.  “The route is no better,” Jane Kleeb, founder and
executive director of Bold Nebraska, a group that opposes the
pipeline, said in an interview. “It still crosses a major
portion of the Ogallala aquifer. I think it will get denied.”  The original project, estimated to cost $7.6 billion,
would’ve expanded TransCanada’s existing Keystone pipeline to
carry as much as 830,000 barrels a day from  Canada ’s oil sands
and  North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale along a 1,661-mile (2,672-
kilometer) path to  Gulf Coast  refineries.  The current proposal covers a segment from the Canadian
border to  Steele City , Nebraska. TransCanada has applied to the
U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers for the pipeline segment from
 Oklahoma  to the Gulf Coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  