-- King Confronts Stimulus Revival Case as U.K. Slump Persists
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-07T08:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/king-confronts-stimulus-revival-case-as-u-k-recession-persists.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
will today consider if Britain’s economy is vulnerable enough to
warrant reigniting stimulus that officials halted a month ago.  While 37 of 42 economists forecast that the Monetary Policy
Committee will keep its  bond-purchase target  on hold at 325
billion pounds ($503 billion), Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank
AG are among banks that have switched their view in the past
week to forecast more so-called quantitative easing in response
to a weakening economy.  A gauge of  services  growth today exceeded economists’
forecasts, after data last week showed  manufacturing  shrank at
the fastest pace in three years. While the central bank ended
its second round of stimulus last month on risks to inflation,
threats from  Europe ’s turmoil are growing as the debt crisis
engulfs  Spain .  “Services paints a more upbeat picture than last week’s
manufacturing report and slightly reduces the pressure on the
MPC to act at today’s meeting,”  Vicky Redwood , an economist at
 Capital Economics  in London and a former central bank official,
said in a research note. “The big picture is that the recovery
is still struggling. Even if the MPC holds fire today, we doubt
that it will be long before more stimulus is forthcoming.”  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
services report, and traded at $1.5475 as of 9:46 a.m. in
London, down 0.1 percent on the day.  Government bonds  fell, with
10-year gilt yields rising 1 basis point to 1.676 percent.  Services Surprise  The services purchasing managers index, published by  Markit
Economics , held at 53.3 May, exceeding economists’ forecasts for
a drop to 52.4. Policy makers had already seen the data. In the
prior 74 months, there have been 38 upside surprises compared
with the survey, 35 downside surprises and one case where the
reading matched the forecast.  Markit’s manufacturing gauge on June 1 fell more than
economists forecast to 45.9, the lowest since May 2009. A
 construction index  released yesterday slipped to 54.4 from 55.8.
Readings above 50 indicate growth.  Both Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank see a 50 billion-
pound increase in stimulus today, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.
brought forward its forecast for more QE to July from August
after the manufacturing report. Morgan Stanley economists
including Melanie Baker said in a note published yesterday that
the chance of an  interest-rate  cut by the central bank have
increased.  All 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast that the
Bank of England will today keep its  benchmark rate a t a record-
low 0.5 percent, where it’s been since March 2009.  ECB Split  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that officials stand ready to act as the growth outlook worsens
in the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner. While the
ECB left its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent yesterday, Draghi said
“a few” governing council members sought a rate cut.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act,” he told reporters in  Frankfurt .  The euro crisis is dominating central bank discussions
around the globe. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its  key
interest rate  to the lowest since 2009 on June 5, citing
“heightened political uncertainty and concerns about fiscal
sustainability” in Europe. The  Bank of Canada  said the same day
that “some of the risks around the European crisis are
materializing” as it left its benchmark unchanged.  The Group of Seven nations agreed this week to coordinate
their response to euro-area turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the region’s economies into recession.  U.K. Inflation  The  Bank of England  declined to increase its QE target in
May on signs that  inflation  wasn’t slowing as quickly as it had
forecast earlier in the year. While consumer-price gains eased
to 3 percent in April from 3.5 percent in March, that’s still
above the central bank’s 2 percent target.  The slowdown in inflation “looks to be taking slightly
longer than we had first thought,” policy maker Ben Broadbent
said last month. “My answer to the questions as to why policy
didn’t change in May: the forecast didn’t warrant it.”  The MPC raised its near-term inflation projection last
month to reflect higher energy prices and indirect taxes. It
still sees the rate falling below its target in the third
quarter of 2013 because of “muted” domestic price pressure and
labor-market slack that is limiting wage gains.  “It’s going to take a lot more time for inflation to hit
the target,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec
Securities in  London . “To get more QE, you need evidence either
that inflation is moving decisively below 3 percent in the next
few months or the real economic backdrop has become so poor that
it’s justified despite the inflation level.”  Price Pressures  Signs that inflation pressures have eased may support the
case for more bond purchases. The pound has risen about 2.2
percent on a  trade-weighted basis  since the start of the year,
easing pressure from import prices, while  oil prices  have
dropped 12 percent in the past month.  In addition to the threats to the U.K. from the euro area,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s fiscal squeeze is also weighing
on Britain’s economy. The  International Monetary Fund  said May
22 the U.K. may require further stimulus “via further QE and
possibly cutting the policy rate.”  The weaker data create a “non-negligible risk” that the
central bank will cut its key rate for the first time since
March 2009,  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank, said
in a June 1 note.  “Conditions have worsened,” he wrote. “The MPC cannot
ignore this weaker news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  