-- Napoli Interested in Everton Defender Baines, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-06T10:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/napoli-interested-in-everton-defender-baines-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Italian Interest  Napoli has shown interest in Everton and England defender
 Leighton Baines , the  Daily Mail  said.  Everton hopes its valuation of 20 million pounds ($31
million) will deter Napoli, which sees the 27-year-old as a
replacement for Andrea Dossena, who is talking to AC Milan, the
Mail said.  Baines has also been linked with a move to Manchester
United, which has yet to make contact with Everton, the Mail
said.  United Targets  United manager  Alex Ferguson  is planning a move for Baines
and Tottenham midfielder Luka Modric as he attempts to retake
the Premier League title, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Ferguson struck the first blow in his fight to win the
crown back from rival Manchester City by signing midfielder
Shinji Kagawa from German champion Borussia Dortmund, the Mirror
said.  Summer Drag  Arsenal chief executive Ivan Gazidis says contract talks
with captain  Robin van Persie  could drag on all summer,  the Sun 
said.  Van Persie has one year left on his current deal and
manager  Arsene Wenger  hoped to have the Dutchman’s future sorted
out before the European Championship. Van Persie has been linked
with Manchester City,  Manchester United  and Juventus, the Sun
said.  Happy in Manchester  Manchester City midfielder  David Silva  told Real Madrid
he’s not interested in moving to the Spanish champ, the
 Manchester Evening News  said.  Silva says he is perfectly happy in England and wants to
see out his contract, which runs to 2014, the Evening News said.  Harry’s Extension  Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp has urged chairman Daniel Levy to offer him a new contract if the club wants him to stay
as manager, the  Guardian said .  Redknapp’s current deal expires next summer and talks
between the sides stalled after the manager was linked to the
vacant England national team job.  Sunderland Bound?  Gabriel Agbonlahor  could be bound for Sunderland if new
Aston Villa manager Paul Lambert brings in Grant Holt from his
former club Norwich, the  Sunderland Echo  said.  Holt, who scored 17 goals last season, has submitted a
transfer request and been linked with a move to Villa after
Lambert was hired last week. That would free up Agbonlahor to
join former Villa boss Martin O’Neill at Sunderland, the Echo
said.  Cottage Return  Danny Murphy  will remain at Fulham and spurn a move to QPR,
the  Daily Star  said.  Murphy was left on the Premier League’s free transfer list
last week and drew interest from QPR, the Star said. The 35-
year-old is now close to a new agreement with the Cottagers, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 