-- Nasdaq Approves $40 Million Plan to Cover Facebook Losses
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-06T21:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/nasdaq-approves-40-million-plan-to-cover-facebook-losses.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  approved a plan
to compensate brokers whose orders were mishandled in  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering, earmarking about $40 million to
cover losses.  The second-biggest U.S. stock-exchange operator said in a
statement today that it would pay $13.7 million in cash, with
the rest of the money credited through reduced trading costs for
members who suffered losses. The Securities and Exchange
Commission must approve the plan.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,
which lost as much as $35 million, said the proposal doesn’t go
far enough, and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said it will harm competition.  Delays and malfunctions on the Nasdaq Stock Market were the
first signs of trouble in the May 18 Facebook IPO that  burned 
investors, cost Wall Street market makers an estimated $120
million and prompted lawsuits against the company, its exchange
and the underwriters.  The stock  is down 29 percent since the $16
billion offering, the biggest ever by a technology company.  “My biggest concern is they took our order, they were
responsible for it, and then more than two hours later they came
back and said ‘nothing done,’” Packy Jones, chairman of
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a  Westlake Village ,
California-based broker, said in a phone interview. “It’s
difficult to manage the investment process when you’re doubting
your counterparties.”  Three Kinds  The program  Nasdaq   announced  would cover three kinds of
orders placed during the IPO cross, the process used to open a
stock after an offering: sales priced at $42 or less that
weren’t executed; purchases priced at $42; and certain types of
sell orders that should have participated in the cross and were
entered into the market at 1:50 p.m.  New York  time on the day of
the offering, receiving less than $42.  Orders eligible include those submitted before 11:30 a.m.
New York time that were disadvantaged by Nasdaq’s technical
error and those in which the member firm was uncertain of the
outcome of the trade request. Orders that don’t qualify include
“losses that are attributed to execution message delays when in
fact an outcome was already certain,”  Eric Noll , the executive
vice president for transaction services at Nasdaq OMX, said in a
webcast today.  Nasdaq won’t cover claims from brokers who allowed
customers to cancel orders and took the loss themselves, he
said.  No Accommodations  “Accommodations will not be made available for losses that
resulted from affirmative decisions by members, or in cases
where members told investors that unconfirmed trades had been
executed,” according to Nasdaq OMX’s statement today.  “We have no control or visibility over that
relationship,” Noll said. “Those losses that are attributable
to that activity are going to be borne by the member firm who
made those decisions.”  The exchange operator said it hired  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  to review its systems. Nasdaq shares rose 1.7
percent to $22.24 today. Facebook climbed 3.6 percent to $26.81
and reached $26.83 at 5:50 p.m. in New York.  Letting Nasdaq use trading discounts as compensation is
unfair because it will compel customers to divert orders to the
exchange if they want to be paid back, according to an e-mailed
statement from New York-based NYSE Euronext, the biggest
operator of American equity venues.  Subsidizing Missteps  “This is tantamount to forcing the industry to subsidize
Nasdaq’s missteps and would establish a harmful precedent that
could have far-reaching implications for the markets, investors
and the public interest,” the statement said. “We intend to
strongly press our views that Nasdaq’s proposal cannot be
allowed to permit an unjust and anti-competitive situation.”  Direct Edge Holdings LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , the
fourth-largest U.S. exchange operator, has “significant
concerns” with Nasdaq’s remedy and will “aggressively voice
them,” spokesman Jim Gorman said in an e-mailed statement.  Knight Capital  in Jersey City, New Jersey, estimated in a
May 23 government filing that it lost $30 million to $35 million
in the IPO. The company is one of the largest wholesalers, a
category of market makers that executes orders for individual
investors sent to the firm from retail brokers. Such firms may
guarantee customers executions in the auctions at the start and
end of trading each day at the resulting price, assuming they
can manage risks by buying and selling in the market.  ‘Disappointed’  “Clearly, we are disappointed that Nasdaq’s compensation
fund does not come close to covering reported losses from
broker-dealers like Knight who traded Facebook shares on behalf
of average investors the day of the IPO, and who suffered losses
as a result of Nasdaq’s failures in connection with this IPO,”
Knight said in a statement. “Their proposed solution to this
problem is simply unacceptable. As previously stated, the
company is evaluating all remedies available under law.”  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive officer  Robert Greifeld  said in
an interview with CNBC today that the payback plan was designed
to aid its broker-dealer members in cases where it’s clear they
lost money due to errors in the auction process. Nasdaq OMX is
not responsible for the decisions of retail and institutional
investors who bought and sold through those firms, he said.  “This is clear, it’s clinical, it’s objective, it’s data-
based,” Greifeld said. “In terms of generic comment with
respect to the psychology of the market, I can’t respond to
that. Everybody’s entitled to their own opinion.”  The exchange pressed ahead with Facebook trading on May 18
because its testing didn’t reveal a problem with the IPO cross
and the company’s technology department said the system was
ready, he said. Continuous trading “worked perfectly” from
then to the 4 p.m. close, Greifeld said.  ‘Real Decisions’  “The technology people had to make some real decisions,
and the senior management is not in a position to question the
information of that decision,” Greifeld said in the CNBC
interview. “It did run at 11:30 a.m. The problem was the
confirmation didn’t come out until 1:50 p.m.”  Nasdaq will determine how much to pay most investors and
traders by comparing their execution price to $40.626, the
volume-weighted average price for Facebook from 1:50 p.m. until
2:20 p.m. on May 18, Noll said. It chose that period because
member firms could have made decisions then, after receiving
execution reports at 1:50 p.m. from the IPO cross earlier in the
day, he said. Losses for orders released into the market at 1:50
p.m. will be compared to the $42 price from the IPO cross, Noll
said.  Half Hour  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took a half hour longer than Nasdaq OMX planned the
next morning. About 30 minutes after that, the  market owner 
reported an issue confirming trades from the opening auction
with the brokerages that placed them.  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the auction as a technical issue was being
repaired between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. New York time,
Greifeld told reporters on May 20. About half may involve “some
level of dispute,” he said.  Nasdaq OMX said in a May 21  notice  that the 30 million
shares didn’t participate in the IPO cross. An error prevented
execution reports for the shares that entered the auction, as
well as those that were ignored, from being disseminated
immediately to brokerages, the company said.  Some orders submitted before 11:30 a.m. received executions
at prices different from the $42 IPO cross, causing buyers to
pay more and sellers to receive less than they should have,
Nasdaq OMX said in another May 21  notice . A portion of those
deemed ineligible for the IPO auction were later re-entered into
the market by Nasdaq’s systems, the exchange said.  Total Losses  Losses may total $120 million for the four largest U.S.
equity wholesalers, or market-makers that execute orders for
individual investors supplied from brokers such as TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run by  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million on Facebook in its market-
making unit, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.
 UBS AG (UBSN)  lost about $30 million and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  about $20
million from servicing retail customers through their
wholesaling businesses, Dow Jones Newswires reported on May 25.  Nasdaq’s handling of the IPO has led to led to lawsuits and
is being examined by the SEC. A review by the regulators that
has yet to be completed shows technical failures precipitated
the trading issues, not a violation of industry rules, the Wall
Street Journal said May 30, citing people familiar with the
matter who it didn’t name.  ‘Poor Design’  Greifeld acknowledged “poor design” in software put the
opening auction that set the price for the first traded shares
into a loop that delayed its completion. Executives of the
company “believed they had the right solution” as they worked
to start trading, Noll said in a statement provided by spokesman
Robert Madden on May 22.  SEC officials will examine whether New York-based Nasdaq
OMX took enough care setting up and testing the IPO auction,
when it became aware of the breakdowns and how much it knew as
they were occurring, according to  Larry Harris , a professor of
finance and business economics at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles  and a former SEC chief economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  