-- Netanyahu Pledges to Strengthen West Bank Settlement Efforts
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-06-06T20:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/netanyahu-to-set-up-committee-on-settlements-official-says-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  pledged to build new homes in the  West Bank  settlement
of Beit El in an effort to defuse a political furor sparked by
the court-ordered relocation of other settlers.  Netanyahu has been criticized by members of his government
and the Likud party for supporting a  High Court  of Justice
decision ordering the removal of settlement homes built on
private Palestinian land in the Ulpana outpost. The Israeli
leader said he would comply with the court ruling by relocating
five Ulpana apartment houses inside adjacent Beit El, along with
ordering the construction of new homes there.  “The Beit El settlement will be expanded with 30 families,
and they will be joined by 300 new families,” Netanyahu said
today at a press conference in  Jerusalem . “I say to all those
who think they will use the judicial system to harm the
settlement effort that they are are wrong, that exactly the
opposite will happen.”  In Washington, State Department spokesman Mark Toner
repeated the long-standing U.S. position against Israeli
settlement expansion.  “We’re very clear that continued Israeli settlement
activity in the West Bank undermines peace efforts and
contradicts Israeli commitments and obligations,” Toner said at
the State Department. “Our position on settlements remains
unchanged. We do not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli
settlement activity”  and want to see both parties “get back
into negotiations.”  The  Palestinian Authority  has said it won’t negotiate
directly with Israel unless it halts all settlement building.
The U.S. and the European Union have called on  Israel  to freeze
construction in the West Bank.  Netanyahu also opposed a proposed law that would have
circumvented the court ruling. The measure was defeated in the
Knesset today by a vote of 69-22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  