-- New York, Delaware Can Intervene in Bank of America Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-07T01:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/new-york-delaware-can-intervene-in-bank-of-america-deal.html
New York  and Delaware won their bids
to intervene in litigation over  Bank of America Corp. ’s proposed
$8.5 billion settlement with mortgage-bond investors.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick in
Manhattan granted motions by the attorneys general of the states
to intervene in the case over the objections of an investor
group, according to a decision today.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  “have identified legitimate quasi-
sovereign interests at play” in the case, Kapnick wrote. The
judge also said she isn’t persuaded by arguments that the
intervention would delay or burden the proceeding.  The settlement would resolve claims from investors in
Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. Bank of America
acquired the mortgage lender in 2008.  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , as trustee for investors, is seeking approval of the deal
in state court.  A federal judge previously approved requests by the states
to participate in the proceeding. The case was then transferred
to state court, and the states asked Kapnick for permission to
intervene.  Schneiderman’s office said in court papers that there are
“serious questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the
settlement, which covers just “a small fraction” of investor
losses. Biden’s office said it was seeking to intervene to
protect investors as well as homeowners affected by the
agreement.  “Today’s ruling is an important victory in Attorney
General Schneiderman’s extensive work to protect the integrity
of New York’s global financial markets while providing
meaningful relief to those who have suffered from the mortgage
crisis,” James Freedland, a spokesman for Schneiderman, said in
a statement.  A group of institutional investors that negotiated the
settlement, including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , argued the states don’t
have standing to intervene in a private contract dispute.  Robert
Madden , an attorney for the group, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and Kevin Heine, a spokesman for
 BNY Mellon , declined to comment about Kapnick’s decision.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 