-- New Jersey Sued Over Greenhouse Gas Initiative Pull-Out
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-06T16:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/new-jersey-sued-over-greenhouse-gas-initiative-pull-out.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
administration was sued by two environmental defense groups
opposing the state’s decision to pull out of a 10-state
greenhouse gas-reduction agreement.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council  and Environment New
Jersey today said they’re challenging the withdrawal from the
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in a lawsuit filed at an
appellate court in New Jersey’s capital city, Trenton.  “Governor Christie unilaterally made his decision to leave
RGGI -- without taking any input from stakeholders or the
public,”  Environment New Jersey  staff member Matt Elliott said
in a statement today announcing the filing. “His actions are
not only bad public policy, but also illegal.”  The 10-state emissions-trading program includes New York,
 Connecticut , Massachusetts and  Maryland . The first-term
governor, a Republican, on Nov. 29 told the other states New
Jersey would drop out on Jan. 1, according to his  website .  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment about
the group’s legal challenge to that decision.  “Climate change is real and it’s impacting our state,”
Christie said in a May 26, 2011,  statement , adding that 90
percent of scientists who have studied the issue have concluded
humans play a role in those changes.  Administrative Rules  “We need to work to put policies in place that act at
reducing those contributing factors,” Christie said at that
time. “Our analysis of the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative 
or RGGI reveals that this program is not effective in reducing
 greenhouse gases  and is unlikely to be in the future.”  The environmental groups today said the governor failed to
comply with administrative rules requiring that the public
receive advance notice and an opportunity to comment on the
decision before it is finalized.  “Study after study shows RGGI is working just as it was
designed,” the groups said, creating 16,000 job-years worth of
work within the region and contributing to a 23 percent
reduction in harmful pollutants while generating $159 million in
local benefits through the sale of pollution permits.  The case is In re Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, New
Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  