-- Pascrell Wins U.S. House Primary, Faces Boteach in N.J.
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-06T04:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/new-jersey-s-pascrell-beats-rothman-in-u-s-house-primary.html
Bill Pascrell Jr. defeated Steve Rothman for a chance at a ninth term in Congress in a primary
between the onetime  New Jersey  Democratic allies and will face
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, the author of “Kosher Sex,” Nov. 6.  Pascrell, 75, got 61 percent of the vote to Rothman’s 39
percent, according to results from the  Associated Press . The two
incumbents squared off after the state lost a congressional seat
and following redistricting based on the 2010  U.S. Census .  Republican Boteach, 45, from Englewood, is the author of 27
books, including one based on his relationship as spiritual
adviser to pop star  Michael Jackson . He won 58 percent of the
vote against Hector Castillo and Blase Billack, according to AP.  New Jersey’s redrawn boundaries would have put Rothman, 59,
in the 5th District against incumbent Republican  Scott Garrett ,
hailed as a “a beacon of light” by Tea Party activists.
Rothman instead moved from Fair Lawn to Englewood, where he had
been mayor, to challenge Pascrell in the 9th District. Rothman
and Pascrell had almost identical voting records in Congress.  Pascrell was endorsed by former President  Bill Clinton , a
Democrat, and the two appeared June 1 in Paterson, New Jersey’s
third largest city by population, where Pascrell had been mayor.
He also had help from  John Lewis , the 72-year-old Democratic
congressman and civil-rights leader from Georgia, who recorded
telephone messages on his behalf.  White House Meeting  Rothman distributed a photo of himself strolling with
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, outside the White House on
June 1 after an Oval Office meeting. The president didn’t
endorse Rothman, who was a supporter when Obama, a former U.S.
senator from Illinois, was running against  Hillary Clinton  for
the presidential nomination. Pascrell backed her.  Pascrell may have an edge over Boteach in the November
general election because the district’s registered Democrats
outnumber Republicans more than two to one, according to the
state elections division.  The Democratic opponents arrived in Washington at the same
time and had developed “a good friendship,” Rothman said in an
interview in January.  “Friends don’t treat each other this way,” Pascrell said.  Pascrell voted with his party 94 percent of the time, and
Rothman 93 percent, according to OpenCongress.org, a nonpartisan
research website.  Rothman conceded to “my friend” Pascrell in a speech
broadcast on public television station NJTV before the final
tally. He said he doubted he would run for public office again.  Pascrell spoke to supporters in Paterson. “I’ve always had
your back,” he said. “You had my back in this election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  