-- LNG Tankers Dodge Price Slump on China-Yard Shutout: Freight
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-06-07T10:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lng-tankers-dodge-price-slump-on-china-yard-shutout-freight.html
Liquefied natural gas tankers, the
most expensive type of vessel, have avoided a slump in new ship
prices because of rising Asian gas demand and limited
competition from Chinese shipbuilders.  Prices for tankers able to hold 160,000 cubic meters of gas
have held steady at about $202 million since 2010, based on
Clarkson Plc data, bolstering earnings for South Korea-based
 Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  and Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co., the biggest makers of the vessels. Capesize
dry-bulk ship prices have plunged 18 percent in the period
because of a glut partly caused by China financing orders to
prop up local yards.  Chinese shipbuilders have been largely shut out of the LNG
tanker market as the vessels are more complicated and more
expensive to build than ships for carrying commodities or
containers. That’s curtailing competition for the 140 new LNG
tankers that ship-classification society ABS expects operators
to order over the next five years.  “Our preference is to go to  Korea  unless there’s a
specific reason not to,” said Sverre Prytz, managing director
at BW Ventures, which operates 14 LNG ships through unit BW Gas.
“Some people are trying to build in  China , but they do it with
hesitation.”  South Korean yards have won all 13 of the new LNG tankers
ordered this year through April, according to shipbroker
Clarkson. The country also built 197 of the 372 tankers afloat.
Japanese yards, which last won an order in 2011, are the second-
biggest builder with 103 in service. LNG is natural gas chilled
to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 degrees Celsius),
liquefying it for shipment by tanker.  China Yard  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipyard,
rose 3.8 percent, the most in more than three months, to close
at 262,500 won in  Seoul . Samsung Heavy advanced 3.5 percent to
35,800 won while  Daewoo Shipbuilding (042660)  climbed 2.7 percent to
26,750 won.  Only one Chinese shipbuilder,  Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
(Group) Co. , has built LNG tankers. The yard, a unit of state-
owned China State Shipbuilding Corp., has built five vessels for
Chinese companies and is working through orders for five more.
The Shanghai-based shipbuilder didn’t reply to faxed questions.  Samsung Heavy has built 11 ships that can each move 266,000
cubic meters of LNG for an Exxon Mobil Corp. venture in Qatar.
The company, Daewoo Shipbuilding and Hyundai Heavy Industries
Co. also shared orders for 44 vessels from Qatar in 2007. The
three shipbuilders have a combined backlog of 55.  China Push  China is encouraging domestic ship operators to order LNG
tankers locally to help the biggest yards expand. The country’s
LNG imports will probably generate orders for 60 tankers over
five years, according to Houston, Texas-based ABS.  China Shipping Development Co. (1138)  will prefer to use domestic
shipbuilders as it seeks new tankers, said Ding Zhaojun, the
head of its finance department. The China Shipping Group Co.
unit has ordered four LNG carriers from Hudong-Zhonghua through
a venture with Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. It aims to have a fleet
of 10 by 2016, Ding said.  China LNG Shipping Holdings Ltd., operator of the first
China-built LNG tanker, has also issued a tender for two vessels
to local yards. Three companies bid, including Hudong-Zhonghua,
said Yan Weiping, China LNG’s general manager.  “As a Chinese operator, we favor Chinese yards,” he said.
The other bidders were a unit of Shanghai-listed  China
Shipbuilding Industry Co. (601989) , and Nantong COSCO KHI Ship
Engineering Co., which is a venture between China Ocean Shipping
(Group) Co. and Hyogo, Japan-based Kawasaki Heavy Industries
Ltd.  Watching Construction  China LNG deployed as many as 30 people at a time to watch
over construction of the Dapeng Sun, the first vessel built by
Hudong-Zhonghua. Five is usually enough for dry-bulk ship
orders, said Yan, who also made frequent site visits.  “I was even more anxious than people in the yard,” he
said. The Dapeng Sun was completed in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China LNG, a venture between Cosco Group
and China Merchants Group, now sends fewer people to the
shipbuilder because of rising experience, Yan said.  China may increase natural-gas consumption fourfold by 2030
to 600 billion cubic meters, according to  Wood Mackenzie , an
Edinburgh, Scotland-based consulting firm, because of economic
growth and a move to pare its reliance on coal. The country is
operating five LNG terminals and building six more that will
open through 2014, China National Petroleum Corp. said in its
annual oil and gas research report published in February.  China Petrochemical Corp. and  PetroChina Co. (857)  are both
buying gas from Australian projects, including Chevron Corp.-led
Gorgon and Royal Dutch Shell Plc-led Sunrise.  Japan Imports  Japan , the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, boosted imports 12
percent in the first four months as it pares its use of atomic
power following last year’s tsunami. The country may need as
much as 90 million metric tons of LNG a year by 2025, Shigeru Muraki, the chief executive of  Tokyo Gas Co. (9531) ’s energy solution
division, said yesterday. It imported 78.5 million last year,
according to preliminary Ministry of Finance figures released in
January.  Prices for LNG tankers have also been supported by Asian
energy companies’ preference for chartering vessels on long-term
contracts, often about 20 years. This security provides a
further incentive for the ship operators to buy vessels from
experienced yards where possible, said Ralph Leszczynski, the
Beijing-based head of research at shipbroker Banchero Costa &
Co.  Shipowners would “prefer to spend a little bit more to
have a safe and reliable ship than save and have problems,” he
said. “Moving from building simple bulk carriers to building
LNG ships is a big step up.”  Tanker Costs  The high cost of LNG tankers and use of long-term deals
have also helped prevent a capacity glut that has caused a slump
in the prices in other vessels. Prices for very large crude
carriers and ships able to carry 13,000 containers have fallen
about 8 percent since April 2010, according to Clarkson.  Worldwide 71 LNG tankers are on order, with a total
capacity of 11.1 million cubic meters, as of May 1, according to
Clarkson. That’s equivalent to 21 percent of the capacity of the
current fleet. The ratio for on-order  container ships  is 24
percent. It’s 29 percent for dry-bulk and 16 percent for  oil
tankers .  The shortage of new LNG tankers has pared the  spot market 
to as few as three vessels over the past 18 months, underlining
the demand for new ones, said Tony Regan, a consultant with
Singapore-based Tri-Zen International Ltd. and former Shell LNG
executive.  “I think we’re going see to an extremely tight market for
at least the next couple of years,” he said. “There’s a
tremendous growth in demand, and as routes get longer we’re
going to require more vessels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  