-- Naira Advances as Central Bank of Nigeria Said to Sell Dollars
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-06T15:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/nigeria-naira-heads-for-lowest-this-year-as-investors-sell-debt.html
Nigeria ’s naira rose for the first
time in four days, reversing an earlier drop, as the  Central
Bank of Nigeria  was said to sell dollars to lenders outside its
scheduled currency auction today.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer jumped 0.7
percent to 161.14 per dollar as of 3:38 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, having earlier declined toward the lowest
since Dec. 27.  “The CBN intervened aggressively before today’s session
closed and sold dollars to market players,”  Samir Gadio , a
London-based  emerging markets  strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Because the CBN
had been out of the market for the past two days, it is possible
that banks had not positioned for the size of the
intervention.”  Nigeria  sold  $300 million at a currency auction today,
taking the total sold at the official window this week to $600
million, the most since February, the  central bank  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a spokesman for the bank, based in the
capital, Abuja, didn’t immediately answer a text message sent to
his mobile phone after four phone calls were either not answered
or engaged.  Nigeria’s economic growth slowed to 6.17 percent in the
first quarter, from 7.13 percent a year earlier, the nation’s
statistics agency said May 22. Inflation accelerated to 12.9
percent in April after the government partly removed fuel
subsidies in January, boosting gasoline costs. The inflation
rate is still below the peak of 14.5 percent the central bank
forecasts for the third quarter.  Debt Market  The yield on Nigeria’s 10.5 percent domestic bonds due 2014
rose five basis points to 15.57 percent, according to the June 5
data on the Financial Markets Dealers Association website.
Borrowing costs on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds
declined 12 basis points to 5.7457 percent.  “The offshore investor in naira debt securities has been
exiting the market, creating pressure on the currency,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, analysts at FBN Capital Ltd.,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Ghana ’s cedi was unchanged at 1.9095 per dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  