-- Nokia New Touchscreen Asha Phones to Start at 63 Euros
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-06-06T09:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/nokia-new-touchscreen-asha-phones-to-start-at-63-euros.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  added three touchscreen
handsets to its Asha line of phones, as it revamps its lower-
priced handsets to meet demand for smartphone features.  The Asha 305, shipping this month, is priced at 63 euros
($79), and will be the company’s cheapest full-length
touchscreen phone, Juha-Pekka Sipponen, vice president and head
of portfolio and product management, said in a telephone
interview. The Asha 306 model, priced at 68 euros, and the 92-
euro Asha 311, featuring a faster touchscreen and a 1-gigahertz
processor, will be added in July, he said.  Nokia is trying to reinvigorate its low-end phone business
where shipments fell 16 percent in the first quarter as
customers upgraded to cheap smartphones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android or deferred replacing their handsets. Espoo, Finland-
based Nokia shifted last year to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone
as its main smartphone platform. Its cheapest Windows Phone-
based model, the Lumia 610, is priced at 189 euros.  “The main reason Nokia has been struggling in feature
phones lately is that it lacked touch products,” said Sami Sarkamies, a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank. “This
announcement won’t help much in the second quarter but I think
there will be a notable impact in the third quarter.”  Nokia advanced 3.4 percent to 2.21 euros as of 12:32 p.m.
in Helsinki trading.  Brand Building  Nokia sold 18 million dual-SIM devices in the third quarter
of 2011 after adding the feature which lets users swap easily
between operators to save money. It could see a similar bounce
from the new Ashas and ship “tens of millions” of them in the
second half, Sarkamies said.  Nokia is trying to build the value of the Asha brand and
blur the difference between smartphones and midrange phones,
Sipponen said. The handsets run Nokia’s Series 40 operating
system, introduced in 1999, with the Asha touch user interface
on top of it.  The new Asha touchscreens will give customers a better
experience with existing services such as map databases and
mobile applications, Sipponen said. Rival Samsung Electronics
Co., which passed Nokia this year as the world’s largest maker
of mobile phones,  sells  touchscreen feature phones under the
names Star and Champ.  ‘Blurred Market’  “This blurred market will continue to exist,” Sipponen
said. “There is quite a lot of runway ahead -- 3.2 billion
people still don’t have a mobile phone.”  Nokia is including 40 free games from  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) 
with the new phones, as well as Rovio Entertainment Oy’s Angry
Birds on the higher-priced Asha 311.  “There’s still a gap in Nokia’s portfolio at the moment
between its most affordable smartphones and the top of the Asha
range,” said Tim Shepherd, an analyst with Canalys in Reading,
U.K. “Nokia has a very good opportunity here if the marketing
is pitched correctly and focuses on the experience offered.”  Previous Asha handsets had phone keypads or Qwerty
keyboards, in some cases combined with touchscreens in models
Nokia calls “Touch and Type.”  The dual-SIM Asha 305 and single-SIM Asha 306 will use 3-
inch resistive touchscreens, while the dual-SIM Asha 311 will
have a capacitive touchscreen, the faster type used on most
smartphones, Sipponen said.  The decline in shipments of Nokia low-end phones in the
first quarter came amid a slide in worldwide low-end phone sales
to end customers in the period, according to  Gartner Inc.  data.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop has said the
company will drive prices of Windows Phones down as well as
continuing to revamp products aimed at lower-income users in
 emerging markets . The new devices are part of Nokia’s plan to
connect the “next billion” users to the Internet, Executive
Vice President  Mary McDowell  said in a statement today
announcing the new products.  The list prices of Nokia phones don’t include taxes and
subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  