-- Nokia Seeks to Build on AT&T Deal in North America Comeback
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-06-07T07:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/nokia-seeks-to-build-on-at-t-deal-in-north-america-comeback-plan.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , attempting a turnaround in
 North America  after losing most of its smartphone market share,
plans to expand on its initial deals with carriers  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 T-Mobile USA , the Finnish company’s regional executive said.  Nokia, which decided to abandon its Symbian software last
year in favor of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone operating
system, is selling its Lumia lineup in the U.S. through AT&T and
T-Mobile.  “But that’s just a start,” Chris Weber, president of
Nokia’s North America unit, said in an interview. “We’re back
in the U.S., we’re back in  Canada  -- it’s exciting, but there’s
more work to do,” he said, without elaborating on the plan.  Nokia rose 0.2 percent to 2.24 euros as of 10:52 a.m. in
Helsinki trading.  Nokia is counting on Windows phones to rebuild its cachet
in the region, where it’s lost ground to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Symbian fell to a 6.8
percent share of the smartphone market  last quarter  from 26
percent a year earlier, according to IDC. To promote the
Windows-based comeback, Nokia and Microsoft have ramped up
marketing, and the Lumia 900 is selling for $99.99 on AT&T’s
network -- half the cost of the iPhone 4S.  ‘Unique Proposition’  North America was the only region where Espoo, Finland-
based Nokia saw handset shipments grow sequentially in the first
quarter, helped by the release of the Lumia 710 on T-Mobile in
January. Still, the 600,000 units  shipped  marked a 50 percent
decline from a year earlier. Sales of the Lumia 900 on AT&T
started in April, after the quarter ended.  The key to getting more Lumia phones into consumers’ hands
is giving each carrier a “unique proposition,” so they can
show how the devices stand out from the iPhone or Android
models, Weber said. While only AT&T and T-Mobile offer the Lumia
phones now,  Verizon Wireless  has said it’s preparing to add a
new Nokia model to its lineup.  Most AT&T buyers opted for the iPhone last quarter, with
the Apple device making up 78 percent of its smartphone sales.
At Verizon, which added the iPhone to its network more recently,
the product accounted for 51 percent of smartphone sales. That
company relies more on models running Android.  Samsung, Apple  Still, Windows Phone shipments are projected to increase in
the next four years, giving a boost to Nokia. IDC predicts that
the operating system will overtake Apple’s iOS as the No. 2
smartphone software by 2016.  In the short term, the Lumia phones may struggle to compete
with new Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple releases this year.  “It looks like they are ramping up the volumes quite well,
but the question is how they are going to address the Samsung
Galaxy III launch and the next iPhone launch,” said  Mikko Ervasti , an analyst with Evli Bank in Helsinki. “They need to
keep the Lumia 900 selling well and have new products in the
pipeline.”  In Canada, the homeland of Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, Nokia sells the Lumia 710 and Lumia 900 with  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and the Lumia 800 with  Telus Corp. (T)   Global smartphone shipments will grow 39 percent this year,
with 5.2 percent of models running Microsoft software, IDC said
in a report this week. The Framingham, Massachusetts-based
research firm predicts that Windows Phone will account for 19.2
percent of smartphone shipments in 2016.  Ecosystem Advantage?  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry, also
scrapped its old operating system and is banking on a new
platform to revive slumping sales. The Waterloo, Ontario-based
company said last week that it has hired bankers to help it find
a partner or license its operating system. RIM expects to report
its first quarterly operating loss since 2004.  The difference between RIM and Nokia is that RIM doesn’t
have a partner the size of Microsoft to build an ecosystem that
can compete with Apple and Google, Weber said. RIM doesn’t agree
and has demonstrated large-scale engineering capabilities with
the secure server network it runs, Heidi Davidson, a
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  “On top of that unique network, we are building a truly
new mobile operating system with proven technology rather than
pushing out yet another update of something consumers have
rejected time and again for 10 years,” Davidson said.  In addition to creating the Windows Phone operating system
and encouraging software developers to use it, Microsoft prods
phone retailers and other partners to offer incentives and in-
store promotions.  “There are only a few companies in the world who can build
an ecosystem that scales to what consumers demand,” Weber said.
“Right now my view is that it’s Apple, Google and Microsoft
because it takes deep pockets, lots of engineering talent, and
the scale and scope globally to build that ecosystem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  