-- Novel Drugs Seek Cure for Cancer That Killed Ted Kennedy
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-06-06T20:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/novel-drugs-seek-cure-for-cancer-that-killed-ted-kennedy.html
Senator  Edward Kennedy  was diagnosed
with brain cancer in 2008 and died 15 months later, close to the
median survival time for the disease.  Now, researchers at two California-based biotechnology
companies,  ImmunoCellular Therapeutics Ltd. (IMUC)  and Tocagen Inc.,
along with the  MD Anderson Cancer Center  in Houston, are leading
an effort to create drugs and treatments to fight the form of
cancer that killed Kennedy, known as glioblastoma multiforme. No
other brain cancer is as deadly nor spreads so quickly and the
new therapies hold out the promise of more than doubling  life
expectancy  for those who suffer from it.  The treatments are based on strategies that are growing in
popularity among cancer scientists -- using viruses and the
body’s immune system to attack tumors. The approach may have
broad implications for patients with other forms of cancer that
have few current treatment options.  “We haven’t cured anyone, but there are signs we’re
heading in the right direction,” said Frederick Lang, a
neurosurgery professor at the  University of Texas  who is
undertaking the research at MD Anderson.  The cancer grows quickly, causing headaches and extreme
nausea, and disrupting memory, balance, speech and vision. No
one knows the cause. About 620,000 people are living with brain
tumors and an estimated 10,000 are diagnosed annually with
glioblastomas, according to N. Paul TonThat, the  National Brain
Tumor Society ’s executive director.  Extending Life  ImmunoCellular reported June 2 at the American Society of
Oncology meeting in  Chicago  that 50 percent of 16 patients on
its drug, ICT-107, were alive after four years, compared with 12
percent on standard treatment. While the  Woodland Hills ,
California-based biotech leads the race for treatments, it is
just one of several new research strategies that offer optimism
to those suffering from the disease, TonThat said.  ImmunoCellular rose 2.8 percent to $3.69 at the close of
 trading  in  New York . The stock has almost doubled in the last 12
months, rising 94 percent.  The disease was little known by most non-specialists before
Kennedy’s diagnosis in May 2008, the cancer group’s TonThat
said. The Massachusetts Democrat died on Aug. 25, 2009.  “People know about it today after losing Senator
Kennedy,” TonThat said in a telephone interview. “It’s the
nastiest of them all.”  Quicker Review  There are two key areas of research, TonThat said. One
adapts common viruses so they can be used to attack the cancer
directly, or to deliver powerful chemotherapy drugs that are
precisely targeted to destroy the tumors. ImmunoCellular’s
treatment, now may gain a quicker review by U.S. regulators for
approval against a rare disease, uses the body’s own-disease
shedding abilities to target  stem cells  that spur cancer growth.  ImmunoCellular said its therapy extended survival time in
patients in early-stage testing to about 38.4 months from 14.6
months. That data, in 16 patients, was reanalyzed this year
prior to the oncology meeting, showing the extended survival
period.  The treatment spurs an attack against the malignancy by the
immune system’s killer T-cells. In this case, the company
adapted immune-system messaging cells, called  dendritic cells ,
to sniff out developing cancer. Dendritic cells work similarly
to the way signals from human skin advises the brain that a
touched surface is hot or rough.  “We try to give dendritic cells the scent of a criminal’s
clothes,” so the immune system “can go like a hound after the
tumor and kill it,” said John Yu, ImmunoCellular’s chairman and
chief scientific officer.  Harnessing Viruses  Lang , at MD Anderson, and  Tocagen , a closely held San
Diego-based company, are using modified viruses to attack  brain
cancer , though in very different ways.  In Lang’s therapy, the virus infects cancer cells and
replicates until it has no room left.  At that point, “it bursts the cell,” Lang said by
telephone. “So if that’s a tumor cell, it’s now dead.”  The treatment known as  Delta-24 , successful in studies in
the laboratory and in animals, is now being tested in a small
number of human patients in the first of three stages of
clinical trials typically required for regulatory approval.  Tocagen’s experimental medicine, also in first-stage human
testing, requires doctors to drill a hole in a patient’s skull
and inject the virus.  Once the virus is delivered, it replicates throughout the
cancer and serves as a sticky landing pad for an antibiotic
that’s given as a pill. The combination of the virus and the
pill then become a powerful chemotherapy.  Precise Targeting  The virus helps to target the cancer precisely, important
because glioblastomas are known to spread in difficult-to-
discern tendrils, rather than large masses, said Santosh Kesari,
an associate professor at the  University of California ,  San
Diego , who runs a neuro-oncology  lab .  Even microscopic amounts of the cancer that are left after
surgery have been seen to restart the growth, he said.  “In the old days, the surgeons took out half the brain and
it still came back,” Kesari said. “For three decades, we
didn’t make any progress.”  Blacked Out  Allen Parkes, 43, is emblematic of the progress being made
against the disease. He was diagnosed about a year ago, after he
blacked out while driving.  Parkes now has participated in two of more than  200 trials 
the U.S. National Institutes of Health said are being conducted
for the disease.  “I keep throwing different solutions at it, doing a lot of
supplements, hitting it with everything I can hit it with,”
said Parkes, who lives in San Diego with his wife and two boys,
ages 7 and 4. “I have to have hope and stay positive.”  Surgeons removed Parkes’s tumor last year, followed by
courses of chemotherapy and radiation that only slowed the pace
of its regrowth. He said was part of an experimental vaccine
trial, which didn’t work, and then was given Tocagen’s therapy.  His first MRI after receiving Tocagen’s approach showed a
25 percent reduction in his tumor, a result that sent him
“skipping” down the lab’s halls, he said in an interview.  “I’m banking on this working,” Parkes said. “My 7-year-
old doesn’t want daddy to die before he’s supposed to.”  On April 26, Parkes had a follow-up MRI that showed a new
tumor, about the same size as the one removed last year, he
said. Now, he’s looking for another experimental therapy to try,
Parkes wrote on his  blog .  Chances are, he may find one. “I have lots of clinical
trials, so at least when patients come and say there are no
options, I can now say we do have options,” said the University
of  California ’s Kesari, who is Parkes’s doctor. “I think that’s
the only thing that motivates me to stay in this business.”  While the brain tumor society’s TonThat is optimistic the
new therapies will make a difference in glioblastoma multiforme,
or GBM, he is cautious about promising too big a transformation.  “Every time in the last 20 years people thought they
cracked GBM, something failed,” he said. “It’s very hopeful
that this could do it, but there’s a lot more testing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  