-- NYSE Criticizes Nasdaq’s Facebook Compensation Plan
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-07T14:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/nyse-criticizes-nasdaq-s-facebook-compensation-plan.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s (NDAQ)  plan to
earmark $40 million for brokers whose orders were mishandled in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering will hurt competition,
according to  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The second-biggest U.S. stock-exchange operator said
yesterday that it would pay $13.7 million in cash, with the rest
of the money credited through lower trading fees for members who
took losses. That step was criticized by the New York Stock
Exchange owner, which said it compels customers to trade on
Nasdaq to get refunds. The Securities and Exchange Commission
must approve Nasdaq’s plan before it can be implemented.  “This is tantamount to forcing the industry to subsidize
Nasdaq’s missteps and would establish a harmful precedent,”
NYSE Euronext said in an e-mailed statement. “We intend to
strongly press our views that Nasdaq’s proposal cannot be
allowed to permit an unjust and anti-competitive situation.”  Delays and malfunctions on the Nasdaq Stock Market were the
first signs of trouble in the May 18  Facebook IPO  that  burned 
investors, cost Wall Street market makers an estimated $120
million and prompted lawsuits against the company, its exchange
and the underwriters.  The stock  is down 29 percent since the $16
billion offering, the biggest ever by a technology company.  Largest Wholesalers  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
estimated in a May 23 government filing that it lost as much as
$35 million in the IPO. The company is one of the largest
wholesalers, a category of market makers that executes orders
for individual investors sent to the firm from retail brokers.  “Clearly, we are disappointed that Nasdaq’s compensation
fund does not come close to covering reported losses from
broker-dealers like Knight,” the company said in a statement.
“Their proposed solution to this problem is simply
unacceptable. As previously stated, the company is evaluating
all remedies available under law.”  Executives of Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct Edge
Holdings Inc., the biggest U.S. equity market operators after
NYSE and Nasdaq, said today at a conference sponsored by Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York  that they also objected to
Nasdaq’s plan and would oppose it.  Three Orders  The program Nasdaq  announced  would cover three kinds of
orders placed during the IPO cross, the process used to open a
stock after an offering: sales priced at $42 or less that
weren’t executed; purchases priced at $42; and certain types of
sell orders that should have participated in the cross and were
entered into the market at 1:50 p.m. New York time on the day of
the offering, receiving less than $42.  Orders eligible include those submitted before 11:30 a.m.
that were disadvantaged by Nasdaq’s technical errors and those
in which the member firm was uncertain of the outcome of the
trade request. Orders that don’t qualify include “losses that
are attributed to execution message delays when in fact an
outcome was already certain,”  Eric Noll , the executive vice
president for transaction services at  Nasdaq  OMX, said in a
webcast yesterday.  Nasdaq won’t cover claims from brokers who allowed
customers to cancel orders and took the loss themselves, he
said. Losses from “affirmative decisions by members” or in
cases where members told investors that unconfirmed trades had
been executed won’t be eligible, the company said.  Control, Visibility  “We have no control or visibility over that
relationship,” Noll said. “Those losses that are attributable
to that activity are going to be borne by the member firm who
made those decisions.”  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive officer  Robert Greifeld  said in
an interview with CNBC yesterday that the payback plan was
designed to aid its broker-dealer members in cases where it’s
clear they lost money due to errors in the auction process.
Nasdaq OMX isn’t responsible for the decisions of retail and
institutional investors and isn’t trying to take anyone’s
business with its compensation plan, he said.  “We cut fees and the people will get the reduced fees,”
he said. “They don’t have to give us any more market share. Our
market share could be constant or decline and people will still
get paid,” he said. “We are offering this to our customers
that transact with us every day. They do not have to give us one
incremental share for them to earn this payment.”  Pressed Ahead  The exchange pressed ahead with Facebook trading on May 18
because its testing didn’t reveal a problem with the IPO cross
and the company’s technology department said the system was
ready, he said. Continuous trading “worked perfectly” from
then to the 4 p.m. close, Greifeld said.  Nasdaq will determine how much to pay most investors and
traders by comparing their execution price to $40.626, the
volume-weighted average price for Facebook from 1:50 p.m. until
2:20 p.m. on May 18, Noll said. It chose that period because
member firms could have made decisions then, after receiving
execution reports at 1:50 p.m. from the IPO cross, he said.
Losses for orders released into the market at 1:50 p.m. will be
compared to the $42 price from the IPO cross, Noll said.  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took a half hour longer than Nasdaq OMX planned the
next morning. About 30 minutes after that, the  market owner 
reported an issue confirming trades from the opening auction
with the brokerages that placed them.  Auction Dispute  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the auction as a technical issue was being
repaired between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. New York time,
Greifeld told reporters on May 20. About half may involve “some
level of dispute,” he said.  Nasdaq OMX said in a May 21  notice  that the 30 million
shares didn’t participate in the IPO cross. An error prevented
execution reports for the shares that entered the auction, as
well as those that were ignored, from being disseminated
immediately to brokerages, the company said.  Some orders submitted before 11:30 a.m. received executions
at prices different from the $42 IPO cross, causing buyers to
pay more and sellers to receive less than they should have,
Nasdaq OMX said in another May 21  notice . A portion of those
deemed ineligible for the IPO auction were later re-entered into
the market by Nasdaq’s systems, the exchange said.  Total Losses  Losses may total $120 million for the four largest U.S.
equity wholesalers, or market-makers that execute orders for
individual investors supplied from brokers such as TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run by  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million on Facebook in its market-
making unit, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.
 UBS AG (UBSN)  lost about $30 million and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  about $20
million from servicing retail customers through their
wholesaling businesses, Dow Jones Newswires reported on May 25.  Nasdaq’s handling of the IPO has led to led to lawsuits and
is being examined by the SEC. A review by the regulators that
has yet to be completed shows technical failures precipitated
the trading issues, not a violation of industry rules, the Wall
Street Journal said May 30, citing people familiar with the
matter who it didn’t name.  Greifeld acknowledged “poor design” in software put the
opening auction that set the price for the first traded shares
into a loop that delayed its completion. Executives of the
company “believed they had the right solution” as they worked
to start trading, Noll said in a statement provided by spokesman
Robert Madden on May 22.  “My biggest concern is they took our order, they were
responsible for it, and then more than two hours later they came
back and said ‘nothing done,’” Packy Jones, chairman of
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a  Westlake Village ,
California-based broker, said in a phone interview. “It’s
difficult to manage the investment process when you’re doubting
your counterparties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  