-- Obama Re-Election Map Shaken After Walker’s Wisconsin Win
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-06T20:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/obama-re-election-map-shaken-after-walker-s-wisconsin-win.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker  said
today his victory in yesterday’s recall election sets the stage
for  Mitt Romney  to be competitive in his state in November’s
election, while the presumptive Republican presidential nominee
saw broader national implications to the result.  “I think he’d acknowledge he’s an underdog, particularly
here in Wisconsin,” Walker said of Romney on  MSNBC . “But I
think anyone looking at the results last night would also
acknowledge that it’s now competitive in Wisconsin.”  Romney, speaking at a fundraiser today in San Antonio,
Texas, said the Wisconsin vote will “echo” throughout U.S.  “Yesterday was won by the people of Wisconsin doing the
right thing and voting for conservative principles,” he said.
“I think people recognize we just can’t keep going down the
same path that we’re on. It ends up in calamity.”  Walker’s win prompted Democratic and Republican strategists
to reassess Wisconsin’s political landscape and the role the
state will play in the presidential race. Until earlier this
week, target states listed by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
didn’t include the state, which has voted Democratic in the past
six presidential elections, albeit narrowly at times.  In a campaign video released June 4 -- the day before the
recall -- Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  listed Wisconsin as
“undecided,” along with Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Ohio,  North
Carolina , New Hampshire and Virginia.  Downplaying Results  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
aboard Air Force One today that he hadn’t yet spoken extensively
with Obama about the Wisconsin outcome.  “I certainly wouldn’t read much into yesterday’s
results,” he said, adding that Obama’s message about growing
the economy and jobs “will resonate in Wisconsin.”  It remains an open question whether Romney can capitalize
on Walker’s momentum. So far, his campaign has yet to announce
any travel plans to Wisconsin.  “It tends to be a blue state in presidential elections, we
don’t win a lot in Wisconsin,” Romney said today.  “The key for  Governor Romney  to be competitive enough to
win is I think he’s got to lay out a clear platform -- something
similar to what our friend  Paul Ryan  has done,” Walker said,
pointing to the U.S. House Budget Committee chairman whose
proposed overhaul of Medicaid and Medicare and suggested
government spending cuts is being used by Democrats to rally
support.  Make Compelling Case  Walker said that if Romney “makes a compelling case to the
people of Wisconsin that he’s willing to take those kinds of
risks to get America back on track for our kids and our
grandkids’ kids, he can win.”  Romney said today the Wisconsin results show voters support
leaders who seek to curb the government’s size and challenge
organized labor, and that those attitudes would surface in
November’s vote.  Voters in Wisconsin “said we’ve seen a conservative
governor; he cut back on the scale of government and has held
down taxes and stood up to the public sector unions and we want
more of that, not less of it,” Romney said during a telephone
town hall meeting with members of the  National Federation of
Independent Business . “And I think you’re going to find that in
the decisions being made in November.”  Big Names  Three of the biggest names in Republican politics today
call Wisconsin home: Walker, Ryan and  Republican National
Committee  Chairman Reince Priebus.  Even before the recall results were in, Democrats and
Republicans were working to spin the significance of the outcome
for the matchup between Obama and Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor.  The organization and mobilization of Wisconsin Republicans
to protect Walker could provide Romney a boost, should he decide
to compete aggressively in the state.  If Romney were able to make Wisconsin a competitive state,
it could make a major difference in this year’s campaign.
Winning a Midwest industrial state such as Wisconsin or
Michigan, which both backed Obama in 2008, would provide him an
easier path to the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White
House.  Wisconsin’s History  A victory wouldn’t be an easy task for Romney, 65. The
state, which has 10 electoral votes, hasn’t voted for a
Republican presidential candidate since President  Ronald Reagan 
carried it in his 1984 re-election against Democrat Walter Mondale, who won just one state, his native Minnesota.  Obama, 50, in the 2008 election beat Republican  John McCain 
in Wisconsin, 56 percent to 42 percent. An exit poll of recall
election voters conducted yesterday showed Obama beating Romney,
51 percent to 44 percent.  Still, if this presidential election plays out similar to
those held in 2000 and 2004, Romney could have a fighting
chance. Former President  George W. Bush  came within several
thousand votes of winning the state in both of those election
cycles.  Also boosting Republican confidence in the state are their
2010 victories, when the party won the governor’s office, as
well as a U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat Russ Feingold. They
also picked up two House seats in the state’s eight-member
delegation and gained control of both chambers of the state
legislature.  Tea Partiers  Tea Party activists were an important constituency behind
Republican  Ron Johnson ’s 2010 Senate win and the movement, which
promotes a smaller role for the federal government, remains a
force in the state.  Spending on the recall through May 21 amounted to at least
$66 million, according to the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign, a
nonpartisan group in Madison that follows election financing.
That’s almost double the $37 million spent on the 2010
governor’s race. Walker alone raised more than $30 million, with
about two-thirds coming from out of state.  The financial imbalance contributed to Walker’s victory,
recall supporters said. Still, as important as money was in the
race, its significance may be overplayed by Democrats. The exit
polling showed that nearly nine in ten voters made their
decision on the recall prior to May, more than a month before
the actual vote and an explosion of  television advertising .  State In Play  Ed Gillespie , a senior Romney adviser, said today that
Wisconsin is in play, though he cautioned not to overestimate
the effects of the recall vote.  “I do think it will be competitive in November,” he said
of Wisconsin at a Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington today. “But
winning in a recall election does not mean you should put it in
your ‘leans-Republican’ column today.”  Gillespie, a former chairman of the Republican National
Committee, said the vote affirms policies proposed by governors
in other states and by Romney that would limit unions as a way
of closing budget gaps.  “The election results indicate that there is a receptive
message out in the heartland, the country at large, for that
center-right approach,” he said.  “The playing field has broadened for Republicans,”
Gillespie said. “The fact that Wisconsin is in play is
revealing.”  Walker Victory  Walker beat Democratic Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, 53
percent to 46 percent with all of the vote recorded, according
to unofficial returns from the  Associated Press .  Obama’s Wisconsin win four years ago was boosted by a surge
in support among younger voters, a demographic that remains more
supportive of him than Romney and yet which polls show is less
energetic about his campaign than it was four years ago.  The president declined to get involved in the recall race,
with the exception of an Internet post supportive of Barrett on
the evening before the vote. He literally flew over the state --
twice -- on June 1 en route to his own campaign events in
Minnesota and Illinois.  Besides the potential of an embarrassing loss, Obama
traveling to Wisconsin also would have brought with it the risk
of turning off some of the independent voters who backed Walker
that the president needs to win in November.  Romney, who also didn’t visit the state in the run-up to
the recall election, made supportive statements about Walker as
he campaigned ahead of Wisconsin’s April 3 primary, a victory
that accelerated his path to clinching his party’s presidential
nomination.  -- With assistance from Lisa Lerer and Roger Runningen in
Washington and Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  San Antonio , Texas. 
Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Don Frederick  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  