-- Obama Adviser Sperling Says Spending Cuts May Hurt Growth
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-06T21:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/obama-adviser-sperling-says-spending-cuts-may-hurt-growth.html
Republicans and Democrats must agree
on a “balanced compromise” on budget deficit reduction that
avoids “penny-wise but pound-foolish” spending cuts, a top
economic adviser to President  Barack Obama  said.  The U.S. needs long-term savings on entitlement spending,
higher taxes on the wealthy and “immediate support for jobs and
the recovery,”  Gene Sperling , director of the National Economic
Council, said today in a speech to the  Economic Club of New
York , according to excerpts released by the White House.  “If you are someone who is concerned about structural
unemployment you should be obsessed with immediate job creating
measures,” Sperling said. He said the nation risks “allowing
the crisis of long-term unemployment to add significantly to the
future ranks of the structurally unemployed.”  He said construction unemployment at 14.2 percent and
yields on U.S. Treasury debt “hitting the lowest rate ever last
week” make it an ideal time for the federal government to
address infrastructure needs, such as repairing and building
roads and schools.  “Will there ever be a better time for deferred
maintenance?” Sperling said.  Yields on  10-year Treasury notes  were up 8 basis points or
.08 percentage points to 1.66 percent at 4:42 pm  New York  time
today.  Sperling said extending tax cuts for the wealthy that are
set to expire at the end of the year would be “among the least
effective measures imaginable for promoting immediate jobs and
growth.” At the same time, he said, it would signal “a lack of
shared sacrifice” and would undermine “a serious commitment to
tackling our long-term fiscal challenge.”  Job Growth  The administration is seeking to avoid a slowdown in
growth. Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The  unemployment rate  rose to
8.2 percent, the first increase since last June.  Sperling also argued that the package of measures to boost
 job creation  that Obama proposed last year would have bolstered
the recovery. Republicans in the House rejected most of the
provisions.  “Had Congress passed even a significant portion of the
American Jobs Act’s provisions for rebuilding schools, immediate
infrastructure investments, or a national infrastructure bank,
there would be more construction activity, and more jobs,
instead of losing another 28,000 construction jobs this month,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  