-- Obama Taps Hollywood to Keep Campaign Treasury Full
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-06T22:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/obama-taps-hollywood-to-keep-campaign-treasury-full.html
President  Barack Obama  returned to
California today for the third time in a month, his push for
campaign cash and Democratic seats in the  House of
Representatives  overriding concerns he may turn off swing voters
with a focus on gay rights advocates and celebrities.  The president scheduled five fundraisers today and tomorrow
in the reliably Democrat-voting state, bringing to 29 the number
of California fundraising events his campaign has announced
since he began his re-election bid 14 months ago.  Obama spoke about the economy, the dominant issue in the
presidential campaign between him and Republican  Mitt Romney . He
criticized Republican plans to extend tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans and loosen regulations.  “We’re not where we need to be yet,” Obama told donors at
the Julia Morgan Ballroom, the second of two events in  San
Francisco . “We’ve got to finish what we started.”  Obama heads later to Los Angeles for a gay-rights gala
featuring television personality  Ellen DeGeneres , followed by a
dinner at the home of Ryan Murphy, creator of the television
series “Glee,” and Murphy’s fiancé  David Miller .  Tomorrow, Obama holds a breakfast fundraiser in View Park,
California, then departs for the swing state of  Nevada , where
he’ll give a speech on college costs at the  University of Nevada 
in  Las Vegas . He’ll return to Washington from there.  Celebrity Donors  Asked whether time spent with celebrities detracts from
Obama’s message that he’s looking out for middle-income voters,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the president has
“vast numbers of small donors.”  “The president is happy to have the support that he has,
but the bedrock foundation of his support are the millions and
millions of Americans” Carney told reporters traveling with the
president.  Obama’s  California  trip follows a visit to the state last
week by Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts  and the
presumptive Republican nominee. Obama and Romney each are making
the case that the other will take the U.S. down the path of
 Europe , as the euro region’s debt crisis threatens the U.S.
recovery.  “This is going to be a tough race precisely because the
economy’s not where it needs to be yet,” Obama said.  Jobs Report  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year, and the  unemployment rate  increased to 8.2 percent, the
first rise since last June, the Labor Department reported June
1. Other reports released last week showed the  U.S. economy  grew
less than initially estimated during the year’s first quarter,
and business activity in May expanded at the slowest pace in
more than two years.  California Democratic Party Chairman John Burton said in a
telephone interview that, while “clearly the president’s out
here to raise money” and isn’t at risk of losing California,
his return trips may keep the Democratic base in the state
enthusiastic and raise money to help congressional campaigns.  Burton said Obama’s engagement may translate to higher
Democratic turnout in California in November and allow Democrats
in the state to pick up as many as five congressional seats --
or one-fifth of the total the Democrats need nationally to
regain control of the House.  House Battle  That’s in Obama’s interest, Burton said, because if
Republicans keep control of the House it is likely that “very
little will get accomplished” if Obama wins a second term.  Stephen Weatherford, a professor of political science at
the University of California Santa Barbara who specializes in
the intersection of politics and the economy, said Obama also
has to look out for himself in a year in which Romney is poised
to benefit more than Obama from unlimited donations to so-called
super political action committees.  Obama’s campaign had raised $19 million in California,
compared with $10.6 million raised by the Romney campaign,
according to Federal Election Commission data released May 21
and compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based campaign research group.  Through April 30 of this year, Obama raised a total of $222
million to $100 million for Romney, and the  Democratic National
Committee  brought in $169 million to $135 million for the
Republicans.  Super-PAC Money  At the same time, Democrats are expressing concerns Romney
is benefiting more than Obama from unlimited donations to super
PACs and pro-Republican nonprofits that can keep their donors
secret, such as Crossroads GPS, which is spending $25 million on
anti-Obama ads.  Obama’s latest California swing follows his May 10 dinner
at the  Los Angeles  home of actor  George Clooney , where he
collected an estimated $15 million, and a May 23 visit with
events at the home of philanthropists Lisa and Douglas Goldman
of Atherton and at Redwood City’s Fox Theatre with singer Ben Harper.  The San Francisco events included a campaign roundtable
with tickets at $35,800 apiece for 25 guests, and a luncheon for
250 donors with general admission tickets priced at $5,000,
according to the campaign.  The LGBT Leadership Council Gala at the Regent Beverly
Wilshire in Beverly Hills is set to draw 600 donors, with
tickets starting at $1,250. Another 70 donors are invited to
attend the dinner at Murphy’s home, with tickets at $25,000.  The breakfast is to draw 300 donors paying $2,500 apiece to
the home of real estate developer Charles Quarles. Quarles is
president of Los Angeles-based Bedford Group, which specializes
in urban development.  Quarles, reached by phone, declined to talk in detail about
Obama’s re-election prospects or the role the economy may place.
He said that “if I didn’t think he was doing a great job I
wouldn’t be doing this,” and that Obama is “doing the best he
can given the constraints he has to work under.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  