-- Obama Dueling Romney With Europe Debt Crisis as the Foil
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-06T19:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/obama-dueling-romney-with-europe-debt-crisis-as-the-foil.html
Lobbyists, special-interest groups
and  Wall Street  typically fill out the villain list for
political candidates. Now they have a new foil: Europe.  The threat that the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis
will stunt the U.S. economic recovery has made the continent a
target for the campaigns of President  Barack Obama  and
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney .  Romney warns that Obama’s policies and spending will “take
America on the path to Europe.” Obama offers the same caution
about Romney’s approach, saying the Republican’s emphasis on
austerity would result in economic stagnation as Europe is
experiencing.  “Everyone wants to use Europe for their own domestic
purposes right now,” said  Ian Bremmer , president of the Eurasia
Group, a research and consulting group in New York.  The political attack carries geopolitical risk for Obama.
It may be viewed as criticism of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Europe’s main advocate for austerity and the person
Obama needs most as an ally to stem any contagion from the debt
crisis. As a candidate who doesn’t hold government office,
Romney has more flexibility in his political message.  Obama and former President  Bill Clinton  made numerous
references to Europe during joint appearances at three
fundraisers in New York on June 4 as they addressed the No. 1
issue in the presidential campaign: the  U.S. economy .  Slowing Down  “The situation in Europe is slowing things down,” Obama
told donors at the New Amsterdam Theatre. At the home of hedge
fund executive  Marc Lasry , Obama said that Romney and
congressional Republicans favored an austerity plan that would
“drastically shrink government,” hurting job growth and
middle-income Americans.  “That is fundamentally different from our experience in
growing this economy and creating jobs,” Obama said.  Where Obama was subtle, not drawing a direct line between
 Europe ’s approach and Romney, Clinton was not.  The former president said Republicans were adopting “the
European economy policy.”  “Who would have ever thought that the Republicans would
embrace the austerity and jobless policies of what they used to
derisively call ‘old Europe,’” Clinton told donors at the
Waldorf Astoria hotel, referring to the Bush administration’s
umbrage at European allies who didn’t embrace its post-Sept. 11
war policies. “I never thought I’d live to breathe and see,
here they are saying, let’s do the euro zone’s economic policy -
- they got 11 percent unemployment; we can get up there if we
work at it,” he said, drawing laughter from the crowd.  European Outcome  Romney, meanwhile, is arguing that that the way to avoid a
European outcome is to elect a new president.  “We have two courses we could follow. One is to follow in
the pathway of Europe, to shrink our military smaller and
smaller to pay for our social needs,” he said May 28 in  San
Diego . “They of course rely on the strength of America and they
hope for the best. Were we to follow that kind of a course,
there would be no one who could stand to protect us.”  Romney last year accused Obama of taking his political
inspiration “from the socialist democrats in Europe.”  Obama has been citing the economic impact of the crisis in
the 17-nation euro zone, as signs of a U.S. slowdown pose a
bigger threat to his re-election. In separate phone calls
yesterday and today, Obama spoke with Merkel, U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  They talked about the importance of strengthening “the
resilience of the euro zone” to bolster growth in Europe as
well as globally, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.
He refused to say whether they agreed on any specific steps.  Europe’s ‘Cloud’  After the Labor Department reported on June 1 that U.S.
 payrolls  expanded by 69,000 in May, fewer than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of private
economists, Obama said that Europe’s leaders haven’t done enough
to dispel “the cloud that’s hanging over from the Atlantic.”  Treasury 30- and  10-year yields  reached record lows of
1.4387 percent and 2.5089 percent after the Labor Department
report. They rose for a second day yesterday on speculation the
slide won’t be sustained and conjecture European leaders may
move to stem the debt crisis damped demand for safety.  Borrowing Costs  The benchmark  10-year note  yield climbed eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 2:08 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 30-
year bond yield increased seven basis points today to 2.71
percent.  Germany also has seen borrowing costs fall as investors
sought the nation’s debt as a haven from Europe’s financial
turmoil. The German 10-year bond yield was 1.22 percent at 4:08
p.m. London time after hitting an all-time-low of 1.127 percent
on June 1.  Obama has to balance politics with the need to influence
those leaders. He risks alienating Merkel at the very time he is
asking her to ease up on her austerity push and sign off on more
spending that could insulate the U.S.  “What does he gain by offending Merkel? Nothing,” said
 Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at forecaster  IHS Inc. (IHS)  and a
former Federal Reserve official. “So what he’s really trying to
do here? He’s trying to play it both ways. He risks a negative
reaction on Merkel’s part, which would be counterproductive.”  The debate over stimulus versus austerity has dogged Obama
throughout his presidency, as the U.S. recovers from the worst
recession in more than seven decades. Romney is making it one of
the central arguments of his campaign.  Stiglitz Analysis  Obama’s approach was endorsed this week by Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz .  History shows that the adoption of fiscal austerity when an
economy is weak can have disastrous consequences, as happened in
the U.S. in 1929 on the eve of the Great Depression, Stiglitz
told Bloomberg editors and reporters in New York yesterday.  Romney risks making that same sort of mistake by backing a
plan to tighten federal spending, said Stiglitz, who was
chairman of Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers from 1995 to
1997.  The next several weeks are critical for the global economy,
with a second round of elections in  Greece  and a Group of 20
summit in  Mexico  this month. Finance ministers and central bank
governors from the world’s leading economies today agreed to
coordinate their response to Europe’s financial crisis on a
conference call that dealt with Spain and Greece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  