-- Lockhart Says Extending Operation Twist Is ‘On the Table’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-06T15:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/lockhart-says-extending-operation-twist-option-on-the-table-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
PresidentDennis Lockhart said extending Operation Twist, the
program to lengthen maturities of debt on the central bank’s
balance sheet, is an “option on the table.”  “There is capacity to do more,” Lockhart said today in
response to audience questions after a speech in Fort
Lauderdale,  Florida . “It is certainly an option. I’m not going
to speculate on what the FOMC will do,” he said, referring to
the Federal Open Market Committee.  The policy-setting FOMC meets June 19-20 to consider
whether more stimulus is needed after the economy added the
fewest jobs in a year in May. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
will discuss the outlook for the economy and policy tonight in
Boston, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to testify before
Congress tomorrow.  “What Lockhart said today is that he’s certainly on board
if that’s what the chairman and the majority of the FOMC want to
do,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “He’s not going to stand in
the way.”  Stocks climbed today on speculation policy makers in  Europe 
and the U.S. will take steps to spur growth. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent to 1,301.57 at 10:20 a.m. in
New York.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials
are ready to add more stimulus to the euro region’s economy if
necessary, while damping expectations that another round of
three-year funding for banks is imminent.  ‘Downside Risks’  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act” as the economy faces “increased downside risks,” Draghi
told reporters in Frankfurt today after the ECB left its
benchmark rate at 1 percent. “A few” governing council members
asked for a rate cut today, he said.  Lockhart is among the regional Fed presidents who have a
vote on the FOMC this year, along with Cleveland’s  Sandra
Pianalto , Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  and John Williams in  San
Francisco . Fed governors have a permanent vote on the panel,
along with William C. Dudley, president of the  New York  Fed.  Policy makers in recent days have expressed opposing views
on the need for more stimulus. Chicago’s Charles Evans said in a
speech in New York yesterday that “soft” economic data call
for “extremely strong accommodation,” while  Richard Fisher  of
Dallas said more easing would be “pushing on a string.”  Bullard, Rosengren  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said there’s time to assess the
economy and a policy change isn’t needed now. Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said on May 31, before the release of
the jobs report, that the central bank should prolong Operation
Twist beyond June.  The Fed started Operation Twist in September to reduce
longer-term  interest rates  without expanding its balance sheet.
Under the program, the Fed sold $400 billion of  Treasury
securities  with maturities of three years or less and used the
proceeds to buy Treasuries with maturities of six years or more.  In his speech, Lockhart said the jobs report shows the
fragility of a recovery that could require an additional boost
from the Fed if it becomes clear growth is slowing.  Policy is “appropriate” for now, Lockhart said. “Should
it become clear that something resembling my baseline scenario
of continued, though modest, growth is no longer realistic,
further monetary actions to support the recovery will certainly
need to be considered.”  Jobs Report  American employers in May added 69,000 jobs, less than half
the number forecast by economists, Labor Department figures
showed June 1. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 8.2
percent from 8.1 percent.  That compares with the Fed’s long-term goal of 5.2 percent
to 6 percent. Fed officials will update their forecasts for
growth, unemployment and inflation at their next meeting.  “As the employment report of last Friday illustrates,
there continues to be a halting and tenuous character to the
recovery,” Lockhart said to the Broward Workshop, a local
business group.  Lockhart has told reporters after prior speeches this year
the threshold for more action is “high,” including “a serious
deterioration in the economy” or threat of falling prices.  High Bar  “Have we approached the bar, is the question,” Lockhart
told reporters after his speech today. “The bar remains high
but certainly the level of risk to the economy” has increased.
“Concern that we could be looking at deteriorating
circumstances, that concern is higher.”  Lockhart also told a second audience in  Fort Lauderdale 
that the various Fed speakers with opposing ideas represent
“independent voices. There is obviously room for conflict and
there is no party line.” Still, the Fed chairman “is the
leader” and can build a consensus, he said.  Lockhart also said that while risks from Europe have
increased in the past month, “I remain optimistic” the
region’s currency will stay intact. “The commitment to the euro
is strong.”  Today’s speech emphasized continued risks, including those
from the U.S. fiscal-policy debate and from the European debt
crisis, which has the potential for “spillover” to the U.S.
financial system.  State of Readiness  “The situation we face requires that the FOMC maintain a
state of readiness to respond to financial or economic
instability should the need arise,” Lockhart said. “I am
confident that the committee retains the capacity to act and the
tools to promote stability.”  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.9 percent
annual pace in the first quarter, less than the initial estimate
of 2.2 percent, a Commerce Department report showed on May 31.
Other data showed manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in May
and  consumer confidence  weakened.  “It is nearly impossible to escape the conclusion that we
are replaying in some manner the spring-summer slowdowns of the
past two years,” Lockhart said. “The economy remains in
recovery but, as the disappointing employment numbers
illustrate, the economy is working against some strong
headwinds.”  Loss of Momentum  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery going, minutes of their
last meeting showed. The policy-making  Federal Open Market
Committee  on April 25 reiterated its expectation that subdued
inflation and economic slack will probably warrant
“exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through late 2014.”  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and portions of
Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  