-- Hog Farmers Should ‘Think Twice’ on Expanding, Paragon Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-06T22:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hog-producers-should-think-twice-before-expanding-meyer-says.html
U.S. hog farmers should “think
twice” before expanding herds because too much supply may
create a “bottleneck” in 2013 that would send prices lower,
said  Steve Meyer , the president of Paragon Economics.  “Even if they’ve got a deal with a packer to get their
hogs in, it’s going to force somebody else to find a home” for
animals ready to be slaughtered, Meyer said today in an
interview at the  World Pork Expo  in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “From a
packing-capacity standpoint, it’s just going to be very tight.
We’re just going to have about as many hogs as we can put
through those plants and maybe more.”  U.S. pork production may climb 3.5 percent next year with
the breeding herd expanding 0.5 percent, productivity gains
adding 2 percent and weights climbing 1 percent, Meyer said. The
average spot price of hogs will fall to 83 cents to 87 cents a
pound in the first quarter of 2013 as supplies increase, he
said. That’s down as much as 5.5 percent from today’s  price  of
87.85 cents, according to government data.  Meyer recommended against expansion while “on-farm
profitability” signals, such as the outlook for lower animal-
feed costs, are an incentive for some producers to increase
output.  Corn prices have slumped 20 percent in the past 12 months
on prospects for increasing supplies of the grain, the main
ingredient in livestock feed.  ‘Severe Impacts’  Limits in slaughterhouse capacity mean that meatpackers
won’t be able to handle an increase in animal supply, Meyer
said. That may spur “pretty severe price impacts in the fourth
quarter of 2013,” he said.  Pork exports this year will be “pretty steady,” Meyer
said. Matching last year’s record volumes would be “an
accomplishment” as the dollar’s rally eroded the appeal of U.S.
shipments, he said. Also, some countries including  China , the
world’s biggest pork consumer, have larger domestic supplies, he
said.  U.S. exporters shipped 598,058 metric tons (1.3 billion
pounds) of  pork  in the first quarter, up 8 percent from a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  Shipments 
were a record 2.255 million tons last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 