-- Oil Trades Near Four-Day High on Stimulus Outlook, Iran
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-07T06:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/oil-gains-a-fourth-day-amid-economic-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
four days in  New York  as policy makers in the U.S. and  Europe 
indicated they may take steps to boost their economies and Iran
signaled it will take a hard line in nuclear talks.  Futures were little changed after rising as much as 0.9
percent. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the
U.S. remains vulnerable to setbacks that may warrant additional
monetary stimulus, while European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said officials are ready to act as the euro area’s
outlook worsens. Oil may rebound on policy measures, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Iran pulled back from an agreement
on nuclear inspections before talks this month.  “It’s renewed optimism about a coordinated stimulus
program,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney.
“I think we’ll see a little bit more of a build in the Middle
Eastern premium as we lead into that meeting.”  Oil for July delivery was at $85.20 a barrel, up 18 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
2:21 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday rose 0.9
percent to $85.02, the highest close since May 31. Prices are 14
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $100.57 a barrel, down
7 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.37, from $15.62 yesterday.  Price Rebound  Prices extended their gains after a report showed
Australian employers unexpectedly added workers in April. The
number of people employed rose by 38,900, the statistics bureau
said in Sydney today. That compares with the median estimate for
no change in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  Oil in New York, which fell 17 percent in May for the
biggest monthly drop in more than three years, may rebound if
policy makers take steps to contain the  European debt crisis  and
counter weaker economic growth in the U.S. and  China , Goldman
Sachs said in e-mailed report today.  Goldman reiterated its call to buy West Texas Intermediate
crude futures for September delivery. The recommendation, first
made on Feb. 22, has so far generated a “dismal” loss of
$22.72 a barrel, it said.  Prices may also gain as sanctions tighten on Iran and a
surplus caused by increased output from Saudi Arabia, the
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, is eroded, according to the report.  Iran Tension  Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest crude producer, faces
additional European Union sanctions starting July 1 because of
its nuclear program. The embargo will remove about 1 million
barrels of oil from the market, the International Energy Agency
estimates.  Iran  will “never suspend” its enrichment of uranium and
“will not permit our national security to be jeopardized” by
 International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors working for
Western intelligence agencies, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, the
nation’s envoy to the IAEA, told reporters in Vienna yesterday.  Soltanieh contradicted IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano’s
May 22 announcement that a decision had been made to allow
inspectors increased access to nuclear sites. The Persian Gulf
nation’s nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili only pledged his
“determination” to reach an accord, Soltanieh said.  Diplomats from China,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. are scheduled to hold a third round of talks with their
Iranian counterparts in Moscow on June 18-19.  U.S. Supplies  Saudi Arabia  may rein in oil sales after it achieved a
$100-a-barrel target for London-traded Brent by cutting the
price of its crude and pumping at the highest rate in at least
three decades. The world’s biggest exporter started to scale
back shipments this month, according to Vienna-based researcher
JBC Energy GmbH, citing tanker fixtures.  U.S. crude stockpiles fell for the first time in 11 weeks.
Inventories dropped by  111,000 barrels  last week, a report from
the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were forecast to
decline 500,000 barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded futures, increased 926,000 barrels to a record 47.8
million. Domestic oil production rose to 6.25 million barrels a
day, the highest level since February 1999.  Gasoline supplies climbed 3.3 million barrels, the Energy
Department report showed. They were forecast to gain 950,000
barrels, according to the survey. Distillate stockpiles, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, rose 2.3 million
barrels, compared with a projected drop of 250,000 barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  