-- Oil Rises for Third Day on Economic Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-06T19:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/oil-rises-for-third-day-on-supplies-equities.html
Oil rose for a third day on
speculation that monetary policy makers will act to spur
economic growth, boosting fuel demand.  Futures climbed 0.9 percent after Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said a fragile recovery may
require more stimulus. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as the euro region’s
expansion outlook worsens. Oil reduced intraday gains after
government data showed inventories dropped less than forecast.  “The market is expecting some type of monetary easing
programs and that would most likely help the market in terms of
providing some stability,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The inventory
report showed there is no shortage of crude.”  Oil for July delivery climbed 73 cents to settle at $85.02
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures traded at
$86.03 a barrel before release of the inventory report at 10:30
a.m. Prices have risen 2.2 percent so far this week from an
eight-month low on June 1.  Brent oil for July settlement gained $1.80, or 1.8 percent,
to $100.64 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  headed toward its biggest
gain in 2012.  “Looks like central banks are going to increase policy
accommodation and you are going to see more stimulus,” said
Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO
Futures. “Oil is following other risk assets like stocks.”  Stimulus Speculation  Lockhart said extending Operation Twist, a program to
lengthen maturities of debt on the central bank’s balance sheet,
is an “option on the table.”  The Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee
meets June 19 to 20 to consider whether more stimulus is
warranted amid signs the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in an
action known as quantitative easing.  “People are hoping that there is going to be some easing
in monetary policy and that the market in the short term takes
it as a positive,” said Marshall Berol, co-portfolio manager of
the Encompass Fund in  San Francisco , which has about $300
million in assets.  The ECB is under pressure to lower rates and introduce more
liquidity support for banks as governments struggle to fix a
crisis that’s engulfing  Spain  and could force  Greece  out of the
euro.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act” as the economy faces “increased downside risks,” Draghi
told reporters in Frankfurt today after the ECB left its
benchmark rate at 1 percent. “A few” governing council members
asked for a rate cut today, he said.  Equities Advance  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Dow average each
advanced 1.8 percent. The S&P GSCI index of 24 raw materials
rose 1.3 percent, heading for its biggest gain since April 2.  “There is a risk-on tone in most of the markets today and
oil is following stocks,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Prices also rose as Iran accused the United Nations agency
that oversees nuclear inspections of spying and vowed never to
suspend  uranium enrichment . The comments by Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran’s envoy to the  International Atomic Energy
Agency , were made at a press briefing in Vienna and cast doubt
on whether a deal allowing wider atomic inspections is possible.  U.S. Supplies  Oil pared its advance after the Energy Department said
inventories of crude oil slipped 111,000 barrels to 384.6
million last week. Supplies were forecast to shrink 500,000
barrels. Stockpiles declined from a 22-year high.  “We’ve gone so high so fast,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief
market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “We
still have too many uncertainties in the market.”  Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded futures, increased 926,000 barrels to 47.8 million,
a record. Domestic oil production rose to 6.25 million barrels a
day, the highest level since February 1999.  “We are still well oversupplied,” said Todd Horwitz,
chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in  New York . “I
look for oil to continue to go lower.”  Crude’s relative strength index, a technical indicator,
shows that a decline of more than 20 percent from this year’s
high into bear market conditions is the most-exaggerated drop in
more than 26 years. That suggests crude may extend its rebound
from an eight-month low last week.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 564,329
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 478,692
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  