-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise on China Speculation, G-7 Pledge
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-06-06T08:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-china-speculation-g-7-pledge.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with its
benchmark index gaining the most in a month, amid speculation
China’s central bank will cut  interest rates  this month, and as
leaders of the Group of Seven economies agreed to coordinate
their response to Europe’s financial crisis.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) , a developer that gets all
its revenue from mainland China, gained 3.6 percent.  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts Europe as its biggest
market, climbed 2.8 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc, a lender that
gets about a fifth of its revenue from North America, rose 2.6
percent after a report showed the U.S. services industry grew
faster than expected. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. rallied 11
percent Morgan Stanley recommended buying gold miners.  The Hang Seng Index advanced 1.4 percent to 18,520.53 at
the close, the steepest gain since April 30. About six stocks
rose for each that fell in the 49-member gauge. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks, known as the H-Share
index, gained 0.4 percent to 9,438.03.  Chinese policy makers will put in place “enough measures
to get China to grow, absolutely,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-
based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset
Management (Asia) Ltd., which oversees about $8 billion. “For
long-term investors this level is good but it’s not at bargain
levels as we saw in October 2008, definitely not. But it is
cheap.”  Shares on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 9.4 times estimated
earnings on average yesterday. That compares with 7.6 times
reached in October 2008, when global markets tumbled following
the collapse of Lehman Brother Holdings Inc. The U.S. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index traded at 12.3 times yesterday, while Stoxx
Europe 600 Index traded at 9.8 times.  May Slide  Hong Kong’s  benchmark index  has advanced for two days after
a 12 percent slide in the four weeks through June 1 erased the
measure’s gains for the year. Stocks fell amid signs of slowing
economic growth in U.S. and China and mounting concern about
Europe’s debt crisis.  Hang Seng Index futures expiring this month climbed 2.1
percent to 18,495. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  sank 7.9 percent to
27.32, indicating traders expect a swing of about 7.8 percent in
the benchmark index during the next 30 days.  The People’s Bank of China should cut interest rates at an
appropriate time to boost confidence in the economy, according
to a commentary on the front page of the China Securities
Journal today, which is operated by the official Xinhua News
Agency.  China is expected to enter a period of consecutive reserve
requirement cuts in the second half, the  China Daily  reported
today, citing Ba Shusong, an economist with the State Council’s
Development Research Center.  Property Shares  A measure of property shares had the  biggest gain  among the
Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups. Shimao gained 3.6
percent to HK$10.38, while Country Garden Holdings Co., which
builds villas and apartments in mainland  China , advanced 3.6
percent to HK$2.88.  Chinese lenders also rose. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,
the country’s third-biggest bank, climbed 1 percent to HK$3.14
and China Minsheng Banking Corp. advanced 3.1 percent to
HK$7.29.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven economies agreed to coordinate their response to
Europe’s financial crisis on a conference call yesterday. G-7
officials said they will work together to help Spain and Greece
place their public finances on a sustainable footing, Japanese
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Tokyo following the
call.  The  European Central Bank  meets in  Frankfurt  today and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies before
Congress about the economic outlook.  ‘Economic Damage’  “A substantial amount of Europe-related global economic
damage is already embedded into market expectations,” said
 Michael Kurtz , Hong Kong-based global chief equities strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage. Stocks
should “claw their way higher in coming weeks amid more evident
policy support.”  Esprit rose 2.8 percent to HK$12.52, while Cosco Pacific
Ltd., which operates a port in Greece, gained 1.9 percent to
HK$9.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1
percent today. The index advanced 0.6 percent in New York
yesterday after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of
non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of
the economy, rose to 53.7 points last month from April’s 53.5.
The  median  forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 53.4. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Gold Miners  HSBC climbed 2.6 percent to HK$61.90 and Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp., a chip services provider that
receives more than half of its revenue from  North America ,
advanced 3.2 percent to 25.5 Hong Kong cents.  Zhaojin Mining Industry surged 11 percent to HK$10.40 while
 Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , a Chinese gold producer, rose 6.8
percent to HK$2.81. Morgan Stanley reiterated its overweight
rating for gold miners. Shares of Zijin and Zhaojin are
undervalued after declines this year, analysts Rachel Zhang and
John Lam wrote in a report dated yesterday.  New World Development Co., a builder controlled by
billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , rose 6.1 percent to HK$8.65, the
steepest gain in the Hang Seng Index, after Bank of America
Corp. named the stock as one of its top picks.  “Expectations for growth have been tempered to such a
degree that economic data points are going to surprise to the
upside,” said Stephen Corry, Hong Kong-based chief investment
strategist at LGT Group, which oversees $12 billion of Asian
assets. “There’s potential for more policy stimulus and markets
are clearly oversold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  