-- Oppenheimer to Pay $35 Million Over SEC Mutual Fund Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-06T16:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/oppenheimer-to-pay-35-million-over-sec-mutual-fund-claims.html
OppenheimerFunds Inc. will pay $35
million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims it misled mutual-fund
investors about exposure to commercial mortgage-backed
securities amid credit-market turmoil in late 2008.  Investment management and sales units at OppenheimerFunds,
a unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., inadequately
disclosed two funds’ use of leverage that increased risk and
made misleading statements about losses as markets froze, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said today in an
administrative order. The company agreed to settle the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “Mutual fund providers have an obligation to clearly and
accurately convey the strategies and risks of the products they
sell,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement. “Candor, not wishful thinking, should drive
communication with investors, particularly during times of
market stress.”  OppenheimerFunds used derivatives called total return swaps
to gain exposure to commercial mortgages without buying actual
bonds, the SEC said. By mid-September 2008, declines in the
commercial mortgage market drove down the net asset values of
the funds, forcing them to sell in an increasingly illiquid
market to meet payments on the derivatives, according to the
order.  While the funds disclosed that they invested in swaps and
other derivatives, they didn’t reveal that they could do so to
such an extent that the total exposure could far exceed the
value of its portfolio securities, making investment returns
dependent on performance of bonds they didn’t own, the SEC said.  “We continue to further enhance our fund disclosure, risk
management and compliance controls and procedures to ensure
those functions are best in class,” OppenheimerFunds Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Bill Glavin said in a statement.
“We attach the utmost importance to our regulatory obligations
and our fiduciary duties to our advisory clients, and we will
continue working every day to create value for our investors
while helping them to effectively manage risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  