-- Oracle Introduces Corporate Cloud to Challenge Salesforce
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/oracle-introduces-corporate-cloud-to-challenge-salesforce.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
database maker, has introduced a cloud-computing service to let
corporate customers access data over the Internet, stepping up
competition with  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and Workday Inc.  The Oracle Cloud will include more than 100 applications,
the  Redwood City , California-based company said yesterday. The
service includes the Fusion business applications and online
programs from acquired companies Taleo Corp. and RightNow
Technologies Inc.  The debut vaults Oracle into the fast-growing market for
software that is delivered over the Internet, using technology
that can save customers money on hardware and speed up product
updates. Expanding in the $113.8 billion business-applications
market could help reduce Oracle’s reliance on hardware gained
from its $7.4 billion purchase of Sun Microsystems in 2010.  “This was a gigantic effort,” Oracle Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  said at an event at the company’s
headquarters, adding that the cloud service will include
software developed in-house as well as from acquisitions.
“Simply buying things wouldn’t have been enough.”  Oracle rose 3.1 percent to $27.53 at yesterday’s close in
 New York . The stock has climbed 7.3 percent this year.  ‘Forced March’  Oracle’s cloud service is a break from Ellison’s past, when
he derided the concept as a new name for old technology. He said
he had no choice but to adapt. “We started seven years ago this
forced march into the cloud,” Ellison said.  Germany’s  SAP AG (SAP)  has been making acquisitions to expand in
cloud computing, and Salesforce and Workday have based their
businesses on it, winning deals against Oracle and SAP.  Computer-systems makers such as  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  are also beginning to
sell online processing power and software tools for developers.  Moving its financial, human-resources and sales
applications online could boost use of Oracle software and
services on tablet computers and other mobile devices, said
 Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco.  “All their apps will run on tablets eventually,” said
Thill. “Have they done that yet? I haven’t met too many people
running Oracle on tablets.” The Public Cloud is also late to
market, he said -- at an event last October, Oracle said it
would be available within weeks.  Oracle sells $1 billion a year of software delivered as Web
services, making it the second-largest seller of online
applications after Salesforce, co-President  Mark Hurd  said in an
interview yesterday.  “We’re driving hard to get great growth” in sales of
software as a service, he said. “We’re already $1 billion in
SAAS revenue today. People say, ‘You guys are just starting.’ ”  New Applications  In the coming year, Oracle plans to release software for
accounting, supply chain management and enterprise-resource
planning as part of the Oracle Cloud, Hurd said. The company has
more than 2,000 sales and technical presales staff pitching
high-end hardware, cloud-computing software and business
intelligence applications.  Ellison has spent more than $40 billion on more than 70
acquisitions, adding programs that help large corporations
manage human resources and operations.  Over the past two weeks, Oracle bought two companies --
Vitrue Inc. and Collective Intellect Inc. -- that sell online
software to analyze data from Facebook Inc.’s and Twitter Inc.’s
websites to create marketing campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  