-- Morgan Stanley Said to Consider Commodities Unit Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-06T17:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/morgan-stanley-said-to-consider-commodities-unit-sale.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  has had talks with
private-equity firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  as the bank
considers options for its commodities trading unit if the
Volcker rule outlaws some activities, according to people
familiar with the discussions.  The firm currently has no plans to sell the business or a
minority stake in it, said one of the people, who asked to
remain anonymous because the talks were private. Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined to comment. CNBC
reported earlier today that the New York-based bank is
considering a partial sale of its commodities unit.  Morgan Stanley’s commodities unit, which is run by Colin Bryce and  Simon Greenshields , generated about $1.5 billion in
annual revenue over the past two years,  Kian Abouhossein , a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst, estimated in a March note. Morgan
Stanley’s business includes trading in futures contracts and
buying and selling physical commodities.  Morgan Stanley rose 5.8 percent to $13.61 at 12:45 p.m. in
 New York , its biggest intraday gain since February. The bank’s
shares declined 15 percent this year through yesterday.  The Volcker rule, which seeks to ban proprietary trading at
deposit-taking banks, would impair firms’ ability to provide
commodity-related hedging and financing services as currently
written, Greenshields wrote in a comment letter to regulators in
February.  Oil Trading  The 10 largest global investment banks generated about $7
billion from commodities trading each of the last two years,
down from more than $12 billion in 2009 and 2008, according to
data from industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd. Morgan Stanley
has about a 15 percent to 20 percent market share among banks,
 Glenn Schorr , a  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  analyst, estimated last
year.  Trading in physical commodities, which includes product
transportation and storage, has become a bigger piece of Morgan
Stanley’s operations as competition in futures trading has
increased, Schorr wrote, citing a meeting with Bryce. Trading in
oil makes up about 45 percent of the business, with gas and
power accounting for 40 percent and metals and agriculture about
15 percent, he wrote.  Morgan Stanley bought TransMontaigne Inc., a Denver-based
fuel distributor, in 2006 and owns a minority stake in Heidmar
Holdings LLC, a U.S. oil-tanker business. The bank also owns
electricity facilities in the U.S. and Europe, it said in a
regulatory filing.  Goldman Sachs  Morgan Stanley doesn’t break out revenue from its
commodities business, which reports within the fixed income and
commodities unit. That business posted $2.6 billion in revenue
in the first quarter, excluding accounting charges, up 34
percent from a year earlier. Colm Kelleher, co-president of the
firm’s institutional securities group, oversees all trading,
including the commodities unit.  Gary Cohn , president and chief operating officer of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., was asked at an investor conference last week
whether the bank might spin off its commodities business. Cohn
said that while it’s possible, the business benefits from being
part of the global firm.  “If you look at our commodities business, many of our most
important clients are our big corporate clients,” Cohn said,
adding that there are “enormous synergies” in Goldman Sachs’s
ability to advise them on  investment banking , financing and risk
management.  David Wells , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  