-- Otsuka’s Experimental TB Drug Fights Resistant Disease
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/otsuka-s-experimental-tb-drug-fights-resistant-disease.html
Otsuka Holdings Co. (4578) ’s experimental
tuberculosis drug was effective against patients with infections
resistant to older medications in a study, findings that may
lead to the first new TB treatment in 40 years.  Patients with pulmonary multidrug resistant TB, or MDR-TB,
were given Otsuka’s delamanid or a placebo twice daily for the
first two months of treatment in combination with older drugs.
At least 42 percent of those taking delamanid didn’t have the
bacteria in mucous from the lungs compared with 29.6 percent for
those who took placebo, according to a company-funded trial
published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Tuberculosis caused 1.4 million  deaths  worldwide in 2010,
making it the second-greatest infectious disease killer after
HIV, according to the  World Health Organization . If successful,
Otsuka’s treatment may help control the growing threat of drug-
resistant infections. About 650,000 cases of MDR-TB were
reported globally in 2010, with about 150,000 dying from the
infection, the Geneva-based agency said.  “I’m very excited,” Manfred Danilovits, a doctor at Tartu
University Hospital in  Estonia  and the principal investigator of
the study, said in a telephone interview. “It showed quite good
effectiveness, it reduced infectiousness, meaning they won’t
spread the disease to other people anymore.”  The trial  involved 481 patients at 17 centers in nine
countries ages 18 to 64 who had tested positive for multidrug-
resistant TB. Patients either took 100 milligrams or 200
milligrams of delamanid or a placebo twice daily for two months,
with a background drug regimen developed according to the WHO
guidelines.  Side Effects  Most of the side effects were mild to moderate and evenly
distributed across groups, though, irregular heartbeat reported
to be significantly more frequent in groups taking delamanid,
the study said.  “Generally, it seems to be a safe drug,” Danilovits said.
The increase in irregular heartbeat needs to be studied more, he
said.  Otsuka, based in  Tokyo , filed for regulatory review of the
medicine in  Europe  in December and is negotiating with Japanese
and American authorities on terms for the filings, said Masuhiro
Yoshitake, head of the global TB projects at Otsuka’s drug unit
in an interview on June 5.  TB is a contagious bacterial infection and usually treated
with a regimen of drugs taken for six months to two years,
according to  the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases . Symptoms include  weight loss , fever and loss of
appetite and infected patients can develop coughs, chest pain
and bloody mucous coughed up from the lungs.  1940s Cure  TB became possible to cure in the mid-1940s with the
discovery of the antibiotic streptomycin. Almost all the drugs
used to fight it were found in the next two decades. Their
effectiveness has been hampered by HIV. TB can flourish in HIV
sufferers because the AIDS-causing virus attacks T-cells, the
body’s immune defenders crucial in keeping tuberculosis at bay.  MDR-TB is a form of drug-resistant TB in which the bacteria
can’t be killed by at least the two antibiotics isoniazid and
rifampin, the most powerful standard treatments, according to
the WHO. It’s curable by using second-line drugs, though options
are limited, can be costly and cause severe side effects, the
agency said.  At least two other experimental medicines to fight TB are
in development. Bedaquiline from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and PA-824, which a company now owned by Swiss
drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN)  licensed to the TB Alliance, a  New York- 
based nonprofit group supported by the Gates and Rockefeller
Foundations, are in the second stage of three trials generally
required for regulatory approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  