-- House Adopts Measure to Halt Light-Bulb Efficiency Law
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-06T22:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/house-adopts-measure-to-halt-light-bulb-efficiency-law.html
Republicans in the U.S. House adopted
a provision designed to save traditional incandescent  light
bulbs  by blocking what one lawmaker called the “energy police”
from enforcing an efficiency standard.  Even if the House language approved last night survives in
the Democratic-led Senate, the impact for consumers probably
will be limited because manufacturers such as  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  have revamped
manufacturing to comply with the law, making bulbs that use less
electricity to generate the same amount of light.  The first phase of the federal efficiency standard, which
was passed in 2007 during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, went into effect this year. It has become a
symbol of government excess to Tea Party-aligned lawmakers, who
say consumers should be able to buy the bulbs they want.  “People are sick of the government treading where it just
doesn’t belong,” said Representative  Michael Burgess , a Texas
Republican who sponsored the light-bulb amendment, which was
added to a broader energy-spending bill.  Burgess’ provision was adopted last night by voice vote. A
similar provision was in the spending bill covering the fiscal
year that ends Sept. 30, which was passed in the House in
December.  “The law couldn’t be enforced,” Burgess said of his
amendment in an interview. “‘We don’t need no stinkin’ badges.
We’re the energy police.’”  Measure Passes  The House today passed, 255-165, the energy-spending bill
that includes the light-bulb provision.  Democrats, environmental groups and lighting manufacturers
such as Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE support the efficiency
law.  Blocking the Energy Department from enforcement might let
unscrupulous foreign manufacturers push non-compliant products,
including to bulk buyers such as builders. Those sales are
difficult to track.  “Some in Congress are willing to put U.S. jobs at risk for
political positioning,” said Joseph Higbee, a spokesman for the
National Electrical Manufacturers Association, a Rosslyn,
Virginia-based group. “This is an example of a few politicizing
light bulbs at the risk of American workers and the economy.”  Plants Retooled  Companies have retooled plants to make compact fluorescent
lights, light-emitting diodes and a halogen version of the pear-
shaped incandescent product that meets the efficiency standard.
Some of the more efficient bulbs are made in the U.S.  Burgess said consumers should be able to choose for
themselves which bulbs they want to buy.  “I’m smart enough to make my own decisions about the
purchase of energy, and the government should not feel the need
to do that for me,” he said.  The underlying bill would spend $32.1 billion on energy and
water-development programs, about $965 million less than what
President  Barack Obama  requested, according to the House
Appropriations Committee. It would put more money into fossil-
fuel programs than Obama’s budget.  The president’s advisers said May 31 they would recommend
the president veto the bill because of cuts to efficiency and
clean-energy programs, including to the Advanced Research
Projects Agency - Energy that funds innovative technologies, and
language intended to keep Yucca Mountain in  Nevada  viable as a
repository for the nation’s nuclear waste.  The House spending bill is H.R. 5325.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  