-- How Consumer Loans Saved the Banking Industry
-- B y   L o u i s   H y m a n
-- 2012-06-06T17:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/how-consumer-loans-saved-the-banking-industry.html
In the past week, a flood of European
capital into yield-less U.S. bonds reaffirmed a central problem
of the economic crisis: a lack of good places to invest.  Safety, not profit, drives the allocation of capital today.
Many banks are still reluctant to lend, and many prudent
businesses fear borrowing or are hesitant to expand amid so much
uncertainty. Companies willing to borrow, by their very
eagerness, can appear dubious. This state of affairs is nothing
new -- it was a hallmark of the Great Depression, and it offers
some lessons for today’s bumpy recovery.  During the Depression, complaints were widespread that
bankers refused to lend and were thus responsible for continued
economic malaise.  The New York Times (NYT)  and other newspapers ran
headlines such as “Banks Fail to Find Sound Borrowers” and “Bank
Loan Expansion Fails to Keep Pace.” Banks were “anxious to use
idle funds” but few businesses that were considered good credit
risks were borrowing.  National City Bank (the predecessor to  Citigroup Inc. (C) ) and
 Bank of America  provided a telling illustration. Both banks
remained profitable, even while smaller ones across the country
collapsed. Both had a great deal of cash. But they were
struggling to find viable businesses that needed capital to
expand.  Friendly Rivalry  National City Bank, which dominated New York, was headed by
James H. Perkins. Bank of America, which dominated  California ,
was led by Amadeo P. Giannini. Theirs was a friendly rivalry.  In March 1934, Perkins wrote to his friend and colleague
“A.P.” in concern over the future of commercial banking.
Although National City’s profits were still more than $1 million
a month, Perkins noted, he feared that its solvency was going to
be short-lived. “Our excess reserves are very big,” he wrote.
“It is almost impossible to find any use for money in credits
that we are willing to take, and the rates are terribly low.”  Perkins’s situation wasn’t unique. Banks across the country
believed that there were no good customers. According to
Perkins, their total excess reserves were more than $1 billion.
Without an outlet for its funds, National City couldn’t continue
to be profitable. Its fragile stability would falter.  Chairmen of national banks generally don’t concern one
another over individual borrowers, but as the economy soured,
even big executives spent time vying for small fish, and
competition among the two friends soon became fierce. In 1935,
Perkins and Giannini exchanged telegrams sparring for territory.
Giannini complained to Perkins: “I understand that your man
Banta has been unduly aggressive in soliciting some of our good
borrowing accounts,” he wrote. “Such competition as between
ourselves I am sure that in the long run we both will suffer.”  Disputes over potential customers such as the “Van Camp Sea
Food Company” and “citrus associations” stood out among the
men’s friendly exchanges about Florida holidays and  New York 
restaurants, showing how bleak conditions were. By 1938,
commercial lending at National City was “non-existent.”  What saved the banks during the Depression was not
commercial lending but  consumer lending . And the key was the
newly created  Federal Housing Administration , which began to
guarantee loans for home purchases and improvements.  One of the men who set up the FHA’s lending programs, Roger
Steffan, was actually loaned out from National City Bank.
Speaking before the  American Bankers Association  10 weeks after
the program began in 1934, Steffan declared that it was “based
on old-fashioned and orthodox principles -- to bring together
private capital, industry and labor to do the long overdue job
of brightening up American homes, at a fair profit.”  Expanding Credit  It worked. At the beginning of 1934, less than 1 percent of
banks had a personal-loan department. By the end of that year,
under the auspices of the FHA, more than 70 percent had started
one. As bankers saw the profits from mortgage lending, they
began offering more loans for other purposes. Excess capital
that otherwise would go uninvested could now be employed.  Through “the example and the introduction of FHA
modernization financing,” one banking journal noted, banks
“established such departments through which almost every type of
personal or installment financing” could then be arranged.  Like most other banks, Bank of America started its
installment-loan department under the FHA’s insurance program.
In 1935, it loaned $18 million. Giannini was so impressed with
the profits that he vowed to expand the bank’s  consumer lending 
even without government help.  The next year, Bank of America expanded the installment
program to include cars, furniture and consumer durables through
what it called the “Time Plan” financing system. The plan reaped
tremendous profits -- the bank increased its earnings almost 40
percent in 1936, to $22.5 million.  In May 1937, Giannini told the Los Angeles Times that “the
handling of these installment loans has trebled and quadrupled
activity in our branches.” In the prior 18 months, he said, Bank
of America had lent $140 million, expanded to 479 branches and
added 5,400 employees. Consumer lending had attained maturity as
a form of credit, even independent from the incubating FHA
program.  Unfortunately, Perkins never saw National City Bank fully
recover. He pushed himself to the limit during the Depression
seeking to right one of America’s largest institutions and died
in 1940, after ignoring his doctor’s recommendations for rest
for many years.  Perkins’s dilemma wouldn’t be solved until the coming of
World War II. His bank was rejuvenated by investment in the many
new industries -- from aerospace to electronics -- that emerged
in the expansive postwar economy.  Finding the best places to invest remains as much a
challenge today as it was in the 1930s. As the bankers of that
era would certainly remind us today, turning scared money into
productive money is what ended the Depression, not just war.
Bankers and policy makers would do well to remember that doing
so requires, above all, innovation.  (Louis Hyman is an assistant professor of history at
 Cornell University  and the author of “Borrow: The American Way
of Debt.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Louis Hyman at  lrh62@cornell.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  