-- Payne Wins N.J. Race for Congress Seat Held by His Dad
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/payne-wins-n-j-race-for-congress-seat-held-by-his-dad.html
Newark City Council President Donald M. Payne Jr. won a six-way Democratic primary to succeed his
father,  New Jersey ’s first and only black congressman, who died
in March.  Payne, 53, took 60 percent of the vote with 95 percent of
precincts counted last night, according to preliminary results
from the  Associated Press . The contenders included fellow
Councilman  Ronald C. Rice , state Senator Nia Gill of Montclair
and Irvington Mayor Wayne Smith. Cathy Wright of Newark and
Dennis R. Flynn also were on the ballot.  The elder Payne forged a reputation as an advocate for
democracy in  Africa  during a 23-year career in Congress. He died
March 6 from  colon cancer  at 77. His son was endorsed by
prominent Democrats in Hudson and Essex counties.  Democrats in the 10th congressional district, which also
includes parts of Union County, have a 10-to-1 edge in
registered voters, making the primary often a de facto arbiter
of the November outcome. There were 207,830 Democratic voters in
the district to 20,739 Republicans, according to May  figures 
from the state Division of Elections.  Rules of the  House of Representatives  require the elder
Payne’s seat to remain empty until November, when a separate
election will determine who fills the remainder of the term that
expires in January. His son also won that primary bid.  The younger Payne, who also serves on the Essex County
Freeholder Board, a legislative body, has been a  Newark  council
member since 2006. The county includes the city, which is the
state’s largest, Irvington and Montclair. Rice, the son of state
Senator Ronald L. Rice of Newark, was second with 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  