-- Peru Sol Posts Biggest Two-Day Gain Since October on Fed View
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-06T20:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/peru-sol-posts-biggest-two-day-gain-since-october-on-fed-view.html
Peru’s sol posted its biggest two-day
gain in almost eight months as speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will take steps to bolster the U.S. economy spurred demand for
higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The sol appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.685 per U.S. dollar at
the close, extending its gain over today and yesterday to 0.7
percent, the most since the two days ended Oct. 10, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  “There’s a higher probability the Fed will announce a
third round of quantitative easing or an extension of Operation
Twist because it continues to be a fragile recovery,” said
 Roberto Flores , the head of research at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-
based brokerage.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said extending
Operation Twist is an “option on the table.” European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as
the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.  The Fed started Operation Twist in September to reduce
longer-term  interest rates  without expanding its balance sheet
after two rounds of debt purchases known as quantitative easing.  Peru’s central bank didn’t  buy or sell dollars  in the spot
market today. The bank, which has purchased $8 billion this year
to stem gains in the sol, sold $676 million last month as the
currency weakened 2.7 percent. It may resume dollar purchases if
the sol extends its rally beyond 2.65, Flores said.  The yield on the benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
government bond due in August 2020 fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 5.21 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The security’s price rose 0.31 centimo to
117.22 centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  