-- Philips Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Cathode-Ray Tubes
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-06T14:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/philips-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-cathode-ray-tubes.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  received
an antitrust complaint from European Union regulators as part of
a probe into the cathode-ray tube industry.  Philips “received a supplementary statement of
objections” from the European Commission, said Joost Akkermans,
a spokesman for the company in Amsterdam. He declined to comment
further.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  also received a formal complaint from
the EU, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
region’s antitrust regulator made the complaints against LG and
Philips to hold them responsible for the behavior of LG.Philips
Displays, a now-defunct joint venture that made the tubes for
televisions and computer monitors, said the people, who declined
to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The commission confirmed sending supplementary statements
of objections last week and declined to name the companies
involved. The Brussels-based commission can fine companies
accused of operating a cartel as much as 10 percent of their
annual sales.  LG Electronics didn’t immediately respond to a call and e-
mails to its Seoul offices after normal business hours.  Regulators have had mixed results with efforts to raise
penalties against parent companies for competition-law
violations by their units. ArcelorMittal SA last year won a
reduction of nearly 185 million euros ($231 million) in EU
cartel fines after the commission said it couldn’t force the
company to pay the share of the overall penalty earmarked for
some of its units. Akzo Nobel NV lost a 2009 appeal over its
financial liability for a unit’s violations.  LCD, Plasma Screens  Philips received an initial complaint in the EU probe in
2009, following raids in November 2007 by regulators in the EU,
 Japan  and  South Korea  to examine concerns over price-fixing for
tubes in computer monitors and color televisions. LG.Philips
Displays’ European holding company was declared bankrupt in 2006
as cathode-ray tube sales fell and consumers switched to slimmer
liquid-crystal display and plasma displays.  LG Display Co., an affiliate of Seoul-based LG Electronics,
was among companies fined 648.9 million euros by the EU in 2010
for fixing the price of LCD panels used in televisions, computer
monitors and  notebook computers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 