-- Pimco to Open Municipal-Bond Funds for California, U.S.
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-06T13:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/pimco-to-open-municipal-bond-funds-for-california-u-s-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
plans to open two municipal-bond funds today, one for California
debt and the other for securities sold by state and local
governments nationwide.  Pimco California Municipal Bond Fund (PCTIX)  will buy debt of the
most populous state and have an average duration ranging from
seven years to 12 years, according to a May 21 regulatory
filing.  Pimco National Intermediate Municipal Bond Fund (PMNIX)  will
invest mostly in tax-exempt bonds from state and local
governments and have an average duration from three years to
nine years, the firm said in a separate May 21 prospectus.
Duration is a measure of sensitivity to changes in  interest
rates .  Joe Deane , head of municipal investments in New York, will
run the funds for Pimco. The  Newport Beach , California-based
firm oversees $55 billion of municipal investments and manages
23 municipal funds, including the two that begin trading today.  “We don’t want to be just a supermarket where you have
absolutely everything,” Deane said in a telephone interview.
“We want to pinpoint areas in the marketplace that we think
represent value, have a large investor base in them, and where
we think we can bring something to the table both in terms of
research and money management skills.”  Natural Extension  The California fund was a “natural extension” for Pimco
because it’s based there and lacked a fund dedicated to longer-
term bonds in the state, said Deane, who joined the  money
manager  in July from Legg Mason Inc.’s Western Asset Management
unit. His experience managing another national intermediate fund
before coming to Pimco showed that type of fund is likely to
lure assets, he said.  Municipal-bond mutual funds attracted about $13 billion
this year through May 30, the best annual start since 2009,
according to data from Lipper US Fund Flows. The funds have
added assets for seven straight weeks.  Essential service revenue bonds rated A to AA will form the
core of Pimco’s new funds, along with those it already manages,
Deane said. The securities selected will probably be “higher
grade and not too far out on the yield curve,” he said.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  cut general-obligation-debt
sales to $11.5 billion in 2011 and 2012, the smallest two-year
total since 2006, as the state seeks to close its  budget
deficit . There will still be more than enough assets for the
fund to buy, Deane said.  Pimco California Municipal Bond will trade under the symbol
PCTIX and have a management fee of 44 basis points for
institutional shares. The symbol for Pimco National Intermediate
Municipal Bond is PMNIX and the fund will charge 45 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The benchmarks for the funds are the Barclays Capital
California Municipal Bond Index and the Barclays Capital
Municipal Bond 1-20 Year Blend (1-22) Index. Both funds will
start with seed money of $3 million, Deane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  