-- Polish Central Bank’s Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 4.75%
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-06-06T15:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/polish-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-4-75-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank, the only one
in the European Union to raise  borrowing costs  this year, left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged as Governor Marek Belka
said the economy had a “balanced soft landing.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw kept the benchmark
seven-day interest rate at 4.75 percent today, the highest since
January 2009 and in line with the expectations of all 35
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Rate setters increased borrowing costs last month and
warned they may tighten policy further if inflation fails to
slow and the economy avoids a sharp slowdown. Data released
since showed that first-quarter economic growth was the weakest
since 2010, while a manufacturing gauge indicated an economic
contraction for a second straight month.  “It’s not a dramatic, but a balanced soft landing of the
economy,” Governor  Marek Belka  told a news conference in
Warsaw, commenting on the first-quarter gross domestic product
figures. Slowing industrial output is showing “a downward
adjustment, but not a deep one,” he added.  The zloty stayed stronger against the euro after the
decision, trading at 4.3186 at 5:01 p.m. in Warsaw, up 1.4
percent on the day. The average  yield  on the two-year government
bond was little changed at 4.78 percent.  GDP Slows  GDP expanded 3.5 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier after growing 4.3 percent in the previous three months,
the  Central Statistical office  reported May 31. The purchasing-
managers’ index declined to 48.9 points in May, remaining for a
second month below 50, a level indicating a contraction,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5)  said June 1.  With the euro region slipping toward a recession amid
budget-cutting austerity measures and a flare-up of the debt
crisis, export-growth slowed to 4.8 percent in the first quarter
from 9.2 percent in the same period last year, the Central
Statistical Office said May 31. Exports contribute 43 percent to
Polish GDP.  The  European Central Bank  also left  interest rates  on hold
today, keeping its benchmark at a record low of 1 percent. In
eastern  Europe , the Czech central bank last month left its main
interest rate at 0.75 percent for a 16th meeting and Hungary
held the EU’s highest benchmark rate at 7 percent for a fifth
month.  As Polish companies reported weak demand, linked in part to
uncertainty in European markets, the volume of new orders
declined for the fourth successive month in May. The downturn in
demand from Polish manufacturers’ export markets was the fastest
since June 2009, even as a weaker zloty made their products more
attractively priced, according to the HSBC report.  ‘Moderately Hawkish’  The zloty lost 4.9 percent against the euro in May for the
worst slide in eight months, marking the second-steepest decline
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Russian ruble.  “Nobody expected a rate change,”  Rafal Benecki , chief
economist at  ING Bank Slaski SA (BSK)  in Warsaw, said by phone.
“Policy makers will keep up moderately hawkish language and
keep the door open for an increase, mainly because of the weaker
zloty, but we don’t see rates moving again this year.”  Inflation, which was 4 percent in April, has stayed above
the central bank’s target of 2.5 percent since October 2010.
Price growth will probably hover above 4 percent in the coming
months on increased demand from the European soccer championship
co-hosted by Poland this month and lower grain output, Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank Pocztowy, said by phone before
the rate decision.  “All that, plus recent zloty weakness, will give some
central bankers cause to keep warning of a possible rate
increase,” said Kurtek, adding that borrowing costs will
probably stay unchanged until the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  