-- Presidents Win Elections, Not Mandates
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/presidents-win-elections-not-mandates.html
Forget what President  Barack Obama 
and  Mitt Romney  say they want to do next year. The better
question might be: How do they intend to get any of it done? To
use a phrase that was popular during the Democratic primary in
2008, what’s their “theory of change”?  One common theory is that the two parties are so far apart
that this election, finally, will provide a mandate for the
winner and shock the losing side into cooperating. “We’re going
to have as stark a contrast as we’ve seen in a very long time
between the two candidates,” Obama told donors in Minneapolis.
“My hope, my expectation, is that after the election, now that
it turns out that the goal of beating Obama doesn’t make much
sense because I’m not running again, that we can start getting
some cooperation again.”  Representative  Paul Ryan , speaking at the Reagan Library,
was even more emphatic: “If we make the case effectively and win
this November, then we will have the moral authority to enact
the kind of fundamental reforms America has not seen since
 Ronald Reagan ’s first year.”  This is conventional wisdom. Elections are arguments about
where the country should go next. The candidate who wins the
election wins the argument. The opposition party, disappointed
as they may be, has little choice but to step aside. After all,
they’re out of power.  But can you remember the last time it actually worked that
way? The U.S. political system makes winning an election a
necessary but very insufficient qualification for governing. The
frequent elections in the House and staggered elections in the
Senate, the expansion of the filibuster, the  influence  of the
 Supreme Court  and the polarization of the political parties
combine to constrain power. You can win an election and quickly
find you lack the support to pass major priorities. Recall
President  Bill Clinton  being stymied on health-care reform, or
President  George W. Bush ’s failed run at Social Security
privatization.  Mandate Mechanics  If you consider the mechanics of presidential mandates,
it’s clear why they don’t amount to much. For one thing,
contemporary elections are decided by narrow margins. Had 3.6
percent of the electorate voted the other way in 2008, Senator
 John McCain  would be president. In 2004, if 1.25 percent of
Bush’s voters had switched sides, Senator  John Kerry  would have
won. In 2000, well, the winner didn’t even win the popular vote.
In 1992 and 1996, Clinton won majorities in the Electoral
College, but due to Ross Perot’s popularity, he never won the
majority of the popular vote. None of these elections produced
the kind of Rooseveltian or Reaganite landslides that cow the
opposing party into submission.  Nor is it clear what specific policies voters have endorsed
when they select a president. Although some go to the ballot box
having read every word of their chosen candidate’s agenda, most
don’t. A swing voter in Ohio might turn against Romney because
of his links to Bain Capital LLC without intending to endorse
Obama’s ideas on  immigration reform . “In short,”  wrote  political
scientist John Sides in a roundup of academic research on
presidential mandates, “we cannot interpret an election outcome
as a wholesale endorsement of the winner’s policy proposals (or
as a wholesale rejection of the loser’s).”  In addition, members of Congress don’t report to a national
electorate. They report to their state or district. If Obama
narrowly wins the election but badly loses  Kentucky , is Senate
minority leader  Mitch McConnell  really betraying the will of the
people in organizing relentless opposition to Obama’s policies?
McConnell’s certainly not betraying the will of his people.  Worse, members of Congress -- particularly Republicans --
increasingly fear their primary election opponents more than
their general election opponents. If you’re a Republican in a
reliably Republican district or state, you’re probably more
likely to lose to a far-right primary challenger than to a
Democrat. (Just ask Bob Bennett, the former senator of Utah, or
 Richard Lugar , who just lost the Republican Senate primary in
Indiana.) As a result, the voters you’re most eager to assuage
aren’t just Republicans, but hard core conservatives. They
definitely don’t want you standing down out of obeisance to some
abstract notion of “mandates.”  Next Election  Finally, when a party does lose an election, it turns its
attention to regaining power in the next election. In Robert Draper’s  book  “Do Not Ask What Good We Do: Inside the U.S. House
of Representatives,” he reports on a strategy dinner attended by
top Republicans, including  Eric Cantor ,  Jim DeMint ,  Kevin McCarthy  and Ryan, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration. “If you
act like you’re the minority, you’re going to stay in the
minority,” Draper quotes McCarthy saying. “We’ve gotta challenge
them on every single bill and challenge them on every single
campaign.”  McCarthy, of course, was right. Minorities don’t become
majorities by helping the other party govern successfully. When
things go well, voters reward the party in charge. More often,
minorities become majorities by grinding the gears of government
to a halt, amping up partisanship and doing everything they can
to make sure voters are disgusted with Washington. Given such
incentives, the belief that minority politicians will clap their
majority colleagues on the back, mutter “good game,” and get out
of the way is fantasy.  There is one theory of change that works even in an age of
intense polarization: having the votes to pass your agenda.
Obama learned this when the Senate approved health-care reform
with zero Republican votes. Ryan talks about the “moral
authority” to enact fundamental reforms, but if his budget
passes, it will do so because Republicans gain control of both
chambers of Congress, and budgets can’t be filibustered in the
Senate. Obama, who is likely to face a divided Congress if he’s
re-elected, will have to hope that the expiration of the Bush
tax cuts and the “trigger” of the spending sequester give him
sufficient leverage to force Republicans to work with him.  Fiscal policy is a special case in which the consequences
of gridlock will make action necessary and Senate rules make
passage easier. On most issues, neither Obama nor Romney is
likely to have the votes or cross-party cooperation to get much
done.  Washington  is too bitterly polarized for that, and the
U.S. political system is too easy to stymie. If voters don’t
like that state of affairs -- if we want elections to produce
leaders who can govern effectively -- then the question, really,
is what our theory of change is. Because simply turning
Democrats and Republicans in and out of office doesn’t seem to
be working.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on why  Germany’s
consideration of a deeper union comes too-late  and  medical-
device taxes ;  Michael Kinsley  on  banning Big Gulps ;  Susan
Antilla  on  workplace discrimination ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
nascent economic recovery ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan’s current
account ; Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 