-- Prozac-Contaminated Drinking Water May Be Link to Autism
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/prozac-contaminated-drinking-water-may-be-link-to-autism.html
Fish exposed to psychiatric medicines
showed gene patterns similar to those found in people with
autism, in a study suggesting a link between drugs that get into
the human water supply and the brain development disorder.  Researchers put antidepressants Prozac and Effexor, as well
as antiseizure drug Tegratol into water tanks of minnows. Tests
showed that the same genes turned on in people with autism were
also triggered in the fish after exposure, according to a  study 
published in the journal PLoS ONE.  The findings suggest that small amounts of psychiatric
medications found in the drinking supply may be a cause of
autism, the researchers said. Psychiatric drugs have been linked
to autism-like symptoms in studies of rats exposed to the
medicines, according to the study.  “An environmental cause is really not on the radar for a
lot of people,” said study author  Michael Thomas , a professor
of evolutionary biology at Idaho State University in Pocatello,
in a telephone interview. “My sincere hope is that this opens
the door to a new question and allows people to look into that
possibility.”  Concentrations of the drugs are found downstream from water
treatment plants that process human waste that contains the
medicines, Thomas said. The molecules make their way into the
supply downstream, where pregnant mothers who drink the water
can pass the exposure to their fetuses.  “While others have envisioned a causal role for
psychotropic drugs in idiopathic autism, we were astonished to
find evidence that this might occur at very low dosages, such as
those found in aquatic systems,” Thomas said in a statement
accompanying the study.  Eli Lilly & Co.’s Prozac, Pfizer Inc.’s Effexor and their
generic equivalents belong to classes of drugs that generated
$14.2 billion in U.S. sales last year, according to data
compiled by Wolters Kluwer NV and Bloomberg.  Higher Concentrations  The researchers used concentrations of the drugs higher
than are measured in the field, which Thomas said was
intentional.  “Every study that comes out that measures concentrations
in the environment shows orders of magnitude higher than the
previous study, so we figured the concentrations would catch up
with us,” Thomas said.  The researchers are collecting water samples from places
with known concentrations, and plan to test minnows in that
water, he said.  Autism Rise  The number of children with autism and related disorders is
rising, according to data collected by the U.S.  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. The number of 8-year-
olds identified with autism spectrum disorders rose 23 percent
in 2008 from 2006, according to a March CDC report. Some of the
increase is due to a higher awareness of autism as a cause of
behavioral disorders, though how much that contributed to the
rise isn’t known, according to the report.  Autism includes a range of disorders characterized by
social impairment, communication difficulties, and restricted,
repetitive patterns of behavior, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  The study was supported by funding from the PhRMA
Foundation, National Institutes of Health and Idaho State
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  