-- Putin, Hu Seek to Push Syria Rebels to Back Annan Peace Plan
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-06T12:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/putin-hu-seek-to-push-syria-rebels-to-back-annan-peace-plan-1-.html
Russia  and  China  are seeking to press
the Syrian opposition to support peace efforts by United Nations
envoy Kofi Annan and proposed a meeting of countries that have
influence over the rebels and the government.  “Russia and China have a clear understanding that this is
of crucial importance at this stage, when there is no shortage
of those who want, through their words and subversive actions,
to scuttle the Kofi Annan plan,” Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  told reporters in Beijing today after two days of
meetings between Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and Chinese
leaders including his counterpart  Hu Jintao .  While Western leaders have called for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s ouster, Russia has vowed to veto any attempt
at imposing sanctions on his government through the UN Security
Council, where it holds veto-empowered permanent membership
along with the U.S., the U.K.,  France  and China. Russia has
called for negotiations between Assad and his opponents to reach
a political settlement.  The five permanent members, the European Union, the
Organization of Islamic Conference and Arab League states,
Turkey and Iran should take part in the meeting, Lavrov said,
adding that Syrian representatives shouldn’t be invited to
initial talks.  ‘It’s Essential’  “It’s essential to call a meeting of states that have real
influence over the various opposition groups,” Lavrov said.
“We must all pile pressure on the Syrian side with which each
of us has the most sway and convince them to stop any
violence.”  Russia, which accuses Syrian armed opposition groups of
sabotaging Annan’s almost two-month-old peace plan, will hold
talks with the U.S. in Moscow on June 8 on seeking an orderly
transfer of power by Assad, according to two U.S. officials
speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the issue.  The Russian Foreign Ministry yesterday condemned “amoral”
foreign support for the rebels, who are receiving weapons and
financing, according to a statement posted on its website.  “The goal of such a meeting, bringing together all foreign
players at the first stage without the Syrians, is to agree
honestly and without double standards to implement  Kofi Annan ’s
plan, because we all supported it,” Lavrov said.  Syria  accuses  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar of seeking the failure
the UN plan to end the 15-month conflict by continuing to arm
rebels in violation of a cease-fire agreement reached in April.  “Weapons are entering Syria through its borders with
Lebanon and Turkey,”  Syria’s ambassador to Russia, Riad
Haddad, said in a June 1 interview. “And these are heavy
weapons.”  Although Assad’s forces announced an end to hostilities on
April 12, in line with the UN accord, violence has persisted
because rebels are pursuing attacks, Haddad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Beijing at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  