-- Rajaratnam Added $4 Million to Gupta Fund Value: Witness
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/rajaratnam-added-4-million-to-gupta-fund-value-witness.html
A lawyer for former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , who’s on trial for disclosing
inside information, tried to persuade jurors that leaks from the
bank came from another firm executive.  With the government’s case winding down in Manhattan
federal court, prosecutors yesterday called Joseph Yanagisawa,
who works in Goldman Sachs’s technology unit, to testify about
records of phone calls between Gupta’s office and Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ’s office.  On cross-examination, defense lawyer  David Frankel 
confronted him with phone logs showing two dozen calls between
phones associated with  David Loeb , Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia
Equity Sales in New York, and Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  “That was Mr. Loeb calling?” Frankel asked of a record of
one call to Rajaratnam’s direct line.  “Yes,” Yanagisawa replied.  The logs showed calls from Loeb’s phones to numbers
associated with Rajaratnam and Galleon trader Adam Smith on
dates when Gupta is alleged to have tipped Rajaratnam,
bolstering a defense claim that it was Loeb or others who leaked
data.  Loeb, whose job kept him in regular contact with  hedge
funds , hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, and Frankel didn’t
present other evidence that he was the source of Rajaratnam’s
information.  Two Companies  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said in court on May
23 that Loeb passed tips to Rajaratnam about  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Gupta is accused of leaking data
about two other companies, Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)   Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the phone logs.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003 and
also sat on the P&G board, had pleaded not guilty to five counts
of securities fraud and one of conspiracy. Securities fraud
carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.  The logs offered in court yesterday showed Loeb making
repeated calls in 2007 and 2008 to Rajaratnam’s business and
cellphone lines and to numbers associated with Smith, a former
Galleon trader who has pleaded guilty to  insider trading  and is
cooperating with prosecutors.  Several Calls  Loeb made two calls to Smith’s number on the afternoon of
Sept. 23, 2008, including one at 3:07 p.m. Prosecutors say Gupta
tipped Rajaratnam at around 3:55 p.m. that day to news of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs.  Loeb made four calls to numbers tied to Smith and
Rajaratnam on Oct. 23, 2008, records showed. Prosecutors say
Gupta tipped Rajaratnam that day to news that Goldman Sachs
would lose almost $2 a share, worse than  Wall Street  expected.  Earlier in the day, another witness testified that
Rajaratnam agreed to value an investment Gupta made in a Galleon
fund at almost $4 million more than Rajaratnam initially wanted,
suggesting Gupta had a motive to leak information in return.  According to Isvari Mahadeva, a former Galleon portfolio
manager, Gupta made the investment with Rajaratnam and another
man in a Galleon fund called Voyager Capital Partners. Gupta
invested $5 million in 2005 and added $5 million more in
December 2006, gaining an additional 10 percent stake, she said.  Additional Profit  The two later disagreed over whether Gupta’s additional
profit dated to December 2006, as Rajaratnam claimed, or
earlier, as Gupta wanted, Mahadeva said. By the end of 2007,
Rajaratnam’s interpretation meant Gupta’s stake was worth $12.7
million while Gupta thought it was worth millions more, she
said.  The dispute went on for “several months,” Mahadeva told
jurors, adding that she sometimes saw Gupta in Rajaratnam’s
office at Galleon. In August 2008, Rajaratnam agreed to a higher
valuation and wrote a letter to Gupta putting his stake in
Voyager at $16.4 million, or “$4 million more,” she said.  The defense also points to the Voyager investment, saying
Gupta wouldn’t have leaked information to Rajaratnam because he
later lost Gupta’s entire $10 million investment. Gupta
considered suing Rajaratnam, the defense says.  Added Profits  On cross-examination, Mahadeva said Gupta’s investment
agreement in Voyager was ambiguous and open to conflicting
interpretations as to when added profits would be counted.
Mahadeva testified that $25 million Rajaratnam withdrew from
Voyager wasn’t reflected on statements sent to Gupta.  Blankfein, who was testifying when the trial recessed on
June 4, will likely return to the witness stand today, after
which prosecutors may rest their case. He was excused yesterday
to attend his daughter’s high school graduation, U.S. District
Judge Jed S. Rakoff told jurors.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  