-- Rand Advances for Third Day as Policy Makers Say Ready to Act
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-06T13:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/rand-advances-for-third-day-on-g-7-pledge-ecb-rates-decision.html
The rand advanced for a third day and
bonds gained as policy makers in leading economies said they
will collaborate to respond to  Europe ’s crisis, boosting
investor appetite for riskier, emerging-market assets.  South Africa’s currency advanced as much as 0.9 percent and
traded 0.3 percent stronger at 8.3984 per dollar at 3:20 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the highest since May 29 on a closing basis.
Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.68 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials
stand ready to act as the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.
Group-of-Seven officials will work together to help Spain and
 Greece  place public finances on a sustainable footing, Japanese
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters yesterday after a
conference call between finance ministers and central bank
governors of the G-7.  “Speculation is mounting that the recent downturn in
economic indicators could spur further monetary easing from some
of the world’s key central banks,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “The turn in sentiment has filtered into the
rand.”  Atlanta Federal Reserve President  Dennis Lockhart  said that
extending the central bank’s Operation Twist stimulus program is
an “option on the table.”  Emerging-market stocks advanced, driving a benchmark  index 
to a second day of gains, and Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
climbed to the highest in a week. South Africa’s benchmark stock
 index  climbed for a second day as commodity exporters including
Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. rallied.  The rand pared its advance after the ECB today left its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent and Draghi said that the
euro-region economy faces “increased downside risks.”  “It just doesn’t seem that they’re getting anywhere,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “It’s all
pretty inconclusive. Not much was expected, and that was about
right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  