-- RasGas Says U.S. to Limit Gas Exports to Keep Prices Low
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-06-06T09:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/rasgas-says-u-s-to-limit-gas-exports-to-keep-prices-low.html
Qatar, the world’s largest  liquefied
natural gas  producer, joined Australian suppliers in playing
down the threat of large-scale exports of the fuel from the
U.S., where a shale-gas boom has upended global energy markets.  “The U.S. has need for energy themselves,” Hamad Rashid Al-Mohannadi, the managing director of RasGas Co., told
reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today. “I don’t see the U.S.
exporting large volumes of LNG” as it would cause domestic gas
prices to rise significantly, he said.  Exports will mainly be to countries the U.S. has free-trade
agreements with, and supplies to other markets may be restricted
to spot cargoes and short-term contracts, the executive from
Qatar’s second-biggest LNG producer said in a separate speech at
the  World Gas Conference  in the Malaysian capital. State-owned
Qatar Petroleum owns 70 percent of RasGas and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
the rest, according to its  website .  Buyers from  Japan ,  China  and  South Korea  can’t count on
significant U.S. supplies, where only one export project is
under way and the government has said it wouldn’t rule on more
licenses until at least the third quarter.  Australia  is set to
overtake Qatar as the largest LNG exporter by the end of this
decade as Asian demand underpins $180 billion of ventures led by
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)   “The U.S. appears to be moving toward exporting LNG,”
George Kirkland, Chevron’s vice chairman and executive vice
president for upstream and gas, said in a separate speech at the
conference today. “The big questions are if, when and,
importantly for us, how much?”  Chevron’s A$43 billion ($42 billion) Gorgon LNG venture in
Australia will start at the end of 2014, Kirkland said.  Shale-Gas Boom  A boom in extracting gas trapped in shale rock in the U.S.
has helped it surpass  Russia  as the world’s biggest producer of
natural gas and brought the country close to energy
independence.  The nation’s gas production increased 8.1 percent last
year, about four times the average annual increase in the
previous decade, the  International Energy Agency  said in report
released yesterday. “While the U.S. has yet to export LNG, it
is already physically exporting its gas surplus to neighboring
countries,” including Canada and  Mexico , according to the
report.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
said the U.S. is unlikely to grant new natural-gas export
permits until after the presidential election in November and
volumes eventually shipped may be lower than some predictions.  Woodside Doubt  “Some people speculate about numbers up to 100 million
tons per year” of LNG exports, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “I
don’t see that. It’s unlikely there will be a lot of movement on
additional expansion until after the election cycle in the U.S.  The operator of the A$15 billion Pluto LNG project in
Western Australia state expects the U.S. to export as much as 50
million metric tons of the fuel by 2025. That would meet about
10 percent of global demand. The company last month predicted 65
million to 80 million tons of unmet demand in 2018 to 2020.  ‘‘In the U.S., you are always going to have constraints
with the need for gas in power generation and the chemicals
industry,” Coleman said. “That says a lot of gas will stay in
the U.S.,” he said. “Australian LNG has its place.”  Benchmark gas prices in the U.S. have slumped to the lowest
in a decade amid a supply glut. Gas futures slid to $1.90 per
million Btu on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange April 19, the
lowest since September 2001. The contract for July delivery rose
3.1 cents to settle at $2.446 per million Btu yesterday.  Tokyo Gas  “Long-term contracts are for 25 years or so, and betting
gas prices will remain low for 25 years is a big gamble for
consumers,” said Al-Mohannadi from RasGas. “If you’re looking
for security of supply, you would rather look for supply from
projects that are up and running.”  While it’s unlikely that all of the LNG export projects
planned in  North America  will start, the region could supply as
much as 10 percent of world LNG, according to Shigeru Muraki,
the chief executive of Tokyo Gas Co.’s energy solution division.  Tokyo Gas, Japan’s biggest gas distributor, and Sumitomo
Corp. agreed in April to buy 2.3 million tons of LNG annually
for 20 years from Dominion Resources Inc.’s Cove Point project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Kuala Lumpur at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  