-- Ray Bradbury, Prolific Science Fiction Writer, Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r a   T i l l m a n
-- 2012-06-06T15:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ray-bradbury-prolific-science-fiction-writer-dies-at-91.html
Ray Bradbury, the prolific science
fiction and fantasy writer who mixed social commentary with
warnings about modern technology’s dark side in short stories
and novels such as “Fahrenheit 451,” has died. He was 91.  He died yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported, citing
his daughter, Alexandra Bradbury, who didn’t have additional
details. He lived in the Cheviot Hills neighborhood of Los
Angeles.  Bradbury’s love for writing transcended form and genre,
resulting in more than 500 published works ranging from novels
such as “Something Wicked This Way Comes” (1962) to poems,
screenplays and short stories that were compiled into
collections, including “The Martian Chronicles” (1950) and
“The Illustrated Man” (1951).  Bradbury was perhaps best known for “ Fahrenheit 451 ,” a
stark depiction of a dystopian future in which a totalitarian
society censors its citizens and firefighters torch books. The
title refers to the temperature at which paper burns.  Published in 1953, the book is now taught in schools as a
companion to another modern classic that depicts the dangers of
totalitarianism,  George Orwell ’s “ 1984 .” Bradbury himself
insisted that while his novel had political implications, his
primary concern was propagating critical thought.  “I wasn’t trying to predict the future,” he told the Wall
Street Journal in 2003. “I was trying to prevent it.”  First Book  Bradbury’s writing sometimes frustrated his science-fiction
contemporaries, who said his visions of the future were based on
fantasy, not grounded in fact. His first book, “The Martian
Chronicles,” took the liberty of adding an atmosphere to Mars
where scientists had already discovered that none exists.  Bradbury was awarded the  National Medal of Arts  from
President  George W. Bush  in 2004. He also received the National
Book Foundation Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American
Letters, the O. Henry Prize for short stories of exceptional
merit and a special distinguished-career citation from the
Pulitzer Prize board in 2007.  He also had an asteroid named after him, and received a
star on the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .  Ray Douglas Bradbury was born in Waukegan,  Illinois , on
Aug. 22, 1920, to Leonard Spaulding Bradbury and Esther Marie
Moberg Bradbury.  His older brother and younger sister both died of the flu
when the family was living in Illinois, sparing only Bradbury
and another brother.  Performing Magic  The family was hit hard by the Depression. Leonard, a
telephone technician, moved the family between Waukegan and
Tucson,  Arizona , looking for work while Bradbury escaped reality
by practicing magic.  “I had decided to be a magician well before I decided to
be a writer,” he said in a 1996 interview with Playboy
magazine. “I was the little boy who would get up onstage and do
magic wearing a fake mustache, which would fall off during the
performance. I’m still trying to perform those tricks. Now I do
it with writing.”  A carnival magician named Mr. Electrico singled out an 11-
year-old Bradbury at a show, knighting him with the
pronouncement, “Live Forever!”  “I decided that was the greatest idea I had ever heard,”
Bradbury later told his biographer, Garyn Roberts, a professor
at Northwestern Michigan College in Traverse City.  After that, he made a lifelong habit of writing every day.
The carnival theme would later resurface in sinister form in
“ Something Wicked This Way Comes .”  Move West  Bradbury’s young life changed dramatically when, with only
$40 in his pocket, his father moved the family to  Los Angeles  to
seek work. The small-town boy from Illinois was star-struck.  “I skated all over town, hell-bent on getting autographs
from glamorous stars,” he told Playboy. “It was glorious.”  With voracious appetites for cinema, he and his mother saw
10 to 12 films a week.  Unable to afford college, Bradbury spent the next few years
peddling newspapers on Los Angeles street corners, writing and
hanging out in libraries. The ambitious teenager sought out
science fiction writer Robert Heinlein and introduced himself.  Heinlein “became my teacher and accepted me into his
group, although I was lousy,” Bradbury said.  By age 20, he had several stories accepted by Script
magazine and by 25 was a regular contributor to Weird Tales.  Bradbury said he found his voice at 22 with his short story
“The Lake,” and gained the confidence to write full time. He
would later brag that unlike most writers he never had a dry
spell in his  entire career .  First Date  “I wake early and hear my morning voices leaping around in
my head like jumping beans,” he once said. “I get out of bed
to trap them before they escape.”  One hot afternoon in a Los Angeles bookshop, Bradbury met
Marguerite “Maggie” Susan McClure, a clerk there.  “I’m going to the moon someday,” he told her. “Wanna
come?” The two went out for coffee, which turned into
cocktails, which turned into dinner. The witty, literary couple
quickly fell in love and married in 1947. Maggie became the only
girl Bradbury ever dated, the mother of their four daughters and
his wife for 56 years. She died in 2003.  Though “The Martian Chronicles” received a rave review in
the  New York  Times, it was “Fahrenheit 451” that earned
Bradbury widespread recognition.  ‘Conformist Hells’  Readers responded to the world of protagonist Guy Montag, a
fireman who sets books ablaze. In the novel Montag begins to
question his vocation and discovers censorship was used to avoid
conflicts arising from critical thought. He becomes an
accidental fugitive, whose only crime is the attempt to reclaim
the intellectual freedom still found in our contemporary world.  “Bradbury’s is the most skillfully drawn of all science
fiction’s conformist hells,” acclaimed British author Kingsley
Amis said of the book.  The novel was made into a 1966 film by the acclaimed French
director Francois Truffaut. It was also adapted as an opera by
Georgia Holof and David Mettere, which was first produced at the
 Indiana  Civic Theater in  Fort Wayne , Indiana, in 1988.  Bradbury’s prose stood out for its ability to bring a human
warmth and nostalgia to the fantasy genre. While many of his
colleagues pursued the possibilities of science, Bradbury used
his imagination to depart from the ordinary only to return to
the values that remain irrevocably human.  Low-Tech Writer  Unlike many science fiction writers, Bradbury’s fascination
with fantasy reflected an aversion to technology, not a love of
it. The Los Angeles resident didn’t drive and did his daily
writing on a typewriter.  “Fahrenheit 451” received a new wave of attention when
the politically independent Bradbury lashed out at filmmaker
 Michael Moore  for co-opting his title for the 2004 documentary
“ Fahrenheit 9/11 .”  Moore’s award-winning box-office hit presented an
unflattering critique of the  Bush administration . Bradbury, who
said he didn’t believe in political parties, hadn’t seen the
film and was unconcerned with its politics or financial gain.  “The point is that he stole something,” Bradbury said in
a 2004 interview with Chris Matthews of  MSNBC . “All I want is
to have it returned.”  While Moore eventually called to apologize, Bradbury said
the filmmaker never called back, as promised, to discuss
changing the title.  Rejection Slips  Even with all of this acclaim, Bradbury was nevertheless no
stranger to disappointment. In a 2001 video interview for a fan
website, Bradbury joked that he held the record for rejections
from the  New Yorker  magazine.  “When you reject the 301st short story, we should have a
party,” Bradbury said of the magazine, in which he was
published only one time, in 1947.  Bradbury continued to write late into his life, although he
had suffered a stroke in 1999 and had deteriorating eyesight. He
wrote with the help of his daughters in the basement of his  Los
Angeles home , according to Roberts, his biographer.  In 2006, he published “Farewell Summer,” the third
installment of a trilogy inspired by his childhood in Illinois,
after “Dandelion Wine” (1957) and “Something Wicked.”  Bradbury adapted some of his earlier works to the stage,
including tales from his novels about Illinois. The trio of
nostalgic short plays was titled “Ray Bradbury’s Green Town,”
and was performed in  California  in 2007.  Bradbury is survived by his four daughters, Susan
Marguerite, Ramona, Bettina and Alexandra, eight grandchildren
and several cats.  When asked by the Sacramento Bee in 2006 what he would like
to see on his epitaph, Bradbury replied, “It should read, ‘Here
lies a man who loved life from beginning to end, and he’s sorry
that the goddamn thing is over.’”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  