-- Treasuries Decline on European Crisis-Response Optimism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-06T13:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/treasuries-fall-on-bets-yield-drop-to-record-lows-unsustainable.html
Treasuries snapped two days of losses
on concern European policy makers aren’t doing enough to resolve
the region’s debt crisis and a report showed U.S. productivity
fell more than initially estimated in the first quarter.  U.S. government debt  also erased losses after Atlanta
Federal Reserve President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that
extending the central bank’s Operation Twist program is an
“option on the table.” European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said officials will extend their offerings of unlimited
cash as they try to head off risks stemming from the crisis. The
ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent.  “Draghi is offering nothing in here,” said  David Ader ,
head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The market is looking for action and ideas, not a
repetition of stuff we already know. We know the risk scenarios
-- now what are you going to do about it?”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.56 percent at 9:13 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Earlier it rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point. The yield declined to an
all-time low of 1.4387 percent on June 1.  Ten-year yields dropped 29 basis points last week and 36
basis points in May.  The U.S. Labor Department’s measure of  employee output  per
hour decreased at a 0.9 percent annual rate, after a 1.2 percent
gain in the prior three months, revised figures showed today in
Washington. Expenses per worker rose at a 1.3 percent rate and
output grew 2.4 percent, less than previously estimated.  “Productivity is down and that’s poor; labor is down more,”
CRT’s Ader said. “It’s not good for workers, but it’s good for
the  bond market .”  ‘Do More’  Lockhart of the Atlanta Fed, answering audience questions
at an event in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, said the central bank
“has the capacity to do more” with Operation Twist, which is set
to expire at the end of this month.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of
this month to keeping borrowing costs down. The central bank
plans to buy as much as $2.25 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to May 2042 today as part of the effort, according
to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed earlier above 1.6
percent for the first time four days. Federal Reserve regional
bank presidents voiced opposing views yesterday over whether the
central bank should step up record accommodation following the
lowest monthly increase in U.S. payrolls in a year.  ‘Strong Accommodation’  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said in a speech in New
York yesterday that “soft” U.S. economic data call for
“extremely strong accommodation,” while Richard Fisher of
Dallas said more easing through Fed purchases of bonds would be
“pushing on a string.”  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said there’s
time to assess the economy and a policy change isn’t needed now.  After policy makers met in April, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may ease further should unemployment fail
to make “sufficient progress towards its longer-run normal
level.” Unemployment in May rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent the prior month, and job growth slowed to 69,000,
compared with 275,000 in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  