-- Three of 12 Ventures Funded by Romney-Created Energy Fund Failed
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/three-of-12-ventures-funded-by-romney-created-energy-fund-failed.html
A $17 million, state-backed green-
energy fund created during  Mitt Romney ’s tenure as governor of
Massachusetts invested in a dozen companies, three of which have
since closed, according to the fund’s manager.  It’s too soon to judge the overall success, though some
projects have taken longer than expected to provide a return,
William Osborn, a founding partner at the  Massachusetts Green
Energy Fund  LP, said in an interview.  The issue of government support for clean-energy companies
has emerged as a campaign theme in the presidential race that
has focused on the struggling economy.  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential candidate,
called Solyndra LLC’s collapse after winning a $535 million U.S.
loan guarantee a symbol of President  Barack Obama ’s failed
efforts at creating jobs. He spoke during a surprise visit last
week to the company’s shuttered factory.  “He certainly supported this stuff back then,” said
Osborn.  Obama’s campaign called Romney’s line of attack
hypocritical after a solar company he backed as governor filed
for bankruptcy last week.  Ryan Williams , a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in
a statement that Romney “has never believed that the government
should play venture capitalist.”  Konarka Failure  The green fund managed by Osborn invested in Konarka
Technologies Inc., a Lowell, Massachusetts-based company that
filed for liquidation and fired about 80 workers last week.
Osborn declined to say how much the fund invested in the
company.  The fund also backed CTP Hydrogen Inc. in Southborough,
Massachusetts, which has since shut down. Osborn said one other
company, which he wouldn’t name, also closed.  He said the fund’s performance was typical of venture-
capital firms that back early-stage companies.  While the fund is overseen by the state, it was set up to
largely operate like a private company with fund managers
determining where to invest, so long as the company was based in
 Massachusetts  and qualified as a clean-energy business.  The Massachusetts Green Energy Fund is backed by $15
million from the state, money that came from a separate
renewable-energy trust funded through utility fees collected
since 1998, before Romney was governor.  Energy Fund  The green-energy fund also has $2 million from private
investors, Osborn said. About 75 percent of the total donor
commitment has been invested in about a dozen start-up
companies, he said.  Other recipients include Protonex Technology Corp. in
Southborough and Lilliputian Systems Inc. in Woburn, both fuel-
cell companies; Greentech Media Inc., an online news outlet that
covers emerging green and clean technologies; and Sustainability
Roundtable Inc., a consulting company based in Cambridge.  Romney’s presidential campaign said the state legislature
blocked him from using $160 million collected through the
utility-bill surcharge to reduce the state’s deficit.  He later took $17 million from the fund for  deficit
reduction , according to the campaign, in addition to the $15
million set aside for the Massachusetts Green Energy Fund.  At a Jan. 22, 2003,  visit  to Konarka’s Lowell plant, Romney
said the green-energy fund could be a “major economic
springboard” for Massachusetts.  “He rightly said, at least 10 years ago, that this was a
proper role for government,” Osborn said. “He’s a chameleon.”  Obama Supporter  Osborn said he would probably vote for Obama and records
show he gave $300 to his campaign in 2008, according to the
Center for Responsible Politics.  Osborn declined to say how many jobs were supported through
the fund.  Konarka also received about $6.5 million from other state
programs. Of that total, $1.5 million came during the Romney
administration, though the state had announced that award in
December 2002, prior to his inauguration. The rest came during
the administration of Democratic Governor  Deval Patrick .  Eric Macaux, senior director for strategy and legal affairs
for the Massachusetts Clean Energy Center, which supports
renewable-energy efforts in the state, said the $1.5 million
loan was converted to stock in the company. Konarka has paid
back about $825,000 of its other loans to the state, Macaux said
in an interview.  Jim Stergios, who was undersecretary for policy in the
executive office of environmental affairs under Romney, said as
governor he was always skeptical about using public money to
invest in individual companies like a venture capitalist.  “He had no belief whatsoever that the government was any
good at this stuff,” Stergios, who is now executive director of
the Boston-based Pioneer Institute, which promotes free markets
and limited government, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  