-- Rio Alto Beats Gold Peers as Volatility Dips: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2012-06-06T20:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/rio-alto-beats-gold-peers-as-volatility-dips-corporate-canada.html
Rio Alto Mining Ltd. (RIO)  has rewarded
investors with the highest risk-adjusted returns among its
global peers in the past three years by bringing its Peruvian
gold mine into operation on budget and at grades two times
richer than forecast.  Rio Alto, based in  Vancouver , returned 34 percent since
June 5, 2009 after adjusting for price volatility, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s the best performance among 37 gold-
and-precious-metals miners and explorers with a market value of
$500 million to $1 billion. The stock’s volatility fell 31
percent in the past year, compared with the previous three-year
span, as La Arena mine was brought into production with better
results than expected.  Rio Alto “is a  rising star  due to its share price
appreciation, and ability to meet company objectives,” Dale Mah, a Vancouver-based analyst at Dundee Securities Ltd. said in
a May 14 note to clients.  The shares, which closed down 0.7
percent at C$4.62 today for a market capitalization of C$791.3
million ($769.9 million), have climbed 25-fold since June 2009.
Mah rates the company buy, with a C$6.50 12-month price target.  While it’s not uncommon for the price volatility of a so-
called junior metals producer to drop as a mine’s development
risk declines, Rio Alto has the potential to outperform beyond
development of  La Arena  as it examines the viability of
exploiting an untapped copper sulphide accumulation below the
gold deposit, Christos Doulis, a Toronto-based analyst at
Stonecap Securities Inc., said in an interview.  Shares Rise  “So far there’s not a lot of value baked into the stock
for the sulphide deposit,” Doulis, who ranks Rio Alto buy with
a C$6.10 12-month price target, said by telephone. “It still
needs a lot of work done to know whether it’s economic or not.”  Rio Alto acquired a stake in La Arena in 2008 from Toronto-
based  Iamgold Corp. (IMG)  for about $47.6 million before spending
about $50 million last year to raise its ownership to 100
percent.  The company’s risk-adjusted return was 1.9 percent over one
year and 9.9 percent over two years, beating Reno, Nevada-based
 Argonaut Gold Inc. (AR) ’s 1.5 percent return over one year and
Vancouver-based Sandstorm Gold Ltd.’s 1.2 percent one-year
return.  Alex Black, Rio Alto’s chief executive officer, wasn’t
immediately available for comment, spokeswoman Alejandra Gomez
said by telephone.  Shares of Rio Alto have risen 25 percent in Toronto since
Black said May 16 the company may raise its 160,000-ounce full-
year gold production forecast after producing a greater-than-
expected 56,000 ounces in the first quarter.  During the quarter, the average ore grade at La Arena was
1.37 grams of gold per ton, more than double the company’s
original forecast of 0.69 of a gram, according to a statement on
April 17.  Free Cash  “People look at it and say ‘wow,’ they’re one of the very,
very few companies that’s actually exceeding their guidance and
generating lots of free cash,” Kevin Maclean, a Toronto-based
 fund manager  at Sentry Select Capital Corp., Rio Alto’s largest
 shareholder , said by telephone.  Maclean, who oversees about C$1.5 billion of Sentry
Select’s C$7.4 billion under management, said CEO Black and
Anthony Hawkshaw, chief financial officer, have done a good job
managing relations with Peruvians who blocked access to the mine
for two days in October.  “Those sorts of issues have become extremely important in
the current environment where cash-strapped governments and
cash-strapped communities sometimes vent their frustration at
mining companies,” Maclean said.  Over the past year, anti-mining protests have delayed
projects by Newmont Mining Corp., Anglo American Plc, Southern
Copper Corp. and Bear Creek Mining Corp. Road blockages near
mine developments and anti-government protests have left at
least 10 people dead since President Ollanta Humala took office
in July.  Copper Deposit  Maclean, who says he has been adding to Sentry Select’s 26
million shares of Rio Alto in recent weeks, said the stock may
double within two years. At the same time, Rio Alto’s potential
as an attractive takeover target may hinge on the company’s
assessment of its untapped copper sulphide deposit at La Arena.  “When the study comes out, I suspect Rio Alto will be
snapped up by a base metal producer who will want to have a
multi-decade copper producer,” Maclean said in the interview.  Six mining operations, including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s
Lagunas Norte, are located within 20 kilometers (12.5 miles) of
La Arena, according to Dundee’s Mah. Stonecap’s Doulis said
Barrick may be among potential acquirers of Rio Alto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  