-- Roche Drug Reduces Skin Growths in Gene-Mutation Patients
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/roche-drug-reduces-skin-growths-in-gene-mutation-patients.html
A  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  skin cancer drug
reduced the size and number of growths in people genetically
predisposed to the disease in a study published today, even as
half the participants quit because of side effects.  Erivedge, also known as vismodegib, reduced the rate of new
basal cell carcinomas to two per year, compared with 29 new
growths in patients who got a placebo, according to results
published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The
Roche pill shrank existing growths in the study.  “It is a landmark day for patients with basal-cell
carcinoma and all those involved in their care,” John Lear, a
consultant dermatologist at  Manchester Royal Infirmary , wrote in
an  editorial  accompanying the studies. Lear called Erivedge
“the greatest advance in therapy yet seen for this disease.”  The study followed 41 patients with basal-cell nevus
syndrome, or  Gorlin syndrome , a rare hereditary disorder caused
by a malfunctioning gene. Patients can have thousands of
lesions, in some case losing ears and eyes to the disease, Lear
said.  Yet the 54 percent drop-out rate for patients with such a
serious form of the disease shows that a more targeted topical
therapy -- a cream or injected medicine -- may be helpful to
bring the treatment to a wider group of patients, Lear said.  Topical and injected approaches have been discussed in the
past for Erivedge but haven’t been successful, Daniel Grotzky, a
spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, said by e-mail.  Side effects of Erivedge include losing one’s sense of
taste, muscle cramps, loss of hair and weight loss.  Erivedge was approved in the U.S. in January for advanced
basal cell carcinoma. The New England journal also published a
detailed analysis of the study in locally advanced and
metastatic basal cell carcinoma that was the basis for
regulators’ approval.  Roche is studying the medicine in a mid-stage trial of
people with operable basal cell carcinoma, Grotzky said.  Roche is developing Erivedge under an agreement with
Lexington, Massachusetts-based  Curis Inc. (CRIS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  