-- Romney Critical of Government Aid That Helped Bain Profit
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-06-06T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/romney-critical-of-government-aid-that-helped-bain-profit.html
Mitt Romney  likes to say that
“government does not create prosperity.”  His record in the private equity industry shows otherwise.  During Romney’s years as chief executive of  Bain Capital 
LLC, companies owned by the firm received millions of dollars in
benefits from a variety of state and local government economic
development programs.  In California, taxpayer money built one Bain company a
conveyor bridge between two of its buildings. New York City gave
another Bain company tax breaks and lower energy bills to
discourage it from moving to  New Jersey . And in  Indiana , a
county government issued bonds to help buy new equipment for a
Bain-owned steel plant -- a business success featured in a
Romney campaign ad touting his private sector prowess.  “From a national perspective, this makes no economic sense
to allow cities and states to do this,” said Arthur Rolnick,
former director of research for the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Minneapolis . “In general, you want the market to be making
these decisions -- not the political system.”  The public-private agreements, which began in the first
decade of Romney’s tenure as CEO, show that government played a
supporting role in establishing Bain as among the nation’s most
successful private equity firms and enabling him to accumulate a
fortune his campaign says could reach $250 million.  Criticizing Government Involvement  On the campaign trail, the presumptive Republican nominee
has hammered at President  Barack Obama  for favoring an unhealthy
government role in the economy.  “When government, rather than the market, routinely
selects winners or losers, or puts its hands on the scales of
justice then enterprises and entrepreneurs can’t predict their
prospects,” Romney said in a March 19 speech at the  University
of Chicago .  Asked about the disconnect between Romney’s free market
rhetoric and Bain’s track record, Amanda Henneberg, a campaign
spokeswoman, said: “It’s not at all uncommon for state and
local governments to use competitive incentives and programs to
create a favorable business climate.”  Yet in his Chicago speech, the former Massachusetts
governor decried the “endless subsidies and credits intended to
shape behavior in our economic society,” and assailed
government “intrusion in the workings of the free marketplace
itself.”  Exhibit A in Romney’s attack is the Obama administration’s
investment in the failed solar power company Solyndra, which
could cost taxpayers more than $500 million.  Massachusetts Investment Bankruptcy  Romney’s effort to capitalize on the administration’s
stumbles was complicated this week by the June 1 failure of a
Massachusetts clean energy company that received state financing
while he was governor.  As a private equity investor, Romney showed no reluctance
to accept help from government coffers -- on one occasion even
becoming partners with taxpayers.  In October 1994, a  Connecticut  state fund made a $500,000
equity investment in  Environmental Data Resource s of Milford,
Connecticut, which Bain had helped start. The state’s
Connecticut Innovations agency the previous year also had given
the firm a separate $500,000 to be paid back with royalties from
its software products.  The company used the money to hire several technologists
and digitize old maps of industrial sites, according to Rob
Barber, the company’s chief executive.  EDR Expansion  Beginning in 1991, Bain had invested $2.3 million in the
company, which produced software for environmental site
assessments, ultimately recording a 35.7 percent return,
according to a Deutsche Bank prospectus that detailed the
performance of Bain’s funds through 1999. Starting with just
three employees, EDR grew to about 50 workers by the middle of
the decade, Peter Cashman, the company’s founder, said in an
interview.  Victor Budnick, who was then Connecticut Innovations’
director of investments, says the company obtained better terms
for the public funds than it likely could have received from
private investors. Private money would have been
“disadvantageous from the perspective of ownership,” Budnick
said.  The deal ultimately profited both the government and EDR.
The state got back $3.8 million in return for its $500,000
equity stake plus an additional $1 million from its royalty-
linked investment, according to Pamela Hartley, a spokeswoman
for Connecticut Innovations.  Management-led Negotiations  There is no indication that Romney, who became CEO of Bain
Capital in 1984, was directly involved in any of the individual
companies’ negotiations with government officials. Such
operational issues were typically left to the management of
companies Bain acquired.  “I never heard of Bain Capital,” says Walter Sprouse, who
was president of the Randolph County Economic Development
Corporation in North Carolina when it ponied up $375,000 to help
lure Sealy Inc.’s corporate headquarters.  Even so, Romney benefitted from the incentives, along with
other Bain investors. When the Internet advertising company
Double Click Inc. considered moving its Manhattan-based
corporate headquarters,  New York  City’s Economic Development
Corporation in 1999 provided a $4 million package of sales and
energy tax breaks tied to the company’s payroll.  The company reported a loss of $56 million that year and
was acquired by Google Inc. in 2008. Bain realized $88.6 million
on its initial $8.5 million Double Click investment, made in
1997, according to the Deutsche Bank prospectus.  Bain Portfolio Returns  Bain’s investments in the companies that benefited from
government actions were part of a portfolio that earned an 88
percent average annual return through the end of 1999, the
prospectus said.  The two-time presidential candidate says his business
experience qualifies him to turn around the troubled national
economy. He accuses government of “standing in the way” of
recovery.  Yet, government officials employed a variety of techniques
to help Bain-owned companies. In  Kansas City , city officials
 issued  industrial revenue bonds as part of a financing
arrangement that saved a Bain-owned steel company about $3
million in property taxes over five years, according to the
Kansas City Business Journal.  Decaying Steel Plant  The GS Technologies facility, dating to the late 19th
century, had employed around 4,500 workers at its peak. By the
mid-1990s, the plant, which produced wire rods for the auto and
furniture industries, cried out for modernization.  “Really, it was in bad, bad shape. It looked like
something out of a Dickens novel,” said Mario Concha, who
headed the company’s international division at the time.  To help fund a $70 million updating, the city in October
1993 authorized a $45 million industrial revenue bond, which GS
Technologies was to purchase. Kansas City issued the first $5
million the following year and used the proceeds to buy steel-
making equipment and lease it back to the company. That
arrangement was designed so that the city could cut the mill’s
property tax bill by 50 percent, according to the Kansas City
Business Journal.  New equipment didn’t solve all the company’s  problems .
Foreign competition and a two-month strike in 1997 fueled a
downward spiral, which led to bankruptcy in 2001. The Obama
campaign has featured GS Technologies in a political  ad  that
includes one former mill worker accusing Bain of “vampire”
capitalism.  Industrial Revenue Bonds  Industrial revenue bonds, typically repaid with money
generated from the project they fund, act as a subsidy for
private business, reducing either their financing costs or their
tax bill, said Timothy Bartik, senior economist of the W.E.
Upjohn Institute in Kalamazoo, Michigan.  One of Bain’s companies drew government benefits on two
coasts. In 1993, when Leiner Health Products of Torrance,
 California , was looking for a new home, officials in nearby
Carson, California, agreed to construct a $500,000 conveyor
bridge linking two buildings the maker of vitamins and
nutritional supplements was eyeing.  “Our construction guys were in awe of how fast the
turnaround time was for permits,” Giffen Ott, the former Bain
executive who was the company’s vice president of manufacturing,
told The Los Angeles Times.  Ott didn’t respond to e-mail and telephone requests for
comment.  Upgrading Public Roads  Five years later, Leiner decided to move a portion of its
manufacturing operation from Ohio to a new site in York County,
South Carolina. State and local officials provided a package of
benefits that included worker training, upgrades to public
roads, water and sewer facilities, and tax breaks. Officials
with the state’s Employment Security Commission even handled
inquiries from would-be job applicants, according to a July 21,
1998 article in The Herald of  Rock Hill , South Carolina.  The county cut Leiner’s property tax assessment by 43
percent, saving the company “millions of dollars,” according
to Mark Farris, York County economic development director.  Leiner has since been acquired by NBTY Inc., which itself
was acquired by the  Carlyle Group  in 2010.  Michael Collins ,
NBTY’s chief financial officer, didn’t respond to e-mail and
telephone requests for comment.  Free market purists object to such  government aid  to
business, saying profitable companies don’t need it and
unprofitable ones should be allowed to fail.  A Corporate Gift  “It is a gift to the corporation,” says James Bennett,
eminent scholar at  George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia.
“The American welfare queen is the American corporation. All
they’re doing is grabbing for taxpayer benefits and taxpayer
dollars.”  The attractiveness of such deals can be glimpsed in cases
where the marriage of public and private resources pays off for
both sides. In 1998, state and local officials in Indiana
assembled a package of incentives to convince  Steel Dynamics
Inc. (STLD)  to locate a $341 million steel plant in Whitley County, in
the state’s northeast corner.  Whitley County issued a $13 million taxable industrial
revenue bond to buy the giant caster at the heart of the steel-
making operation along with a separate $10 million bond for
sewer and water improvements. State officials kicked in
workforce training aid.  Company Expansion  In the intervening years, the company has expanded its
Whitley County facility twice and now employs 596 workers. Last
year, it produced 876,000 tons of structural steel beams for the
 construction industry  and rails for the nation’s railroads,
according to the company’s filings with Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “It was a fabulous opportunity. Jobs have developed beyond
our expectations,” said Jeff Gage, who was the county attorney
at the time.  In an  ad  entitled “American Dream,” the Romney campaign
boasts of the role his “private sector leadership team” played
in Steel Dynamics’ success.  Some of his allies acknowledge that a savvy public sector
deserves some of the credit.  “The government was trying to help out,” real estate
developer  Donald Trump , a Romney supporter, said during a May 14
appearance on  Fox News , “and sometimes, that’s not the worst
thing in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  