-- Ropes & Gray, King & Spalding, Hogan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/ropes-gray-king-spalding-hogan-business-of-law.html
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP acted as
legal adviser to Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, which agreed to buy
a majority stake in Party City Corp. from its private-equity
owners in a transaction valued at $2.69 billion.  Ropes & Gray LLP acted as legal adviser to the current
owners, Advent International Corp., Berkshire Partners LLC,
Weston Presidio and management, which will hold “significant”
minority stakes, Thomas H. Lee said yesterday in a statement.
Thomas H. Lee will own about 65 to 66 percent of the company,
said a person familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the details haven’t been made public.  The Weil partners were led by corporate department chairman
Michael Aiello. Additional partners include Martin Pollack, tax;
Andrew Gaines, benefits; and Kelly Dybala and Heather Emmel,
finance.  The Ropes & Gray team included the following partners: Jane Goldstein, mergers and acquisitions; Chris Leich, tax; Sunil
Savkar, debt finance; and Jonathan Zorn, benefits.  The purchase, Thomas H. Lee’s fourth this year, gives the
Boston-based private-equity firm a chain with 1,200 owned and
franchised stores in the U.S. and Canada and about 400 temporary
Halloween stores, along with a wholesale business. Party City
posted net income of $76.3 million last year on $1.87 billion in
revenue, according to a prospectus filed on May 10.  In April, Party City  filed  to raise as much as $350 million
in an IPO that hasn’t been completed. Party City was founded in
1947 as a wholesale party supplier. The retailer had $982.3
million of debt as of Dec 31, according to regulatory filings.  Thomas H. Lee manages $14 billion in assets and also has
stakes in companies including  Dunkin Brands Inc. (DNKN) , Clear Channel
Communications Inc. and  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)   For more, click here.  Moves  Diana Weiss Joins PwC as General Counsel from King & Spalding  PwC US said Diana Weiss joined as general counsel from King
& Spalding LLP, where she focused on professional liability and
securities-related litigation and regulatory proceedings.  At King & Spalding, Weiss was a partner in the Washington
office and a member of the litigation practice, focused on
representing clients in investigations and enforcement
proceedings before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and other
regulatory agencies, as well as in litigation.  Weiss serves as co-chairman of the ABA’s Section on
Litigation Subcommittee on Accountants’ Liability.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is a  Delaware  limited liability
partnership. PwC refers to the U.S. member firm, and may
sometimes refer to the PwC network.  Hogan Lovells Expands Health Practice with Bloomquist  Hogan Lovells LLP announced that Christine E. Bloomquist
joined its Health practice in Washington as a partner. She was
previously the chief health-care lobbyist for AstraZeneca
Pharmaceuticals, the firm said.  Bloomquist will focus her practice on advising
pharmaceutical and medical device companies on fraud and abuse
compliance and pricing issues, as well as on other regulatory
and policy matters, including aspects of the Affordable Care
Act, the firm said.  As a senior director for federal government affairs at
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, Bloomquist represented the
company’s interests during the passage and implementation of the
Affordable Care Act and during deficit reduction negotiations
last year.  “Christie’s significant experience, skill set, and
reputation within the industry will further enhance our ability
to offer health regulatory compliance and fraud and abuse
counseling to our pharmaceutical and medical device clients,”
said Liz Dunst, partner with  Hogan Lovells ’s health practice.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,300 lawyers at more than 40
offices in the U.S., Europe,  Latin America , the Middle East and
 Asia .  K&L Gates Expands Milan Office with DLA Piper Lawyers  K&L Gates LLP hired former DLA Piper LLP lawyers Francesco
Sanna and Andrea Pinto as partners in its Milan office, where
they will lead the firm’s Italian real estate and
finance/banking efforts, the firm said. Two associates also
joined the firm.  Sanna focuses his practice in real-estate investment and
development, as well as in projects and infrastructure, while
Pinto concentrates in the areas of acquisition finance, real
estate and project financing, and debt restructuring.  “Their capabilities are an ideal complement to the
office’s current sectors of activity,” Giampaolo Salsi,
administrative partner of the Milan office, said in a statement.  K&L Gates established its Milan office in February through
a combination with Marini Salsi Picciau Studio Legale. With the
additions, the office includes 15 lawyers, five of whom are
partners.  K&L Gates has almost 2,000 lawyers in 41 offices in  North
America , Europe, Asia,  South America  and the  Middle East .  News  SEC Names Two Deputies to Help Lead Hedge Fund Enforcement Unit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s asset
management unit named deputies Julie Riewe and Marshall Sprung
to help manage investigations into possible misconduct at hedge
funds and private equity firms.  Riewe and Sprung, who have both worked in the 75-person
group since it was formed in 2010, will jointly fill a vacancy
left by the departure of Robert Kaplan, according to  Bruce Karpati , chief of the asset management enforcement group.  Kaplan, who had been co-chief of the unit with Karpati,
joined  law firm  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  Riewe, 41, joined the SEC in 2005 from law firm Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP. Since then, she has worked on
cases involving hedge funds, conflicts of interest, and asset
valuation, as well as an insider trading case against  Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball
team. The case has been contested for about three years.  Sprung, 40, came to the SEC from law firm Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP in 2003 and has handled investigations involving
conflicts of interest and valuation that affect retail
investors. Sprung, who is based in the SEC’s regional office in
Los Angeles, was part of the agency’s investigation into the
concealment of a coding error in an Axa Rosenberg Group LLC
investment model that led to the repayment of $217 million in
losses to investors and a $25 million fine.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Gupta’s Judge Trades Quips With Lawyer as Blankfein Calls Board  The Jed-and-Gary show was on hiatus yesterday, Bloomberg
News’ David Glovin, Patricia Hurtado and Sara Forden report.  With Rajat Gupta’s insider-trading trial on hold for a day
as U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff gave a speech in  Washington ,
the 12 jurors and two alternatives had to look elsewhere for
humor. Rakoff and his longtime friend, defense attorney  Gary Naftalis , dished out a lot of it June 4 in their current venue,
Manhattan’s federal Courtroom 14B.  As lunch hour neared and Naftalis, of Kramer Levin Naftalis
& Frankel LLP, pushed ahead with his cross-examination of a
government witness, Rakoff interrupted.  “I don’t meant to cut you off, Mr. Naftalis, and the fact
that the jury is getting hungry for their lunch shouldn’t deter
you in any respects,” he said. Jurors laughed.  When the same witness was confused by Naftalis’s reference
to a list that had been placed into evidence as Exhibit 1786,
Rakoff clarified that it was a document number, not a birthdate.  “Even I wasn’t born in 1786,” Naftalis, 70, offered.  “So you allege,” answered Rakoff, 68.  From the jurors, more laughter.  The two were at it again when Naftalis asked the witness,
former McKinsey & Co. director  Anil Kumar , to testify about the
Indian School of Business, which he and Gupta co-founded.
Naftalis wanted Kumar to compare the school’s reputation with
that of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School and
 Harvard Business School . Rakoff cut him off, saying it was
irrelevant.  “Maybe I should ask about Yale?” Naftalis offered.  Laughter, again.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey from 1994 to 2003 and was a
director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
is accused of leaking tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Gupta has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and
securities fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year prison term.  To prove that Gupta had a motive to leak tips, prosecutors
have stressed that the two men co-founded an investment firm --
Taj Capital, later renamed New Silk Route LLC, focusing on South
Asia. The defense claims Rajaratnam’s interest in the firm faded
because it started only a private-equity fund, and not a
separate hedge fund.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Government Affairs Firm Now Called Davidoff Hutcher & Citron  New York government affairs firm Davidoff Malito & Hutcher
LLP has changed its name to Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP.  “We are very pleased to announce the change in our firm’s
name to add Jeff Citron,” Sid Davidoff, who specializes in city
and state agency work and co-founded the firm, said in a
statement. “Larry Hutcher and Jeff have done a superb job as
co-managing partners for a number of years and now our new name
reflects their efforts.”  Robert Malito left the firm, according to the statement.  Citron, co-managing partner and chairman of the real estate
group, is responsible for all aspects of the firm’s
administrative and management functions, according to the
statement.  The other name partner, Hutcher, co-managing partner and
chairman of the litigation group, has been with the firm since
its inception in 1975. Hutcher has expertise in the field of
‘business divorce,’ representing shareholders, partners and LLC
members in the resolution of ownership disputes and other intra-
corporate issues, the firm said.  “Our new name reflects our growth and evolution over the
years into a multidisciplined, full-service law firm to better
serve our clients’ needs,” Citron said. “Our firm offers all
aspects of business law, commercial litigation, government
relations and lobbying, real estate, trusts and estates,
matrimonial and family law and administrative law matters.”  The firm has 48 attorneys, 15 of them partners, in offices
in New York, Albany, Washington and Garden City, Long Island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 