-- Rupee Strengthens on G-7 Pledge on Europe, U.S. Services Data
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-06T04:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/rupee-strengthens-on-g-7-pledge-on-europe-u-s-services-data.html
India ’s rupee advanced for a second
day after the Group of Seven nations agreed to act together to
tackle  Europe ’s debt crisis, spurring optimism about the global
economic outlook.  The G7 agreed yesterday to coordinate their response to
Europe’s financial turmoil, which has tipped at least eight of
the 17 euro-area economies into recession. U.S. service
industries expanded faster than economists expected in May, data
showed yesterday, increasing demand for emerging-market assets.  “The rupee is being boosted by a mildly positive global
sentiment, which I think will be a temporary phenomenon,” said
Naveen Raghuvanshi, a currency trader at Development Credit Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “We are still seeing purchases of dollars by
importers, so gains in the rupee are likely to be limited.”  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 55.5525 per dollar as of
9:32 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
12.9 percent.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
country’s economy, unexpectedly increased to 53.7, topping the
median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a
reading of 53.4.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.35 a
dollar, compared with 56.58 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.65 from 56.73. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  