-- Russia Stocks Rise to Week High as Oil Rallies, Utilities Jump
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-06T15:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/russia-stocks-fluctuate-on-crude-oil-gains-europe-debt-woes.html
Russian stocks rose to one-week high
as oil, the country’s chief export earner, climbed a third day
and power stocks led gains.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1.3 percent to 1,313.21 by the close
in Moscow, the highest level since May 29 after earlier sliding
as much as 0.6 percent. The benchmark gauge tumbled 11 percent
last month, the most since September. OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil
arm of Russia’s biggest company by value, added 2 percent. Power
utilities OAO MRSK Holding and Federal Grid Co. added more than
8.4 percent and OAO Mobile TeleSystems rose 4.1 percent.  Oil rose as much as 2.4 percent in  New York  as crude
inventory shrank.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi 
said officials stand ready to act as the euro region’s growth
outlook worsens. The European Central Bank held its main
refinancing rate at 1 percent.  The “oil price rebound is supporting both stocks and the
ruble, giving an additional boost to banks,” Alex Kantarovich,
head of research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by e-mail.  OAO Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, advanced for a
second day, adding 3.2 percent to 80.64 rubles.  VTB Bank rose
1.9 percent to 5.3 kopeks, the highest level since May 30.
Russia’s second-biggest lender climbed for a third day after
Chief Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin  said the central bank will
step up efforts to halt a slide in the ruble and as the currency
advanced.  Russia received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year. The Micex will be open for trading
June 9 and closed June 11-12 for public holidays.  BRICS Futures  The Micex-RTS began trading futures on benchmark equity
indexes for  Brazil ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa  today, after
the four other members of the BRICS Exchanges Alliance started
trading the contracts in March.  The total volume of shares traded on the benchmark exchange
today was 42.1 billion, according to the exchange’s website.
Yesterday’s total volume was 32.2 billion shares, according to
Bloomberg data.  Trading volumes  on the Micex declined last week, with 221.4
billion shares changing hands, down from 306.8 billion a week
earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Stocks retreated earlier as Spanish industrial production
unexpectedly fell the most in more than two years in April as
the fourth-largest economy in  Europe ’s single currency union
sank deeper into recession.  ‘Dangerous’  “The situations in Greece and Spain remain the main
concerns, with the latter rapidly turning into the more
dangerous,” Peter Szopo, the head of research at  Alfa Bank  in
Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for the
seventh week in eight, registering a net outflow of $8.2 million
in the week ended May 30, according to EPFR Global. Developing-
nation equity funds registered outflows of more than $1 billion
for the fourth consecutive week, the longest streak since the
third quarter of 2011.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 1.8 percent to 902.02
today, the most since Jan. 26. The MSCI BRIC Index of shares
traded in India, Brazil, Russia and China, fell 1.6 percent.  Russian stocks trade at 4.8 times  estimated earnings ,
having lost 6.4 percent this year. That compares with a 1.6
percent drop for the  MSCI Emerging-Market Index (MXEF) , which trades at
9.3 times projected earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  