-- Russia Open to Syria Transition in Shift Away From Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-06T12:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/russia-open-to-syria-transition-in-shift-away-from-assad.html
As Syria slides toward civil war,
 Russia  is signaling that it no longer views President Bashar al- Assad’s position as tenable and is working with the U.S. to seek
an orderly transition.  A U.S. delegation headed by Fred Hof, Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s special adviser on Syria, is scheduled to meet
with Russian counterparts June 8 in Moscow. They will try to
forge a common approach to moving Assad aside -- or even out of
the country -- with a goal of replacing him with someone
acceptable to both sides in the conflict, according to two U.S.
officials speaking on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  Under newly elected President  Vladimir Putin , an evolution
from support for Russia’s main Mideast ally could break a
diplomatic deadlock. Russia’s threatened veto in the United
Nation’s Security Council has hobbled 15 months of international
efforts to pressure the Assad government with sanctions and
other measures as the conflict deteriorated from peaceful
protests into an armed conflict with sectarian undercurrents.  ‘No Chance’  “In Moscow, they understand now that there is no chance of
maintaining the status quo, they are looking at the question of
a change of regime,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst with the
Moscow-based Council on Foreign and Defense Policy. “The only
thing that Russia can do is to try and keep some influence in
 Syria . A managed change of regime is the only option now.”  While Russia for the first time sees a change of government
in Syria as possible via a series of steps, it remains adamant
that the outcome not be imposed from outside, according to a
Russian official not authorized to speak publicly on this
matter.  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said
yesterday that his country has never insisted on Assad staying
in power and a decision on his future must be taken by the
Syrians themselves, state-run Rossiya 24 television said on its
website.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said that Russia and
 China  are seeking to press the Syrian opposition to support
peace efforts by UN envoy  Kofi Annan  and proposed a meeting of
countries that have influence over the rebels.  Annan’s Plan  “The goal of such a meeting, bringing together all foreign
players at the first stage without the Syrians, is to agree
honestly and without double standards to implement Kofi Annan’s
plan, because we all supported it,” Lavrov told reporters in
Beijing today after a meeting between Chinese President Hu Jintao and Putin.  Russia, which has a naval resupply base in the Syrian port
Tartus, is seeking to keep its influence in the country post-
Assad, a scenario that Putin may be factoring into his
calculations at the start of a six-year term.  Russia, which accuses Syrian armed opposition groups of
sabotaging Annan’s almost two-month-old peace plan, yesterday
condemned “amoral” foreign support for the rebels, who are
receiving weapons and financing, according to a statement posted
on the Foreign Ministry’s website.  Syria says  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar are torpedoing the UN
plan to end the conflict by continuing to arm rebels in
violation of a cease-fire agreement reached in April.  At the UN, Russia cast its opposition to Syria sanctions as
justified to avoid repeating the kind of intervention undertaken
by the U.S. and its European and Arab allies that helped topple
Libya dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Russia is realizing that with the rise of the death toll
its ‘principled’ position may be hard to sell for much longer,”
said Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS Global
Insight. “More importantly, it may cause serious damage to
Russia’s relations with large parts of the Arab world.”  Assad’s Departure  “Any visible U-turn in Russia’s position is possible only
if Moscow is convinced that the West will not sideline it, as in
the Libyan crisis, and that Russia will have a full
participation in Syrian crisis resolution,” Gevorgyan said in
an e-mail.  After meeting with French President  Francois Hollande ,
among the most adamant of Western leaders demanding Assad’s
departure, Putin said Russia was not invested in Assad staying.  Avoiding War  “We aren’t for Assad or for his opponents,” Putin told
reporters in Paris on June 1. “We want to achieve a situation
in which violence ends and a full-scale civil war is avoided.”  This week’s preliminary round of discussions in Moscow on a
post-Assad scenario will lay the groundwork ahead of a meeting
between President  Barack Obama  and Putin at the Group of 20
Summit June 18-19 in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  As long as Russia and the U.S. can’t agree on a common
approach, the impasse will continue, according to a Russian
government official not authorized to speak publicly on this
matter. Everyone is waiting for the two leaders to find a common
stance, the official said.  Even with a U.S.-Russia understanding, it’s nearly
impossible to imagine a Syrian leader that Putin and the
opposition would find acceptable, according to three UN
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private.  Moreover, the opposition -- more divided now than at the
start of the uprising -- is unlikely to produce a candidate that
a spectrum of interests, including the Persian Gulf nations that
are its supporters, can rally around, the officials said.  Beyond Control  The situation in Syria has deteriorated to such an extent
that it now may be beyond anyone’s control, according to a U.S.
official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The increasingly
violent struggle, pitting a Sunni-led uprising against Assad’s
Alawite minority, has also been infiltrated by foreign jihadists
exploiting the unrest.  The Russian move away from Assad follows the conflict’s
worst atrocity in which more than 100 Syrians, mostly women and
children, were murdered in the Houla region. The UN blamed
Assad’s forces for the massacre.  The killings were the starkest evidence yet that the UN-
brokered cease-fire agreement, which Russia had thrown its full
weight behind, is failing. Assad has disregarded pledges to
withdraw his forces and move toward a political resolution.  Russia had been hostile to rhetoric that even hinted at a
departure of Assad, denouncing it as calls for regime change. It
vetoed a resolution alluding to a transition of power.  A Yemeni-style political transition in Syria has been
touted as a model by Lavrov, who has said it would be possible
only after an agreement among all parties in the country. Still,
Syria is not Yemen, where President Ali Abdullah Saleh was
persuaded to delegate power to a deputy and received full
immunity in exchange.  As much as Russia would like that kind of managed
transition, the circumstances aren’t there for Syria, where a
Lebanon-style power-sharing model may be required, according to
Lukyanov.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  