-- Russia Seeks Iranian Aid in Ushering Out Syria’s Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-07T09:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/russia-seeks-iranian-aid-in-ushering-out-syria-s-assad.html
Russia is seeking to enlist Iran in a
bid to engineer a political transition in  Syria , a move that
drew a hostile U.S. reaction even as the Obama administration
asks for more pressure on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The Russian move comes on the heels of reports on al
Jazeera television, citing activists, of new massacres by
Assad’s forces. The reports said at least 140 Syrians were
killed, some of them women and children, including 78 in Hama.
Syria’s state-run SANA news agency said the reports were
“baseless” and that terrorists killed nine women and children
outside of the city. Assad’s father, the late President Hafez al-Assad, ordered the city leveled in February 1982 to crush a
Sunni Muslim uprising, killing at least 10,000 people.  The possibility of recruiting  Iran , one of Assad’s main
backers, to assist in efforts to end the violence and ease him
out of power was floated as  Kofi Annan , the architect of a
failed United Nations April truce, prepared to address the UN
today about ways to revive his peace plan or pursue next steps.  The entry of Syria’s biggest backer, Shiite Muslim Iran, to
a struggle that now pits a Sunni-led uprising against Assad’s
Alawite minority would alienate the U.S. and Sunni Arab powers
that are calling for more sweeping economic sanctions.  It’s “a little hard to imagine inviting a country that is
stage-managing the Assad regime’s assault on its people,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in Baku,
 Azerbaijan .  Enlisting Iran  Enlisting Iran also would add a problematic new dimension
to the international negotiations on the Islamic Republic’s
suspected nuclear weapons program.  “Could it add a new element for linkage, or does it risk
crossing wires?”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council
on Foreign Relations , said in a telephone interview.  From the point of view of newly elected Russian President
 Vladimir Putin , though, enlisting the Iranians could help
provide some diplomatic cover for efforts to preserve Alawite
rule and protect Russia’s interests with countries that matter,
such as Turkey and Iran, Danin said.  Life Support  With Annan’s cease-fire plan stumbling as nations seek an
alternative that doesn’t include military action, the former
secretary general will field questions from the UN Security
Council and the 193-nation General Assembly about the future of
a mission of 300 unarmed UN observers amid growing concern that
some may be killed.  In an effort to salvage his initiative, Annan will propose
forming an international group to advance discussions on a
political transition, according to three UN diplomats who spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the
issue. The details of his latest pitch are still vague, the
officials said.  Russia , which had supported Annan’s plan, proposed
yesterday that Iran should be part of a coalition of nations
seeking a political settlement in Syria.  For the U.S., that’s a non-starter. Clinton said she will
see Annan in  Washington  tomorrow to discuss next steps,
“including our shared efforts to encourage Russia and  China  to
use their influence to end the bloodshed and work with the
international community in promoting a transition.”  Istanbul Meeting  Until she’s had those meetings and consulted with “those
most directly involved,” Clinton said, she “won’t prejudge
whether we will hold a conference and who would be invited to
the conference.”  Clinton met yesterday in Istanbul with foreign ministers
from the European Union,  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and other countries
to consider possible moves in light of Russia’s push to include
Iran in talks on Syria, according to a State Department
official.  During the meeting, which took place on the eve of a
counterterrorism conference, Clinton said that aid to the Syrian
opposition must be better coordinated, according to the
official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.
Participants agreed to create a “coordination group”
overseeing opposition support, according to a statement from the
Turkish Foreign Ministry.  Russia’s Proposal  The Syria talks Russia is proposing initially wouldn’t
include representatives of the Assad government. They would
include the UN’s five veto-wielding  Security Council  members --
the U.S, Russia,  France , the U.K. and China -- the European
Union, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and Arab
League states, Turkey and Iran.  “It’s essential to call a meeting of states that have real
influence over the various opposition groups,” Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told reporters in Beijing yesterday. “We
must all pile pressure on the Syrian side.”  The leaders of China and Russia today called for peaceful
resolutions to the uprising in Syria and the showdown over
Iran’s nuclear development. The Shanghai Cooperation
Organization, which also includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, said in a statement after a meeting
in Beijing that resolving the dispute with Iran by force is
unacceptable. The SCO also said it supports UN resolutions that
have called for a political solution to the revolt in Syria.  Fight for Survival  The U.S. is dispatching a delegation, led by Fred Hof, the
State Department’s special envoy to the Syrian opposition, to
Moscow this week to discuss a common approach to nudging Assad
aside. The goal is to replace the 46-year-old leader with
someone acceptable to both sides in the conflict, according to
two U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because
of the sensitivity of the issue.  Assad is fighting for the survival of his Alawite clan’s
four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent of Syria’s
population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite belong to an
offshoot of the Shiite branch of Islam. The Alawites stand to
lose privileges, property, and even their lives, should his
regime fall.  The Obama administration, still opposed to military
intervention in Syria, has been pressing for the UN Security
Council to cut the regime’s economic lifelines, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  evoked the possibility of action
in Syria under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter.  That empowers the Security Council to mandate sanctions or
authorize military means to enforce its will.  Russian Base  “Absent meaningful compliance by the regime with the Annan
plan, that is the direction in which we are soon headed,”
Geithner said yesterday in Washington.  While Russia is signaling that it no longer views Assad’s
position as tenable, it’s given no indication it will back
attempts to impose UN sanctions on one of its major arms
customers. The Syrian port of Tartus is also Russia’s only naval
resupply base in the  Mediterranean Sea .  At the Security Council, Russia twice vetoed Western-
drafted resolutions seeking to punish Assad. Given the latest
push to include rather than antagonize Putin over Syria, there
is little appetite for pushing for a third time a binding
measure that Russia may block, according to two UN diplomats
speaking on condition of anonymity because talks on the matter
are private.  While for the first time Russia sees a change of government
in Syria as possible, it remains adamant that the outcome cannot
be imposed from outside, as Russian officials argue it was in
 Libya .  One option Russia can offer Assad is exile.  “Assad will only go if Russia tells him it can’t do
anything for him anymore and offers security guarantees for him,
his family and entourage,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst
with the Moscow-based Council on Foreign and Defense Policy.
“Russia doesn’t control Assad, it can only bring influence to
bear on him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  