-- Russia Sold $600 Million in Three Days to Cushion Ruble Fall
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-06-06T15:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/russia-sold-600-million-in-three-days-to-cushion-ruble-fall-3-.html
Russia’s central bank sold about $200
million of foreign currency in each of the past three days to
cushion a decline in the ruble as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  The ruble’s drop will probably slow from the pace in May as
the central bank steps up currency interventions, Bank Rossii
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said in  St. Petersburg  today. The
central bank may have to sell as much as $700 million of foreign
currency a day to support the ruble if  oil prices  continue to
fall, he said.  Bank Rossii is draining its foreign-currency reserves to
defend the ruble as oil prices plunge and concern mounts over
 Spain ’s finances and  Greece ’s possible exit from the euro area.
The currency fell 12.1 percent against the dollar last month,
the biggest decline since January 2009 and the most among 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The main reason, and possibly the only reason, is the
deterioration of the crisis in Europe,” Ignatiev said.
“Unfortunately, European politicians haven’t yet offered a
clear and convincing program on how to tackle the crisis.”  The ruble strengthened 1.7 percent against the dollar to
32.4500 as of 6:23 p.m. in Moscow, its third day of gains.  Policy makers still plan to contain consumer-price growth
within a target range of 5 percent to 6 percent, Ignatiev said.  Post-Soviet Low  Inflation held at a post-Soviet low in May, with prices
advancing 3.6 percent from a year earlier, the statistics office
said yesterday. The world’s largest energy exporter pushed the
pace of price growth to record lows by delaying utility-tariff
increases to mid-year before President  Vladimir Putin ’s election
to the Kremlin in March.  Consumer-price growth may quicken to 4.6 percent in July,
Ignatiev told reporters today, citing government forecasts.  The ruble will probably bounce back to April’s levels,
meaning the recent declines will have only a limited impact on
inflation, Ignatiev said. Should the ruble remain at its current
level, the effect on inflation is unlikely to be “strong” and
will be spread out over time, he said.  “Should the drop in oil prices halt, the strengthening of
the ruble is very likely,” Ignatiev said. “Should the decline
continue, the weakening of the ruble is likely, though not for a
fact.”  Crude Drops  Urals crude,  Russia ’s main export, dropped 15 percent last
month, its sharpest decline since May 2010. Oil and gas provide
about 50 percent of state revenue, the government estimates.  Every 10 percent-depreciation in the ruble may add 0.5 to 1
percentage point to the inflation rate over a period of three to
six months, according to Vladimir Kolychev, director of research
at Societe Generale SA-owned OAO Rosbank in Moscow.  “However, as evidenced recently, this mostly works for
larger” currency moves, Kolychev wrote in an e-mailed note
today.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  told Ignatiev at a June 2
meeting to step up sales of foreign currency to bolster the
ruble and economic stability if needed.  The central bank manages the ruble within a floating
corridor against a basket of dollars and euros. That range
remains 32.15 to 38.15 to the basket, Ignatiev said.  ‘Willing to Spend’  “The central bank will start to support soon the bottom of
the corridor,” VTB Group Chief Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin 
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV today. “The central bank
is willing to spend more dollars. I’m not expecting the ruble to
depreciate further.”  Currency interventions had no effect on liquidity in the
banking system, Ignatiev said, adding that interbank lending
rates of 6 percent are “normal.”  While the condition of the banking system “doesn’t yet
raise concern,” Ignatiev urged Russian lenders to prepare for
“the worst” in Europe by increasing refinancing operations
with the central bank.  “It’s important for banks to hold sufficient amounts of
assets that they could provide as collateral for the central
bank for refinancing,” he said.  Russia predicts no more “significant fluctuations” in the
ruble exchange rate following its recent depreciation against
the dollar, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said yesterday. If
the currency continues to weaken in the long term, it may
increase the prices of imported goods and boost inflation by as
much as 1 percentage point, Siluanov said.  Capital outflows reached a net $46.5 billion in the first
five months of the year, Ignatiev said, citing preliminary data.
That includes $5.8 billion in May, which “is a lot for our
country,” he said. Capital inflows may still resume this year,
he added.  “Markets would want the Putin administration to respond by
indicating more meaningful and deep-seated structural reforms to
reduce Russia’s vulnerability on oil and commodities,” Tim Ash,
chief economist for  emerging markets  at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed comment. “Past
experience suggests we will just get  crisis management  to defend
the status quo, rather than meaningful change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  