-- California Pension Victories Could Catch on Nationwide
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/san-diego-san-jose-voters-approve-pension-cost-limits.html
Victories for measures to rein in
pension costs in  San Diego  and  San Jose , California’s second-
and third-largest cities, may show other cash-strapped U.S.
municipalities a path to follow, local officials say.  Voters in both communities on June 5 passed ballot
initiatives requiring city employees to contribute more to their
retirement plans, steer new workers into a 401(k)-style defined-
contribution funds and raise the  retirement age .  “If you explain this to the voters, they’re going to
support you,” San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed said by telephone.
“The voters get it. They understand the connection between
having to put huge amounts of money into retirement and cutting
services to the people.”  Soaring pension expenses have strained municipal budgets in
the U.S., forcing city officials to cut jobs and services to
stay solvent. Contract talks with workers generally haven’t
reduced payrolls enough as costs rise while revenue remains
under pressure from the recession that ended in 2009. Meanwhile,
most retirement plans haven’t recouped investment losses from
the financial crisis. That has left cities with billions of
dollars in unfunded promises to retirees.  At least one union-supported group suggested a fight is
brewing over implementing the changes.  ‘Perilous’ Consequences  “These measures will have perilous long-term consequences
for workers, the economy and the public,” Dave Low, chairman of
the labor-backed Californians for Retirement Security, said in a
statement. The organization represents more than 1.5 million
public employees and retirees.  “The polarizing and costly campaigns in these two cities -
- and certain legal challenges to come -- could have been
avoided by going the route that more than 240 jurisdictions in
 California  have, solving their challenges at the bargaining
table instead of at the ballot box,” Low said.  In San Jose, the 10th-largest U.S. city with 946,000
residents, annual retirement costs increased to $245 million
from $73 million in the past decade, prompting Reed last year to
threaten to declare a state of fiscal emergency. In San Diego,
the eighth-largest U.S. city with 1.3 million residents,
officials  budgeted  $233.6 million for retirees this year, up
from $87 million in 2004, according to budget documents.  San Diego has “set an example for cities across America
that are looking for ways to rein in rising pension costs,”
Mayor Jerry Sanders said in a statement after the vote. “Public
employees should have no better retirement benefits than the
taxpayers they serve.”  Passing by 66%  In San Diego, second only to  Los Angeles  in population
among Golden State cities, a  proposal  to put new employees
except police into a 401(k)-style  retirement plan , rather than
one with guaranteed payments, was leading 66 percent to 34
percent, with all precincts counted, according to unofficial
results posted on the San Diego County Registrar of Voters
 website . About 135,000 absentee and provisional ballots remain
uncounted, the agency said.  In San Jose, the center of Silicon Valley, a proposal to
allow current employees to choose whether to pay more to keep
their existing retirement plan, or switch to one with reduced
benefits and a higher retirement age, was ahead, 70 percent to
30 percent, with all precincts counted, according to the Santa
Clara County Registrar of Voters  website . The city faces $2.9
billion in unfunded retiree costs, including health care. It has
a $1.5 billion gap just for pensions.  Inspiring Others  The votes may inspire other cities to adopt their own
retirement system changes more than seven months after Governor
 Jerry Brown , a 74-year-old Democrat, outlined his plan to rein
in pension costs statewide, said Max Neiman, a senior resident
scholar at the Institute of Governmental Studies at the
 University of California , Berkeley.  “The Legislature has not seemed to move one inch on
pension reform,” Neiman said by telephone before the vote.
“That raises a legitimate issue in the public’s mind. It seems
to be they’re playing with fire by not doing so.”  California’s pensions in 2010 had about 81 percent of what
they needed to cover the benefits promised to retirees, down
from 87 percent a year earlier, according to an annual study by
Bloomberg Rankings. The median for all states was 75 percent,
the data show.  “Calpers is committed to partnering with all of our
stakeholders who are searching for solutions to find ways to
resolve these issues,”  Anne Stausboll , chief executive officer
of the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. pension, said yesterday in a Facebook.com posting.  “Retirement security is especially critical during this
painful recession,” Stausboll said. “We are confident that
defined benefit plans like Calpers are the most cost-efficient
way to deliver the retirement promises made to the millions of
California’s public servants.”  Calpers had $224.1 billion in assets on June 4, according
to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  