-- Saudi Arabia Achieving $100 Oil Signals Output Reversal
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-06-07T12:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/saudi-arabia-achieving-100-oil-signals-output-reversal.html
Saudi Arabia  is poised to rein in oil
sales after it achieved a $100-a-barrel target by cutting the
price of its crude and pumping at the highest rate in at least
three decades.  The world’s biggest crude exporter started to scale back
shipments this month, Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH
said, citing tanker fixtures. Three days ago the desert kingdom
raised the July official selling price to  Asia  of its main crude
grade, Arab Light, for the first time in three months, another
sign that it is reducing production, according to the Centre for
Global Energy Studies in  London .  Saudi Arabia has been trying to lower the international
price of oil to about $100 as slowing global economic growth
counters concern of a supply shortage following a ban by western
nations on imports from  Iran .  Brent crude , used to price more
than half the world’s oil, fell to a low of $95.63 a barrel on
June 4 amid Europe’s debt crisis, brimming supplies and weaker-
than-expected Chinese manufacturing. Prices were as high as
$128.40 in March.  “The downward pressure on prices will continue until they
reduce supply,” said  Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at CGES,
which predicted last month that the Saudis would attain their
$100 target. “OPEC’s doves have said $100 is their target, so
they have to defend it.”  Longest Stretch  The kingdom has been pumping more than 9.5 million barrels
a day since June 2011, the  longest stretch  for at least 11
years, according to data from the U.S. Energy Department. Output
has averaged 10 million barrels a day for the past three months,
Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said. That’s the highest level since
at least 1980, according to U.S. government data. Brent should
drop to $100 as supply outweighs demand, al-Naimi said on May 13
in Adelaide,  Australia , when prices were near $112.  Brent closed at $100.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday and traded at $101.90 today.
The price of OPEC’s basket of crudes dropped below $100 on June
4 after more than seven months, ending the longest run in triple
digits amid weaker growth.  Saudi Arabia raised the premium for Arab Light to $1.35 a
barrel over benchmark prices for July delivery. That pares the
biggest price cut in the first half of the year the kingdom has
made since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2000.  Demand for Crude  Demand for Saudi crude would drop to 9.5 million barrels a
day in the second half, about 500,000 barrels less than what the
kingdom produced last month, according to JBC Energy. To balance
the oil market, members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries should cut output, which is at “elevated”
levels near 32 million barrels a day, by 1.15 million barrels,
Morgan Stanley forecast yesterday.  “We think the Saudis have started to cut back already,”
 David Wech , managing director at JBC, said by phone yesterday.
“The economy is struggling, demand is relatively weak, stock
builds have taken place in the U.S., China, and by the Saudis
themselves. All these factors point to a drop in production.”  OPEC agreed in December to an official production ceiling
of 30 million barrel-a-day for all 12 of its members, without
specifying individual national quotas. The group meets again on
June 14 in Vienna.  Quota Unchanged  Barclays Plc, Societe Generale SA and the CGES predict that
OPEC will keep its formal supply quota unchanged next week. OPEC
will maintain supply as they’d be “unwilling to do anything
that might risk prematurely tightening markets once again at a
time of such economic uncertainty,” International Energy Agency
Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said in a June 5
interview in  Kuala Lumpur .  OPEC would cut output if Brent falls to $90 a barrel,
according to Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong Ltd. Producers in
the Middle East need prices at about $90 to balance their
national budgets,  Gordon Kwan , its head of regional energy
research, said in a report today.  Europe ’s debt crisis, now in its third year, has crimped
exports from China, whose manufacturing sector in May grew at
the weakest pace since December, according to the country’s
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index. The world’s second-largest economy
said it will cut  interest rates  for the first time since 2008
from tomorrow.  European Union governments will go ahead with a ban on
Iranian oil imports from July 1 even though some “progress”
was made in nuclear talks between major world powers and
officials from the Islamic republic, the EU said May 25. Crude
exports from Iran were about 300,000 barrels a day lower in the
first three months of the year, compared to the last quarter in
2011, according to the Paris-based IEA.  Storage Tanks Full  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global output,
bolstered production by 410,000 barrels a day to 31.85 million
barrels in April, IEA data show. That leaves the group’s output
at about 2.3 million more than is needed in the second quarter
and 6 percent above its quota.  Saudi Arabia’s oil storage tanks at home and overseas are
full, al-Naimi said in March.  China  increased its imports in the
first quarter to fill stockpiles and not because of growth in
domestic demand, China National Petroleum Corp. said May 4 in
its online newsletter. U.S. crude  inventories  fell for the first
time in 11 weeks in the week ended June 1, dropping from a 22-
year high of 385 million barrels, Energy Department data show.  “The Saudis had ramped up production because they were
very worried about the potential for demand destruction from
high prices,” said  Roy Jordan , a London-based oil analyst at
Facts Global Energy. “If prices fall more precipitously, we
would expect Saudi to cut back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  