-- Scots Investigate Worst Legionnaires Outbreak Since 1980s
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-06-07T15:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/scotland-foresees-more-legionnaires-cases-after-man-dies-1-.html
Scotland ’s health officials are
trying to pinpoint the source of the worst outbreak of
Legionnaires’ disease in the country since the early 1980s as
the number of people infected continues to climb.  Sixteen cooling towers at four sites in southwest Edinburgh
are the focus of the investigation. There are now 24 confirmed
and 37 suspected cases of the disease in the Scottish capital,
with 12 people in intensive care in the hospital, Health
Secretary Nicola Sturgeon said today. A 56-year-old man died
this week while undergoing treatment.  “The key message is that the risk to public health is low,
nevertheless there are a significant number of cases,” Sturgeon
told the Scottish Parliament. “All appropriate action is being
taken to minimise the risk of further infection.”  The airborne bacteria are contracted by inhaling small
drops of contaminated water and cases often involve cooling
vents in air conditioning and heating systems in buildings or
showers at places such as public swimming pools. The worst
incident in the U.K. in recent years was at a leisure facility
in Barrow-in-Furness in northwest  England , in 2002 when seven
people died and 180 people were infected, according to the
Health and Safety Executive.  The 16 towers were cleaned with chemicals on June 3 and
June 4 and more tests are taking place while the source still
remains uncertain, Sturgeon said. It may not ever be possible to
conclude “beyond reasonable doubt” where the outbreak came
from, she reiterated at a press conference today.  Older Men  While more people are being reported as infected in as the
outbreak unfolds, fewer are going into intensive care.  NHS Lothian , the public health authority for the Edinburgh
area, dealt with eight more cases yesterday compared with June
5. Most of the cases involve men over the age of 50 with
underlying health conditions, officials said. There was an
increase of three confirmed cases overnight.  “All of the affected patients have links to this
particular area where the cooling towers are,” Sturgeon said
yesterday. It may be difficult to pinpoint the exact source of
the outbreak beyond any reasonable doubt, she said.  Legionnaires’ disease isn’t contagious so it can’t be
passed from person to person, officials said.  The first case in the Edinburgh outbreak was identified on
May 28. The disease initially causes flu-like symptoms such as
high fever and muscle pain. Once the bacteria infect the lungs,
they can cause a persistent cough and intestinal problems
leading to diarrhea and nausea. It’s treated with antibiotics
and two of the people who were in a serious condition have since
been discharged, Sturgeon said yesterday.  A probable  mortality rate  is 10 to 15 percent of those
diagnosed, Jim McMenamin, a consultant epidemiologist at Health
Protection Scotland, said yesterday.  “The greatest risk is among those people with chronic
medical conditions and who smoke and perhaps also have a large
alcohol consumption,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  