-- Secret Memo Warns That Canada Cyber Threat Is Growing
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-06T15:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/secret-memo-warnss-canada-cyber-threat-growing.html
Cyber attacks pose a greater risk to
Canada’s economic prosperity than the government previously
believed and the country lacks the tools to fight hackers,
officials warn in internal documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  “All new knowledge obtained indicates the problem is more
widespread than previously thought,” said a “secret”-stamped
memo to Public Safety Minister Vic Toews from his deputy
minister, obtained under Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Canada is trying to bolster its defenses as countries
deploy increasingly advanced technology to disrupt their
enemies’ networks and gain access to  trade secrets . Some of
Canada’s biggest companies, such as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan
Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp., have been targeted.  Poor security against cyber attacks “is increasingly
recognized as impacting not just national security, but also
public safety and economic prosperity through growing cyber
crime and loss of intellectual property,” states the Aug. 2011
memo to Toews from deputy William Baker, who retired in April.  The government’s ability to respond is hindered by the lack
of a national emergency policy for cyber attacks, aging lab
facilities and difficulty recruiting specialists eligible for
“top secret” security status, according to another document
written in January by Canada’s Public Safety department.  ‘Economic Hit’  A software virus discovered last month called Flame, which
targeted  Iran ’s energy sector, is more complex and resourceful
than “all other cyber menaces known to date,” according to
Moscow-based security company Kaspersky Lab. Flame’s discovery
comes after Iran’s nuclear facilities were attacked by the
Stuxnet virus, which was created by the Israeli and the U.S.
governments, the  New York  Times reported June 1.  “The industrial espionage piece is becoming the big
economic hit,” said  David Skillicorn , a computing professor at
Queen’s University in Ontario who has testified about cyber
security before Canada’s Parliament. “People don’t really
understand how widespread it is.”  Cyber attacks are a “mutating” threat that will require
cooperation among governments, industry and individuals to
solve, said  Anthony Lacavera , chief excutive officer of Wind
Mobile, which began offering mobile-phone services in 2009.  “It is a war, and at this point it is not a war that
Canada is well suited to win,” he said in an interview at the
Canadian Telecom Summit in Toronto.  Spy Agency  Nortel (NRTLQ) , once  North America ’s largest phone-equipment maker,
was under steady attack by Chinese hackers from about 2000 until
2009, according to Brian Shields, who advised the Mississauga,
Ontario-based company on cyber security for almost 20 years.  When Shields reported the attacks to the  Royal Canadian
Mounted Police  in 2004, they did not take it seriously, he said.
“We got no guidance as far as what we needed to be doing to try
and find what turned out to be advanced intruders in our
network,” he said.  It was not until January 2009 that the Canadian Security
Intelligence Service, Canada’s spy agency, got involved -- the
same month Nortel filed for bankruptcy, Shields said.  The RCMP didn’t immediately respond to a request for a
comment on the Nortel allegations.  Canadian  law enforcement  may struggle to keep up with
hackers, said Shields, who is based near Raleigh,  North
Carolina . “They historically know how to deal with bank
robberies, the physical kinds of theft where there’s losses and
companies get hurt, but this is the new age and I really don’t
think they have the teams put together,” he said.  Security Strategy  More recent attacks in Canada have been linked to
commodities like potash, a natural fertilizer sought after in
 Asia  to help improve crop yields. China-based hackers looking to
derail  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion bid in 2010 to acquire
Potash Corp. zeroed in on the Canadian law firms connected with
the transaction.  The Canadian government released a “cyber security
 strategy ” in October 2010, in which it pledged to better secure
public-sector computer systems. The government also promised to
work closely with industry and provinces to prevent the theft of
state and trade secrets, and protect critical infrastructure
such as oil and gas facilities and electricity grids.  Skillicorn said Canada’s response to cyber threats has been
fragmented, with responsibilities “chopped up” among
organizations such as the Communications Security Establishment,
a signals-intelligence agency created during the Second World
War that monitors attacks on government networks.  “Nobody actually has their eye on the ball,” he said.
“It’s kind of a symptom of the typical thing that happens when
you try to solve a problem you don’t understand.”  The Public Safety department established the  Canadian Cyber
Incident Response Centre  to coordinate the federal response to
“ cyber security  incidents” outside government networks, with a
focus on guarding key infrastructure such as energy pipelines
and  power plants .  “Malicious Code”  The center responded to 749 incidents last year, notifying
partners 197 times of “compromised systems,” according to a
January memo obtained under the Access to Information Act. The
center issued nine requests in November and December to shut
down “malicious systems,” the memo said.  The center, which employs 22 people full time, faces
challenges such as an unclear mandate, the absence of a
“national emergency policy” for cyber security, old lab
facilities and trouble attracting and retaining talent,
according to the memo.  “The sort of people who get those tech skills tend to have
done some illegal things in their lifetime,” said Skillicorn.  The government notifies Internet service providers and web
hosts when it becomes aware of “potential malicious code,”
spokeswoman Jessica Slack said in an e-mail. She said the
department has recruited the staff it needed and is
“modernizing its cyber security lab.”  “The government of  Canada  remains concerned about threats
to cyber security and is working to mitigate the risks,” Slack
said. A plan to consolidate systems under an agency called
Shared Services Canada, as well as consultations with senior
telecommunications executives, should improve security, she
added.  Government agencies, companies and individual computer
users will all have to improve to defend against attacks, said
Shields. “You gotta have a Fort Knox mentality when it comes to
your information security,” he said. “Are we there? Not
anywhere close.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  