-- Serbia May Form Government as Interest Rate Rise Looms
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-06T12:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/serbia-may-form-government-as-interest-rate-rise-looms.html
Serbian parties are set to agree on
the formation of the new Cabinet in the coming days as the
sliding dinar may force the central bank to increase its
benchmark  interest rate .  The Balkan country’s central bank will probably increase
its two-week repurchase rate at its meeting on June 7, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists.  Boris Tadic , former
president and the leader of the  Democratic Party , held talks
with the President  Tomislav Nikolic  in the capital Belgrade
today after no group gained a sufficient majority in the
parliamentary vote last month.  “We believe we can secure a parliamentary majority in a
few days” that would back the new Cabinet, said Tadic who aims
to become the next Prime Minister. “The main questions in all
the talks with all the parties is Serbia’s economic future and
the challenges we face in the domain of fiscal and macroeconomic
policies.”  Serbia needs to quickly form the government to ease concern
over its fiscal outlook as the economy titters on the brink of
recession, according to  Fitch Ratings . Narodna Banka Srbije is
striving to arrest the dinar’s slide, which weakened against the
euro about 11 percent this year.  Today, the currency rose to 115.47 level per euro at 1:26
p.m. Belgrade after dropping to 117.41 on May 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dinar may plunge to 125 per euro by the end of the year
and inflation may accelerate to 10 percent if a new government
is not in place soon to implement fiscal consolidation, the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute said yesterday.  The new government will also need to secure a new deal with
the  International Monetary Fund , which was frozen in February
after  Serbia  slipped on its deficit reduction target. The $1.3
billion arrangement was agreed with the previous government last
year.  Parties need to form a coalition that would command at
least a 126-seat majority in the 250-member parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  