-- Nadal, Sharapova Win at French Open, Ferrer Ousts No. 4 Murray
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-06T22:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/sharapova-to-play-wimbledon-champ-kvitova-in-french-open-semis.html
Rafael Nadal  moved two victories from
his record seventh French Open tennis title, defeating fellow
Spaniard Nicolas Almagro in straight sets to reach the
semifinals at  Roland Garros .  The second-seeded Nadal next will face another countryman,
 David Ferrer , who reached the final four by ousting fourth-
ranked  Andy Murray  of Britain in an error-strewn match.  Defending champion Nadal, 26, beat 12th-seeded Almagro 7-6
(7-4), 6-2, 6-3 in drizzle yesterday on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier and has yet to drop a set in this year’s tournament.  “Winning the first set is always important,” Nadal said
in a news conference. “When you win the first set, you are able
to play with a little bit more calm. Very, very happy to be in
the semifinal again.”  Nadal, who made 16 unforced errors compared with Almagro’s
45, hasn’t won a major since he tied  Bjorn Borg  of Sweden last
year at Roland Garros with a sixth title. Nadal’s record is now
50-1 at the French Open, his only defeat coming in 2009 when he
lost in the fourth round to Sweden’s  Robin Soderling . He’s on a
12-match winning run against Ferrer on clay courts.  The women’s semifinals are set for today. Wimbledon
champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  meets  Maria Sharapova  of Russia in one match, followed by reigning U.S. Open
title holder Samantha Stosur of Australia against Italy’s Sara Errani, the No. 21 seed.  The sixth-seeded Ferrer, 30, beat Murray 6-4, 6-7 (3-7),
6-3, 6-2 in the quarterfinals. Murray, a semifinalist last year,
made 59 unforced errors and lost his serve 10 times. He
converted five of his 15 break points, while Ferrer was
successful on 10 of 19 break points.  ‘Didn’t Convert’  “I played some good tennis, had a lot of chances, didn’t
convert,” Murray said in a news conference. “He’s so solid, so
consistent. If you’re not converting the opportunity, the
pressure can build on your own serve.”  The left-handed Kvitova, 22, came from behind to beat
qualifier Yaroslava Shvedova 3-6, 6-2, 6-4. The fourth-seeded
Kvitova is in the last four in Paris for the first time.  Sharapova eased past No. 23 seed Kaia Kanepi of Estonia
6-2, 6-3 to reach her third  French Open  semifinal. The second
seed has won the three other Grand Slam titles.  “It’s certainly nice to be in that position again,”
Sharapova, 25, said in a news conference. “After a tough match
in the previous round, I’m happy with the way I improved.”  Sharapova will reclaim the top world ranking if she wins
today to reach her first French Open final. She was last No. 1
in 2008, before a shoulder injury forced her off the tour for
nine months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  