-- Sick Should Stay Insured After Ruling, Republicans Say
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-06T16:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/sick-should-stay-insured-after-ruling-republicans-say.html
Republican lawmakers with medical
backgrounds will try to ensure that sick people who gained
insurance under the 2010 U.S. health-care overhaul won’t lose
coverage in the event the  Supreme Court  strikes down the law.  The Republicans are preparing for a ruling that says it’s
unconstitutional to require Americans to carry insurance while
letting the rest of the law stand, said Representative Phil Gingrey, an obstetrician-gynecologist from Georgia who co-chairs
a group of 21 lawmakers with health-care backgrounds.  Gingrey and his group met yesterday with  Kevin McCarthy ,
the majority whip, in the first such session Republican leaders
plan to hold with the rank-and-file to shape a response to the
court’s decision, expected by the end of June. President  Barack
Obama ’s almost $1 trillion, 10-year plan to overhaul the health
system passed Congress in 2010 without Republican votes. Any
response will need to keep coverage for the sick, Gingrey said.  “We have to make sure that we have a program -- and we
will, I can assure you we will -- to take care of these folks,”
Gingrey said during the meeting, held in  Washington .  If the Republicans maintain control of the House in
November’s elections, they plan to pass individual bills aimed
at reducing health costs and improving access to medical
services, Gingrey said. The measures may include legislation
letting people purchase plans from states where the industry is
less regulated and policies are cheaper, or allowing them to buy
insurance on their own using pretax dollars, he said.  “We don’t plan on coming out with an omnibus bill,”
Gingrey said. “The American people don’t like that. We
certainly don’t want to try to cram something down their
throats; the Democrats are paying dearly for that mistake.”  Formed in 2009  Gingrey’s group formed in 2009 to protest the health-care
overhaul and  House Republicans  have been trying to repeal the
law since, while seeking to produce a replacement policy that
will expand insurance coverage. Gingrey said his  GOP Doctors
Caucus  will be asked to advise party leadership on a policy
response to the court’s decision.  “Why repeat the mistakes of what the Democrats did?”
McCarthy said in an interview. “One of the first mistakes I
heard from everybody was they rushed; they never listened to the
American public.”  There are 20 medical doctors in the House and Senate, two
of whom are Democrats, according to the  American Medical
Association . Other members of the GOP caucus include
Representatives Michael Burgess and  Ron Paul  of  Texas , Scott DesJarlais of  Tennessee  and  Tim Murphy  of  Pennsylvania .  In addition to physicians, the group includes three nurses,
two dentists and a child psychologist.  Key to the Republican response will be the fact that
insurers probably won’t be able to cover people with pre-
existing conditions at current rates if the court throws out the
requirement to buy insurance, Gingrey said in an interview.  One aspect of the overhaul that would be maintained,
Gingrey said, is a provision that allows people under the age of
26 to remain on their parents’ insurance policies. The Obama
administration estimates the policy has covered about 2.5
million young adults who would otherwise be uninsured.  “I think that’s a good policy,” Gingrey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  