-- Singapore’s New Cruise Berth Ready to Woo European Ships
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-06-07T09:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/singapore-s-new-cruise-berth-ready-to-woo-european-ships.html
Singapore opened its second cruise
terminal as operators including  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) 
seek to tap the region’s growing appetite for travel and make up
for slowing demand in  Europe .  SATS-Creuers Services Pte, which has a 10-year contract to
run the only Asian terminal catering to the world’s biggest
class of  cruise ships , expects 100,000 passengers in its first
year, Chief Executive Officer Melvin Vu said. The center will
receive eight vessels by August, including Royal Caribbean’s 15-
deck  Voyager of the Seas .  “They will deploy to new markets so we may profit from the
European turmoil,” Vu said in an interview June 4, referring
to the cruise business in  Asia . “The ships are coming because
of the natural burgeoning tourism and travel profile with the
middle class in Asia.”  Singapore , Hong Kong and South  Korea  are among Asia markets
opening new terminals as worldwide cruise vacationers are
forecast to grow to 23 million in the next five years from 18
million in 2011, according to data compiled by the Singapore
government. Asia accounts for less than 10 percent of traffic
now. The euro-area economy was unchanged last quarter as
companies cut spending to weather the sovereign-debt crisis.  “Our biggest level of uncertainty right now is really the
heart of the European season” in the third quarter, Royal
Caribbean Chief Financial Officer Brian Rice said on an earnings
conference call in April.  Repositioned Ships  The passenger traffic for cruise lines in Asia excluding
 India  and  Australia  could increase 25 percent annually for the
next five years as more operators reposition their ships to the
region, said  Jonathan Galaviz , managing director of Galaviz &
Co., a tourism industry analyst.  “The cruise travel market in Asia is under-served,”
Galaviz said. “Cruise lines are going to be looking at the top
two to three cities to have a home port in Asia and they need to
have the infrastructure.”  The new terminal operator expects the  European debt crisis ,
which led the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  to its worst monthly slump in two
years in May, to curb cruise travel from Europe.  “That can easily be made up for in the growing population
of  China  and India and even  Indonesia ” as cruise operators seek
new destinations for growth, Vu said. “Cruise lines are saying,
yes, this is a potential market that we can tap.”  Asia hasn’t been immune to the protracted European crisis.
 India’s economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the March quarter from a
year earlier, the least since 2003. China’s gross domestic
product growth slowed to 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the lowest in almost three years.  Small Market  Cruises in Asia make up 0.5 percent of all travel in the
region, said Stu Lloyd, senior director at the Pacific Asia
Travel Association in Bangkok.  “The cruise passenger is typically of a higher median age,
education, and higher spending, and that’s why it plays well
into Asian markets,” Lloyd said. “There’s a lot of upside.”  The S$500 million ($391 million) Singapore terminal, which
hosted its first vessel on May 26, doubled the city-state’s
cruise-ship berth capacity and will boost  tourist arrivals , said
S. Iswaran, Singapore’s second minister for trade and industry.  “This is a relatively big market,” said Michael Chiam,
senior lecturer at Ngee Ann Polytechnic in Singapore, who
forecasts the cruise industry in Asia will increase 10 percent
to 20 percent annually. “With the international cruise lines
coming to port, that will give us a bigger market for both the
local tourism and as well as for the international tourism.”  Attracting Visitors  The new terminal may help attract 1.5 million visitors
arriving in Singapore on cruise ships annually in the next three
to five years from 1 million in 2011, Iswaran said. The arrivals
could also create about 3,000 jobs, he said.  The 28,000 square-meter (300,000 square-foot) Marina Bay
Cruise Centre close to the financial district has two berths,
one big enough to handle ships carrying around 6,800 passengers.  The new terminal “has enabled us to deploy our bigger
ships into Singapore namely Voyager of the Seas, Celebrity
Solstice and Celebrity Millennium,” Jennifer Yap, managing
director of Royal Caribbean in Singapore, said in an e-mailed
statement. It’s “better suited to handle cruise passenger
volume like ours,” she said.  Yap said Royal Caribbean will have more than 20 calls at
the new terminal this year.  SATS-Creuers, the terminal’s operator, is a venture between
 SATS Ltd. (SATS) , Singapore’s biggest ground handler for airlines, and
Creuers del Port de Barcelona, which manages cruise terminals in
the Spanish city. The venture won the license in December to run
the new cruise terminal for a decade, with an option to renew
for another five years.  Cruise-Fly  Singapore also has an existing two-berth terminal across
from the island of Sentosa, which features a casino resort that
houses  Southeast Asia ’s only Universal Studios theme park. The
older  terminal  serves more than 600 ships a year, including
those operated by Royal Caribbean and P&O Cruises.  The new terminal has a cruise-fly service allowing
passengers to check-in for flights as they disembark from ships,
Vu said.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , its unit SilkAir and  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  will offer the services and more carriers are
expected to join the list, he said.  The cruise-fly strategy is crucial for a city with a
population of just 5.2 million people, Galaviz said.  “To have a successful cruise port, you need a large
domestic population,” Galaviz said. “The challenge for
Singapore is to convince consumers from across Southeast Asia to
fly to take a cruise from Singapore.”  Tropical Cruise  Another drawback is the warm weather in Singapore and
neighboring countries, Pacific Asia Travel’s Lloyd said.  “That is a factor that you can’t actually underestimate,”
Lloyd said. “A tropical cruise doesn’t necessarily have the
same sexy allure as it may have in other climates and
cultures.”  Hong Kong  is building a new cruise terminal at the site of
the old Kai Tak airport to start operations in mid-2013. The
terminal will be operated by Royal Caribbean and two partners,
according to the city’s government.  South Korea  is also trying
to attract more cruise ships to its terminal in Busan and is
expanding the existing one in Incheon.  “We don’t see Hong Kong as competition, Korea as
competition,” Vu said. “When cruise ship operators see
infrastructure being developed in our part of the world, then
they will feel more confident in deploying larger ships to this
part of the world and putting Asia as one of the key cruising
playgrounds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  