-- Singh Vows to Revive Indian Growth by Adding Roads, Ports
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-06-07T08:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/singh-vows-to-add-roads-ports-and-plants-to-revive-india-growth.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
vowed to revitalize growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy as he
outlined projects including new ports, roads and power plants
and urged officials to bridge differences impeding progress.  “In these difficult times we must do everything possible
to revive business and investor sentiment,” Singh said
yesterday in a statement in New Delhi. “We as a government are
committed to taking the necessary measures to reverse the
present situation.”  Singh is under pressure to support an economy expanding at
the weakest pace in nearly a decade as policy gridlock deters
investment and  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers exports.  Gross
domestic product  rose 5.3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, compared with India’s aim of 9 percent annual expansion
and $1 trillion infrastructure spending from 2012 to 2017.  The government yesterday outlined port projects worth an
equivalent of about $6.3 billion for the financial year through
March 2013, an investment target of $3.6 billion for Mumbai’s
elevated rail corridor and plans to add airports. It also set
goals of building 9,500 kilometers (5,904 miles) of roads in the
12-month period, up 18.7 percent from last year, and adding
about 18,000 megawatts of power generation capacity.  “Everyone knows what India needs to do to revive growth,”
said  Dharmakirti Joshi , Mumbai-based chief economist at Crisil
Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s . “The fire is already
there, now what we need is to act with a firefighter’s zeal.”  Shares Mixed  Shares in construction companies advanced. Larsen & Toubro
Ltd., India’s biggest builder of power networks and airports,
rose 1.5 percent as of 1:36 p.m. local time. Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd., the nation’s largest power-equipment producer,
gained 0.6 percent. Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. was up 2.9
percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index  climbed  1.1 percent.  Singh made his comments at the end of a meeting to finalize
construction targets for the current fiscal year. His government
is facing one of its most challenging periods since taking
office in 2004 as it grapples with a trade deficit, elevated
inflation, a budget shortfall and faltering global growth.  A slump in the nation’s currency has underscored concern
that  India ’s economic outlook is at risk of deteriorating. The
rupee has tumbled about 19 percent against the dollar in the
past year, the most in a basket of 11 major Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Sensitive Index has declined 10
percent over the same period.  ‘Turf Battles’  “The challenge now is to work together to achieve these
targets, and deal with all the bottlenecks that may come in the
way,” Singh said. “I would urge all the ministries to go the
extra mile in implementing what we have planned. I would expect
them to very expeditiously resolve any inter-ministerial
differences or turf battles that might arise.”  Discord within the ruling coalition has stymied Singh’s
efforts to open up the economy further and contributed to slower
investment, which Morgan Stanley estimates fell to 34.4 percent
of GDP last fiscal year from 38.1 percent in 2007-2008.  The Cabinet today deferred taking a decision on whether to
allow foreign direct investment in the pension fund industry,
Krishna Tirath, minister for women and child development, said
in  New Delhi . No reason for the deferral was given.  The Cabinet was due to make a call on whether to lift
restrictions. India has also foregone potential investment from
overseas insurers and retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in
the past year.  “The next two months are going to be a critical time for
the government,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst at
Observer Research Foundation, a policy-research group based in
New Delhi. The government needs to take action now to revive the
economy before the next election scheduled for 2014, he said.  The economic slowdown and an oil-price drop suggest more
room for another  interest-rate cut  even as inflation risks
remain,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said
earlier this week. The monetary authority lowered borrowing
costs to 8 percent from 8.5 percent on April 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  