-- South Korea GDP Expands 0.9%, Unchanged From Initial Estimate
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-06-06T23:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/south-korea-gdp-expands-0-9-unchanged-from-initial-estimate.html
South Korea ’s economy expanded at the
same pace as the central bank initially estimated in the first
quarter as corporate investment and government spending rose
amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.9 percent over the three
months through March from the previous quarter, unchanged from
an April estimate, the  Bank of Korea  said in Seoul
today. The economy expanded 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
also matching the bank’s April estimate.  South  Korea  is bracing for falling demand for its
automobiles and electronics as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to
accelerate a global slowdown. The Bank of Korea is expected to
keep  interest rates  unchanged for a  12th month  tomorrow as
 Greece  prepares for elections later this month and  Spain  calls
for outside funds to prop up its banks.  “What’s happening in Greece and Spain threatens an
economic recovery here,” Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based fixed
income analyst at Eugene Investment & Futures, said before
today’s release. “All BOK board members will vote for no rate
change this week, opting to wait and see how the euro-zone debt
crisis unfolds.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to close at 1,180.20 in Seoul
on June 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  stock index gained 1.1 percent. The markets were
closed yesterday for a holiday.  Corporate investment rose 10.3 percent in the first quarter
from the previous quarter, while  government spending  rose 3.4
percent, today’s report showed. Goods exports increased 4.2
percent and private consumption rose 1 percent.  Asia Mixed  While South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded at the
fastest pace in a year last quarter, the Bank of Korea reduced
its 2012 growth forecast to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent on
April 16 amid Europe’s woes. Meanwhile, Asian economic data has
been mixed.  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, a report showed
yesterday, compared with the median 0.6 percent gain predicted
by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s economy 
expanded a less-than-expected 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on June 2 the government
will allocate additional state funds to small firms and
exporters within the next few months in an effort to boost
economic growth. Finance ministry and central bank officials on
June 5 held emergency meetings, where they pledged to ratchet up
their monitoring of financial markets.  The country’s exports declined for the third consecutive
month in May, while inflation dropped to a 21-month low of 2.5
percent. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell from a 9-
month high in June, according to a central bank report on May
29.  Falling demand from Europe will hurt exports from countries
such as South Korea in the short term,  Tom Byrne , senior vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service, said in  Seoul  on June 5.
Still, nothing “fundamental” has changed since Moody’s raised
its outlook on the country in April, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  