-- Sovereign, Corporate Bond Risk Falls Before ECB Policy Meeting
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-06-06T10:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-before-ecb-policy-meeting.html
The cost of insuring against default
on sovereign and corporate debt fell before the  European Central
Bank  meets today to decide on  interest rates .  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell six basis points to 322,
according to Bloomberg prices at 11 a.m. in London, signaling
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality . The measure is
down from 330 basis points June 1, the highest since the series
started trading in March.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  is under pressure to cut rates
to a historic low and provide more support for banks as the
sovereign debt crisis forced Spain to ask for outside support
for the first time. Officials meeting in  Frankfurt  will leave
the benchmark rate at 1 percent, according to 32 of 44
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, though 12 forecast a cut.  “My own expectation is that they will not ease policy
today,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc in London. “Today’s a bit of short
covering, and the trick for Draghi is not to give an easy way
out to European politicians, but at the same time to convey to
the market that the ECB will not let things fall apart.”  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 18 basis
points to 720. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell five to 179 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell eight basis points to 295 and the
subordinated index declined 11 to 486.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.5 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  