-- Spain Plans to Shield Repsol, Iberdrola From Hostile Takeovers
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-06T11:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/spain-plans-to-shield-repsol-iberdrola-from-hostile-takeovers.html
Spain  began moves to tighten takeover
laws that could protect its biggest energy companies Repsol SA
and  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  from hostile bids.  The Senate today will debate two amendments to its company
and stock market laws proposed by the ruling  People’s Party  that
will establish a minimum price for distressed targets and give
executives more power to control major shareholders.  The government is erecting barriers around companies after
the benchmark Ibex 35 index slumped 29 percent in the first five
months, its worst start to a year since at least 1987, as
investors dumped Spanish assets amid concerns the government
will need a bailout. The combined market value of Repsol and
Iberdrola is about 35 billion euros ($45 billion).  Legislators in the upper chamber will consider forcing
bidders to file an independent report that establishes a minimum
valuation when they make an offer for companies that suffered an
expropriation, according to a draft of the law. Repsol, Spain’s
biggest oil company, has lost about 46 percent this year after
its  YPF SA (YPFD)  unit was seized by  Argentina .  The report would consider the book value and break-up value
of the company as well as the share price over the past 12
months. The law would also apply where there are signs the
target’s stock price has been manipulated or where the company
has been affected by a natural disaster.  Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix declined to comment. An
Iberdrola spokesman also declined to comment.  The measures under discussion in the Senate, where Rajoy’s
PP has a majority, will also need to be approved by the lower
chamber, which takes precedence in disputes. A spokeswoman for
the congress said officials haven’t decided when the legislation
might be presented to the other chamber.  Voting Limits  Lawmakers today were also set to debate a measure allowing
companies to fix voting limits on large shareholders, according
to a draft of the law. The move would reverse a 2010 law
introduced by former premier  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero .  Iberdrola, Spain’s biggest power company, has fought legal
battles over  voting rights  with its biggest shareholder, the
builder Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA. ACS, which
controls 15 percent of Iberdrola’s stock and has tried to gain a
seat on the company’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  