-- Spain Sells Bonds as Deeper Debt Crisis Threatens Demand
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-07T07:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/spain-sells-bonds-as-deteriorating-debt-crisis-threatens-demand.html
Two days after a senior government
official said  Spain ’s access to debt markets was closed, the
country will try to sell as much as 2 billion euros ($2.5
billion) of bonds at  interest rates  that will probably be higher
than at its last auction of similar maturities.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said June 5 that European
institutions should help come up with funds to shore up the
nation’s lenders as “the door of the markets isn’t open to
Spain.” The Treasury is selling two-, four- and 10-year debt,
with France auctioning as much as 8 billion euros of securities.  “Comments along the lines of being locked out of the
market are very worrying,”  John Davies  a fixed-income
strategist at WestLB AG in  London , said in an interview.
“Normally, the approach is to try and sound optimistic and talk
things up. That’s not how the Spanish rhetoric has sounded
recently. It’s going to be painful if they issue 10-year bonds
above 6 percent.”  Spain is pressing  Germany  to allow the European Union’s
rescue mechanism to lend directly to banks as it seeks to prop
up lenders at a time when its borrowing costs are approaching
the 7 percent level that heralded bailouts in  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . Concern about the country’s ailing banks has
pushed up Spain’s funding costs, while driving down yields in
countries considered to be safer such as Germany and France.  Spanish Yields  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
he also opposed allowing the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s new bailout fund, to lend directly to banks. Currently
the ESM will only be able to lend to governments that meet
certain conditions to tap the funds.  “Have we designed the ESM to become a shareholder of banks
in the euro area?” Draghi asked at a press conference in
 Frankfurt . “The ESM wasn’t born for that.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond fell six basis points to
6.22 percent at 8:3 a.m. London time, compared with a euro-era
record of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17. The spread with the same
German maturities was at 4.88 percentage points, compared with a
record 5.48 percentage points on June 1.  At a sale of the 5.85 percent January 2022 bonds on April
19, Spain paid an average yield of 5.743 percent.  ‘Notable Performer’  The slump in Spanish bonds contributed to  France ’s 10-year
 yield  falling to a record 2.07 percent this month. That drop in
yields may help lower borrowing costs when France sells debt
maturing from April 2019 to April 2060 today. The results will
be announced at about 11 a.m. in Paris, and marks the first sale
of 50-year debt since 2010. The 10-year yield rose three basis
points to 2.44 percent.  “In the 10-year area France has been a notable performer
in recent weeks, in doing so bucking the strong widening trend
seen in the periphery,”  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in London, wrote yesterday in a
note to investors.  French bonds were the euro area’s second-best performers in
May, returning 3.9 percent, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Dutch securities outperformed, earning 4.3 percent in
the period, the indexes showed.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has risen more
than 20 basis points since May 9 when the government
nationalized the country’s third-largest lender, Bankia group,
and tightened banks’ provisions rules. It was the fourth attempt
in three years to clean up an industry hobbled by bad real-
estate loans.  ‘Becoming Inevitable’  Spain may wait to decide whether to formally request aid
until it has preliminary results of an audit commissioned to
determine the real value of the banks’ loan books. A first set
of conclusions are due in 10 or 15 days, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said yesterday.  Spain’s recourse to a bailout from the ESM “is gradually
becoming inevitable” and would drive the nation’s credit rating
to sub-investment grade, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wrote
in a report yesterday. Yields on Spanish securities will climb
to at least 10 percent after Spain accesses the ESM bailout, RBS
strategists wrote in a separate report published on June 1.  Prior to today’s auction, Spain had covered 56 percent of
its gross debt issuance needs for this year, Ignacio Fernandez-
Palomero, director of public debt, said May 28.  “If you look at Spain’s debt issuance program, they are
ahead of the euro-zone average so there is some flexibility for
them to issue less,” said  Wilson Chin , a senior interest-rate
strategist in London at HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  