-- First Tuberculosis Drug in 40 Years Has Otsuka Cautious
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-06-07T06:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/stalling-sales-may-give-otsuka-edge-with-cure-for-tb-superbugs.html
Otsuka Holdings Co. (4578)  executives are
drawing up plans to ensure their new drug isn’t a quick hit.  The Japanese company says it’s proceeding with caution now
that the medicine, which may be the first new tuberculosis
treatment in four decades, passed a key test.  A study published in the  New England Journal of Medicine 
today shows Otsuka’s delamanid helped fight tuberculosis strains
not stopped by other medications. The Tokyo-based drugmaker,
which began seeking treatments for the deadly  lung disease  in
1982, says it’s drawing up plans to restrict access to select
physicians to avoid the bug building resistance.  “We’ve invested a lot of time and money to develop this
drug, but we are not seeking robust sales growth immediately,”
Masuhiro Yoshitake, Otsuka’s head of tuberculosis projects, said
in an interview. “We want to begin selling to people who know
how to use the drug.”  Doctors must balance the need to fight hard-to-treat cases
against prolonging the medicine’s potency. Taking measures to
control delamanid’s use would avoid spoiling the first new
promising weapon against TB in 40 years, said Marc Pellegrini,
an infectious diseases physician and TB researcher at
Melbourne’s Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of  Medical Research .  “It’s refreshing to see a  drug company  actually promote
that over and above widespread use,” said Pellegrini, who
wasn’t involved in the delamanid study. “It shows that there
are still companies that are altruistic enough to find TB
medications, which we desperately need.”  Sputum Test  About 1.4 million people died from TB in 2010, making the
airborne bacteria the second-biggest global killer after HIV and
AIDS, according to the  World Health Organization .  The bug has developed genetic mutations that enable it to
evade drugs or linger longer in the respiratory tract. A new
strain in four patients in  India  appeared to resist all known
antibiotics, the medical journal Clinical Infectious Diseases
reported in December.  The drug probably won’t become a blockbuster, especially
because to preserve its potency it will only be available to
people with a form of  TB that shows resistance  to other
medicines, analysts say. It may generate about 10 billion yen
($127 million) a year in sales in  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  at
its peak, said Fumiyoshi Sakai of Credit Suisse AG in  Tokyo .  The study released today showed that 45.4 percent of
patients taking delamanid in combination with standard therapy
for multidrug-resistant TB infection no longer had the bacteria
in their sputum after two months, compared with 29.6 percent of
patients taking the usual medicines plus a placebo.  Explosive Drug  “The findings in this paper are exciting,” said
Bernadette Saunders, a scientist in the Mycobacterial Research
Division of Sydney’s Centenary Institute. “It shows a new
antibiotic that can successfully kill multidrug-resistant
strains of TB.”  Otsuka is best known in the pharmaceutical industry as the
developer of one of the world’s bestselling treatments for
schizophrenia, Abilify. The family-owned company began operating
in 1921 by making chemicals near the city of Naruto. It first
sold shares to the public in 2010.  The stock  rose 0.8 percent to 2,461 yen in Tokyo trading
today. Otsuka shares have gained 14 percent this year, the
fourth-best performer on the  Topix Pharmaceutical Index (TPPHRM) , which
fell 1 percent for the period.  The scientist who developed the medicine took risks to find
a way to mass produce it because its active ingredient is
derived from an explosive and could have detonated in the
factory, and postponed retirement to follow the project,
according to a 2009 interview.  Dire Need  Delamanid works by blocking the production of mycolic acid,
a key component of the dense, waxy shell that encases the
tuberculosis bug and helps it resist penicillin and most
antibiotics. It has completed the second of three research
stages required for marketing approval. Because there is a dire
need for new TB drugs, regulators may allow the company to skip
the last level of tests, and Otsuka says it’s already filed for
clearance to sell it in Europe. It’s in talks with regulators in
the U.S. and Japan.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and the  TB Alliance , a New York-based
non-profit group supported by the Bill and  Melinda Gates  and
Rockefeller Foundations, are also developing new TB medicines.  The crucial question is “how these drugs are going to be
used,” Daniel Chin, TB program officer for the Gates Foundation
in Beijing, said in a telephone interview. The concern is that
“as soon as they are introduced we are going to lose them to
drug resistance.”  Cautious Approach  Otsuka says it’s aware of the risk and wants to be “part
of a sustainable model for TB,” according to Yoshitake. He said
the Japanese drugmaker feels “pressure to handle this project
carefully,” even though it will cost the company more.  That may mean not using the medicine in isolation in
patients with the active form of TB, said Justin Denholm, an
infectious diseases epidemiologist at the Royal  Melbourne 
Hospital, who is studying transmission patterns in  Australia ’s
Victoria state.  “It’s critically important that a new class of antibiotic
is well defended and is always accompanied by other medications
that are effective for treating the specific strain of TB,”
said Denholm. “I am really encouraged to hear that response
from the company. It’s a nice and often-lacking sign of good
corporate stewardship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  