-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Mozambique (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-06T21:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-mozambique-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Mozambique :  The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today
completed the fourth review of Mozambique’s economic program under
the Policy Support Instrument (PSI). In completing the review, the
Board approved a waiver for the minor nonobservance of the end-December
2011 assessment criterion on net credit to the government.  The Executive Board approved Mozambique’s second three-year PSI on
June 14, 2010 (see Press Release No. 10/242). The IMF’s framework for
PSIs is designed for low-income countries that may not need, or want,
IMF financial assistance, but still seek IMF advice, monitoring,
and endorsement of their policies
(see Public Information Notice No. 05/145).  At the conclusion of the Executive Board discussion on Mozambique,
Mr. Min Zhu, Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chair, issued the
following statement:  “Mozambique’s sound policies and strong economic performance are
commendable. Economic growth remained buoyant in 2011 and inflation
was successfully contained. Mozambique’s prospects for economic growth
over the medium term are good, but short-term risks from the global
environment should be properly managed.  “The authorities appropriately envisage a countercyclical policy mix
for 2012 to sustain economic growth. They aim to keep spending at
budgeted levels and pursue an accommodative monetary policy. It will
be important to safeguard the recent disinflation gains.  “The authorities’ Poverty Reduction Strategy (PARP) for 2011-14 aims
to reinvigorate poverty reduction. The authorities have initiated
measures in key areas, including reforms in agriculture and the
business environment, continued social and human development, and
the expansion of a well-targeted and affordable social protection
floor. It will be important to implement these plans vigorously to
allow more Mozambicans to benefit from the expected strong economic
growth.  “The authorities’ ambitious structural reform agenda requires
addressing pressing infrastructure needs. It will be important to
maintain the reform momentum to strengthen debt management, investment
planning, and public financial management to aid in informed borrowing
and project selection decisions, given the authorities’ plans to have
greater recourse to nonconcessional resources.  “Proper management of the mining and emerging hydrocarbon sectors,
together with a strong tax administration effort, will help enhance
fiscal resources for infrastructure and other medium- to long-term
development needs. The authorities’ plans to move rapidly in
modernizing the fiscal regimes for mining and petroleum and to
obtain full EITI (Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative)
membership go in the right direction,” Mr. Zhu added.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  