-- Stockton Empowers Manager to Put City Into Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-06T05:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/stockton-empowers-manager-to-put-city-into-bankruptcy.html
The Stockton,  California , City
Council voted to authorize a bankruptcy filing as soon as June
26 if officials fail to win concessions from creditors that
would allow it to avoid becoming the biggest U.S. city to enter
court protection.  The council, in a 6 to 1 vote, granted City Manager Bob Deis the authority to file for Chapter 9 municipal  bankruptcy
protection . The farming center, about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of  San Francisco , is approaching insolvency when its fiscal
year begins July 1.  “We have hit the wall,”  Mayor Ann Johnston said at the
council’s meeting late yesterday. “There are no quick fixes,
there are no silver bullets.”  Stockton faces a $26 million deficit in the coming year.
Like cities and towns across the U.S., it’s been strained by
soaring costs for pensions and retiree health benefits while
sales and property-tax revenue plummeted after the longest
recession since the 1930s. The decline of the city of 292,000
was compounded by accounting errors and large borrowings.  If the city seeks court protection, it would join  Central
Falls ,  Rhode Island , which entered Chapter 9 protection in
August after failing to win union concessions, and Jefferson
County,  Alabama , which became the biggest municipal bankruptcy
in U.S. history in November, with $4.2 billion in debt. Vallejo,
California, entered Chapter 9 in 2008, emerging from the process
last year.  Talks Extended  The talks with creditors, aimed at reaching an agreement
under state-required mediation, have been extended until June
25. The City Council authorized Deis to file for bankruptcy
protection once the talks end.  Marc Levinson , a bankruptcy lawyer with Orrick, Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP based in Sacramento, who represents Stockton,
said he needs the time to prepare the filing.  “Preparing bankruptcy proceedings is not something that
you can do in a day or in a week,” he told the City Council.
“We have to be realistic. We can’t just wake up on the 24th and
say, uh-oh, tomorrow is the day.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. public pension, and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , the nation’s largest home lender, are among 18 creditors
participating in the talks. The negotiation period began March
27, when the participants chose a mediator to guide the talks.  Stockton’s council agreed to begin talks with creditors in
a Feb. 28 meeting, when it also decided to default on $2 million
in bond payments to conserve cash.  Repercussions  The city is already suffering the repercussions from its
march toward bankruptcy. Moody’s Investors Service dropped its
 credit rating  on some of the city’s debt to junk. After the city
defaulted on some of its bonds, Wells Fargo sued to repossess an
eight-story, bond-financed downtown building that was supposed
to become  city hall , as well as three parking garages also
financed with debt.  Deis on May 15 laid out a plan for the city, including a
Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing and cuts in departments. It marked
the first time since February that municipal officials offered
the idea of pursuing court protection after previously saying
they wanted to avoid it.  Stockton’s financial practices and reporting are the
subject of a state investigation with the goal of better
understanding the city’s fiscal situation, California Controller
John Chiang said in April.  California’s constitution requires cities to adopt a
balanced budget by July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Stockton, California, at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  