-- Stosur Makes Transition From Clay-Hater to French Open Contender
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-06T22:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/stosur-makes-transition-from-clay-hater-to-french-open-contender.html
Sam Stosur will play her third French
Open semifinal in four years today having made the transition
from clay-hater to contender on tennis’s slowest surface.  “The first time I played on a real clay court was when I
was 15 in a junior team in  Europe ,” the 28-year-old Stosur said
in a March interview. “We had six weeks on clay. I didn’t win a
match and actually hated it, couldn’t stand it, never wanted to
go back on it.”  Thirteen years on, Stosur is two victories away from
becoming the first Australian woman since  Margaret Court  in 1973
to win the championship at Roland Garros, having broken through
for her first Grand Slam title at the U.S. Open in September.  The Paris runner-up in 2010 and a semifinalist in 2009,
Stosur’s kick serve and top-spin groundstrokes, which jump up
high off the clay, have helped propel the No. 6 seed into the
final four without dropping a set. She faces  Sara Errani , the
No. 21 seed from  Italy , for a place in the June 9 final. That’s
followed by second-seeded  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  against
Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic .  Dominika Cibulkova, whom Stosur beat 6-4, 6-1 in the
quarterfinals, said the Australian’s serve and top-spin forehand
make her a particularly difficult opponent on clay.  “She played like a man, and it’s really hard to play
against a man,” the 15th-seeded Slovakian told reporters after
her loss two days ago. “It was driving me crazy on the court.
It was really, really hard. She’s putting the ball so high.”  Stosur, who had a 4-5 win-loss record in her first five
appearances at Roland Garros, said her evolution as a clay-court
player has been gradual.  Clay Realization  “As I got a little bit older and a little bit more mature
and understood my tennis a bit more I realized that the surface
can actually work quite well for me,” she said. “Probably the
last four or five years I’ve really enjoyed playing on clay. It
certainly wasn’t love at first sight by any means.”  The performances in Paris this year follow a letdown at her
home Grand Slam in January, where she became the first women’s
 U.S. Open  champion since tennis went professional in 1968 to
subsequently lose in the Australian Open first round.  Carrying the weight of local expectation into the
Australian swing of tournaments at the start of 2012 affected
her game, Stosur said.  “It definitely surprised me how hamstrung I felt because
of all that,” she said. “Sometimes you don’t play well at the
start of the year and it was highlighted for me because I’m an
Australian playing in  Australia . If it had been a German playing
in Australia maybe nobody would have taken any notice.”  For now, she’s comfortable being an Australian in Paris.  “I guess it’s just the way it is,” Stosur told reporters
after beating Cibulkova. “It’s a totally different surface and
time of year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  via the
London newsroom at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  