-- Suffolk County Punished as NYC Suburbs’ Gaps Widen: Muni Credit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/suffolk-county-punished-as-nyc-suburbs-gaps-widen-muni-credit.html
New York ’s Suffolk County, home of
the Hamptons beach towns, faces a growing financial penalty to
borrow for projects such as roads, bridges and a golf course as
it confronts a fiscal emergency.  The 80-mile (129-kilometer) stretch of eastern  Long Island ,
where hedge fund billionaires  John Paulson  and  George Soros  have
bought houses, is dealing with a three-year $530 million
deficit. It plans to sell $60 million in tax-exempt bonds today
as the extra yield that investors demand on its debt has almost
doubled since December.  County Executive Steve Bellone declared a fiscal emergency
in March after Suffolk’s spending plan ended out of balance for
the first time in two decades. It joins nearby counties Nassau
and Rockland contending with fiscal stress while officials pare
services and payrolls in the suburbs, which are among the
nation’s 20 wealthiest.  “There were decades of surpluses, and those surpluses were
never sent back to the taxpayers -- they were spent,” said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1 billion of munis at Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York. “The minute there’s
a deficit, it just shatters everything.”  Suffolk, Nassau and Rockland had their bond ranks cut in
the past six months by at least one rater and have either a
negative outlook or are on review for downgrade from at least
one of the credit companies. In the case of Suffolk, the
reduction sapped enthusiasm for the debt from Jim Holihan at
Evercore Partners in New York.  ‘Not Eager’  “We’re just not eager investors at these levels for the
county paper,” said Holihan, whose company manages $3.5
billion. “Further downgrades are likely.”  A December Suffolk bond sale included a 10-year portion
yielding about 0.57 percentage point more than top-grade
securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield penalty
has averaged about 1.05 percentage points in the past two weeks,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Even that may not be enough for investors such as Evercore.
The company is looking for spreads of at least 1.2 percentage
points above AAAs, Holihan said. Suffolk “probably does get
worse before it gets better,” he said.  The independent financial consultant for the county of 1.5
million projected adequate demand in the sale. Proceeds will pay
for more than 100 projects, including work at a municipal golf
course near Fire Island and improvements to buildings and roads.  Stabilizing Finances  “We expect to do well,” said Richard Tortora, president
of Great Neck-based Capital Markets Advisors LLC. “The county
is being very proactive in taking steps to address its budget
problems. A plan is afoot to stabilize the county’s finances.”  That plan includes cutting about 300 workers next month and
collecting revenue from adding red-light cameras, said Vanessa
Baird-Streeter, a spokeswoman for Bellone, a Democrat. In
Rockland, officials have unsuccessfully petitioned the state
Legislature to help fill a $40 million budget gap by raising
taxes.  Downstate counties such as Suffolk tend to rely more than
upstate counterparts on sales taxes, which are the first to
falter in recessions and slow to rebound, said Mark LaVigne,
deputy director of the New York State Association of Counties in
 Albany . The levy makes up about 44 percent of Suffolk’s $2.8
billion budget for 2012, Baird-Streeter said.  State Control  Nassau lies between Suffolk and  New York City , which
balanced its fiscal 2013 spending plan with revenue from $7.3
billion in Wall Street firms’ first-quarter profits.  Nassau has had its finances under the control of a state
watchdog for 18 months. It plans to sell $220 million of notes
tomorrow, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Fitch Ratings lowered
Nassau’s rank in December by one step to A+, fifth-highest.  Some local governments of the county of 1.3 million are
also contending with fiscal strains.  Oyster Bay , on Long Island’s north shore, was lowered three
levels by S&P last month.  Long Beach , on the southern coast, was
dropped five levels to the lowest investment grade by Moody’s in
December. The city issued one-year securities in April yielding
2.5 percent while AAA debt yielded about 0.22 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Of the New York counties circling the most-populous U.S.
city, Westchester alone has three top credit grades.  The county kept that rating in part because it built up
more reserves than its counterparts in the lead-up to the
recession, said Dora Lee, a Moody’s analyst.  Lower Costs  Investors have rewarded Westchester with lower relative
borrowing costs.  Rockland, with 312,000 people, had its rating lowered last
month by Moody’s to one step above junk. It issued a one-year
note backed by its general-obligation pledge last week to yield
3.4 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a
higher  interest rate  than Westchester, across the  Hudson River ,
paid in November for bonds maturing in 17 years, the data show.  As Nassau, Suffolk and Rockland tackle financial strains
common to municipalities nationwide, they have an advantage:
their relative wealth.  The New York counties are ranked eighth, 16th and 20th,
respectively, in median  household income  among counties in the
U.S., according to Census Bureau data. If not for these levels
of affluence, said Naomi Richman, a managing director at
Moody’s, they would probably be rated lower.  Following are pending sales:  The DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK plans to
sell $1.8 billion of bonds backed by personal-income  tax revenue 
as soon as next week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Proceeds will refund debt. (Added June 6)  DETROIT plans to sell $575 million of debt secured by sewer
revenue as soon as next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Proceeds will help finance upgrades to the city’s wastewater
treatment system, refinance debt and end swap agreements,
according to offering documents. The swap termination fees total
about $288 million, according to  Fitch Ratings . Fitch last month
cut the system’s senior lien bonds to A-, seventh-highest, from
A. (Added June 5)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  