-- Summers Says ECB, Governments Must Restore Confidence
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-06-06T15:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/summers-says-ecb-governments-must-restore-confidence-1-.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said that the  European Central Bank  and the
region’s governments must do more to restore confidence amid the
euro-area sovereign debt crisis.  “The situation is very difficult,” Summers said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television today. “They are discovering
ways in which they did not expect that the single currency is
brittle. The risks, it seems to me, are all on the side of lack
of confidence and self-fulfilling fear.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials
are ready to add more stimulus to the euro region’s economy if
necessary, while damping expectations that another round of
three-year funding for banks is imminent. The ECB is under
pressure to lower rates and introduce more liquidity support for
banks as governments struggle to fix a crisis that’s engulfing
 Spain  and could force Greece out of the euro.  “A central bank wants to bend over backwards to be
reassuring, to reassure people that liquidity is there and
that’s the perspective that needs to inform the central bank,”
he said. “The overwhelming imperative of the situation is to
instill more confidence than there is today, and I certainly
hope that’s going to inform the policy makers of Europe.”  Summers reiterated his view that nations with low  interest
rates  should borrow more to finance investments that can spur
economic growth and tax revenue later.  Low Rates  “In a country with a 10-year-bond rate that’s now in the
1.5 percent range,” there’s an opportunity “for the government
to take advantage of those low rates to make investments that
actually will pay off for the budget over the long term,”
Summers, 57, said.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes climbed to their
highest level in four days amid speculation the world’s leading
economies may collaborate on a response to  Europe ’s financial
crisis and signs of slower economic growth.  The 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 10:16 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 30-year bond
yield increased three basis points to 2.68 percent.  Treasury 10-year and 30-year yields reached all-time lows
of 1.4387 percent and 2.5089 percent last week after the Labor
Department reported the  U.S. economy  added 69,000 jobs in May,
the fewest in a year.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said today that extending Operation Twist, the program to
lengthen maturities of debt on the central bank’s balance sheet,
is an “option on the table.”  Fed Meeting  The policy-setting FOMC meets June 19-20 to consider
whether more stimulus is needed to spur job growth. Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  will discuss the outlook for the economy
and policy tonight in Boston, and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is
due to testify before Congress tomorrow.  Under Operation Twist, which ends this month, the U.S.
central bank has been replacing $400 billion of shorter-dated
maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to contain
borrowing costs.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June. Policy
makers have said they will probably keep their target for
overnight lending between banks at almost zero, where it’s been
since December 2008, at least until late 2014.  Summers, a professor at Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government, was  Treasury Secretary  under
President  Bill Clinton  from 1999 to 2001 and president of
Harvard from 2001 to 2006. He led President  Barack Obama ’s
National Economic Council in 2009-2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  