-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-06-06T20:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before May 25.  Boston: “Economic activity in the First District continues
to expand, with contacts in most sectors citing steady growth.
Commercial real estate markets show slight improvement and
residential real estate contacts are finally mentioning
recovery, albeit fragile. Respondents in this round rarely
mention prices or pricing. Except for software and IT services
where growth continues to be relatively strong, few firms are
doing substantial hiring. The outlook is generally for more of
the same, although a couple of manufacturers mention making
contingency plans for a potential slowdown.”  New York : “The Second District’s economy has continued to
expand at a moderate pace since the last report. Labor market
conditions have generally improved, and, on balance, contacts
indicate they plan to add workers in the months ahead. Business
contacts in a number of industries note a slowing pace of cost
increases and mostly stable selling prices. Manufacturers report
a pickup in business conditions. Tourism activity has been
strong since the last report, while retailers and auto dealers
indicate steady sales activity in April and May. Home sales
activity has continued to increase gradually.”  Philadelphia: “Overall, business activity in the Third
District continues to improve, but the pace has slowed slightly
in most sectors since the previous  Beige Book . Manufacturing
activity has eased slightly, but most major manufacturing
sectors continue to grow. After a strong first quarter,
partially due to the unseasonably mild weather, retail sales
slowed somewhat in April but appear to be gaining strength based
on customer traffic in May.  “Although sales remain strong overall, motor vehicle
dealers also reported softer sales in April. Third District
banks report steadier growth in lending and continued strong
credit quality since the last Beige Book. Demand for new  home
construction  has eased off a bit, but brokers report stronger
sales of existing homes. Several signs of improvement were cited
by commercial real estate contacts.
The outlook remains optimistic, but more firms readily noted the
slow pace of the recovery relative to the sunnier views
expressed in the last Beige Book.”  Cleveland : “Business activity in the Fourth District has
grown at a moderate pace since the beginning of April.
Manufacturers reported stable production, while residential and
nonresidential construction showed moderate growth. Retail sales
held steady, and auto dealers described April sales as generally
good. Exploration and production in shale gas expanded, even as
the demand for coal has slowed. Freight transport volume moved
higher. And the market for business credit has strengthened.  “Hiring continued at a modest pace across most industry
sectors, although staffing-firm representatives reported that
the number of  job openings  had increased for  information
technology  and healthcare workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Input prices were stable, apart from increases in building
materials.”  Richmond: “Economic activity in the Fifth District
improved modestly since our last assessment. Retail sales were
sluggish, held back in part by weak big-ticket sales. Growth at
services firms slowed, although tourism businesses reported
strong demand. Bankers said that lending grew slowly, and much
of the activity was refinancing. Residential real estate agents
noted encouraging signs of improvement in housing sales, while
commercial Realtors described leasing and construction activity
as mostly flat to moderately up. Manufacturing reports were
mixed, with auto and other transportation equipment-related
producers continuing to do well, while other producers faced
unchanged or weakening demand. District hiring activity varied,
with some businesses reluctant to hire or unable to find
qualified workers. Recent rainfall aided newly planted fields,
but excess moisture in some areas delayed planting.”  Atlanta: “Reports from Sixth District business contacts
indicated that economic activity continued to expand at a
moderate pace in April and May. Reports were somewhat more
positive than the previous report, and expectations remained
generally optimistic across most sectors. However, uncertainties
surrounding the potential impact of developments in  Europe 
weighed on the outlook.
Most retailers noted a modest increase in sales activity, and
auto sales remained strong. Manufacturers cited modest growth in
new orders and production. Bankers asserted that the demand for
refinancing mortgages continued to increase slowly. Hiring
activity was positive, but muted. Firms continued to note
difficulty filling specialized positions. Most businesses
indicated having little pricing power.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand at a moderate pace in April and May,
although at a touch slower rate than during the prior reporting
period. Many contacts remained cautiously optimistic in their
outlook for the  U.S. economy . Several, however, also noted an
increase in economic uncertainty, pointing to weaker business
conditions in Europe and  Asia  and the upcoming elections in the
U.S. Growth in  consumer spending  slowed, while business spending
continued to increase at a steady pace. Manufacturing production
also rose at a steady pace, and construction activity increased
as well. Credit conditions were little changed on balance.
Commodity prices moved lower, and wage increases remained
moderate. Planting of corn and soybeans was well ahead of the
normal pace and that of a year ago.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to grow at a modest pace since our previous survey.
Residential real estate market conditions have improved
moderately. Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions
have also improved. Retail and auto sales in April and early May
increased over year-earlier levels. In contrast, recent reports
of plans from firms in the manufacturing and services sectors
were mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sample of large
District banks during the first quarter of 2012 were somewhat
mixed.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew at a modest
to firm pace since the last report. Strength was noted in
consumer spending, tourism, professional services, real estate,
construction, manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture.
Firms reported difficulties hiring qualified candidates,
although wage increases remained modest. Price increases were
generally subdued.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy improved
moderately in late April and May. Retailers and restaurant
contacts reported stronger sales, while auto sales declined.
Both retailers and auto contacts expected increased activity in
the months ahead. Manufacturing activity rose, and the high-tech
services industry experienced modest growth. Transportation
activity was flat and was expected to remain unchanged in the
months ahead. Residential and commercial real estate activity
increased solidly with higher sales and lower vacancy rates.
Banking contacts reported slightly higher loan demand, improved
loan quality and increased deposits. Agricultural growing
conditions improved, and farmland values continued to climb. The
energy sector expanded further, but the oversupply of natural
gas was leading to a slower pace of expansion. Wage pressures
increased, and firms reported some difficulty in filling
positions.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity
was flat to up, demand for business services rose and
transportation services activity was mixed. Energy activity
remained strong, and the housing sector continued to improve.
Retail sales rose moderately, and auto sales were strong. Loan
demand picked up since the last report. Drought conditions
improved. Most firms reported no change in selling prices.
Employment levels were steady to slightly higher, and wage
pressures remained minimal. Most firms’ outlooks are optimistic,
although many respondents expressed concern about U.S. political
uncertainty and the European debt situation.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to grow at a moderate pace during the reporting period
of April through late May. Price increases for final goods and
services were very modest, and upward wage pressures were quite
limited overall. Sales of retail items rose, as did demand for
consumer and business services. District manufacturing activity
picked up further. Sales remained robust for agricultural
producers, while conditions were mixed for providers of energy
resources. Demand rose modestly for residential real estate and
also improved a bit for commercial real estate. District banking
contacts reported that overall loan demand edged up, and they
noted further slight improvements in  credit quality .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  