-- Supervalu to Cut Up to 2,500 Jobs in Albertsons Stores
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-06T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/supervalu-to-cut-up-to-2-500-jobs-in-albertsons-stores.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery store chain, plans to eliminate as many as 2,500
positions at its Albertsons unit.  The reductions, which represent about 13 percent of staff
across all 247 Albertsons stores in California and Nevada, will
begin the week of June 17 and should be completed near July 1,
according to a statement today. Albertsons is the biggest retail
chain in Supervalu’s family of grocery stores.  Supervalu, which also operates the Shaw’s and Shop ‘n Save
chains, is cutting costs while expanding its private-label
brands. The retailer is lowering prices on some food to draw
customers from discounters including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The
company reduced prices by as much as 20 percent on about 200
produce items earlier this year.  “They’re just in a bad cycle,” Scott Mushkin, a New York-
based analyst at Jefferies & Co., who recommends holding the
shares, said in an interview. “When your sales are declining
you need to cut expenses, so you start cutting store labor.”  While reducing workers may help in the short run, it
“further hampers sales” long term, Mushkin said.  Supervalu slipped 0.9 percent to $4.49 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have dropped 45 percent this year.  Sales Decline  As of February, Supervalu had about 130,000 employees,
according to regulatory filings. Revenue at the  Eden Prairie ,
Minnesota-based company has declined for three straight years
and is  projected  to fall 2.4 percent to $35.2 billion in its
fiscal 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A decision of this nature is never easy, but it is the
necessary step for us to take to help improve our business and
accelerate our turnaround,” said Dan Sanders, president at
Albertsons Southern California division.  The Albertsons stores cutting jobs currently employ about
19,000 workers,  Mike Siemienas , a Supervalu spokesman, said in
an interview.  Albertsons, which was acquired by Supervalu in 2006, has
about 450 stores in nine states throughout the Northwest and
West Coast, according to its  website .  Kroger Co. (KR) , based in Cincinnati, is the largest U.S. grocer
and Pleasanton, California-based  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  is the second
biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  