-- Swiss Re’s Cole Says Looking at Euro Disruption Scenarios
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-06-06T12:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/swiss-re-s-cole-says-looking-at-euro-disruption-scenarios-1-.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  Chief Risk Officer
 David Cole  said the world’s second-biggest reinsurer has for
some time been looking at “mechanisms through which there would
be disruption to the euro.”  A Greek exit from the euro would affect the Zurich-based
company’s operations, assets and contracts and there would be a
broader impact on economies, Cole said in an interview while
attending an Institute of International Finance meeting in
Copenhagen today.  “We’re looking across a broad spectrum of our exposures,
the asset side of our balance sheet and the impact it would have
on the economies in which we’re active and the clients that we
serve,” said Cole. The company assumes there will either be
disruption to the euro or a “significant” strengthening of the
currency, he said.  Swiss Re said last month it didn’t hold any Greek sovereign
debt at the end of the first quarter, while holdings of Spanish
and Portuguese government bonds totaled $56 million. The
prospect of  Greece  leaving the 17-nation euro region increased
after parties opposed to the terms of the country’s second
bailout won most of the votes in May 6 elections. A fresh round
of voting will be held June 17 after politicians failed to form
a government.  “The broader issue will be the impact on the economies not
just in  Europe  but in the rest of the world,” said Cole.  “I
think it will be significant for all firms.”  Pierre Wauthier, chief financial officer of  Zurich
Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , said on June 1 that an exit from the euro by
Greece would cause problems as stock markets decline and
sovereign bond spreads widen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  