-- Syrian Opposition Dismisses New Cabinet Appointment as Cosmetic
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-06-06T09:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/syrian-opposition-dismisses-new-cabinet-appointment-as-cosmetic.html
Syria ’s opposition leader Burhan Ghalioun dismissed as “cosmetic” the appointment of a new
Cabinet and said a possible Russian change of position on the
year-long conflict is what matters.  President Bashar al-Assad assigned Agriculture Minister
Riyad Hejab to form the first Cabinet under the country’s
amended constitution, the state-run SANA news agency reported
today.  “It’s one of Assad’s cosmetic moves meant to show life is
normal and that he’s just fighting a bunch of terrorists,”
Ghalioun said in a telephone interview from Dubai today.  “What
really counts now is the latest Russian position.”  Russian and U.S. officials will meet in Moscow on June 8
to seek a possible common approach to removing Assad and
replacing him with someone acceptable to both sides, according
to two U.S. officials speaking on condition of anonymity. More
than 10,000 people have died since the country descended into
sectarian conflict last year, the United Nations estimates.  In a June 3 speech, Assad said a new Cabinet will be formed
as part of a series of changes his government has introduced in
response to 15 months of unrest.  The 46-year-old Hejab served as governor of Deir Ezzor and
Latakia and is a member of the ruling Baath party, according to
SANA.  “We aren’t for Assad or for his opponents,” Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  told reporters in Paris on June 1. “We
want to achieve a situation in which violence ends and a full-
scale civil war is avoided.”  Russia and  China  have blocked resolutions pushing for
stronger sanctions against Assad’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  