-- U.K. Urged to Safeguard Water After Drought Curbs Supply
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-k-urged-to-safeguard-water-after-drought-curbs-supply.html
The U.K. should build new water
storage facilities and introduce tariffs that reward lower water
usage to avert future supply shortages, the Institution of Civil
Engineers said.  The group said in a report today that Britain isn’t doing
enough to ensure safe water supplies after a 22-month drought.
Parts of  England  have water use restrictions after two dry
winters depleted underground reservoirs.  Seven water companies including Anglian Water, Southern
Water Ltd. and Veolia  Environnement SA (ALTEV) ’s Water Southeast unit
started temporary limits on the use of garden hoses from  April
5 . The drought is a “wake up call,” according to the ICE.  “We are a populous nation facing a growing gap between
what we can supply and what our water users need,” Michael
Norton, chairman of the ICE’s water panel, said in a statement
accompanying the report today. “Sadly it’s only when hose-pipe
bans are inflicted on us that the public has any glimpse of this
reality.”  The government should create a U.K. Water Security
Taskforce to ensure supply meets demand for all by 2025, as
 climate change  and population growth place pressure on
resources, according to the report.  The wettest April in more than 100 years of records ended
the drought in some areas, while failing to replenish water
tables in eastern England.  Low Value  The government, water companies and regulators should work
to cut consumption by 30 percent from the current 150 liters per
person per day, the ICE said. Measures include universal
metering and discretionary tariffs that also protect the poor.  “The single biggest problem is the low value we place on
water,” Norton said in the statement.  The report also called for the removal of regulatory
barriers that discourage water companies from collaborating on
new infrastructure investment. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
administration promised draft legislation this year that would
spur competition in the water industry and encourage investment
needed to keep supplies flowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  