-- U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Quickens as Discounts Lessen, BRC Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-06T08:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-k-shop-price-inflation-quickens-as-discounts-lessen-brc-says.html
U.K.  shop-price inflation  quickened
in May as retailers struggled to maintain the discounts they
used to attract cash-strapped consumers, the British Retail
Consortium said.  Retail prices rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 1.3 percent gain in April, the trade group and
Nielsen Co. said in a report in London today. Food-price
inflation held at 4.3 percent.  The  Bank of England  left its  bond-purchase target  unchanged
last month as it forecast inflation would remain above its 2
percent for longer than previously expected. Still, a slump in
manufacturing this month prompted Deutsche Bank AG to forecast
it will restart stimulus tomorrow.  “Some prices are moving upwards as retailers struggle to
maintain the margin-sapping discounts which reached
unsustainable levels in the face of weak  consumer spending ,”
BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said in the report.
“Easing commodity prices helped combat rising property and
distribution costs. There’s still a possibility of future supply
shocks but the outlook for inflation looks set to remain at
modest levels.”  A separate survey today by Lloyds Bank showed U.K. business
confidence in the economic outlook plunged in May to its lowest
level in five months as concerns about a potential exit of
 Greece  from the euro area escalated. The index of sentiment
dropped to minus 21 in May from 26 the previous month.  The bank questioned 301 companies with sales of less than 1
million pounds ($1.24 million) May 8-18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  