-- U.K. Stocks Gain the Most in Six Months as ECB Holds Rate
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-06T16:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-k-stocks-advance-before-ecb-rate-decision-banks-rally.html
U.K. stocks  posted the biggest
advance in six months as the  European Central Bank  left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged and extended its unlimited
short-term cash offering until the start of 2013.  A gauge of British banks rallied, with Barclays Plc and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc gaining more than 5 percent.  Man Group
Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund, jumped 7.1
percent after Citigroup Inc. recommended the shares.  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  gained after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named it a top pick
among integrated  oil companies .  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 2.4 percent to 5,384.11 at the
close in London, the most since Nov. 30. Stocks earlier briefly
pared their gains after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he sees
downward risks to the region’s economic outlook. The gauge has
still lost 9.8 percent from its 2012 high on March 16 as concern
mounted that Greece will be forced to leave the euro area. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 2.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 2.5 percent.  “What is spurring the optimism may be the sudden
realization that the markets have priced in an apocalyptic
scenario,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist
in  New York  at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on over $150
million in assets. “Markets are now likely realizing that the
event so feared may not happen. With Germany likely to blink,
this crisis could be with hindsight an immense opportunity for
risk assets.”  Unlimited Cash  Draghi said officials will extend their offerings of
unlimited cash until the start of 2013 for periods up to three
months as they try to head off risks stemming from the euro-area
debt crisis.  “We have decided to continue our main refinancing at fixed
rate, full allotment for as long as necessary” and at least
until January, Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt today. He
didn’t indicate whether the ECB plans to offer banks a new round
of three-year cash.  The ECB today left its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent. Draghi also said today that the euro region economy
faces “increased downside risks.”  G7 leaders yesterday agreed to coordinate their response to
the euro-area debt crisis, which has pushed at least eight of
the 17 of the region’s economies into recession and damped
European demand for foreign goods.  Bank of England  The Bank of England will announce its latest policy
decision tomorrow. The BOE will keep its bond-purchase target at
325 billion pounds, said 38 of 41 economists in a survey. It
will also leave its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5
percent, according to a separate survey.  A gauge of London-listed  bank shares  rallied 3 percent
after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said impairments in the loan
books of U.K. lenders are stabilizing.  “We remain bullish on the U.K. banks from a long-term,
fundamental standpoint,” Bernstein said in a note to clients
today. “Any impact on the U.K. banking book will be
considerably less punitive than the last crisis. On the retail
book, we model in only a slight uptick in impairments in the
second half of this year with a peak in H1 2013.”  Barclays Plc climbed 8.2 percent to 187.80 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rose 5.2 percent to 27.05 pence.
The lender agreed to sell 809 million pounds ($1.25 billion) of
Australian corporate real-estate loans to a Morgan Stanley and
Blackstone Group LP joint venture for about 388 million pounds
in cash.  Man Group, BG  Man advanced 7.1 percent to 80.9 pence. Citigroup raised
its recommendation on the stock to buy from neutral.  BG gained 3.4 percent to 1,241 pence after Goldman named it
as a top pick among integrated oil companies.  Mining shares rallied as metal prices including copper,
lead and nickel rose in London.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , an
aluminum and copper producer in India, added 9.1 percent to
963.5 pence.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver
producer, increased 7.4 percent to 1,472 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,
Kazakhstan’s largest copper producer, gained 7.4 percent to
714.5 pence.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , which operates gold mines in Russia,
rallied 9.7 percent to 425.6 pence. The stock was raised to buy
from neutral at UBS AG.  Yell Group Plc (YELL) , the publisher of U.K. yellow pages
directories, jumped 5.7 percent to 1.67 pence. Citigroup Inc.
raised the stock to neutral from sell.  Mecom Group Plc (MEC) , which invests in consumer media assets,
sank 48 percent to 76 pence. The company said it sees
“significant deterioration” in Dutch advertisement revenues in
the second quarter.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , the maker of low-calorie sweetener
Splenda, slipped 1.6 percent to 643 pence. Berenberg Bank AG
lowered its full-year 2013 and 2014 earnings-per-share estimates
for the company by 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  