-- U.K. Retail Sales Increased in May on Warm Weather, BRC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-k-retail-sales-increased-in-may-on-warm-weather-brc-says.html
U.K.  retail sales  rebounded in May
from a slump in April as warm weather boosted demand for food,
beverages and clothing, the  British Retail Consortium  said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
gained 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the London-based trade
group said today in a report compiled with accountancy firm KPMG
LLP. That followed a 3.3 percent decline in April, the most in
more than a year.  With Britain suffering its first double-dip recession since
1975 and risks from the euro area growing,  Bank of England 
policy makers must decide today whether to add stimulus to their
existing 325 billion pounds ($503 billion) of bond purchases.
Officials will have to balance the need to bolster the recovery
with the threat of inflation, which is above their target.  “After a dismal April, May was a much better month and
many retailers will be breathing a small sigh of relief,” said
Helen Dickinson, head of retail at KPMG. Still, a short-term
“spending spree will not overcome the underlying difficulties
facing the industry.”  Including stores open less than 12 months, the value of
retail sales rose 3.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
according to the BRC. In the three months through May, food
sales increased 0.4 percent from a year earlier on a like-for-
like basis, while non-food sales fell 0.6 percent.  While the gain in sales in May was led by demand for
shorts, swimwear and gardening gear, big ticket purchases
“continued to struggle,” the lobby group said.  Any recovery in demand may be curbed by rising unemployment
and  inflation  that was at 3 percent in April, outpacing wage
growth. A report from Vocalink Ltd. today showed that annual
take-home pay growth at Britain’s largest publicly traded
companies stood at 2.3 percent in the three months through May.  Separately, the Engineering Employers’ Federation and BDO
LLP said a gauge of manufacturing output was at 20 in the
current quarter, little changed from 19 in the first quarter.
The EEF forecasts that manufacturing will shrink 0.1 percent
this year, while the U.K. economy will grow 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  