-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated
that economic activity continued to expand at a moderate pace in
April and May. Reports were somewhat more positive than the
previous report, and expectations remained generally optimistic
across most sectors. However, uncertainties surrounding the
potential impact of developments in  Europe  weighed on the
outlook.  Most retailers noted a modest increase in sales activity, and
auto sales remained strong. Positive reports from the
hospitality sector included healthy occupancy and room rates,
and future bookings were solid. Brokers and homebuilders noted
higher sales compared with last year, and commercial real estate
contacts stated they were seeing improvements led by gains in
the apartment segment. Manufacturers cited modest growth in new
orders and production. Bankers asserted that the demand for
refinancing mortgages continued to increase slowly. Hiring
activity was positive, but muted. Firms continued to note
difficulty filling specialized positions. Most businesses
indicated having little pricing power; however, an increasing
number of firms said that they have been able to successfully
pass on price increases, especially those tied to energy costs.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Reports from District retailers
indicated that consumer spending improved in April and May.
Merchants anticipate that sales will continue to grow at a
modest pace in the near term. The auto sector remained strong,
and regional dealers expect sales to remain solid going forward.
Despite the recent slide in gasoline prices, merchants remained
wary of the potential impact on personal spending. That said,
few retailers reported significant changes in consumer behavior
with the exception of those operating in rural areas.  Leisure and business travel contacts continued to report robust
activity and a solid outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Occupancy and room rates exceeded expectations and convention
bookings remained strong. Reports also showed that a number of
hospitality-related capital investment projects were underway in
several areas across the District. Florida continued to be
bolstered by visitors from  South America  and  Canada . Cruise-line
bookings were down slightly compared with the last report. High
fuels costs were identified as a downside risk to the summer
travel season, but hospitality contacts were somewhat less
concerned than they were earlier in the year. They were more
concerned, however, about a potential decline in visitors from
Europe.  Real Estate and Construction. The majority of residential
brokers said that home sales exceeded year-ago levels in April
and May with many reporting that sales exceeded expectations.
Strengthening sales, mostly from cash buyers and investors, were
noted by most Florida contacts. Brokers observed that inventory
levels across the District continued to decline. The majority of
contacts reported that  home prices  were flat to slightly up on a
year-over-year basis. The sales outlook among brokers remained
positive with most anticipating year-over-year gains, albeit
from very low levels of overall activity, over the next several
months.  District homebuilders reported that new home sales and
construction rose modestly compared with a year earlier.
Builders indicated that home price declines continued to abate.
The majority indicated that new home inventories declined
further on a year-over-year basis. Contacts noted that
multifamily construction remained robust and new projects
continued to be announced. In the short-term, homebuilders
expect sales and construction to be flat to slightly up compared
with a year earlier.  Improvements in the District’s commercial real estate markets
were led by gains in occupancy and solid rental growth in the
apartment sector. Overall, small improvements were noted in the
region’s office and industrial sectors as vacancy rates
moderated somewhat; however, reports on District retail real
estate were more mixed. Although flat on a year-over-year basis,
the majority of commercial contractors said that year-to-date
construction activity was slightly ahead of activity in last
year’s fourth quarter. Backlogs were down from a year earlier.
Most contacts anticipate a modest increase in private
construction activity through the remainder of the year, while
public works projects are expected to decelerate.  Manufacturing and Transportation. The District’s manufacturing
sector continued to expand modestly in April and May.
Manufacturers reported growth in new orders and production, but
noted that employment growth had slowed somewhat. A District
auto manufacturer announced plans to add a third shift to meet
increased global demand for their products. Auto producers
continued to note concern about economic and financial
conditions in Europe, a significant market for the region’s auto
exports.  Railroad contacts noted continued volume growth in shipments of
automobiles, metals, and forest products, along with strong
intermodal demand. Shipments of coal, construction-related
aggregates, and chemicals continued to moderate, however.
Reports indicated that elevated diesel prices were allowing
railroads to maintain a competitive edge over trucking. At
District ports, imports of construction-related steel was
reportedly strengthening.  Banking and Finance. Lending standards remained largely
unchanged since the last report, but banking contacts indicated
that more applicants were qualifying for loans. Most District
bankers commented that demand for refinancing  mortgage loans 
continued to increase; more applicants had ample cash for down
payments or enough equity in their homes to meet the loan
requirements. Credit availability increased and competition
among lenders for loans remained strong. Some bankers mentioned
improvements in the general creditworthiness of borrowers and
appraisal valuations.  Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained
positive, although contacts noted that uncertainty regarding
future economic conditions was a major headwind for additional
 job creation . Employers continued to express difficulty hiring
for specialized positions, such as those in information
technology and engineering. Trucking contacts also noted
continuing trouble finding qualified labor to meet new federal
regulations and some manufacturers cited difficulties finding
trained operators and welders. Skilled auto mechanics also
appeared to be in short supply. Firms noted the importance of
efforts by government and academic institutions to coordinate
training programs with large employers. Contacts also indicated
that private training programs funded by trade associations or
industry groups were being developed to train workers where
larger public programs were not available.  Though most contacts continued to indicate having little pricing
power, more firms recounted successful attempts or plans to pass
on price increases since the last report. Increased
transportation costs, including those resulting from higher
gasoline and other fuel prices were being passed on to consumers
without much difficulty. Firms responding in May to the Atlanta
Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey reported that unit
costs were expected to rise 1.8 percent for the year ahead, down
from an average of 2.0 percent over the previous three month
period. According to businesses surveyed, materials costs had
subsided somewhat since April, though they are still expected to
have a moderate upward influence on prices over the coming year.
Despite continuing reports that sales levels are below what they
consider to be normal, contacts anticipate little to moderate
upward price pressure from improving sales levels over the next
12 months.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts noted that more
investment is needed in transportation infrastructure to
accommodate recent increases in domestic and Canadian energy
production. District refining contacts indicated that the
capacity to process heavier grades of crude are limited and
despite investment in additional refinery capacity, a number of
recent and planned refinery closures elsewhere in the country
could imply that existing facilities may have difficulty meeting
demand for distillate fuels, like diesel and jet fuel. Permits
for offshore drilling have increased in recent months. Drought
conditions worsened in most of Florida and  Georgia  and parts of
 Alabama . Prices paid to farmers for oranges were up and a
contact reported these higher prices were dampening demand.
Prices paid for soybeans were up on a year-over-year and month-
over-month basis because of strong global demand and decreased
supplies coming from South America. 