-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a
moderate pace during the reporting period of April through late
May. Price increases for final goods and services were very
modest, and upward wage pressures were quite limited overall.
Sales of retail items rose, as did demand for consumer and
business services. District manufacturing activity picked up
further. Sales remained robust for agricultural producers, while
conditions were mixed for providers of energy resources. Demand
rose modestly for residential real estate and also improved a
bit for commercial real estate. District banking contacts
reported that overall loan demand edged up, and they noted
further slight improvements in  credit quality .  Wages and Prices  Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and
services. Contacts noted price declines for energy inputs,
particularly oil, and for an assortment of food items at the
retail level. More generally, upward price pressures were quite
modest, as suppliers of final goods and services were readily
able to meet the existing modest growth in demand.  Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were quite limited
overall. High unemployment and modest demand for new hires
continued to hold down compensation gains for workers in most
industries and occupations. However, wage and compensation gains
remained substantial in various industries and regions for
workers with specialized skills in the application of
 information technology .  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales grew modestly on balance. Gains were reported by
traditional department stores and discount chains alike,
although contacts noted a slightly slower pace of growth
compared with the prior reporting period. Inventories generally
were at or near desired levels given the current pace of sales.
Demand growth slowed for retailers of home furnishings and major
appliances, resulting in mostly flat sales. Demand was largely
unchanged for grocers. Sales of new automobiles rose during the
reporting period, although the pace of growth has moderated from
that seen in the most recent reporting periods. Demand remained
strong for used vehicles and combined with tight inventories to
keep prices elevated.  Demand for business and consumer services rose a bit further on
balance. Activity was largely flat for professional services
such as legal services and accounting, as well as for health-
care services. By contrast, demand improved for transportation
services such as trucking. Sales rose at a modest pace for
providers of technology services, with the pace held down in
part by weaker sales to European buyers; however, contacts
continue to anticipate that growth will pick up in the second
half of the year. Activity expanded further for radio and
television broadcasters, spurred by rising demand for
advertising slots. Sales activity improved further for
restaurants and other food-service providers. District travel
activity continued to pick up, with contacts in major markets
such as  Southern California ,  Hawaii , and  Nevada  highlighting
ongoing improvements in visitor counts and hotel occupancy
rates.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity rose further during the
reporting period of April through late May. New orders continued
to improve for manufacturers of semiconductors and other
technology products, and inventories were reported to be at
appropriate levels given the prevailing pace of sales. Contacts
in the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector reported robust
demand. Orders grew a bit for makers of commercial aircraft and
parts, driven primarily by demand for fuel-efficient aircraft,
and an extensive order backlog kept production rates at very
high levels. For petroleum refiners, strong global demand
supported an uptick in capacity utilization rates. Demand
improved slightly for steel manufacturers but remained depressed
for manufacturers of wood products.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand for agricultural products remained robust, while
extraction activity for energy resources continued to be uneven.
Orders and sales expanded further for most crop and livestock
products, spurred in part by strong growth in overseas exports.
However, contacts noted that the costs of energy inputs remained
quite high, and they cited renewed concerns that drought in some
areas may undermine growing conditions in coming months. For
energy resources, elevated  price levels  continued to support a
pickup in oil extraction activity. By contrast, price declines
for natural gas resulted in a further reduction of extraction
activity, primarily at sites for which the extracted amount of
valuable liquid byproducts is low.  Real Estate and Construction  District home demand improved a bit further overall, and demand
for commercial real estate picked up slightly on balance. Sales
of new and existing homes ticked up in many areas, although the
pace remained well below its historical average. The pickup was
supported in part by slight improvements in financing
availability, which has been an important factor holding down
sales in the recent past. Faster sales reduced the inventory of
available homes, which in turn caused home construction activity
to rise slightly in some areas. By contrast,  home prices 
remained largely flat. On the commercial side, vacancy rates for
office and industrial space stayed elevated throughout many
parts of the District. However, contacts noted widening signs of
improved demand. The San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle markets
continued to benefit from growth in the technology sector, which
is prompting rapid absorption of commercial space and
encouraging new construction. Contacts noted improved demand for
office and retail space in other areas as well, such as Boise,
 Idaho .  Financial Institutions  Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan
demand showed further slight gains overall. Although businesses
remained very cautious in their  capital spending  plans, demand
edged up a bit further for new commercial and industrial loans.
Furthermore, reports from most sectors suggested that capital
spending is likely to increase modestly in the second half of
the year compared with the first. Demand for  consumer credit 
appeared largely unchanged. Further improvement in overall
credit quality was noted, and continued fierce competition to
extend credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized
businesses has kept a lid on loan rates and fees. Overall,
however, lending standards remained somewhat restrictive for
many types of business and consumer loans. 