-- U.S. Seen Weathering Blows From Europe to Budget: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-06-06T20:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-seen-weathering-blows-from-europe-to-budget-cuts-economy.html
The weakest employment gain in a
year, slumping stocks and the European crisis won’t stop the
 U.S. economy  from maintaining its expansion this year and next,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Gross domestic product will increase by 2.2 percent in 2012
and by 2.4 percent in 2013, the median of 70 economists surveyed
from June 1 to June 5 shows. The estimates are down 0.1
percentage point from those issued last month.  “We have to bet the economy will continue to be the way
it’s going, which is slow growth,” said  John Silvia , chief
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina .  Among the biggest positives is that  consumer spending ,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will hold
up, the survey showed, as households make progress in repairing
finances and rising bank profits help increase access to credit.
The rate of economic growth will still not be enough to reduce
unemployment, which is projected to end the year at 8 percent.  “It won’t be a recession, but what we have is not OK,”
Silvia said. “We don’t have the kind of growth we expect at
this stage of the business cycle.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at one point this week
dropped 10 percent from its April peak on growing concern that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will force some countries to
leave the euro area. In addition, a so-called U.S. fiscal cliff
is coming at the end of 2012 when a number of tax-and-spending
changes will take effect unless Congress acts.  Share Rise  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 2.3 percent, the biggest gain of
2012, to 1,315.13 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York  on speculation
policy makers will act to spur global growth. The European
Central Bank today left the benchmark  interest rate  on hold at a
record low of 1 percent.  Reports today showed German industrial output in April fell
more than economists forecast and Spanish production had the
biggest drop in more than two years, adding to signs of a
deepening economic slump across the euro area.  Silvia is among economists predicting Federal Reserve
policy makers will do more to spur growth at their meeting later
this month. While the central bank is unlikely to pursue another
round of asset purchases, Silvia said they will probably extend
Operation Twist, a program started in September to lengthen the
maturities of assets already on its balance sheet. The plan
expires at the end of this month.  “They have to appear ready to help the economy,” Silvia
said.  Available Option  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said today extending Operation Twist is an “option on the
table” in response to audience questions after a speech in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . “There is capacity to do more,” he said.  The Fed said today the economy maintained a moderate pace
of growth as factory output rose and the real-estate market
improved. “Overall economic activity expanded at a moderate
pace” from early April to late May, the central bank said in its
Beige Book business survey, which is based on reports from its
12 district banks. “Hiring was steady or increased slightly.”  Household purchases in the U.S. will grow 2.2 percent this
year and next, according to the latest median forecast, 0.1
percentage point less than in the May survey. Consumer spending
rose in April following a first-quarter pace of growth that was
the fastest in more than a year.  Sales Climb  Same-store sales in May topped analysts’ estimates at
retailers from  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, to Limited Brands Inc., the owner of the Victoria’s
Secret lingerie chain. While the pace of  automobile purchases 
slipped in May from the prior month, it was still up 17 percent
from a year earlier, according to data from Ward’s Automotive
Group.  “The consumer can carry this 2 percent recovery, but is
unlikely to give us stronger growth,” said  Aneta Markowska ,
chief U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New York. “We can
call it a sideways economy. It’s still a very anemic recovery.”  The housing market, a laggard in the expansion, is also
reviving. Starts through the first four months of this year were
24 percent higher than the comparable 2011 period, and home
values in 20 cities fell in the 12 months ended March at the
slowest pace in more than a year.  Some recent reports have been less rosy. Orders to
factories unexpectedly declined for a second month in April,
pointing to a deceleration in manufacturing as the global
economy weakens, Commerce Department data showed this week.  Employment Slows  Employment gains have cooled from a high this year of
275,000 in January, according to Labor Department figures.
Payrolls rose 69,000 in May, less than half the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, and following a revised
77,000 rise in April that was smaller than initially estimated.
The  jobless rate  climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  The slowdown in hiring does concern economists like  Joshua Shapiro , whose growth estimates are lower than the median
forecast.  “Employment is going to be very subdued,” said Shapiro,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York,
because the U.S. is “not immune” from the European crisis, and
“there aren’t any real dynamic drivers of growth.”  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said yesterday it’s
unlikely that  Europe  will damage the U.S. The American economy
will avoid a recession “unless events in Europe develop in some
way that spills over here big-time,” Buffett, chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said at the Economic Club of
Washington, D.C.  Fiscal Cliff  Economists are betting the U.S. will avoid plunging off a
fiscal cliff in 2013 as lawmakers reach a compromise in budget
negotiations to avert a recession. Tax breaks will probably be
extended for most Americans and spending cuts will be
restrained, helping the economy to keep growing, they said.  The so-called cliff includes the expiration of income-tax
cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush , the end of
payroll-tax reductions and automatic decreases in government
expenditures, which would clip a combined 3 percentage points
from growth if allowed to kick in next year, according to a
Bloomberg survey taken May 22 to May 24. Instead, as lawmakers
find common ground, the damage will be limited to 0.8 point,
sustaining the expansion, the survey showed.  Economists in the latest Bloomberg survey put the odds of a
recession in the next 12 months at 20 percent, up from 15
percent in the May survey.  Fiscal Fallout  Businesses bracing for any fallout from the looming fiscal
cliff include industrial equipment-maker  Eaton Corp. (ETN)   “You will get some concern as people get toward the end of
this year, and they’re not sure what’s going to happen,”
Alexander Cutler, chairman and chief executive officer at Eaton,
said at a May 31 conference. “That’s why you’re seeing a lot of
economists with a little weaker first quarter than they perhaps
were talking a year ago for the first quarter of 2013.”  “Most people understand what’s got to be done,” Cutler
said. “You’ve got to get some political will to make it
happen.” Meanwhile, the response from companies would be to
“stay lean and keep your inventories taut,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  