-- Google U.S. Probe to Be Resolved in 2012, Leibowitz Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-ftc-to-resolve-google-probe-by-end-of-2012-leibowitz-says.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
will resolve its antitrust investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
“certainly by the end of the year,” said Jon Leibowitz, the
agency’s chairman.  The commission is “somewhere in the middle” of its probe
of whether  Mountain View , California-based Google is abusing its
dominance as operator of the world’s most popular search engine,
Leibowitz said yesterday in an interview in  Washington .  The investigation has become more active. The agency plans
to question Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and hired
 Beth Wilkinson , a top Washington litigator, to run the probe.
The FTC is deciding whether to sue Google for violating
antitrust laws.  Google disclosed on June 24 that the FTC had begun a review
of its business practices. The FTC is focusing on whether Google
unfairly ranks search results to favor its own businesses and
increases advertising rates for competitors, people familiar
with the investigation have said.  The agency also is examining whether the company is using
its control of the Android mobile operating system to discourage
smartphone and device makers from using rivals’ applications,
the people said.  Health Care  “Our size and success rightly generate scrutiny, which is
why we’ve worked hard to explain how our business works,” said
Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, in an e-mail. “Because
there’s always room for improvement, we’re happy to discuss any
concerns the Federal Trade Commission might have.”  European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said last month that EU regulators, who are conducting their own
investigation of Google, had given the company a “matter of
weeks” to make proposals addressing their concerns.  In yesterday’s interview, Leibowitz also said he is
concerned about consolidation in the health-care industry.  “There needs to be a much greater injection of competition
into health-care marketplaces,” he said.  Leibowitz, who was confirmed for another seven-year term in
March, said he doesn’t know how long he’ll stay with the FTC.  “I love my job, I love my colleagues, I love the agency,”
said Leibowitz, who was appointed as chairman in 2009 by
President  Barack Obama . “We’ll see what happens after the
election.”  If  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, defeats Obama in November, he’ll be able to tap an FTC
chairman from his own party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  