-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  The Second District’s economy has continued to expand at a
moderate pace since the last report. Labor market conditions
have generally improved, and, on balance, contacts indicate they
plan to add workers in the months ahead. Business contacts in a
number of industries note a slowing pace of cost increases and
mostly stable selling prices. Manufacturers report a pickup in
business conditions. Tourism activity has been strong since the
last report, while retailers and auto dealers indicate steady
sales activity in April and May. Home sales activity has
continued to increase gradually since the last report, though
prices have generally been steady to somewhat lower. Rental
markets remain strong, with rents rising due to tight inventory
levels.  New York City ’s commercial real estate market has
tightened slightly. Finally, bankers report widespread increases
in loan demand, no change in credit standards, and continued
broad-based declines in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales activity was mixed but generally
steady in April and the first few weeks of May. One major retail
chain reports that sales were running on plan and up modestly
from a year earlier, with particular strength in home-related
goods. However, another chain indicates that sales were slightly
below plan and down considerably from this time last year, with
weakness in home goods and fine jewelry. In general, New York
City stores tended to outperform other stores in the District.
Retail contacts in upstate New York report that sales in recent
weeks have been brisk and on par with a year earlier, and note
increased demand from Canadian shoppers. Retail prices continue
to be mostly stable, though price declines are anticipated for
fall-season apparel, due to the retreat in cotton prices.
Inventory levels are well managed, and are reported to be at
desired levels.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales remained
fairly brisk since the last report. Sales of new vehicles were
up modestly from a year earlier in April and are seen remaining
steady in May. Product availability is no longer a drag on
sales, except for some of the most popular models. The used car
market continues to be strong and prices remain elevated,
although dealers in the Buffalo area note some recent softening
in prices at auction. Wholesale and retail credit conditions
remain favorable and continue to improve.  Tourism activity has been quite robust since the last report.
New York City hotels indicate that revenues were up roughly 10
percent from a year ago in April and May. This increase reflects
both higher room rates and higher occupancy rates. Hotel
bookings have been fairly broad based, but an industry contact
notes that there has been a noticeable pickup in business
travelers in recent months. Moreover, ticket prices and
attendance at Broadway theaters increased in April and May; as a
result, theater revenues were up considerably from a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across much of the District have been mixed but,
on balance, stable since the last report, while rental markets
have continued to firm. The volume of apartment sales in New
York City has been generally steady, with brisk activity at the
top and bottom segments of the market but activity in the middle
described as quiet. Home sales in northern  New Jersey  have
continued to improve from a low level, but mainly due to a
pickup in sales of distressed properties.  Home prices  in and
around New York City are characterized as steady to declining
slightly, in part because more distressed properties are coming
to market. By contrast, real estate contacts in Western New York
report robust sales activity and rising prices in recent months.
Apartment rental markets in both New York City and northern New
Jersey continue to firm, with tight inventories and rents
continuing to rise. A major New York City appraisal firm notes
that rising rents in the City continue to make buying more
attractive, and credits this trend for the recent uptick in
sales in the lower third of the market. Conditions in the outer
boroughs have been somewhat softer than in  Manhattan .  New York City’s office market has tightened slightly since the
last report, although leasing activity has slowed in recent
months. Office vacancy rates have edged down and rents have
risen 7-8 percent from a year ago. However, a major commercial
brokerage firm notes that demand for  office space  from the
finance industry has softened considerably since earlier in the
year. Some of this recent softening has been offset by strong
demand by technology firms, especially in the Midtown South
area. There also continues to be a fair degree of leasing
activity from businesses in the media, information, and legal
sectors. Commercial property sales activity remains slow. There
is a moderate amount of new office development underway, but
most of it will not come on-line for another 12-18 months. In
addition, a hospitality industry contact notes that interest in
luxury hotel development in Manhattan has increased recently.  Other Business Activity  Contacts across the District, on balance, indicate that business
activity has expanded since the last report. Manufacturers
across New York State report a noticeable improvement in
business conditions and a growing proportion of non-
manufacturing contacts report increases in business activity. In
addition, business contacts in manufacturing and other sectors
note a slower pace of input price increases and steady to
somewhat higher selling prices.  On balance, labor market conditions have continued to improve
across the District since the last report. Moreover, both
manufacturers and business contacts in other sectors say that
they plan to increase hiring activity in the months ahead.
However, a major New York City employment agency specializing in
office jobs reports that hiring activity has been mixed since
the last report, with bouts of starts and stops in hiring and
some reluctance by firms--particularly in the finance sector--to
commit to hiring new employees. Moreover, fewer  job openings  are
available in part because the amount of job churn is still much
less than normal. A financial industry contact reports that
previously-announced major layoffs at large banks in the New
York City area are ongoing and expected to continue.  Financial Developments  Small to medium-sized banks in the District report increased
loan demand in all categories to a more widespread degree than
at any time since the mid 1990s. The increase in demand was most
prevalent for commercial loans and mortgages. Bankers also
indicate increased demand for refinancing but to a lesser extent
than in recent months. Credit standards are reported to be
little changed across all loan categories. Respondents note a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over the cost of funds for all
loan categories--particularly for commercial mortgages where
over three in five bankers report lower spreads. Respondents
also indicate some decline in average deposit rates. Finally,
bankers again report widespread decreases in delinquency rates
for all loan categories. 