-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew at a modest to firm pace since
the last report. Strength was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, professional services, real estate, construction,
manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture. Firms
reported difficulties hiring qualified candidates, although wage
increases remained modest. Price increases were generally
subdued.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased modestly. Same-store sales at a
Minnesota-based retailer increased just over 1 percent in April
compared with a year ago; the soft gains were attributed to an
earlier Easter holiday and warmer weather in February and March,
which likely pulled sales earlier into the year. Recent sales
were up slightly at a Minneapolis area mall where a number of
stores were undergoing or planning renovations. A  Montana  bank
director reported that vehicle sales were up from a year earlier
and a representative of an auto dealers association in North
Dakota reported strong sales during the past two months,
particularly in the western part of the state. Recent sales at
grocery stores owned by a Minnesota-based company were down
slightly. Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based electronics retailer
announced plans to close six stores in Minnesota.  Tourism officials and businesses were cautiously optimistic
about the upcoming summer season. According to a survey of
Minnesota lodging and camping properties, 39 percent of
respondents expect summer occupancy to be up, while 15 percent
expect decreases from a year ago. Officials in South Dakota
reported an increase in the number of tourism information
requests; early warm weather increased visits to a number of
attractions.  Construction and Real Estate  Construction activity increased from a year ago. The value of
commercial building permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was
up in April from a year earlier. The value and number of new
commercial permits increased in Fargo, N.D., during 2012
compared with the same period in 2011. Several new commercial
building projects are under consideration in the Minneapolis
area. However, respondents to the University of St. Thomas’s
semiannual  Minnesota  Commercial Real Estate Survey (May)
expected higher land and building costs, which could dampen
growth in construction. Residential construction increased from
a year ago. The value of residential building permits increased
significantly in the Sioux Falls area in April. The number of
single-family building permits increased in Minnesota in March
2012, compared with March 2011. Numerous new multifamily
projects were planned for several parts of the District.  Commercial real estate market activity increased. According to
the aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents
expected growth in commercial rents and occupancy. Several large
Minnesota companies recently renewed or signed new leases for
additional  office space . A real estate consultancy reported that
industrial vacancy rates in the Minneapolis area decreased in
the first quarter of this year compared with the fourth quarter
of last year; however, office and retail vacancy rates
increased. Increases in residential real estate sales continued
across most of the District. Home sales in April were up 7
percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 29 percent
and the median sales price rose by 12 percent. In the  Sioux
Falls  area, April home sales were up 11 percent, inventory was
down and the median sales price rose 4 percent relative to a
year ago.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased
slightly since the last report. An engineering and design firm
near oil producing areas of the District reported extremely
strong demand for construction developments. Preliminary results
of the Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey of professional services
companies in May showed that sales revenue, space usage, and
profits are expected to increase over the next year. A medium-
sized Minnesota services firm commented that they “feel
optimistic and are trying to improve efficiency.”  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity continued to expand since the last
report. An April survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton
University (Omaha, Neb.) found that production expanded in
Minnesota and the Dakotas. A light industrial manufacturer in
 South Dakota  reported the strongest capital expenditure levels
in 10 years as it developed a successful niche business line. A
cement factory in Rapid City, S.D., is considering a $100
million expansion. A steel mill in Minnesota announced a $50
million investment in upgrades.  Energy and mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors grew. Oil and gas
exploration activity increased in North Dakota and Montana since
the last report. A biodiesel refinery in Minnesota announced a
$20 million upgrade to switch feed stocks from  soybean oil  to
waste fats. District iron ore mines continued to operate at near
capacity. Montana hard-rock mines were also busy, with numerous
expansions underway across the state. However, District
limestone quarries were still suffering from reduced cement
demand.  Agriculture  The agricultural sector maintained its strength. Warm spring
weather allowed farmers to get into fields early and plantings
of corn, spring wheat and soybeans in mid-May was well ahead of
average in District states. In addition, recent rains alleviated
drought conditions that had persisted until recently in
Minnesota and the Dakotas. The Minneapolis Fed’s first quarter
(April) survey of agricultural credit conditions indicated that
most lenders saw continued increases in farm household income
and  capital spending , though respondents expect growth to
moderate over the next three months. Agricultural output prices
have come down somewhat recently. April prices received by
farmers for soybeans, cattle and chickens increased from a year
earlier; prices declined for wheat, corn, hogs, dairy products
and eggs.  Employment, Wages and Prices  A number of employers with open positions noticed tightening in
the labor market. Manufacturers in several areas reported
difficulty recruiting skilled workers, particularly welders.
Agriculture operations in the western part of the District noted
difficulty finding workers for certain positions. An aircraft
maintenance company recently confirmed plans to expand its
operations in Minnesota with potential hiring of up to 225
people. In  North Dakota  an equipment manufacturer announced
plans to create 200 jobs and in northwestern  Wisconsin  a
recreational vehicle manufacturer will add almost 90 jobs.  In contrast, a surprising number of lay-offs were reported
recently. A food manufacturer announced plans to cut over 400
positions in Minnesota as part of a restructuring strategy. Also
in Minnesota a medical devices company will lay off 220
employees and a cleaning products manufacturer laid off 70
information technology workers. An aerospace manufacturer will
close a plant in northwestern Wisconsin, affecting 130 workers.  A larger number of businesses reported wage increases, but the
size of increases remained modest. According to a recent
Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of business contacts, 65 percent
reported that their companies were facing higher wages. Larger
wage increases were reported in the oil drilling region of
western North Dakota and eastern Montana.  Price pressures were generally subdued since the last report,
although 73 percent of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad
hoc survey reported upward input cost pressures. Late-May
Minnesota gasoline prices were about 15 cents per gallon lower
than mid-April and 35 cents per gallon lower than a year ago. A
number of metals prices decreased since the last report. A
recent budget proposal for the  University of Minnesota  includes
a 3.5 percent increase for in-state undergraduates, the smallest
percentage increase in 12 years. 