-- U.S. Stocks Cap Biggest Rally in 2012 on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-06T20:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-stock-futures-rise-before-ecb-interest-rate-decision.html
U.S. stocks rallied, giving benchmark
indexes their biggest gains in 2012, on speculation global
policy makers will take steps to stimulate economic growth.  Bank of America Corp.  surged 7.6 percent to pace gains
among financial shares.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
increased at least 3.3 percent.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer, climbed 3.4 percent after
raising its stock repurchase plan by $500 million for fiscal
2012.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  added 3.6 percent, following a 32 percent
decline since the biggest social-networking company went public.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 2.3 percent to
1,315.13 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 286.84 points, or 2.4 percent, to 12,414.79.
About 7.3 billion  shares  changed hands on U.S. exchanges today,
or 8.3 percent above the three-month average.  “People are viewing central banks as very aware of the
weakness of the global economy and looking for ways to deal with
that,” said Michael Holland, chairman of New York-based Holland
& Co. His firm oversees more than $4 billion. “In addition to
that, we’ve had a major selloff, valuations are low and that
certainly helps to lift the market on a day like today.”  The  S&P 500  rose 2.9 percent in three days, wiping out the
loss driven by a disappointing jobs report on June 1. Earlier
this week, the index traded at 12.9 times its companies’
reported earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the  cheapest  valuation in six months, the data showed.
Concern about Europe’s debt crisis and a global slowdown took
the S&P 500 down as much as 9.9 percent from this year’s peak.  Stimulus Bets  Equities rallied today as European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said officials stand ready to act as the euro
region’s outlook worsens.  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta
PresidentDennis Lockhart said extending Operation Twist, the
program to lengthen maturities of debt on the U.S. central
bank’s balance sheet, is an “option on the table.”  The  U.S. economy  maintained a moderate pace of growth,
according to the Fed’s Beige Book survey of business conditions.
The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets June
19-20 to consider whether more stimulus is needed.  “I would be surprised if the Federal Reserve isn’t already
having a contingency plan if everything unravels in Europe,”
said Ron Florance, managing director of investment strategy for
Wells Fargo Private Bank. His firm manages $169 billion.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he expects the U.S. economy to avoid another
recession as long as Europe can contain its debt crisis. There
won’t be a recession “unless events in Europe develop in some
way that spills over here big-time,” Buffett said yesterday at
the Economic Club of Washington, D.C.  Biggest Gains  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 rose today as energy,
financial and industrial shares had the biggest gains. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average climbed 3 percent. Bank of America
increased 7.6 percent, the most in the Dow, to $7.64.
Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction equipment, added
3.6 percent to $86.66. Exxon Mobil jumped 3.3 percent to $80.18.  Home Depot rose 3.4 percent to $50.60. The timing of its
share repurchases will not have a material impact on the diluted
earnings per share in that period, the retailer said.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  added 3 percent to $79.20. The largest seed
company will  repurchase  as much as $1 billion of shares as
rising profit boosts the company’s cash hoard to a record.  Facebook rallied 3.6 percent to $26.81. No large U.S.
company is attracting more attention from short sellers than
Facebook amid bets it will keep falling after losing $29 billion
since its initial public offering.  Short Interest  Short interest on the Menlo Park, California-based company
reached 5.9 percent of shares outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Data Explorers Ltd., a New York-based
research firm. None of the S&P 500 companies with at least $50
billion in market capitalization has short interest higher than
3 percent, the data show. Facebook, which has a market value of
about $61.6 billion, isn’t in the S&P 500.  “Facebook is one of those companies whose future potential
is unknown and unknowable,” said Robert Stimpson, a money
manager at Akron, Ohio-based Oak Associates Ltd., which oversees
about $900 million and doesn’t own Facebook. “The stock is
expensive. The short interest might also reflect a bet that
there is more bad news to come and Facebook will be punished.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s board approved a plan to pay
brokers whose orders were mishandled in Facebook Inc.’s initial
public offering, earmarking about $40 million to cover losses.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  jumped 7.1 percent, the most since
Aug. 11, to $18.21. The company is in advanced talks to sell
pipelines to Global Infrastructure Partners for more than $4
billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Unexpected Profit  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes gained 3.7
percent.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  surged 18 percent, the most
since Aug. 15, to $2.01. The largest homebuilder in New Jersey
reported an unexpected profit for its fiscal second quarter as
orders jumped 52 percent amid rising U.S. demand for new houses.  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  surged 14 percent, the biggest gain in
the S&P 500, to $32.32. The document-storage company approved a
plan to convert to a real-estate investment trust and increased
its quarterly dividend by 8 percent.  Lee Enterprises Inc. soared 16 percent, the biggest gain
since Jan. 24, to $1.33. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway disclosed
owning a  stake  in the owner of newspapers in the U.S. Midwest
and West Coast.  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  gained 11 percent to $25.06. The family-
history research website is weighing a sale and working with
Frank Quattrone’s Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Material Costs  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  slumped 3.5 percent to $28.10. The world’s
largest provider of hydraulic-fracturing services said North
American margins will be 500 to 550 basis points lower this
quarter than last because of higher material costs.  Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX)   plunged  49 percent, the
most ever, to $22.39. The luxury mattress maker cut its full-
year profit and revenue forecasts amid lower-than-expected
second-quarter sales in North America.  The selloff that erased $1.78 trillion from U.S. equity
values has pushed the cost of options to the highest levels of
2012, prompting hedge funds to add to short sales at the fastest
rate since October. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index surpassed 26 last week, a  level  not seen since
December.  The gain left the gauge near its price just before the S&P
500 slumped 12 percent in August and September 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. As the  VIX (VIX)  has risen, an
International Strategy & Investment Group measure of hedge fund
bullishness has retreated by 7.4 percent.  Short Selling  While the cost of hedges and the amount of short selling
are increasing, they may have further to go before bearishness
is exhausted amid Europe’s credit crisis, according to Wayne Lin
of Legg Mason Inc. The VIX would have to gain 45 percent to
reach its average price in August and September. The ISI gauge
bottomed at 42 last year compared with its level of 45.3 now.  “The concerns about Europe combined with questions about
the robustness of global growth are filtering into markets,”
Lin, who helps oversee $639 billion as a money manager at
Baltimore-based Legg Mason, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“These risks make people back out of equities, cause the hedge
funds to go short and push the VIX up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  