-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy improved moderately in late April and
May. Retailers and restaurant contacts reported stronger sales,
while auto sales declined. Both retailers and auto contacts
expected increased activity in the months ahead. Manufacturing
activity rose, and the high-tech services industry experienced
modest growth. Transportation activity was flat and was expected
to remain unchanged in the months ahead. Residential and
commercial real estate activity increased solidly with higher
sales and lower vacancy rates. Banking contacts reported
slightly higher loan demand, improved loan quality and increased
deposits. Agricultural growing conditions improved, and farmland
values continued to climb. The energy sector expanded further,
but the oversupply of natural gas was leading to a slower pace
of expansion. Most sectors reported higher input prices and
final goods prices, and expected further increases in the coming
months. Wage pressures increased, and firms reported some
difficulty in filling positions.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending increased in the retail,
restaurant and tourism sectors but declined in the auto sector.
District contacts from every consumer sector expected stronger
sales over the next three months. Retailers reported sharply
higher sales compared to a month ago. Most product lines
experienced gains including home goods such as dining tables,
bedroom sets and appliances. Auto sales fell sharply with large
SUVs and trucks continuing to be weak sellers. However, most
auto contacts remained satisfied with current inventory levels.
Restaurant contacts reported increased traffic and higher check
amounts. Tourism activity increased in the District due in part
to good spring weather. Hotel occupancy held steady as average
room rates edged up.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing
activity in the Tenth District improved in May, and expectations
for future activity were stronger than in previous months. Both
durable and non-durable goods manufacturers reported increased
production. New orders and factory shipments increased during
the survey period. Manufacturing contacts reported that capital
spending plans were much improved, and several noted plans to
expand into new products and markets. Growth in transportation
activity was flat, and contacts reported higher input prices.
Capital spending plans at transportation firms continued to be
sluggish, and firms expected future activity to be unchanged.
High-tech services firms reported moderate growth in sales, and
expectations for future activity were strong. Several high-tech
firms reported difficulty in finding experienced workers,
especially qualified software developers.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity
improved during the most recent survey period, and commercial
activity was solid. Housing starts were down compared to the
previous survey, but builders expected new  home construction  to
increase over the next three months. Housing materials were
readily available, but several respondents had trouble finding
skilled workers. Sales activity at construction supply firms
surged during the survey period across all types of materials,
and expectations for sales continued to be strong. Residential
sales were much improved from the previous survey, and
inventories continued to fall. Contacts reported that homes
priced between $150,000 and $300,000 sold particularly well, but
homes at the upper end of the market continued to be difficult
to sell. Overall mortgage lending activity grew this survey
period, but refinancing activity was flat. The majority of
refinancing activity was due to lower payments in response to
low  interest rates . Commercial real estate activity was solid
during the survey period, but there was some uncertainty about
future activity. Vacancy rates fell, and contacts expected them
to continue to fall over the next three months. Prices and rents
were flat, but expectations were for some increases in the
future. Several respondents believed that political uncertainty
could create some weakness in the construction and commercial
real estate markets.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported
slightly stronger loan demand, improving loan quality, and
increased deposits. Overall loan demand was improving as most
respondents reported stable to increased loan demand for
residential real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans,
and commercial real estate loans. Demand for consumer
installment loans remained steady. Credit standards remained
largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and the majority
of respondents reported steady or increased deposits. Most
bankers reported improving loan quality compared to a year ago.
Additionally, every banker believed the outlook for loan quality
over the next six months would be steady or improving.  Agriculture. Agricultural conditions improved since the last
survey. District contacts reported that winter wheat development
was roughly three weeks ahead of normal. Most of the winter
wheat was rated in fair-to-good condition. Spring planting was
nearly complete, and early emerged crops were rated in good
condition. Tight crop supplies kept cash prices high, while the
prospects of a bumper 2012 crop weighed on futures prices. High
feeder calf prices continued to support strong profits for
ranchers. In contrast, profits at cattle feedlots were strained
by high feed and feeder calf costs. Strong export demand
underpinned profits for pork producers. Farmland values rose
further, buoyed by farm incomes and revenues from mineral rights
leases.  Energy. Energy activity continued to expand in May. Drilling
activity increased since the previous survey. However, contacts
reported that storage reservoirs were full and that an
oversupply of natural gas was beginning to result in a slowdown
in the pace of drilling.  Oil prices  fell during the survey
period, and contacts believed that a slumping world economy
would keep prices steady over the next three months. Natural  gas
prices  rose somewhat but remained near historically low levels,
and contacts expected prices to stay low due to oversupply.
Firms reported that they would like to expand their workforces
in the coming months, but noted that it had been difficult to
find experienced field workers and engineers.  Wages and Prices. District contacts reported higher prices for
both inputs and finished goods, and wage pressures increased
from low levels. Manufacturers continued to report higher raw
material prices, but prices increased at a slower pace than
earlier this year. Finished goods prices rose slightly in April
and were flat in May. Manufacturers expected higher prices for
both raw materials and finished goods over the next six months
although the number of contacts expecting an increase fell
slightly. Builders reported higher input prices, and retailers
reported higher sales prices. Both builders and retailers
expected further increases over the next three months. Higher
food costs and menu prices were noted by restaurant contacts who
also anticipated raising menu prices further as food prices
continue to rise. Wage pressures increased since the previous
survey but remained fairly low. The number of contacts reporting
labor shortages remained stable, but contacts reported
difficulty in filling a variety of positions including
housekeeping, sales, drivers, mechanics, engineers, and skilled
workmen. 