-- U.S. Medical Device Backers Face Tough Health Care Vote
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-06T20:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-medical-device-backers-face-tough-health-care-vote.html
Senate Democrats from states
including  Minnesota  and Pennsylvania are caught between their
support for medical-device industries and their party’s
reluctance to make major changes to the 2010 health-care law.  The U.S. House of Representatives is scheduled to vote this
week to repeal a 2.3 percent excise tax for medical devices. To
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, the vote
is part of a Republican attack on the health law. To Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat seeking a second term, the
repeal is necessary to prevent harm to an industry that provides
jobs in her state.  “Senator Klobuchar is faced with a difficult choice
between voting the kind of narrow particularistic interest of
industry in her state versus voting her personal and partisan
platform,” said  Lawrence Jacobs , a political scientist at the
 University of Minnesota .  Klobuchar, first elected in 2006, has been a “knight in
shining armor” for a home-state industry that includes  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ)  and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , Jacobs said. Medtronic’s
employees have been the seventh-largest contributors to
Klobuchar’s campaign this election cycle, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  Device companies have been lobbying to kill the tax, and
the House repeal bill sponsored by Minnesota Republican Erik Paulsen is co-sponsored by more than 55 percent of the House.  Excise Tax  Congress included the tax in the 2010 health-care law as a
way to help pay for expansion of health insurance coverage. The
2.3 percent excise tax will be levied on devices such as
coronary stents and hip implants that aren’t sold directly to
consumers.  Similar fees and taxes were levied on health insurers,
pharmaceutical companies and the indoor tanning industry. The
law passed without a single Republican vote, and the party has
been trying to unravel it since, even as the  Supreme Court 
considers its constitutionality.  Efforts to pick apart the health-care legislation are
finding favor with some Democrats who agreed to the measure
despite misgivings about individual provisions.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, said he’s looking
for ways to force a vote on the issue.  “I think there are Democrats who are willing to work with
us on it,” he said. “It would be a smart thing for everybody
to do it.”  Administration Opposed  The Obama administration announced its opposition to the
bill today, saying that device companies are benefitting from
additional customers because of the coverage expansion in the
health care law.  “Instead of working together to reduce health care
costs,” the administration wrote, the bill “chooses to refight
old political battles over health care.” President  Barack Obama ’s advisers would recommend that he veto the legislation,
according to the statement.  Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat who is seeking a
second term this year, said he has had “a lot of discussions”
with manufacturers and others in Pennsylvania that raised
concern about the tax. The state’s device industry includes
 Synthes Inc. (SYST)  in West Chester, which manufactures and sells
products used in orthopedic trauma surgery, and  Dentsply
International Inc. (XRAY)  in York, which makes dental equipment.  Based on those discussions, Casey said he wanted to revisit
and perhaps do away with the tax before it is implemented.  ‘Middle Ground’  “We’ve been trying to do our best to come up with some
middle ground, another approach that maybe hasn’t been examined
yet, to get as much support as possible,” Casey said in an
interview, adding that the Senate probably would vote on the
issue before the November election.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid, said conversations
were continuing about whether to hold a vote on some form of
device tax repeal.  J.C. Scott, senior executive vice president of government
affairs at  AdvaMed , an industry trade group, said such a middle
ground short of repeal would be tough to support.  “We are focused on full repeal,” he said. “The tax is
going to hurt every company in the medical-device space.
Anything short of full repeal is going to leave something on the
table that is going to be problematic.”  Device Industry  Industry groups agreed to the tax during health-care
negotiations, said Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat.  “We worked out a compromise with them, and people signed
onto the compromise,” said Kerry, whose state is home to  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)   Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican, supports
repeal, as does  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat who is challenging
Brown.  Scott, of the device makers’ group, said the industry
worked with lawmakers who helped reduce the tax’s bite though
didn’t endorse the idea.  “We never agreed to this tax in any form or fashion,” he
said.  As a percentage of total employment, Minnesota, Utah,
Delaware and Massachusetts have the largest concentrations of
medical technology jobs, according to AdvaMed. The top 10
states, including  New Jersey  and California, have 12 Democratic
senators.  The House bill would repeal a portion of the health-care
law that requires taxpayers to obtain prescriptions if they want
to use their tax-advantaged accounts to purchase over-the-
counter medication.  Spending Accounts  It would allow people with such flexible spending accounts
to get as much as $500 back if they don’t spend all of their
money. That would overturn a “use it or lose it” provision
that existed before the health-care law.  The House bill would cover the estimated $29 billion, 10-
year cost of repealing the device tax by changing rules
governing what happens when taxpayers qualify for insurance
subsidies under a prior year’s lower income and then make more
money than expected.  As written, the health-care law limited what those people
would have to repay. The House bill would make them return all
overpayments, and most Democrats oppose that change, saying it
would penalize taxpayers for getting bonuses or raises.  The addition of that language could limit the number of
Democratic votes for the repeal bill. Two Democrats,  Nevada ’s
Shelley Berkley and Wisconsin’s Ron Kind, supported the repeal
proposal in the House Ways and Means Committee, without the
flexible spending or repayment provisions attached.  ’Many Options’  Klobuchar, 52, said there are “many options” for
addressing the device tax.  “We’ve always been working on repeal and we’re going to
continue to do that,” she said in a brief interview yesterday.  Al Franken , Minnesota’s other Democratic senator, said in
an e-mailed statement that he had “serious concerns about the
impact this tax will have on Minnesota’s medical device
businesses and their more than 30,000 employees.”  “I still think we need to eliminate the tax,” Franken
said. “But any plan to do so must be offset in a responsible
and fiscally sound way.”  Franken, a former talk-radio host known for his views on an
expansive role for government, doesn’t face the same skepticism
from Democratic activists as Klobuchar does, Jacobs said. The
former prosecutor isn’t trying to be a senator who is known for
delivering federal benefits to the state or as a pure partisan,
he said.  “She’s trying to walk a tightrope that delivers both,”
Jacobs said.  The House bill is H.R. 436.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  