-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Business activity in the Fourth District has grown at a moderate
pace since the beginning of April. Manufacturers reported stable
production, while residential and nonresidential construction
showed moderate growth. Retail sales held steady, and auto
dealers described April sales as generally good. Exploration and
production in shale gas expanded, even as the demand for coal
has slowed. Freight transport volume moved higher. And the
market for business credit has strengthened.  Hiring continued at a modest pace across most industry sectors,
although staffing-firm representatives reported that the number
of  job openings  had increased for information technology and
healthcare workers. Wage pressures are contained. Input prices
were stable, apart from increases in building materials.  Manufacturing. New orders and production at District factories
were mainly steady during the past six weeks, with a few reports
indicating a weakening in orders from European customers.
Nonetheless, a majority of our respondents said that output was
above year-ago levels. The outlook by manufacturers has grown
more positive since our last report, buoyed by a pickup in
activity in the construction, energy, and transportation
sectors. Manufacturers expect that this pickup will continue
through the remainder of 2012. On balance, shipping volume by
steel producers and service centers was stable. Demand is being
driven mainly by the  auto industry . Steel shipments are expected
to follow their seasonal drop-off during the summer. However,
several of our contacts expressed uncertainty about the extent
to which markets will pick up in the fourth quarter. District
auto production showed a moderate decline during April on a
month-over-month basis, while increasing substantially from
prior-year levels. Year-over-year increases were attributed
mainly to the abatement of supply chain issues.  No change in capacity utilization was noted, with most producers
running at or slightly below normal rates. Inventories were
generally consistent with demand. Respondents citing rising
inventories reported that they are manageable. Capital budgets
remain on track; only one-third of our contacts said that they
expect to increase outlays during the upcoming months, mainly
for  information technology  upgrades or capacity expansion. Input
costs were stable, with any upward pressure being characterized
as modest. However, the majority of our respondents reported
raising their product prices slightly, partly to recoup raw-
material cost increases that they were unable to pass through in
prior years. A few manufacturers reported hiring due to
expansions in auto and steel plants; otherwise there was little
change in payrolls. Wage pressures are contained.  Real Estate. Single-family  home construction  showed a moderate
improvement during the past couple of months, and the majority
of our contacts said that sales were significantly above year-
ago levels. Contracts were almost all in the move up price-point
categories. While builders are encouraged by year-to-date
results, they are guardedly optimistic in their outlook. We
heard a few reports of builders raising new  home prices , though
margins are still tight. Reports indicated a broad-based rise in
building material prices. One respondent told us that suppliers
are raising prices because there is a perception that the
housing industry is on a comeback. Year-to-date sales of
existing single-family homes showed modest growth relative to
prior-year levels across the eastern third of the District.
Several of our contacts noted that sellers are becoming more
realistic and flexible about asking prices. The appraisal
process remains a major challenge.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
contractors continued to strengthen and stands at a higher level
than a year ago. Financing projects is getting easier, but banks
still demand a substantial equity share on the part of the
developer, and the amount of due diligence required has
increased. Construction activity is broad based, driven by
healthcare, higher education, hospitality, and retail. We heard
several reports of downward pressure on rents for retail space,
which was attributed to retailers looking for smaller
footprints. Our contacts expect that business will continue to
slowly improve as the year progresses. The majority of
residential and commercial builders reported hiring a few
people, but recruiting highly qualified candidates is difficult,
especially for project managers. Top candidates are demanding
higher wages.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported that April sales held
steady on a month-over-month basis, but increased by mid-single
digits relative to year-ago levels. Contacts cited the unusually
warm, dry spring weather as a factor for the pickup in sales
across product lines. Nonetheless, several reports described
middle-income households as stressed. One contact noted that his
company is investing in the development of new products that
would be more attractive to value-conscious consumers. All of
our contacts anticipate that revenues during their next fiscal
quarter will be above prior-year levels, mainly in the mid-
single digits. Retailers cited upward pressure on vendor costs,
which they attributed to elevated commodity prices and increased
costs for packaging and off-shore labor. There was some
reluctance to pass through rising costs to consumers.
Inventories rose modestly, but they were described as
manageable.  Capital spending  for the year remains on target,
with a large majority of retailers expecting to increase outlays
during the upcoming months. Monies will be used largely for
technology enhancements, distribution facilities, and store
remodeling. Little hiring is anticipated, except at new stores.  Auto dealers characterized new-vehicle purchases during the past
six weeks as generally good, with commercial truck sales doing
particularly well. Some slowing of passenger car sales was
reported, which dealers attributed to a lack of incentives from
the manufacturers and a small number of lease rollovers. On a
year-over-year basis, transactions were higher. Most contacts
are satisfied with their inventory positions. The outlook by
dealers for the remainder of 2012 has grown more positive since
our last report, although some dealers believe that total sales
during 2012 will be slightly below prior-year levels. Purchases
of used vehicles were fairly steady year-over-year--inventories
are building and prices declined slightly. On the financing
side, we heard two reports that banks are more willing to work
with dealers. Leasing activity picked up. Dealers are investing
in manufacturer-mandated facility upgrades and imaging programs.
Hiring for sales and service positions continued, but at a very
slow pace.  Banking. Demand for business credit is on the upswing. Bankers
reported that loan pricing remains very competitive. Loan
requests were broad based, with the primary drivers being
commercial real estate, energy, and healthcare. Little change in
 consumer credit  was noted. Products in highest demand were auto
loans (direct and indirect) and revolving lines of credit.
Consumer credit pricing held steady. In the residential mortgage
market, demand was described as stable to very strong. A high
percentage of applicants are looking to refinance, although a
few bankers said that they are beginning to see a shift in
applications from refinancing to new purchase. No changes were
made to loan application standards; some respondents saw an
improvement in the quality of loan applicants. Delinquencies
were steady or declined, with several bankers citing a drop in
credit card delinquencies. Core deposits rose. There was a
slight increase in the number of new hires compared to a couple
of months ago, but on balance, no change in payrolls is expected
in the near term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was stable,
with little change expected in the upcoming weeks. Conventional
drilling has slowed due to very low natural gas prices. Well-
head prices for oil dropped slightly. The  Ohio  Department of
Natural Resources has issued 119 Utica shale drilling permits
since January 1 and 68 horizontal wells are currently being
drilled in Ohio. Coal production during 2012 is expected to be
slightly less than 2011 levels. Spot prices for metallurgical
and steam coals declined. Production equipment and materials
prices were flat. Capital spending is expected to hold at
current levels or decline. Little change was seen in energy
payrolls.  Transportation. Overall, freight transport volume moved higher.
A couple of contacts did report a modest slowdown beginning in
April, although they were uncertain if this was the beginning of
a trend. Sectors driving demand include energy and
transportation along with seasonal products. Volume is expected
to continue growing at a moderate to strong pace for the
remainder of the year. However, all of our contacts expressed
concern about the regulatory environment and the negative impact
it could have on potential growth. Costs associated with truck
maintenance moderated, and diesel fuel prices have declined,
although fuel surcharges remain in place. Many carriers
negotiated rate increases as freight contracts came up for
renewal. Capital spending for 2012 remains on plan. Outlays are
allocated for replacement of aging units and adding capacity. We
heard two reports about small carriers reducing the size of
their fleets due to high replacement costs. Companies are hiring
for replacement and capacity expansion. Wage pressure exists due
to a tightening of the driver pool. 