-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a
modest pace since our previous survey. Residential real estate
market conditions have improved moderately. Similarly,
commercial real estate market conditions have also improved.
Retail and auto sales in April and early May increased over
year-earlier levels. In contrast, recent reports of plans from
firms in the manufacturing and services sectors were mixed.
Reports of lending activity at a sample of large District banks
during the first quarter of 2012 were somewhat mixed.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were
up slightly, on average, over year-earlier levels. About 60
percent of the retailers reported increases in sales, while 12
percent saw decreases and 28 percent saw no changes. Thirty-
seven percent of the retailers noted that sales levels met their
expectations, 42 percent reported that sales were below
expectations, and 21 percent reported that sales were above
expectations. Twenty percent of the retailers noted that their
inventories were too high, while 12 percent indicated that their
inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the summer was
positive: 56 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase
over 2011 levels, while 24 percent expect sales to decrease and
20 percent expect sales to be similar to last year’s sales.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and
early May were up, on average, compared with last year. About 64
percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales,
while 24 percent saw decreases and 12 percent saw no changes.
Twenty percent of the car dealers noted that new car sales had
increased relative to used car sales, while 20 percent reported
the opposite. Also, roughly 28 percent of contacts reported an
increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end
vehicles, while about 12 percent reported the opposite. Forty
percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their
inventories were too low, while about 8 percent reported that
their inventories were too high. The sales outlook for June and
July was optimistic: 88 percent of the car dealers expect sales
to increase over 2011 levels, while just 8 percent expect sales
to decrease and 4 percent expect sales to be similar to last
year’s sales.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been mixed
since our previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans
to open plants and hire workers, while a similar number of
contacts reported plans to close plants and lay off workers in
the near future. Firms in the paper product, agriculture,
chemical, paint, and military and police equipment manufacturing
industries reported plans to decrease existing operations or
close plants in the District. In contrast, contacts in the
automobile parts, wood product, solar panel, and steel product
manufacturing industries reported plans to hire workers and
increase operations.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
also have been mixed since our previous survey. Contacts in air
transportation support, travel, and religious organization
services announced plans to lay off workers and reduce
operations in the District. In contrast, firms in software
development services announced plans to hire additional workers
and expand operations.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
April 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 13 percent in
Louisville, 3 percent in  Little Rock , 20 percent in  Memphis , and
18 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction increased in
the majority of the District over this time period. April 2012
year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same
period in 2011. Permits increased 35 percent in Louisville, 20
percent in Little Rock, 31 percent in Memphis, and 28 percent in
St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions have continued
to improve throughout most of the District. Contacts in
Louisville reported that the increase in office real estate
activity slowed during April, but overall performance in the
first quarter of 2012 remained strong. A contact in St. Louis
reported strong commercial real estate activity and weak
industrial real estate activity in the first quarter of 2012.
Commercial and industrial construction activity improved
moderately throughout most of the District. Contacts in south
central  Kentucky  noted that new large commercial construction
projects have been undertaken, and a contact in Louisville
reported plans for speculative industrial construction. A
contact in Pine Bluff,  Arkansas , reported some new large
commercial construction plans. A contact noted a few large
industrial construction plans in Wentzville,  Missouri , and some
commercial and industrial construction plans in Jefferson
County, while a contact in St. Louis reported steady commercial
construction activity.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks indicated moderate changes in overall lending activity
during the first quarter of 2012. During this period, credit
standards for commercial and industrial loans remained
unchanged, while demand for such loans was moderately stronger.
Credit standards for commercial real estate loans generally
remained unchanged. Demand for commercial real estate loans
ranged from unchanged to substantially stronger. Meanwhile,
credit standards for consumer loans ranged from basically
unchanged to somewhat eased, while demand ranged from moderately
weaker to moderately stronger. Respondents noted that credit
standards for prime residential  mortgage loans  remained
unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about the
same to substantially stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Crop moisture levels from April to mid-May were classified as
slightly dry to favorably moist in most of the District except
southern Arkansas and most of  Mississippi . Rates of completion
for the planting of corn, cotton, rice, sorghum, and soybeans
were at least 15 percentage points higher than their 5-year
average rates in most District states, while crop emergence was
also ahead of schedule. More than 88 percent of the winter wheat
crop was rated as fair or better, while 77 percent or more of
pasture land was also similarly rated in all District states.
The District’s year-to-date coal production for early May was
3.8 percent lower compared with the same period last year.
Similarly, the District’s coal production for April 2012 was 2.6
percent lower than in April 2011. 