-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Overall, business activity in the Third District continues to
improve, but the pace has slowed slightly in most sectors since
the previous  Beige Book . Manufacturing activity has eased
slightly, but most major manufacturing sectors continue to grow.
After a strong first quarter, partially due to the unseasonably
mild weather, retail sales slowed somewhat in April but appear
to be gaining strength based on customer traffic in May.
Although sales remain strong overall, motor vehicle dealers also
reported softer sales in April. Third District banks report
steadier growth in lending and continued strong credit quality
since the last Beige Book. Demand for new  home construction  has
eased off a bit, but brokers report stronger sales of existing
homes. Several signs of improvement were cited by commercial
real estate contacts. Overall, service-sector firms report
continued growth. Price pressures have eased slightly in some
sectors since the last Beige Book.  The outlook remains optimistic, but more firms readily noted the
slow pace of the recovery relative to the sunnier views
expressed in the last Beige Book. Manufacturers’ expectations
for the next six months, although diminished, remain positive.
Retailers continue to expect steady improvement. Auto dealers
anticipate continued strong sales. Banking, real estate, and
service-sector firms are slightly more optimistic but continue
to plan for slow growth in 2012. In general, business plans
reflect caution, and businesses have resumed a more realistic
perspective on the limitations of the current recovery and the
risks to its longevity.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported virtually no change in shipments and
just the slightest decline in new orders. Gains continue among
the makers of food products, lumber and wood products,
fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instruments. Firms
in the primary metals and electronic equipment industries report
a fall-off in demand. According to various contacts, growth is
attributed to warm weather, automotive demand, production
returning from  China , Marcellus Shale activity, and renewed
customer optimism.  About eight out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect
business conditions to improve or stay the same during the next
six months - somewhat less optimistic than reported in the last
Beige Book. Except for primary metals, optimism is present in
all major sectors. Firms seem relatively divided as to whether
high energy costs are a concern, depending largely on their
ability to pass the cost along to their customers. New to the
list of concerns and uncertainties about the outlook is the
increasing worry that political gridlock will lead to large cuts
in defense-related production through sequestration. While
caution remains, firms have reported a little more optimism as
have their customers. However, manufacturers have expressed
somewhat lower expectations of future  capital spending  and
future hiring since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retailers reported that the surprising
early sales gains held up through March, then fell back some in
April. Year-to-date, gains have remained positive through April.
Sunny weather has continued to boost traffic in May; bus counts
at outlet malls are nearly double last year’s level. Small
businesses in less urban markets are struggling as consumers
adjust to higher gas prices by cutting retail purchases. Retail
contacts remain cautiously optimistic.  Auto sales in  Pennsylvania  shifted from strong in March to
moderately strong in April. Very low borrowing costs for
inventories have helped to support dealers’ profitability. A
large New Jersey dealer reports that retail auto sales are off
year-over-year through April but that fleet sales are strong.
Profits are also off. The dearth of auto sales in recent years
has created a slump for dealer service sales; they must compete
harder to retain customers with aging cars that typically are
taken to independent garages. The outlook for auto sales remains
positive. Hiring remains spotty and depends on brands carried,
fleet business, and local economic conditions.  Finance. Overall, loan volumes have continued to grow in the
Third District since the previous Beige Book. While activity
remains uneven, banks report increasing signs of a steady
recovery. Loan demand continues to be strongest for inventories
and capital equipment to manufacturers and for investments in
the higher education, health care, and technology sectors, and
in multifamily housing. Most contacts report solid  credit
quality .  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders report some
softening in May traffic and sales due to a combination of
typical seasonal slowing and a drop-off from the atypically
strong first-quarter sales. Construction crew members for one
Pennsylvania builder are working 45 to 70 hours per week; the
builder is hiring cautiously as the builder’s pace of activity
slowly picks up. Residential brokers report “seeing genuine
improvement”: Year-to-date sales through mid-May exceed last
year’s and are over plan. A broker reported that much of its
workforce operates on a shortened week, and it will exploit this
substantial excess capacity before hiring more staff. The
outlook among builders and brokers remains positive.  Nonresidential real estate activity has been generally positive
since the last Beige Book, with several contacts citing
increased leasing activity throughout the District, including
southern  New Jersey . Despite ongoing demand, Philadelphia’s
Center City office market has slowed a bit, as the bulk of
existing class-A trophy space is now under agreement. Several
contacts also cited a few large build-to-suit projects that have
gone to bid and are awaiting approvals before construction
begins. Other contacts noted reluctance among transportation
contractors to hire more workers, given the uncertain future of
public infrastructure funding due to the increasingly short
funding horizon of the federal transportation authorization
bill. The overall outlook for nonresidential real estate has
brightened slightly since the last Beige Book.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have generally
reported positive growth since the last Beige Book. Job postings
have risen at area universities, local advertising sales have
been strong, and area theme parks are attracting increasing
numbers of foreign visitors (notably from China). Contacts note
little recent change in defense-related activity; however,
concerns are mounting that significant federal spending cuts on
defense and civil contracts may result from sequestration or its
alternative, political compromise. Employers continue to make
liberal use of staffing firms; however, staffing contacts report
that employers’ sense of urgency to fill specific slots is often
low. Overall, service-sector firms retain a positive outlook for
growth through the remainder of the year.  Prices and Wages. Price levels have eased slightly since the
previous Beige Book and remain generally constrained. Industry
contacts indicated that gas prices have stabilized and are
expected to ease through the summer. Manufacturing firms report
lower cost factors since the last Beige Book. Home builders
anticipate cost increases for materials if activity picks up
more quickly; however, the current gradual pace of recovery may
allow suppliers to adjust without severe cost increases.
Retailers and home builders continue to report tight margins.
Contacts continue to report a lack of wage pressures, other than
for medical benefits.  House prices  have stabilized in many areas
for low-end homes but have fallen further for high-end homes. 