-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Economic activity in the First District continues to expand,
with contacts in most sectors citing steady growth. Commercial
real estate markets show slight improvement and residential real
estate contacts are finally mentioning recovery, albeit fragile.
Respondents in this round rarely mention prices or pricing.
Except for software and IT services where growth continues to be
relatively strong, few firms are doing substantial hiring. The
outlook is generally for more of the same, although a couple of
manufacturers mention making contingency plans for a potential
slowdown.  Retail  First District retail contacts continue to report that business
is good, consumer sentiment seems to be improving, and fears
have moderated about higher gasoline prices hurting spending in
other categories. Recent year-over-year sales changes range from
near zero to gains of 2 percent to 5 percent. One firm, buoyed
by recent performance, has increased its overall 2012 sales
forecast from 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent.  Consumer spending  is
particularly strong on adult clothing, household goods, and
items related to home improvement and maintenance. While
respondents have generally positive expectations for their
businesses in 2012, some express concern that U.S. economic
growth will be hampered by domestic political tensions and
potential negative spillovers from a European economic downturn.  The travel and tourism sector in the First District continues to
report strong results. Both business and leisure travel have
been up in the first four months of the year, and advance hotel
bookings continue to be robust. For 2012, the industry expects a
9.5 percent increase over 2011.  Manufacturing and Related Services  According to our contacts, the manufacturing sector in the First
District continues to grow, but the outlook remains guarded,
perhaps slightly more so than in recent months.  Thirteen of 16 responding firms report growing sales in the most
recent period compared with a year earlier. Idiosyncratic
factors appear to be driving the weakness for one firm with
declining sales; contacts at the other two could not point to
anything other than general macroeconomic weakness as
explanations. A manufacturer of industrial motors mentions the
situation in  Europe  while noting that sales are soft in all
regions in which the company sells.  The jury is still out on the role of weather in the evolution of
business conditions over the last six months. Several of our
contacts cited mysterious sales declines at various points which
then corrected themselves. A manufacturer of hoses was off 30
percent at the end of March but then had his “best April ever”
and was back on plan by this round. He hypothesizes that winter
goods weren’t selling, so big retailers--hoping to avoid having
to store snow shovels and road salt over the summer--lacked
space until recently to put spring goods on the shelves.  Dramatic changes in U.S. energy supply continue to affect
economic activity, according to manufacturing respondents. A
chemical manufacturer in the First District said that the low
current price of natural gas is restructuring the world chemical
industry. For the first time in decades, chemical firms are
building ethylene crackers in the  United States .  All contacts doing business in Europe report that the European
manufacturing economy is near or in recession.  Asia  continues to
be relatively strong, but one contact in the industrial membrane
business said that “the best and most stable market” is the
United States.  Fourteen of 16 contacts report that their firms are hiring;
nonetheless, they remain reluctant to add to headcount in any
significant way. One manufacturer of parts for the aerospace and
automotive industry says that, despite strong growth, they have
relied mostly on temporary workers to increase production. A
contact in the industrial distribution business reports that if
conditions do not improve, they will cut staff. Another firm
which makes industrial motors says they are drawing up
contingency plans for a serious decline which include a hiring
freeze.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England  software and information technology firms report
mixed results through May, with some experiencing continued
growth and others citing modest slowdowns. Nevertheless, year-
over-year revenue increases in the first quarter remained
largely in the high-single digits, bolstered by steady demand
from the healthcare and banking sectors and a resurgence of
activity in the manufacturing sector. Indeed, one contact closed
a deal in Q1 with a very large electronics manufacturer, and
another reports that deal sizes are beginning to grow,
particularly in their software solutions for manufacturers and
distributors. Other contacts, however, assert that clients in
general remain reticent to finalize large deals.  Most contacts report increases in headcount, with many
continuing to add sales and marketing personnel as well as
billable consultants; by contrast, one firm recently completed a
realignment in which headcount was reduced by approximately 5
percent. Capital and technology spending and selling prices have
gone largely unchanged since February. Looking forward, New
England software and IT contacts remain cautiously optimistic,
with upticks in activity and strong pipelines tempered by
concerns regarding the  U.S. economy  and the  European debt
crisis .  Staffing Services  New England staffing firms report that business conditions are
largely unchanged since the previous conversations in February,
with year-over-year revenue increases in the first quarter
generally in the mid-single digits. Labor demand from the
healthcare and manufacturing sectors is steady, and one contact
reports renewed activity in the financial sector. However,
demand for office and clerical assistance has weakened in recent
weeks, and activity in the construction, civil engineering, and
accounting sectors remains anemic. The number of permanent and
temporary-to-permanent placements continues to grow, albeit
modestly; however, two contacts say this trend is likely
attributable to their own internal efforts to boost permanent
hires, rather than improvements in labor-market fundamentals.  Regarding labor supply, candidates with high-end skill sets such
as nurses, mechanical and electrical engineers, and software
developers remain difficult to find; one contact reports that
this shortage of qualified labor has begun to put upward
pressure on pay rates. Other contacts, however, say that
increases in bill rates and pay rates, if any, are due almost
entirely to changes in their business mix. The outlook among New
England staffing contacts is generally consistent with that of
three months ago, with most expecting their current rate of
growth to continue or pick up through the end of the year.  Commercial Real Estate  According to contacts, commercial property markets in the First
District remain in a holding pattern, with some signs of
improvement. The strength of Boston’s commercial market
continues to stand out within the region and nationally, making
it the target of a tremendous amount of investor interest.
Construction activity in Boston appears to be increasing--
contacts report an uptick in large-scale build-to-suit
construction activity for the first time in several years.
However, the market is still not strong enough to warrant
speculative construction. In  Portland , construction activity has
increased significantly from the last report, propelled by
projects in the public, industrial office, and multifamily
sectors. Elsewhere in the First District, construction activity
is muted. Strict lending standards are still the norm District-
wide.  Despite a recent uptick in showings, demand in the industrial
sector remains flat across New England. Office leasing volumes
throughout the District are unchanged from six weeks ago, and
the retail sector continues to be quiet in New England. The
outlook among contacts is that, barring significant
macroeconomic turmoil, conditions should remain flat or improve
slightly in the rest of the year.  Residential Real Estate  Residential real estate shows further signs of improvement in
the First District as year-over-year increases in sales
continued in April across the region. Contacts report steady
increases in market activity, which they attribute to low
 interest rates  and competitive prices as well as confidence in
economic conditions. In the Greater Boston area, sales continue
to increase while inventories fall to low levels, particularly
in the condominium market. Some respondents say activity among
first-time homebuyers has increased, reflecting continued
affordability. Reports also indicate increased activity for
homes in the mid-price range. Changes in median sales prices
compared to a year ago vary across the First District, with some
states experiencing modest gains and others observing moderate
declines.  Rhode Island , where the median sales price in April
dropped almost 8 percent from a year earlier, faced the largest
price decline in the region, but the drop was close to zero
excluding distressed sales.  Though contacts characterize housing markets as recovering, they
note that conditions remain fragile; in particular, with sales
gains fairly well established, their concerns focus on the
possibility of further price declines. Contacts expect the
delicate recovery of housing markets to continue gradually; most
anticipate modest gains in sales activity for the next several
months and modest price changes, up and down. Respondents say
declining inventory levels and increasing demand in Greater
Boston may put upward pressure on prices there. 