-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District improved
modestly since our last assessment. Retail sales were sluggish,
held back in part by weak big-ticket sales. Growth at services
firms slowed, although tourism businesses reported strong
demand. Bankers said that lending grew slowly, and much of the
activity was refinancing. Residential real estate agents noted
encouraging signs of improvement in housing sales, while
commercial Realtors described leasing and construction activity
as mostly flat to moderately up. Manufacturing reports were
mixed, with auto and other transportation equipment-related
producers continuing to do well, while other producers faced
unchanged or weakening demand. District hiring activity varied,
with some businesses reluctant to hire or unable to find
qualified workers. Recent rainfall aided newly planted fields,
but excess moisture in some areas delayed planting. Price
increases-- both paid and received--generally slowed.  Manufacturing. We received mixed signals on manufacturing
activity since our last report. According to our latest survey,
new orders and shipments were essentially unchanged in May,
following solid expansion during the previous month. A producer
of metal extrusions reported that, although his sales slowed a
bit in April, demand in May picked up again. However, a producer
of gas turbines said that economic problems in  Europe  led to
fewer exports, and he expected to lay off ten percent of his
employees this summer. Several manufacturers cited decreased
 government spending  as the primary reason for recent
cancellations of orders. A manufacturer of  aircraft engines 
expected that cuts in defense spending would soon weaken
government demand for his products, but private sector orders
remained robust. A spokesperson at another aerospace
manufacturing firm said that her business was expanding nicely,
and she attributed the increase to strengthening demand for
helicopters and gyroplanes. According to our latest survey, both
raw materials prices and finished goods prices grew at a
somewhat slower pace than a month ago.  Retail. Sales were tepid in recent weeks, after an early Easter
pulled some holiday sales into March. Stores reported good
Mothers Day sales, although foot traffic was lighter than normal
for many retailers. Shopper traffic was unchanged since our last
report and big-ticket sales declined, according to a recent
survey. A central Virginia retail representative reported little
stability in the market as customers exhibited “yo-yo spending”
(i.e., up one month, down the next). Accordingly, retailers
managed inventories tightly and were reluctant to make capital
investments. A  South Carolina  grocer observed that customers
were buying special sale items at different stores, rather than
shopping at one store. In contrast, an executive at a chain of
hardware stores noted that sales had improved at a slow-but-
steady pace since the start of the year. Discount department
store managers generally reported a pick-up in sales. For a few
discounters, however, the opening of new competition kept sales
flat. Automobile sales were also flat. Most home improvement
retailers reported a decline in sales in recent weeks.
Retailers’ prices rose at a somewhat slower pace since our last
report.  Services. Revenues advanced more slowly at services firms since
our last report. A building contractor stated that consumers
were still avoiding big projects, but were increasingly looking
for “more than a coat of paint,” as homeowners improved their
current homes rather than trying to sell. Several services
providers, particularly architectural, engineering, and
telecommunication firms, reported stronger revenues. A
healthcare provider in Central  Virginia  reported that demand for
in-patient services had flattened out a bit recently, partly due
to an absence of influenza cases, but out-patient services were
still growing. Several healthcare institutions reported that
they were continuing capital spending projects, especially on
computer technology, to meet federal requirements and
guidelines. Non-retail services providers reported a mild up-
tick in the rate of price increases.  Finance. Lending activity increased modestly across most
segments of the market. On the commercial side, several bankers
cited markedly higher volumes of small business loan
applications and increased loan approval rates. One banker
attributed the gains to growth in inventory and capital
improvement spending, while another said that small businesses
were making renovations to commercial properties. However,
several loan officers around the District saw little improvement
in loan demand from the retail sector. On the consumer side,
mortgage demand continued to improve, although refinancing
dominated much of the lending. Other bank officials noted solid
gains in home improvement loans, with one banker citing an
increase in use of equity lines of credit. In contrast to the
more upbeat reports, several officials at mid-sized banks
described loan demand as flat in recent months, with little new
business in the pipeline for either mortgage or commercial
loans.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally improved
since our last report. A Realtor in the Richmond area, who noted
some improvement in April, said that May would be a big
indicator of whether the spring market just came early, or if
gains would continue into June. He was cautiously optimistic
that real estate activity was moving in a positive direction. A
source from the Hampton Roads area of Virginia said that
housing-related activity in that area had seen recent signs of
improvement, adding that properties were being “snapped up” as
investors became more confident of a housing recovery and home
sellers became more realistic with their prices. Moreover,
several brokers in Asheville and Raleigh,  North Carolina  stated
there was an up-tick in housing sales. However, an agent in the
Winston-Salem area of the state mentioned that there was still
stagnant growth in some areas, and that homes for sale in that
area were out of balance with area incomes. Several Realtors
reported that sales picked up in recent weeks, while housing
prices dropped. Most Realtors indicated that sales were
concentrated in the low-to- mid-price range.  Commercial real estate leasing and construction was flat or
moderately improving in recent months, although pockets of
weakness persisted. Respondents around the District reported
more construction and absorption, especially in the industrial
segment. Contacts at several engineering and architectural firms
confirmed that interest in new construction projects increased,
although demand remained well below pre-recession levels.
Construction activity in South Carolina was driven by the recent
expansion of manufacturing activity in the state, while gains in
 West Virginia  were associated with the emerging boom in natural
gas. One real estate developer in Charleston, South Carolina
said that rents had increased to the point where “new
construction is starting to make sense.” A developer in the
Richmond area cited a rise in demand for warehousing space,
related to healthcare facilities and an increase in on-line
shopping activity.  Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were mixed
since our last report. Several employment agency contacts saw
somewhat greater demand for temporary workers, and most expected
demand to remain strong for the remainder of the year. A
Baltimore agent reported an increase in demand for manufacturing
workers, adding that manufacturers were hurt by a severe
shortage of trained workers. Several contacts said that current
hiring was focused on skilled positions, and they expected that
companies would continue to experience recruitment problems.
However, a representative at a Richmond staffing agency reported
that job orders continued to be steady and that more area
companies were hiring workers on a permanent basis than a year
ago. A source in South Carolina noted that the  aerospace
industry  was investing heavily in new technologies that would
reduce the need to hire additional workers. According to our
latest survey, District wage gains in manufacturing were
slightly lower than a month ago, while the pace of wages in the
service sector increased.  Tourism. Tourism contacts reported strong bookings during the
last four to six weeks, and restaurants in tourist areas
experienced solid customer demand. Several hotel owners on the
outer banks of North Carolina said that spring got off to a
strong start and summer rentals were up. Memorial Day is the
traditional summer kick-off for resorts, and most were
advertising special events for that weekend. A resort owner in
the mountains of Virginia said that he expected a record crowd
for the holiday. He added that lower  gas prices  and good weather
boosted bookings in recent weeks, following a winter season with
weak demand due to unusually warm weather. In addition, time-
share rentals were strong, and booking incentives were no longer
necessary.  Agriculture. Rainfall across the District supplied much-needed
moisture to emerging field crops. In South Carolina, cotton
planting was slightly ahead of schedule, and planting of peanuts
was well ahead of its normal pace. However, rainfall delayed
plantings of cotton and peanuts in parts of North Carolina and
Virginia. Excess precipitation was also problematic for
strawberry farmers in Virginia, causing fruit spoilage; the
problem was compounded by a lack of pickers. Corn and soybeans
began to emerge in  Maryland , while farmers in West Virginia
reported that warm weather put planting of corn and soybeans
ahead of schedule. Lastly, the peach harvest was under way in
South Carolina, and cantaloupe and watermelon planting was
complete. 