-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a moderate pace in April and May, although at a touch
slower rate than during the prior reporting period. Many
contacts remained cautiously optimistic in their outlook for the
 U.S. economy . Several, however, also noted an increase in
economic uncertainty, pointing to weaker business conditions in
Europe and  Asia  and the upcoming elections in the U.S. Growth in
consumer spending slowed, while business spending continued to
increase at a steady pace. Manufacturing production also rose at
a steady pace, and construction activity increased as well.
Credit conditions were little changed on balance. Commodity
prices moved lower, and wage increases remained moderate.
Planting of corn and soybeans was well ahead of the normal pace
and that of a year ago.  Consumer spending . Consumer spending increased at a slower rate
in April and May. Retailers indicated that the slower sales pace
was due in large part to the unseasonable weather that had
boosted activity during the prior reporting period. Spending on
necessities increased, while outlays for big-ticket items like
furniture, appliances, and electronics decreased. Inventories
generally were at more seasonally appropriate levels. Looking
ahead, some retailers are planning to add to inventories in
expectation of a better back-to-school season than last year.
Auto sales were flat, and auto dealers expect that sales will
remain at about this pace through the fall. Some dealers
continued to report difficulty in stocking popular models
because of supply chain constraints.  Business spending. Business spending continued at a steady pace
in April and May. Inventories generally were reported to be at
comfortable levels. Strong expected sales growth, high rates of
capacity utilization, and the need to replace aging equipment
continued to support manufacturers’ expenditures on plant and
equipment. Outside of manufacturing, firms were more cautious in
their  capital spending , citing increased economic uncertainty.
Labor market conditions were little changed over the reporting
period. Hiring remained selective, and most contacts indicated
that they had not changed their hiring plans. Some manufacturers
were increasing overtime, but noted that orders were not yet
strong enough to necessitate adding to their labor forces. Those
manufacturers who were looking to hire continued to report
difficulty in finding skilled workers. Several said they were
easing job requirements, using internships, or increasing
college recruiting to try to fill open positions.  Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activity
increased in April and May. Demand continued to be strong for
multi-family construction, especially apartments, but also
increased for single-family homes. The residential rental market
strengthened, with rents rising further and one contact noting a
shortage of single-family properties for lease in parts of the
District. Realtors indicated that they were also beginning to
see a pickup in demand in the for-purchase market for single-
family homes, as more sales had multiple offers on them.
Commercial real estate conditions also continued to improve
gradually. Demand increased for urban  office space , hotels, and
education facilities, while it remained weak for suburban office
and retail space. Vacancy rates edged lower, but remained
elevated, particularly for retail properties. A contact noted,
however, that some suburban retail space was being switched over
to alternative uses.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased at a steady
pace in April and May. Capacity utilization in the  steel
industry  reached its highest level since the end of the
recession, as stronger demand from North American customers
offset weaker demand from Europe and Asia. The  auto industry 
remained a source of strength for manufacturing. Auto suppliers
were operating at high levels of capacity utilization, but noted
that production growth had stabilized after the large gains
earlier in the year. Demand for heavy equipment, though still
strong, decreased slightly. Contacts expressed some concern over
current weakness in global demand, but indicated that the
industry was still being boosted by domestic demand, notably by
a robust rental market and continued strength in the energy and
mining sectors. Agricultural and construction equipment were
also noted as areas of strength, with dealers adding products
for the upcoming construction season. Manufacturers of household
goods and building materials continued to experience soft
demand, although a few noted a recent pick-up in activity.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions were little changed on
balance from the prior reporting period. Credit spreads and
market volatility edged up. Business loan demand remained
limited apart from steady growth in refinancing and capital
replacement. For large banks, some of the weakness in the
business loan segment has been offset by an increase in demand
for other services, such as foreign exchange hedging and
liquidity management. Banking contacts indicated that there
continues to be fierce competition among lenders for
creditworthy borrowers. Contacts also noted an increase in the
availability of credit for commercial real estate and consumer
auto loans, while lending standards for residential mortgages
remained tight.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures leveled off in April and May. Steel
prices softened, with one contact noting that weaker demand in
 Europe  and Asia had contributed to the decline. Energy prices
also moved lower. Wholesale price pressures eased some, most
notably for cotton and dairy products, although transportation
costs continued to increase. Retailers indicated that they were
largely absorbing the higher transportation costs in their
margins and continued to discount heavily items such as
clothing. Wage pressures continued to be moderate, although many
contacts noted an increase in healthcare costs.  Agriculture. District corn and soybean planting in April and May
were well ahead of last year’s pace, as well as the five-year
average. Corn planting was almost finished in  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
and  Iowa . The emergence of corn and soybean plants generally was
also faster than typical. With an early and promising start, the
corn crop may set a record this year, although dryness currently
exists across much of the District. Corn and soybean prices fell
during the reporting period, while wheat prices rose. Milk
prices decreased, and prices are low enough to trigger some
concerns about margins for dairy operations. Hog and cattle
prices were higher. 