-- U.S. Federal Reserve June Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-june-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest
overall economic activity expanded at a moderate pace during the
reporting period from early April to late May. Activity in the
New York,  Cleveland , Atlanta,  Chicago , Kansas City,  Dallas , and
San Francisco Districts was characterized as growing at a
moderate pace, while the Richmond, St. Louis, and  Minneapolis 
Districts noted modest growth.  Boston  reported steady growth,
and the Philadelphia District indicated that the pace of
expansion had slowed slightly since the previous  Beige Book .  Manufacturing continued to expand in most Districts.  Consumer
spending  was unchanged or up modestly. New vehicle sales
remained strong and inventories of some popular models were
tight. Sales of used automobiles held steady. Travel and tourism
expanded, boosted by both the business and leisure segments.
Demand for nonfinancial services was generally stable to
slightly higher since the last report, and several Districts
noted strong growth in  information technology  services.
Conditions in residential and commercial real estate improved.
Construction picked up in many areas of the country. Lenders in
most Districts noted an improvement in loan demand and credit
conditions. Agricultural conditions generally improved, and
spring planting was well ahead of its normal pace in most
reporting Districts. Energy production and exploration continued
to expand, except for coal producers who noted a slight slowing
in activity.  Wage pressures overall were modest. Hiring was steady or
increased slightly, and contacts in a number of Districts
reported difficulties in finding qualified workers, particularly
those with specialized skills. Price inflation remained modest
across Districts, and overall cost pressures eased as the price
of energy inputs declined. Economic outlooks remain positive,
but contacts were slightly more guarded in their optimism.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing continued to expand, and most Districts reported
gains in production or new orders. The only exceptions were from
the Philadelphia, Richmond and  St. Louis  Districts, where
factory activity was mixed or had softened slightly. Demand
appeared to be the strongest in auto and steel manufacturing.
Reports from the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis
Districts noted vibrant activity for auto manufacturers, and an
auto maker in the Atlanta District reported plans to add a third
shift to keep up with increased global demand. Steel
manufacturing remained robust, with contacts in the Chicago
District reporting the highest capacity utilization rates since
the end of the recession and firms in the St. Louis and
Minneapolis Districts noting plans to upgrade or expand
operations. Producers of semiconductors and high-tech equipment
saw continued growth in orders in the Dallas and  San Francisco 
Districts. Aircraft and parts makers noted further increases in
orders according to reports from Boston, Richmond, and San
Francisco, while the Dallas District reported steady demand.
Demand for agricultural and construction equipment remained
strong according to the Chicago District report, and industrial
machinery manufacturers in the Philadelphia District noted
gains. Food producers in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts
noted solid demand for their products, and pharmaceutical
manufacturers in the San Francisco District reported robust
activity. Activity at refineries and petrochemical manufacturing
facilities expanded further. Demand for construction-related
products improved in the Dallas District, and orders for lumber
and wood products increased in most reporting Districts.  Hiring at manufacturing firms was mixed, but manufacturers in
some Districts reported difficulty finding qualified workers
such as welders. Capital spending plans in most reporting
Districts were positive. Ongoing capital investments and plans
for future capacity expansions were reported by various
manufacturers in the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and  Kansas
City  Districts. Firms in the Cleveland District noted spending
on capital outlays was on track, while producers in the
Philadelphia District reported a decline in future spending
plans since the previous report. Manufacturers’ outlooks were
positive in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas
City Districts; however, contacts in a number of Districts were
concerned that a slowdown in  Europe  and domestic political
uncertainty may affect future business conditions.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Retail spending was flat to modestly positive in nearly all
Districts. Firms in the Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis
Districts noted sales increased at a more modest pace than in
the previous report, as unseasonably warm weather and an earlier
Easter holiday had shifted sales into the previous reporting
period. By contrast, warm spring weather continued to boost
traffic and sales for retailers in the Philadelphia and
Cleveland Districts. Sales of household goods increased in the
Boston and Kansas City Districts, and gains in apparel sales
were reported by the Boston and Dallas Districts. Sales of big
ticket items declined in the Richmond and Chicago Districts, and
there were a few reports of high fuel prices affecting consumer
spending and sentiment. Inventories were generally at desired
levels and were being managed carefully. Outlooks were
optimistic, and retailers in several Districts expect modest
sales growth in the near term. In particular, contacts in the
Kansas City District expect stronger sales growth in coming
months, while some retailers in the Chicago District plan to add
inventories in expectation of higher back-to-school sales
compared with last year.  Automobile sales generally remained strong, although the pace of
growth moderated in a few Districts. Sales of used vehicles held
steady, and a slight decline in prices was reported. Inventories
of popular vehicles were tight. Outlooks were positive and
contacts across several Districts expect steady growth in sales
in coming months.  Reports from most Districts pointed to continued strength in
travel and tourism, bolstered by both the business and leisure
segments. Favorable spring weather spurred tourism in the
Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts. Time-share rentals were
strong in the Richmond District, and foreign visitors boosted
activity in  Florida  as well as at theme parks in the
Philadelphia District. Restaurants and food service contacts in
the Richmond, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts noted
increased sales. Ticket prices and attendance at Broadway
theaters strengthened in the  New York  District, boosting
revenues to well above year-ago levels. Business travel picked
up in the Boston, New York, and Atlanta Districts, and
convention bookings were strong according to the Atlanta
District. Hotel bookings were strong in the Boston and New York
Districts, and solid gains or high levels of occupancy and room
rental rates were noted by hotel contacts in most reporting
Districts. Atlanta’s report noted that hospitality-related
projects were underway in several areas of the District.  Nonfinancial Services  Demand for nonfinancial services was generally stable to
slightly stronger since the previous report. Several Districts
noted some growth in information technology services, including
Boston, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Solid
demand for healthcare services was also noted by some Districts.  A few Districts said that activity expanded for professional and
business services, such as accounting, engineering, advertising,
and legal services. The Boston District noted some renewed
activity in the financial sector, although engineering and
accounting demand remained weak. The Richmond District said
architectural engineering firms reported stronger revenues, and
Minneapolis noted strength in engineering near oil producing
areas, in part due to planned future construction. Responding
firms in the Dallas District noted strength in legal services
and accounting.  Advertising sales picked up in the Philadelphia and San
Francisco Districts, and  air travel  improved in the Dallas and
San Francisco Districts. Freight transportation volumes moved
higher in Cleveland, and railroad contacts in the Atlanta
District noted continued growth. However, Kansas City’s report
noted flat activity in transportation, and the Dallas report
noted mixed results from shipping firms.  Real Estate and Construction  Activity in residential real estate markets improved in most
Districts since the previous report. Several Districts noted
consistent indications of recovery in the single-family housing
market, although the recovery was characterized as fragile. The
apartment market continued to improve, and multifamily
construction increased in several Districts.  Home sales were above year-ago levels in most areas of the
country and several Districts noted sales had improved since the
previous report, although some noted that the pace was well
below the historical average. In particular, the New York,
Cleveland, and Richmond Districts noted a pickup in the pace of
distressed sales. Residential brokers and some builders in the
Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts said home sales were
exceeding expectations. Contacts in the Richmond District said
homes were being snapped up as investors become more confident
in the housing recovery, and the Atlanta report noted stronger
sales to cash buyers and investors in Florida. Chicago said more
sales had multiple offers. Apartment rental markets improved in
the New York, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts. One contact from
the New York District noted rising apartment rents have made
buying more attractive, contributing to a slight uptick in
sales.  Most Districts reported that home inventories decreased.
Overall,  home prices  remained unchanged in many Districts,
although reports were mixed. There were a few reports that
sellers were lowering asking prices, leading to downward
pressure on housing prices.  New  home construction  increased in a number of Districts,
including Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis,
and San Francisco. Contacts in the Philadelphia District said
demand for new home construction eased slightly. Builders in
Kansas City noted housing starts were down, but they expected an
increase in the next three months. The Boston, Atlanta, and
Chicago Districts reported an increase in multifamily
construction, and the Minneapolis District noted numerous
multifamily projects were in the pipeline.  Commercial real estate conditions improved in most Districts,
and there were some reports that commercial construction picked
up. Commercial leasing remained steady or increased in most
Districts including Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago,
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.
The New York, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted growth
in the technology sector was prompting the absorption of
commercial space. Energy activity was helping boost demand for
space in the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Boston’s relatively
strong commercial market continued to generate robust investor
interest, although commercial property sales in the New York
District remained slow.  Build-to-suit construction was noted by the Boston and
Philadelphia Districts. The New York District reported new
office development projects in the pipeline, and St. Louis’
report noted a pickup in speculative industrial projects. The
Richmond District said expansion in manufacturing led to a
pickup in construction. Reports from the Cleveland and Chicago
Districts suggested an increase in hotels and higher education
projects, and a New York contact noted that interest in luxury
hotel development increased. Outlooks were positive overall,
although there were a few reports of increased uncertainty from
still unknown U.S. fiscal changes and Europe’s debt situation.  Banking and Finance  Most Districts that commented on lending noted steady or
slightly stronger loan demand. Small and medium-sized banks in
the New York District reported the most broad-based increase in
loan demand since the mid-1990s. Several bankers in the Richmond
District said the volume of small business loan applications was
markedly higher. Drivers of business loan demand included
energy, healthcare, and commercial real estate. Several
Districts noted increased demand for capital spending loans.  Reports on mortgage lending generally indicated slow
improvement. The New York District noted stronger mortgage
lending, although growth in refinancing eased. The Cleveland
District indicated strong mortgage demand and a shift from home
refinancing to new purchases. The Richmond District cited
continued improvement in mortgage demand, although refinancing
still dominated much of the mortgage lending. The Atlanta
District said that more applicants had ample cash for down
payments or enough equity in their homes to meet refinancing
requirements. Demand for commercial real estate loans was
generally reported to be stronger. Districts reporting on
 consumer lending  noted steady demand, with some strength in auto
loans.  A number of Districts, including Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago,
Dallas, and San Francisco, said loan pricing remained quite
competitive. New York District respondents noted a decrease in
spreads of loan rates over the cost of funds, particularly for
commercial mortgages. Lending standards were relatively
unchanged to slightly easier across Districts and loan types.
Bankers reporting on deposit growth indicated that deposits were
steady or continued to increase. Credit quality remained solid,
and there were several reports of improved loan quality. Most
District banks said loan delinquencies continued to decline.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Agricultural conditions generally improved since the previous
report. Rainfall provided much needed moisture in several parts
of the Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Spring
planting and crop emergence was well ahead of the normal pace in
most reporting Districts, and corn producers in the Chicago
District were hopeful that this promising start may result in a
record harvest. Producers in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts noted that the winter wheat crop was in fair-
to-good condition. Farm incomes rose further in the Minneapolis
and Kansas City Districts, and the San Francisco District
reported further sales growth for most crop and livestock
products. Producers in the Chicago and San Francisco Districts
expressed concern that persistent dry conditions may undermine
crop production. Although prices of most agricultural
commodities declined, hog and cattle prices rose since the
previous report.  Energy activity remained robust, with drilling expanding further
in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts. Atlanta’s report noted that increased investment in
transportation infrastructure was needed to accommodate the
recent rise in domestic and Canadian energy production.
Exploration and production continued to shift away from dry-gas
to wet-gas or oil-directed drilling in the Dallas and San
Francisco Districts in part due to low natural gas prices. Firms
in the Kansas City District said they would like to expand
payrolls but reported difficulty finding engineers and
experienced field workers. Iron-ore and rock mining continued to
expand at a strong pace according to the Minneapolis District
report. In contrast, demand for coal slowed in the Cleveland and
St. Louis Districts, and contacts noted that production was
below year-ago levels. Limestone quarries in the Minneapolis
District continued to report sluggish demand.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase. Reports of hiring
were most prevalent in the manufacturing, construction,
information technology, and professional services sectors.
Staffing firms in the Cleveland and Dallas Districts noted a
pickup in orders, and contacts in the Boston and Philadelphia
Districts reported steady growth in orders. Demand for temporary
workers rose in the Richmond District, and several employers in
the Minneapolis District noted a tightening labor market. New
York’s report indicated that demand for staffing services was
mixed, but manufactures and other business contacts expect
hiring to pick up in coming months. Atlanta’s report pointed to
positive employment growth in the District. Hiring remained
limited in the Chicago District, and modest employment increases
were noted in the San Francisco District report. There were
widespread reports that firms continued to face difficulty
finding highly trained or skilled workers--especially in
information technology, engineering, and manufacturing fields--
and manufacturers in the Chicago District said they were easing
job requirements or using interns to fill open positions.
Overall upward wage pressures continued to be fairly modest.
There were reports of slight wage increases for skilled workers
in the Boston, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco.
Contacts in the Philadelphia and Chicago Districts noted
increases in healthcare costs.  Price inflation was modest across most areas of the country.
Reports from several Districts, including New York,
Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas
indicated selling prices were stable or had softened somewhat
since the previous report. Some Districts, including
Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco
noted cost pressures eased as the price of energy inputs fell.
However, Atlanta’s report noted some firms had implemented price
increases tied to previous increases in energy costs, and firms
in the Kansas City District noted higher input and final goods
prices.  * Prepared at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas and based on
information collected on or before May 25, 2012. This document
summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views
of Federal Reserve officials. 