-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over
the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity was flat to up,
demand for business services rose and transportation services
activity was mixed. Energy activity remained strong, and the
housing sector continued to improve. Retail sales rose
moderately, and auto sales were strong. Loan demand picked up
since the last report. Drought conditions improved. Most firms
reported no change in selling prices. Employment levels were
steady to slightly higher, and wage pressures remained minimal.
Most firms’ outlooks are optimistic, although many respondents
expressed concern about U.S. political uncertainty and the
European debt situation.  Prices  Most responding firms said prices were unchanged, although some
noted that input prices ticked up slightly. Retailers said
selling prices were stable, although food prices increased. Auto
dealers said prices were unchanged. Transportation service firms
expect lower energy surcharges by July due to recently reduced
prices for jet and diesel fuel. In contrast, airlines expect a
slight upward trend due to higher fuel costs compared to last
year at this time. Agricultural producers noted lower commodity
prices and input costs.  The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel to the low $90
range over the reporting period. Natural  gas prices  rose to
$2.70 MMBtu after falling under $2 in early April. Respondents
said the substitution of natural gas for coal in power
generation reduced inventories, although they remain 40 percent
above normal. The price of gasoline fell about 20 cents per
gallon, and diesel prices fell by 15 cents. Spot prices for
several petrochemical products fell sharply as plants returned
to production following maintenance, and contacts expect
contract prices to follow.  Labor Market  Employment levels were flat to up slightly at most responding
firms. Staffing firms said demand picked up over the past six
weeks after a slight softening during the prior reporting
period. Reports of small employment increases came from some
high-tech, transportation, metals, construction materials and
food manufacturers. Contacts in auto sales, staffing and
transportation services also noted slight increases. Wage
pressures remained minimal, although wage increases were noted
by some legal firms.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related materials improved
during the reporting period. Favorable weather and improved
residential and commercial construction activity provided a
boost to stone, clay and glass producers. Primary and fabricated
metals manufacturers reported steady demand, and producers of
lumber and related products noted a broad-based increase in
orders. Construction-related outlooks were generally positive,
but some contacts are concerned about domestic political
uncertainty and unfavorable developments in  Europe  derailing the
pickup in activity seen so far this year.  High-tech manufacturers said orders continued to grow at a
moderate pace. According to contacts, demand for logic devices
was strong, while orders and prices for memory chips remained
weak. One respondent noted some strengthening in industrial
demand and orders for communications infrastructure equipment,
such as cell phone towers. Inventories were near desired levels.
The outlook for the next three to six months is for mild to
moderate growth, although one contact said a recent increase in
new orders has raised the likelihood that production may pick up
in the second half of the year.  Aviation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat during the
reporting period. Contacts were more pessimistic in their
outlooks for the year, citing soft demand and negative economic
news as key factors. Recreational vehicle manufacturers reported
weak sales, in part due to economic uncertainty and fuel price
shocks. Food producers said sales activity increased over the
past six weeks, and orders were well above year-ago levels.
Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed, but contacts expect
modest sales growth for the year.  Petrochemicals producers reported moderate domestic demand but
said export demand slowed, partly a result of higher U.S.
plastics prices, but also due to weaker growth in  Asia  and the
 Middle East . Notably, contacts said domestic PVC demand rose for
the first time in a long time in response to an increase in
housing starts and other construction. Outlooks for the
petrochemical industry were positive, and announcements for new
construction or expansion continue at a rapid pace. Refiners
said margins improved slightly in early May.  Retail Sales  Retail sales grew modestly over the comparable period from a
year ago and performed in line with contacts’ expectations.
Strength was seen in sporting goods and men’s and women’s
apparel. Eleventh District sales growth was stronger than the
nation on average, according to a large national retailer.
Contacts noted that consumers still seem a bit hesitant, but
business is improving nonetheless. Inventories are in good shape
and being managed closely. Automobile sales continued to rise
over the reporting period. Car sales were especially strong, but
trucks were selling well too. Contacts’ outlooks remain
optimistic and they expect continued growth in vehicle sales.  Services  Staffing services said activity picked up over the past six
weeks, following a slight softening in demand seen during the
prior reporting period. Shortages of skilled IT professionals
continued, and several contacts reported an increase in demand
for construction workers. Legal firms reported steady demand,
with continued strength in corporate, intellectual property and
energy services. Contacts also noted a slight uptick in estate
planning, lobbying and real estate related services. Accounting
firms noted a modest pickup in demand largely due to growth in
mergers and acquisitions related activity.  Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Small
parcel and air cargo volumes increased, while railroad shipments
and shipping container volumes declined during the reporting
period. Intermodal firms reported an increase in cargo volumes
largely due to strong demand for oil field supplies.  Airlines said passenger demand improved over the past six weeks.
Domestic demand increased, while demand for international travel
was flat. Contacts said business travelers continued to be price
sensitive and were purchasing restricted discount fares.
Responding firms expect passenger demand to remain steady over
the next three months.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the single-family housing industry noted consistent
indications of recovery in Texas markets. Respondents said sales
are up year-to-date, and some builders were beating sales
expectations. Agents noted solid sales for existing homes, and
outlooks are more positive. Apartment market respondents said
that after first quarter softness, demand came back stronger in
recent months, as expected. Texas apartment markets continued to
outperform other parts of the U.S., according to contacts.
Rental rate increases slowed, but remain relatively healthy.
Apartment construction activity is still at low levels, but is
expected to pick up in the second half of the year.  Commercial real estate leasing activity remained strong across
Texas metros. Houston, in particular, saw robust office and
industrial demand growth thanks to strong energy sector
expansion. Construction activity is expected to improve modestly
in Texas markets in the second half of 2012. Some contacts noted
a recent trepidation in the  capital market /lending environment
due to heightened worries about European debt problems.
Financial Services  Financial firms reported a modest uptick in loan demand.
National banks reported strength in middle-market lending, auto
loans and corporate merger and acquisition activity. Regional
banks also noted improved sentiments. Several banks suggested
energy-related activity remains robust. Some smaller business
and middle-market deals have begun to crop up. Outlooks are
generally less pessimistic, and some outright optimistic, with
an overall theme that “loan demand is slightly stronger.” Loan
pricing remains competitive. Outstanding loan quality continues
to improve and contacts note fewer problem loans.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related firms said drilling activity
remained strong, and the District rig count grew modestly over
the past six weeks. The shift from dry-gas drilling to wet-gas
or oil-directed drilling continued, and some firms noted
logistical problems as they try to move crews and equipment.
Overall, contacts say that outside of pressure pumping and
fracturing used in dry-gas drilling, the market for oil field
machinery and services remains very strong.  Agriculture  Drought conditions improved over the reporting period,
particularly in West Texas thanks to recent rains. Better soil
moisture continued to improve prospects for the 2012 crop year,
and pastures greened up for livestock producers. The wheat
harvest began and yields so far were above average. 