-- U.S. Productivity Fell 0.9% in First Quarter as Growth Cooled
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-06T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/u-s-productivity-fell-0-9-in-first-quarter-as-growth-cooled.html
The productivity of U.S. workers fell
more than initially estimated in the first quarter as labor
costs climbed, indicating companies may pause before bringing on
new employees.  The measure of employee output per hour decreased at a 0.9
percent annual rate, after a 1.2 percent gain in the prior three
months, revised figures from the Labor Department showed today
in  Washington . Expenses per worker rose at a 1.3 percent rate
and output grew 2.4 percent, less than previously estimated.  The drop in productivity at the start of the year helps
explain why payroll gains in May were the weakest in a year.
Slower U.S. growth combined with European economies on the verge
of recession shows why companies may cut back worker hours and
become more deliberate in their hiring as they seek to protect
profit margins.  “If demand remains weak, employers will push the existing
workforce harder to boost productivity,”  Brian Jones , a senior
U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York , said before the
report. “We think you’re going to see slower growth, and the
breadth of hiring, at least according to  purchasing managers , is
the weakest it’s been since last December.”  First-quarter productivity was projected to decrease 0.8
percent after a previously reported 0.5 percent decline,
according to the median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from a decline of 1.1 percent
to no change.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for productivity
gains, were forecast to rise 2.1 percent in the January to March
period, the survey median showed. Employment costs dropped 1.5
percent in the final three months of 2011, previously reported
as a 2.7 percent increase.  Wages and Salaries  The fourth-quarter revision to labor expenses reflected
updated figures on worker pay. Wages and salaries rose by $28.9
billion in the final three months of 2012, less than the $89.1
billion gain previously reported, the Commerce Department said
May 31.  The gain in first-quarter output was the smallest in a year
and followed a 3.7 percent gain in the fourth quarter, the
revised figures showed.  Hours worked increased at a 3.3 percent pace from January
through March, more than first estimated, after a 2.4 percent
rise in the prior quarter. Compensation for each hour worked
climbed at 0.4 percent annual pace.  Adjusted for inflation, compensation dropped at a 2 percent
pace last quarter, following a 1.6 percent decrease in the
previous three months.  Factory Productivity  Among manufacturers, productivity jumped at a 5.2 percent
rate from January through March, the most since the third
quarter of 2011.  Efforts to improve efficiency may come more slowly as
companies reduce plans for  capital investment . The  U.S. economy 
grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than the 2.2 percent initial estimate, after a 3 percent pace in
the last three months of 2011. Spending on equipment and
software  added  0.3 percentage point to first-quarter growth, the
 smallest contribution  since it subtracted from gross domestic
product in the second quarter of 2009.  “I think we’re going to be really stingy on the kind of
new incremental investments around growth initiatives until we
can kind of verify the ones we’ve invested in work out well,”
Ronald Sargent, chairman and chief executive officer at office-
supply retailer  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , said on a May 31 conference call.  Corporate profits are at risk of eroding as productivity
weakens. Earnings rose 0.6 percent last quarter, the smallest
increase since a drop in the final three months of 2008.  With  Europe  on the threshold of recession and growth
cooling in  China , companies are limiting hiring. Payrolls
climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised 77,000 gain in
April that was smaller than initially estimated. The jobless
rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of employment
in the  service industries , which make up about 90 percent of the
economy, dropped to the lowest level in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  