-- Muslims Sue New York Over Police Surveillance Program
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-06T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/muslims-sue-new-york-city-over-police-surveillance-program.html
A group of Muslims sued  New York  City
over the police department’s surveillance of their co-
religionists in  New Jersey , claiming the program violates their
rights under the U.S. Constitution.  The  New York City Police Department  singled out Muslims for
their religious beliefs, which cast “an unwarranted shadow of
suspicion and stigma” on the plaintiffs, including mosques,
student associations and Muslim-owned businesses, said a
complaint filed today in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  “Each plaintiff has suffered from the stigmatization that
results from being singled out for surveillance on the basis of
their religious beliefs,” according to the complaint. They sued
to affirm that “individuals may not be singled out for
intrusive investigation and pervasive surveillance simply
because they profess a certain faith.”  The lawsuit follows a series of  Associated Press  reports
that said the police department spied on mosques, businesses and
worshipers in Newark and elsewhere in the state. New Jersey
Attorney General Jeffrey S. Chiesa said May 24 that a three-
month review showed “no evidence to date that NYPD’s activities
in the state violated New Jersey civil or criminal laws.”  Chiesa also issued a directive saying his office would
strengthen lines of communication with the NYPD over counter-
terrorism investigations, establish formal notification
procedures for surveillance by out-of-state police agencies
working in New Jersey and set up a Muslim outreach committee.  ‘Lawful’ Surveillance  Kate Ahlers, a spokeswoman for New York’s Law Department,
said the city is awaiting formal service of the complaint.  “However, we affirm that the activity was lawful and was
supported by the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office,” Ahlers
said in an e-mail.  New York police took photos and eavesdropped on
conversations in  Newark  businesses owned by or frequented by
Muslims, the Associated Press reported, citing a 60-page  report 
that contained summaries of businesses and their clientele.  A San Francisco-based group, Muslim Advocates, filed the
complaint on behalf of plaintiffs including the Council of Imams
in New Jersey and Muslim Students Association of the U.S. &
Canada Inc.  “These plaintiffs are ordinary citizens going about their
lives who law enforcement spied on simply because of their
faith,” Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates,
said in a statement.  ‘NYPD’s Abuses’  “With New York officials refusing to look into the NYPD’s
abuses, the New Jersey Attorney General saying his hands are
tied, and the  U.S. Department of Justice  dragging its heels,
this lawsuit is the victims’ last resort for justice to
prevail,” Khera said.  NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly and  New York City  Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  have also defended the surveillance program as
legal and constitutional. The mayor is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  In February, Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in New Jersey,
said the  Justice Department  was reviewing several requests to
examine the allegations. He said his office will continue its
dialogue with New Jersey’s Arab-American and Muslim communities.  “We remain committed to protecting the safety of the
people of New Jersey through aggressive counter-terrorism
investigations without sacrificing the civil rights and
liberties of our citizens,” Fishman said in a statement in
February.  Sept. 11  The complaint said the NYPD created a spying program after
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, “based on the mistaken
and unconstitutional premise that Muslim religious identity is a
legitimate criterion for selection of  law-enforcement 
surveillance targets.”  While the program targeted mosques, Muslim-owned
businesses, Muslim student groups and schools, it “does not
undertake similar surveillance with respect to any other
religious group,” according to the complaint.  The complaint asked a judge to declare the city’s actions
unconstitutional, halt surveillance on the basis of religion,
and order the expungement of all records of plaintiffs made
based on “unlawful spying.” It also seeks “nominal damages”
and attorney fees.  The case is Hassan v. City of New York, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  