-- Walker Retains His Office in Wisconsin’s Recall Election
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-06T02:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/walker-retains-his-office-in-wisconsin-s-recall-election.html
Wisconsin’s Republican Governor  Scott Walker  repelled an effort to oust him, defeating Democratic
Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett in only the third recall election of
a state chief executive in U.S. history.  Walker, 44, won today’s election 58 percent to 41 percent,
according to preliminary results from the  Associated Press  with
65 percent of the vote counted.  The effort to choose a new governor 17 months into Walker’s
term began in response to his legislatively approved
restrictions on collective bargaining for public-employee
unions. The ouster fight drew national attention, more than $63
million in campaign contributions and polarized the state of 5.7
million people.  “Bringing our state together will take some time, but I
hope to start right away,” Walker said in a prepared statement.
“It is time to put our differences aside and figure out ways
that we can move  Wisconsin  forward.”  The election was a replay of the 2010 governor’s race, in
which Walker defeated Barrett, 58, by about 125,000 votes.
Turnout was heavy statewide, election officials reported.  Barrett said Walker had started an “ideological civil
war” in Wisconsin last year with union restrictions and cuts to
public education. The governor said government costs needed to
be controlled and reminded voters that he balanced the budget
without raising taxes.  Proxy War  Even before the vote was counted, Democrats and Republicans
were spinning the significance of the outcome for November’s
election between President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, and former
Republican Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney .  “Tonight’s results will echo beyond the borders of
Wisconsin,” Romney said in a prepared statement.  The organization and mobilization of Wisconsin Republicans
to protect Walker could provide Romney a boost in the state,
which Obama carried in 2008. Former President  George W. Bush 
came within a few thousand votes of winning the state in both
previous election cycles.  Also boosting Republican confidence are their 2010
victories in the state, when the party won the governor’s
office, as well as a U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat  Russ
Feingold .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Milwaukee at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Milwaukee at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  