-- Walker Survives Recall in Politically Weary Wisconsin
-- B y   T i m o t h y   J o n e s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-06T17:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/walker-survives-recall-in-politically-weary-wisconsin.html
With the threat of his removal gone,
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  turned his attention to a
campaign promise -- creating 250,000 jobs in the remaining two
and half years of his first term.  “The election’s done,” the Republican governor said in a
speech at Steelwind Industries Inc., a metal fabricator in Oak
Creek. “We don’t have opponents anymore. Now, it’s time to come
together, to work together to move this state forward.”  Walker survived yesterday’s recall vote, defeating
Democratic Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett 53 percent to 46 percent.
The campaign to curtail the governor’s term after 17 months was
set off by his curbs on public-employee unions, which he said
were draining the state’s coffers. The debate ultimately focused
on Walker’s promise to improve the economy.  In 2011, Wisconsin ranked 42nd out of 50 on the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States. It has been steadily draining
jobs, according to reports from the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics . Last year, it lost 33,900, according to the agency.  Walker, 44, said today that the election will eliminate
uncertainty that hindered employment. He predicted
“unbelievable amounts of new jobs” in coming weeks and months.  Sole Survivor  By becoming the first U.S. governor to survive a recall,
Walker burnished his reputation as a Republican standard bearer.
Still, he may have lost control of state government as a result
of the battles that brought him to national prominence.  One of four recall elections for his Senate supporters
remained undecided; the Democratic challenger was leading by 779
votes out of 71,731 cast. A loss for the Republican incumbent
would give Democrats the chamber.  Walker’s lieutenant governor, Rebecca Kleefisch, also
survived a recall, as did three of four Republican state
senators facing ouster votes. Republican Senator Van Wanggaard
trailed Democratic challenger John Lehman by a margin of 1
percentage point with all precincts counted, according to the
AP, which didn’t declare a winner.  Campaign spending in the governor’s race through May 21 was
at least $66 million, according to the  Wisconsin  Democracy
Campaign, a nonpartisan watchdog group in Madison that follows
election financing. That’s almost double the $37 million spent
on the 2010 race, when Walker and Barrett also faced off.  Badger Gambit  The campaign broke spending records in Wisconsin. Walker
alone raised more than $30 million, with about two-thirds
arriving from out of state.  “Wisconsin has been turned into a pawn on a national chess
board,” said  Mike McCabe , the Democracy Campaign’s executive
director, adding that he expects expenses in the race to total
as much as $80 million.  Opponents collected more than 900,000 signatures to make
Walker the third U.S. governor to face the prospect of recall.
Governor  Gray Davis  of  California  lost a recall in 2003 and Lynn
Frazier of  North Dakota  was removed in 1921.  Even before the Wisconsin votes were counted, the national
parties were spinning the significance of the outcome for
November’s contest between Democratic President  Barack Obama  and
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican.  “Tonight’s results will echo beyond the borders of
Wisconsin,” Romney said in a prepared statement.  Arm’s Length  Although former President  Bill Clinton  campaigned for
Barrett, Obama didn’t visit the state. White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  in yesterday’s White House press briefing
said, “A race where one side is outspending the other by a
ratio of at least eight to one probably won’t tell us much about
a future race.”  Walker’s victory will be seen as a validation of the law
that weakened public-worker unions by making it “pretty much
impossible” for them to operate, said William Jones, a labor
historian at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison . The law limits
contract bargaining to wages and makes payment of dues
voluntary, he said.  The win also may embolden labor opponents nationwide to
keep chipping away at unions, as Republican Governor Mitch Daniels and Indiana legislators did Feb. 1, when they exempted
nonunion employees from paying dues.  “We wanted a different outcome, but Wisconsin forced the
governor to answer for his efforts to divide the state and
punish hard-working people,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
said in a statement from his office.  Preacher’s Son  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who raised
worker health-care contributions through legislation and visited
Wisconsin on Walker’s behalf, congratulated him on his
“impressive win.”  “I am proud to have campaigned for him,” Christie, 49,
said in a statement released last night by the New Jersey
Republican State Committee.  Walker, a preacher’s son and an Eagle Scout, rose to
prominence a decade ago after becoming Milwaukee County
executive. He quickly clashed with unions as he sought to reduce
spending.  While Walker campaigned in 2010 on a platform to make
government workers pay more for pensions and health care, he
didn’t mention restrictions on collective bargaining. He
revealed that plan in February 2011, using Republican
legislative majorities to gain approval. For weeks, tens of
thousands of protesters swarmed to the Capitol in Madison to
shout their objections.  Achieving Celebrity  The governor was embraced this year by Republicans
nationwide. Some contributed as much as $500,000 to his recall
defense.  Barrett spent $2.9 million through May 21, according to
McCabe’s Democracy Campaign. Backers of the Democrat spent $15.5
million, while Republican support groups spent $18 million, the
organization said.  Wisconsin voters, most of whom made up their minds long
ago, according to polls, turned out in record numbers. Some were
eager for the fighting to end, expressing frustration with an
issue that has dominated the state since last year.  “I voted for Barrett in 2010,” said Jessica DeGraff, a
suburban Milwaukee mother of four. “I voted for Walker today,
but it’s not because I agree with him. I voted for him because
this whole recall thing is wrong and he should serve out his
term.”  “Yes, what Walker has done stinks and I do not like it,”
DeGraff said. “But he was elected and should be allowed to
complete his term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Waukesha at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Oak Creek at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  