-- Clemens Accuser’s Wife Says Injections Disclosed in 2007
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-06T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/wife-of-clemens-accuser-called-as-witness-in-perjury-trial.html
The wife of a former  New York  Yankees
assistant coach who claims to have given Roger Clemens steroids
and human growth hormone said her husband didn’t tell her about
injecting Clemens until late 2007.  Eileen McNamee, 42, testifying for the defense today in
federal court in  Washington  in the former star pitcher’s perjury
trial, contradicted the testimony of her husband, Brian McNamee.
The McNamees are involved in a divorce proceeding in New York.  Brian McNamee, who was the Yankees’ assistant strength and
conditioning coach, is the prosecution’s only eyewitness to
Clemens’s alleged drug use. He told jurors that he injected the
ballplayer with steroids and HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001
baseball seasons while both men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays 
and the Yankees. He said he told his wife about these injections
no later than 2001.  Eileen McNamee said today that the first time her husband
told her about injecting Clemens was a couple days before former
U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in
 Major League Baseball  on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens
in the report as having used drugs on 16 occasions between 1998
and 2001.  “Did he say anything to you about having given injections
of steroids or HGH to any ballplayers” previously,  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, asked.  “No, he did not,” said McNamee, who testified under a
U.S. Justice Department grant of immunity.  Beer Can  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation into
the use of performance-enhancing drugs by professional athletes.
He’s also charged with three counts of making false statements
and two counts of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Brian McNamee  said he saved needles, cotton and vials from
one of the injections in 2001 and kept some of the items in a
Miller Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in
Clemens’s apartment.  McNamee said he saved the material because his wife kept
telling him that he would be the one to take the fall if
something went wrong.  “She kept saying: ‘You’re going to go down, you’re going
to go down, you’re going to go down if something bad ever
happens,’” Brian McNamee told jurors on May 15.  FedEx Box  He testified he showed the material to his wife the night
he brought it to their New York home. She suggested putting it
in a zip-lock bag and he opted for a  FedEx (FDX)  box, he said.  In 2008, he gave the material to prosecutors, who said a
needle and cotton contained Clemens’s DNA and tested positive
for anabolic steroids.  Eileen McNamee, a New York City schoolteacher, today denied
being told about injections or seeing the medical waste in 2001.
She said she was never told what was in the FedEx box, which she
said she first saw while preparing the basement for possible
flooding in late 2001.  “I asked him what the FedEx box was,” she said. “He said
he was saving things for his protection and it was none of my
concern.”  She said that two years later the two were no longer
sleeping in the same room in their home. While putting away
clothes in her husband’s bedroom in 2003 or 2004, she said she
saw the FedEx box. It was open and she pulled out a bag of
unused syringes and brown-colored vials.  Unused Needles  Hardin put up a photo of a bag of unused needles and vials
that were among the items that McNamee had turned over to
prosecutors. She said she saw some of those items in the FedEx
box. Next to the box was a Bud Light beer can. She said she
shook the can and heard what she thought were the sound of
syringes inside.  “When you saw those items in the box what did you do?”
Hardin asked.  “I just left them there,” she said. “I put the contents
back in.”  “Did you have any conversation with Brian McNamee about
seeing the box?” Hardin asked.  “No, we didn’t have a conversation about it,” she said.  She said the next time she saw the box was around the time
the Mitchell report had come out. At that time, Eileen McNamee
said she was sleeping in bed with her two-year-old daughter. She
also had a baseball bat for protection due to all the publicity
surrounding her husband’s allegations.  Moved Out  Brian McNamee, who had moved out by then, came home one
evening in January 2008, grabbed the FedEx box and left, she
said.  Hardin asked whether she ever “fussed” to her husband
about his work with Clemens. Brian McNamee told jurors his wife
was upset about all the time he spent away from home and their
children while training Clemens and other ballplayers. The
couple has three children.  “No, it was not an issue,” she said. “It was not an easy
task but I was just happy to be home with the children. I may
have complained, but I never fussed about it.”  “Did you ever harp on him and tell him if he didn’t stop
what he was doing that he was going to be the fall guy?” Hardin
asked.  “No I did not,” she said. “I couldn’t tell him to stop
doing what I didn’t know.”  Eileen McNamee will continue testifying tomorrow. The trial
is in its eighth week. The defense has named an additional five
witnesses, including Clemens’s wife, Debbie.  Prosecutors in court papers today suggested they might put
on a rebuttal case and asked U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton 
for permission to call former Yankees  Mike Stanton  and  Chuck Knoblauch  as witnesses. Walton hasn’t ruled on that request.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  