-- Williams Says Fed Must `Stand Ready to Do Even More'
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-06-06T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/williams-says-fed-must-stand-ready-to-do-even-more-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said the central bank should be ready to
step up stimulus in case economic growth slows and threatens to
delay improvement in the job market.  The Fed must “stand ready to do even more if needed to
best achieve our statutory goals of maximum employment and price
stability,”  Williams said today in the text of remarks
prepared for a speech in Bellevue,  Washington . If growth were to
worsen or the inflation outlook fall below the Fed’s goal of 2
percent, “additional monetary accommodation would be
warranted.”  The  U.S. economy  added the fewest number of jobs in a year
last month, fueling concern the labor market rebound is
sputtering as growth overseas slows. Fed officials are scheduled
to meet June 19-20, having affirmed a pledge at their April
meeting to hold the main  interest rate  near zero through at
least late 2014.  “An effective tool would be further purchases of longer-
maturity securities, potentially including agency mortgage-
backed securities,” Williams said at a luncheon hosted by the
 San Francisco  Fed.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on April 25 it
expects the job market will improve while adding that
unemployment remains “elevated.” Fed officials upgraded their
forecasts for joblessness, growth and inflation for the year.
They will release revisions to those forecasts on June 20.  Unemployment Rate  Labor Department figures showed last week that the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 8.2 percent in May while
employers added only 69,000 jobs. Williams downplayed the
report, saying it’s important not to get “carried away by one
month’s data.”  “The underlying trend in job growth is probably closer to
the 150,000 monthly job gain number that we’ve seen over the
past year than to the recent weaker data,” he said.  That still means the  unemployment rate  will come down only
“slowly,” making it likely that the economy won’t reach
maximum employment until 2016, he said.  The San Francisco Fed chief said that Europe’s debt crisis
weighs on the economic outlook. “A financial meltdown
comparable to what we saw here during the financial crisis” was
possible if “panic takes over” in the region, he said.  “A development that on its own might not be disastrous,
such as another Greek default or even its abandonment of the
euro, could set off contagion that would undermine confidence in
other countries,” Williams said.  Yield Rebounded  The benchmark 10-year yield has rebounded from last week’s
record-low to 1.65 percent as of 3:11 p.m. in  New York  today as
speculation grew that both the  European Central Bank  and the Fed
will act to support global growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased 1.9 percent to 1,309.73.  Signs of slowing job growth prompted Atlanta Fed President
 Dennis Lockhart  to say today that prolonging Operation Twist,
which extends the average duration of bonds in the Fed’s
portfolio, is an “option on the table.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to testify before Congress tomorrow on the
economic outlook.  Williams, 49, is a voting member of the FOMC this year. He
became president of the San Francisco Fed in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  