-- Wine Gods, Shamans, Sorcerers Get Ecstatic in Paris Show: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/wine-gods-shamans-sorcerers-get-ecstatic-in-paris-show-review.html
No, it’s not another rant about
bankers and traders. “The Masters of Disorder,” an exhibition
at the  Musee du Quai Branly  in Paris, delves into the just-as-
intriguing practices of medicine men, sorcerers and shamans.  As if that wasn’t enough, Jean de Loisy, the curator, who
now directs the  Palais de Tokyo  exhibition space, has included
carnival costumes, fool’s scepters and works of modern and
contemporary art.  Anthropologists probably will wring their hands over the
picturesque jumble. It’s hard to find a convincing concept
behind the masks, amulets, figurines, paintings and videos.  The policy of the museum, which opened six years ago, has
been to free what used to be labeled as tribal art from the
limits of ethnology and judge it from a purely aesthetic angle.  Don’t try to understand the highfalutin wall texts about
chaos and catharsis and just enjoy the often remarkable objects.  They’re presented in a kind of maze formed like a heart and
designed, according to the handout, “to go along with the
evolution of the visitor’s psychic sensations.”  The oldest items are statuettes of ancient deities such as
the Egyptian war goddess Sekhmet or the Greek wine god Dionysus.
They both were worshiped in rituals of drunken ecstasy.  From there we move on to other cults and practices that
supposedly soothe the invisible forces of the universe.  Escorting Souls  Shamans, mostly though not exclusively found in Arctic and
Central Asian tribes, cure diseases, direct communal sacrifices
and escort the souls of the dead into the hereafter.  Voodoo originally came from the African kingdom of Dahomey
and was brought, through the slave trade, to the Caribbean. The
fetishes in the show were used to cast spells or to protect
against evil spirits.  The Kachina dolls of the Hopi in  Arizona  and the Zuni in
 New Mexico  have a similar function: They represent the spirits
of the ancestors who are intercessors between humans and gods.  Some religious ceremonies are performed in a state of
trance. The show draws a parallel between the ecstatic cult of
Shango, the fire god of the Yoruba, and rave parties. This will
be grist to the mill of those who regard electronic dance music
as a relapse into barbarism.  Absent Exorcists  Christian exorcism, a practice still recognized by the
Vatican, remains largely unexplored.  So are other Catholic traditions: The giant army of saints,
a classic example of mediators between Heaven and Earth, is
reduced to a single specimen, St. Michael slaying a dragon.  Instead, we’re treated to “Dancing My Cancer,” a 1975
video in which the U.S. dancer Anna Halprin is exorcizing her
tumor -- successfully, it seems: She’s still alive.  Other artworks include linocuts by Picasso portraying
himself as a faun, the painting of a voodoo spirit by Jean- Michel Basquiat, Jonathan Meese’s sculpture of a bisexual devil,
and an assemblage by the Swiss artist Thomas Hirschhorn
consisting of more than 100 globes covered with Scotch tape.  The selection of works reflects the arbitrariness and
superficiality of the show. That shouldn’t deter you from seeing
it. There’s enough to admire.  “Les Maitres du Desordre” runs through July 29. It then
will travel to the  Kunsthalle  in Bonn (Aug. 31-Dec. 2) and  La
Caixa Foundation  in  Madrid  (Feb. 7-May 19, 2013). Information:
 http://www.quaibranly.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on rock music,  Jason
Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 