-- Wisconsin In Play for Romney After Recall, Gillespie Says
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-06T17:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/wisconsin-in-play-for-romney-after-recall-gillespie-says.html
Ed Gillespie , a senior adviser to
 Mitt Romney , said Wisconsin is in play for the presidential
campaign after the  Republican Party ’s win in the state’s recall
election last night, though he cautioned not to overestimate the
victory’s effects nationally.  “I do think it will be competitive in November,”
Gillespie said of Wisconsin at a Bloomberg Breakfast in
Washington today. “But winning in a recall election does not
mean you should put it in your ‘leans-Republican’ column
today.”  The win by Governor  Scott Walker  allows the Wisconsin
Republican to finish his term’s remaining two-and-a-half years,
ending more than a year of partisan warring in the state over
limited government and the role of public-employee unions.  Gillespie, a former chairman of the  Republican National
Committee , said the vote affirms policies proposed by governors
in other states and by Romney, the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, that would limit unions as a way of
closing budget gaps.  “The election results indicate that there is a receptive
message out in the heartland, the country at large, for that
center-right approach,” he said.  2008 Race  While President  Barack Obama  carried Wisconsin in 2008 by
14 percentage points, Republicans won the governor’s office and
a U.S. Senate seat in 2010, when Tea Party-backed businessman
 Ron Johnson  defeated incumbent  Russ Feingold , a Democrat.
Presidential elections in 2000 and 2004 were close, with
Republican  George W. Bush  coming within a few thousand votes of
winning  Wisconsin  in both.  “The playing field has broadened for Republicans,”
Gillespie said. “The fact that Wisconsin is in play is
revealing.”  Exit polling yesterday showed Obama beating Romney by seven
percentage points, when Wisconsin voters were asked which
candidate they’d support in the presidential election. More
voters also viewed Obama as the candidate who would do a better
job handling the economy and on helping the middle class,
according to data from the  Associated Press .  Recall Results  Walker beat Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat, in the
recall, 53 percent to 46 percent with 100 percent of the state’s
precincts reporting in the AP vote tally.  Gillespie also said that Republicans need to do a better
job of winning Hispanic voters, who polls show overwhelmingly
favor Obama after a primary battle that highlighted Romney’s
opposition to providing illegal immigrants a way to legal
status.  A May 16-21 NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of Hispanic
registered voters found they favored Obama over Romney, 61
percent to 27 percent.  “We do need to do better with Hispanic voters and I think
we can,” Gillespie said. ‘We have a lot of room to grow.”  Romney and his aides are working to close that gap,
Gillespie said, citing a series of Spanish-language ads released
by the campaign and appearances by Romney before Hispanic
business groups.  Outreach Group  Romney’s campaign also today announced the formation of a
group led by prominent Hispanic Republicans to lead his outreach
effort. The campaign is calling the endeavor “Juntos Con
Romney,” which translates to “Together With Romney.”  Gillespie said Republicans were unlikely to win a majority
of the key swing group. Hispanic voters helped propel Obama’s
2008 White House win, backing him by 67 percent to 31 percent
over Republican  John McCain , according to exit polls.  “It would be hard to go from 31 percent to the majority in
one cycle,” he said.  Gillespie said Republicans can decrease Obama’s edge by
focusing more on economic concerns than immigration issues.
Campaigning yesterday in Fort Worth, Texas, a border state with
a 38 percent Hispanic population, Romney blamed Obama for rising
joblessness and poverty rates plaguing Hispanic Americans and
promised to improve their situation.  “Carrying that message of opportunity, economic growth is
the way that we’re going to attract those votes,” Gillespie
said.  Hispanic Unemployment  According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the
seasonally adjusted  unemployment rate  among Hispanics and
Latinos has risen during Obama’s term, to 11 percent last month
from 9.7 percent when he took office in January 2009. That’s
three times as big an increase as in the total unemployment
rate, which rose to 8.2 percent from 7.8 percent over the same
period.  Romney’s campaign is working to stay focused on those kinds
of economic issues, said Gillespie, while trying to ignore day-
to-day controversies that erupt. One example he cited was the
flap after Romney appeared at a fundraiser hosted by real estate
executive and reality television star  Donald Trump .  “I have not worked on a campaign with more shiny objects
than this one,” he said. “We’ve disciplined ourselves on the
Romney campaign as best we can to not chase the rabbits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  