-- Wisconsin’s Pointless Recall Vote Shifts Focus to Jobs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-06T02:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/wisconsin-s-pointless-recall-vote-shifts-focus-to-jobs.html
Wisconsin’s contentious gubernatorial
recall is finally over, and it’s clear who won: political
consultants, TV and radio stations flush with unexpected ad
revenue, out-of-state conservative political advocates and,
perhaps, future state budgets.  And we know who lost:  Wisconsin taxpayers  (out at least
$16 million in election costs), public employee unions, out-of-
state liberal political advocates and, well, the spirit of
democracy.  As for the actual candidates -- Republican Governor  Scott Walker  and Democratic Mayor  Tom Barrett  of  Milwaukee  -- they
will go back to the jobs they’ve had since Walker defeated
Barrett the first time around, in November 2010. The difference
is that they return exhausted and distracted, tarred by scandal,
facing a severely polarized electorate and a shortened timeline
in which to accomplish anything of substance before the next
election cycle.  Recall elections have their place: generally, in cases of
serious breaches of the public faith or morality, or of extreme
incompetence. The effort to recall Walker, however, stemmed from
a political disagreement over his support for a law that, among
other things, limited the collective-bargaining rights of
public-sector employees.  We have mixed feelings about the legislation. It’s vital
that state employees make a more reasonable contribution to
their health-care plans. Yet since 2009,  42 other states  have
enacted some sort of pension reform without laws like
 Wisconsin ’s;  Michigan ,  Rhode Island  and  Utah  in particular have
shown that compromise and tough negotiating by elected officials
can stem runaway benefit costs. We also think Walker should have
been more straightforward about his intentions, which he failed
to mention during the 2010 campaign.  That said, the law was a legitimate act of democratic
politics. State Democrats, union leaders and their supporters
should have set their minds to building public support for
statehouse elections and the 2014 race for governor. Instead,
they threw a yearlong temper tantrum, in which Democratic
lawmakers fled to  Illinois  in an attempt to block a vote on the
law; Madison, the capital, became the site of ugly
demonstrations; a state  Supreme Court  justice was nearly
recalled; and several Republican state senators lost their jobs.
Now $63 million has been spent -- most of it by groups from
outside the state -- in an ultimately futile attempt to take
back an honest election.  Here’s the telling detail: In all the tumult, the
collective bargaining law became an afterthought. Polls show the
 majority  of Wisconsinites support limiting collective bargaining,
Barrett barely mentioned the law in the campaign’s final weeks,
and exit polls Tuesday indicated that some voters who said the
law was a mistake nonetheless found the recall unjustified.
Remember also that Barrett soundly defeated the unions’
preferred Democratic candidate in a May 8 primary. Union
membership in the state has plummeted: Ranks of the state’s
second-largest public-sector union, the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees,  fell by more than half 
from March 2011 to February 2012, in part because under the new
law the state no longer deducts dues from workers’ paychecks.  What started out as an election focused on union rights
turned into a referendum on Walker’s promise to create a
quarter-million jobs by 2014. Barrett jumped on federal data
showing a loss of 21,400 nonfarm positions over the last year.
Walker, in turn, promoted state figures showing a gain of 23,321
in 2011. (As Bloomberg View columnist  Edward Glaeser  has  pointed
out , although Walker’s numbers are probably more accurate, a
governor has almost no control over these sorts of short-term
economic trends.)  The Wisconsin vote, we are told, will be an augury of the
presidential election in November. If so, President  Barack Obama 
and  Mitt Romney  won’t have a hard time deciphering the entrails:
It’s all about jobs.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 