-- Women Kill the Buzz for Guys Who Hire, Fire Them
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-06-06T23:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/women-kill-the-buzz-for-guys-who-hire-fire-them.html
We’ve seen this movie before and the
ending still stinks.  The sex-discrimination lawsuit by Ellen Pao against the
Silicon Valley venture-capital firm  Kleiner Perkins  Caufield &
Byers may be the gender and workplace story of the moment. But
let’s get one thing straight: This doesn’t describe anything
that’s new. It seems to happen routinely. Just yesterday, at a
hearing in  London , a lawyer for Latifa Bouabdillah, a former
Deutsche Bank AG director, said the woman’s male colleagues were
paid bonuses “double or triple that of the claimant” for the
same work.  Swap out Pao for Pamela Martens, who led the class-action
“Boom-Boom Room” lawsuit against Smith Barney in the 1990s, or
Allison Schieffelin, who sued Morgan Stanley in 2001, or Carla
Ingraham, who  sued  UBS AG in 2009, and you wind up with some
combination of the same old complaints: coworker come-ons, power
meetings for guys only, higher pay for men and retaliation
against the uppity women who have the nerve to complain.  In the venture-capital world, where you get more than the
usual share of people who are prone to thinking their every
experience is novel, there is shock over news that a highly
qualified woman has filed a suit against a celebrity firm. But
sex discrimination isn’t the iPad, folks. It’s more like the
electric typewriter.  Only a week before Pao filed her lawsuit on May 10,  Jack Welch , the former General Electric Co. boss,  told  a gathering at
a Dow Jones “Women in the Economy” conference that women who
wanted to advance just needed to work harder. “Over-deliver,”
he counseled -- advice that would strike a lot of glass-ceiling
casualties as exactly what they had been doing their entire
careers.  Getting Tired  I don’t know about you, but I got tired of this very
predictable narrative about 20 years ago.  I have no idea if Pao’s allegations, filed last month in
San Francisco Superior Court, are true. But they sure sound
familiar. Pao alleges in her complaint that one male coworker
gave her a book with sexual drawings and poems on Valentine’s
Day and another cut her out of business meetings after she
terminated a brief relationship with him. In her 2007
performance review, she was labeled “the top performer of the
junior partners,” according to the suit. After that, Pao says
she complained about discrimination. Then things changed, with
two subsequent reviews citing her “issues and clashes” with
other partners, the lawsuit says.  Pao’s San Francisco lawyer, Alan B. Exelrod, declined to
comment. Kleiner Perkins said in an e-mail that the suit “is
without merit” and will vigorously defend itself. Kleiner
general partner  John Doerr , whose name is frequently decorated
with the phrase “legendary venture capitalist,” said in a
 statement  posted on the firm’s website May 30 that it all
amounted to “false allegations” against his firm, which has
“the most” women of any leading venture-capital firm.  Twelve of Kleiner’s 49 partners are women, and in the
venture-capital business, that’s considered very, very good.  How is it that 20 years after  Anita Hill  broke the silence
about gender discrimination and harassment at work, there are
still companies that can take a bow for being gender-equality
heroes when 75 percent of their leaders are men?  There are many excuses used to explain away the snail’s
pace progress for women at work, but the two most popular go
something like this: It takes time to get women in the pipeline
with education and experience. Or -- don’t you hate when this
happens? -- those ungrateful women get jobs only to bail out
because they can’t take the stress, want more free time for
Pilates or miss staying home with the kids.  Let’s take that last one first.  New York-based Catalyst Inc., which does research on women
in business, started  tracking  the progress of 4,100 full-time
Master of Business Administration graduates around the world in
2007, homing in on those it identified as “high-potential
employees.” No matter how Catalyst sliced the data in its four
reports on “high potentials” since 2009, men started with
higher salaries -- a pay gap of $4,600 in the first job out of
school -- and enjoyed larger increases each year.  Dropping Out  To address the argument that women are dropping out of
corporations because they want more personal time or less
stress, Catalyst teased out just the men and women who aspired
to be senior officers or chief executives of for-profit
companies. They also compared only men and women who had no
children to address the “mommy wants to be home with the kids”
argument. In each case, men started out making more and advanced
more quickly.  So much for the girls-can’t-handle-it argument. As for the
pipeline argument, consider Pao. She had seven years of business
experience, an electrical-engineering degree from  Princeton
University , and a law degree and MBA from Harvard by the time
she landed at Kleiner in 2005. She’s had a lot of female company
accumulating the right pedigrees for years, too.  Women earned only 10 percent of undergraduate business
degrees back in 1971, receiving 10,460 degrees compared with
104,936 by men. By 1985, women had increased that number
tenfold; in 2002, women received more  degrees  than men. That
doesn’t sound like an empty pipeline to me.  It’s time to shift the focus from trying to “fix” women,
to trying to understand the subtle forces in organizations that
may be holding women back, Christine Silva, a senior director of
research at Catalyst, told me in a telephone interview.  Good idea. But part of the issue isn’t subtle at all.  Some employers just don’t want to hire women. Period. The
biggest eye-opener I’ve seen in academic research to support
that idea was a study in 2000 that tracked 26 years of auditions
and hiring statistics for symphony orchestras.  Orchestras had come under pressure in the late 1960s to
hire musicians in an unbiased manner, and began to conduct
“blind auditions” where judges couldn’t see the person trying
out. They literally performed behind a screen. In the end,
professors Claudia Goldin of  Harvard University  and Cecilia Rouse of Princeton University  found  that a woman’s chance of
being hired increased by 25 percent when juries were clueless
about a tryout’s gender.  Standard Attack  We could benefit from a corporate version of that blind-
audition idea. Until someone figures out how that would work, my
guess is we will keep rolling through lawsuit cycles of
predictable allegations and ugly revenge strategies. Comb
through the reader comments at the end of articles about Pao,
and you will see that she is already getting a blast of a tried-
and-true “nuts or sluts” attack that deems women who sue as
either crazy or a little loose.  Pao herself reveals in the lawsuit that after a peer
badgered her, she had sex with him two or three times, which is
enough for some of her critics to conclude that she has no case
at all.  Her foes are also anxious to get the word out that her
husband, hedge-fund manager Alphonse Fletcher Jr., is black,
litigious and unconventional. Don’t be surprised to see
reporters put more energy into investigating Fletcher than they
do probing Pao’s allegations. Fletcher does indeed have what can
only be described as an unusual biography. He has sued an
employer for discrimination, has himself been  sued  for sexual
harassment of two men and lived with a male partner in  New
York ’s famous Dakota building (which he sued for racial bias)
before marrying Pao. His spokesman, Stefan Friedman, said he
would ask Fletcher for a comment, but he never got back to me.  Fletcher’s history is an open invitation for guilt-by-
association coverage that already is  distracting  from his wife’s
allegations. It has nothing to do, though, with an office
culture where, as Pao describes it, women were barred from power
dinners with important clients because their presence would
“kill the buzz.”  Back in 1987, a  Smith Barney  office manager in  Garden City ,
New York, sent out an invitation to “All Garden City Brokers”
for a day of golf and dinner at his country club. When several
of the women tried to RSVP, the message came back that women
weren’t invited. Presumably they, too, would have killed the
boys’ club buzz. For too many women at work, 25 years later,
this bad workplace act is still in reruns.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Germany’s too-late
economic  union and  medical-device taxes ;  Ezra Klein  on  the myth
of election mandates ;  Michael Kinsley  on  banning Big Gulps ;
 Caroline Baum  on  the nascent economic recovery ; A. Gary Shilling
on  Japan’s current account ; Anders Aslund on  free-market Sweden .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net  