-- World Missing Environmental Goals in ‘Paralysis of Indecision’
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-06T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/world-missing-environmental-goals-in-paralysis-of-indecision-.html
Nations are making “significant”
progress on just four of 90 environmental goals, with little
advance on tackling climate change, replenishing fish stocks or
stopping deserts from spreading, the  United Nations  said today.  “The world continues to speed down an unsustainable
path,” the UN Environment Program said in an e-mailed statement
as it published its most comprehensive  assessment  of the
environment in five years. “The moment has come to put away the
paralysis of indecision.”  The UN is calling on nations to redouble efforts to meet
climate and sustainability targets two weeks before it hosts a
 conference  in  Rio de Janeiro , where world leaders will debate
steps to curb poverty while stemming environmental degradation.
While UNEP’s previous review, in 2007, constituted an “urgent
call for action,” today’s report warns of “irreversible
changes to the life-support functions of the planet.”  “Significant” progress has been made only in phasing out
substances that harm the  ozone layer , removing lead from fuel,
increasing access to water supplies and boosting research to
reduce marine pollution, according to UNEP.  Little or no progress is being made on 24 of the goals,
which range from indoor air pollution to wildlife protection,
while eight categories are actually worse than before, it said.  Irreversible Changes  Failure to rein in global consumption of natural resources
and alter patterns of production may bring irreversible changes
that cause tens of billions of dollars of damage to human
health, agriculture and coastlines, according to the study.  Forty of the environmental goals examined showed “some”
progress, including expanding protected areas and reducing
deforestation rates, while for 14 of the measures, there was
insufficient data to provide an assessment, UNEP said.  The Rio conference, dubbed Rio+20, marks two decades since
the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, which established conventions to
protect biodiversity and curb  climate change . More than 130
 leaders  are due to attend and draft a declaration that outlines
steps to protect resources, stimulate growth and reduce poverty.  “Rio+20 is a moment to turn sustainable development from
aspiration and patchy implementation into a genuine path to
progress,” UNEP Executive Director Achim Steiner said in the
statement. A “transition towards a low-carbon, resource-
efficient, job-generating green economy is urgently needed.”  Global Warming  There has been little or no progress in tackling climate
change, and current trends in carbon output show the Earth may
warm by at least 3 degrees Celsius by 2100 from pre-industrial
levels, according to the report. That’s beyond the 2-degree goal
set by UN climate-treaty envoys, and the 1.5-degree gain that
island nations are pushing to set as the limit.  Floods more than tripled from the 1980s to the 2000s and
the number of people exposed to such incidents more than
doubled, the report shows. Rising sea levels may lead to
“coastal adaptation” costs of as much as $86 billion by the
2040s, UNEP said.  Lower agricultural yields caused by air pollution costs the
planet as much as $26 billion a year, according to the UN. By
2030, as much as $11 billion will be spent annually on new
infrastructure to provide enough water for the world’s growing
population, especially in  developing countries , UNEP said.  In the organization’s 2007 review, it said humans were
using about 40 percent more resources than the planet could
replenish. That’s now risen to more than 50 percent, according
to a May 15 study by the environmental group WWF International.  Redefine Wealth  “The race for development needs not be at the expense of
the environment or the populations which rely upon it,” UNEP
said. It recommended that countries collect more reliable data,
set firmer environmental targets and redefine how wealth is
measured to include quality of environment rather than just
gross domestic product.  A lack of understanding of the value of natural resources
has resulted in missed targets for preserving biodiversity, and
about 20 percent of mammals, birds, reptiles and fish are under
threat of extinction, UNEP said. The risk to corals is rising
faster than for any organism, and the condition of reefs has
declined 38 percent since 1980, UNEP said.  The last two decades have also seen an “unprecedented
deterioration of fish stocks,” with depletion of edible species
causing economic losses of as much as $36 billion in 2000, UNEP
said. It didn’t provide a more recent estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 