-- Tyson, Sysco Lead U.S. Bond Sales as Issuance Recovers From Lull
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-06-06T20:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-06/tyson-sysco-lead-u-s-bond-sales-as-issuance-recovers-from-lull.html
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S.
meat processor, and distributor  Sysco Corp. (SYY)  are leading at least
$3.4 billion of U.S. corporate bond offerings as sales revive,
with each tapping the market for the first time in three years.  Tyson sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds, while Sysco sold
$300 million of three-year securities and $450 million of 10-
year notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
follow $15.2 billion last week, the slowest period since May 18.  Issuance has bounced back after employment figures released
Friday indicated the U.S. economic recovery is slowing, which
curbed investor risk appetite. Following a two-day issuance
freeze,  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of agricultural
equipment, broke the ice yesterday by raising $2.25 billion at
record-low coupons. Issuers are locking in longer-term
maturities as yields rise from record lows.  “Investors were still operating a little bit shell-shocked
on Monday, as we saw on Friday as well, with non-farm payrolls
coming out a lot lower than anyone expected,” Jody Lurie, a
corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia said in a telephone interview.  Tyson sold $1 billion of 4.5 percent 10-year notes at a
relative yield of 290 basis points to benchmarks, Bloomberg data
show. The company, which may have its ratings increased, will
use proceeds to pay back notes from its last offering in July
2009, when it sold $810 million of 10.5 percent securities due
in March 2014, it said in a statement today. Any additional
proceeds may go toward repaying the Springdale, Arkansas-based
food processor’s $458 million of 3.25 percent bonds due October
2013, according to a Moody’s Investors Service release today.  Tyson Ratings  The company, which sold $32.3 billion of chicken, beef and
pork products last year, amended its  credit line  in order to
issue the bonds and modify certain financial covenants,
according to a filing today.  With the bond sale and amendment, Tyson may be raised to
investment grade, Moody’s said in the release. The company is
rated Ba1 by Moody’s, one level below investment grade, BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s and BBB by  Fitch Ratings . Its senior unsecured
debt is rated Ba2, two notches below investment grade, by
Moody’s.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley, and Royal Bank of Canada are managing the sale.  Gary Mikelson, a spokesman for Tyson, declined to comment.  Low Coupons  Employers in the U.S. added the smallest number of jobs in
a year in May, stoking concern that the economic recovery is
faltering. Payrolls increased by 69,000, below median estimates
of 150,000, while the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent,
according to Labor Department figures released June 1.  Corporate bond sales came to a halt on June 1 and June 4,
with Deere leading issuance yesterday, Bloomberg data show.
Deere issued $1 billion of 2.6 percent 10-year notes that
yielded 105 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and $1.25 billion of 3.9 percent 30-year bonds with a 130 basis-
point spread, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
coupons were less than previous lows set Feb. 22 for 10-year
debt and in October 1998 for 30-year notes, the data show.  Borrowers are leaning towards longer-term securities, with
six of the seven issuers in the market today selling 10- or 30-
year debt, according to people familiar with the transaction.
Yields on companies from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
rose to 4.41 percent yesterday, compared with a low of 4.18
percent reached on May 8, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index.  Sysco Issue  Sysco, which supplies facilities including restaurants,
hospitals and ballparks, issued the 0.55 percent three-year
securities to yield 42 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and the 2.6 percent 10-year notes at a spread of 110
basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  The Houston-based company last sold debt in March 2009,
issuing $250 million each of 5.375 percent, 10-year bonds at 260
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 6.625
percent, 30-year debt at a spread of 315 basis points, Bloomberg
data show.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, such
as acquisitions, debt refinancing and share repurchases, the
company said in a filing today. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is
managing the sale.  Credit Ratios  The company’s A+ corporate  credit rating  was put on
downgrade watch on Feb. 14 by  Standard & Poor’s , with the
ratings firm forecasting Sysco’s “profitability and credit
ratios will weaken modestly over the next year owing to
increasing business transformation costs, high input prices, and
intense competition,” according to an S&P release.  Charley Wilson, a Sysco spokesman, confirmed the planned
sale and that the proceeds will be used for general corporate
purposes.  Other borrowers in the market include Union Pacific Corp.
selling a two-part, $600 million offering, Liberty Property
Trust, which sold $400 million of notes, Ohio National Life
Insurance Co. which sold $250 million of debentures, Duke Realty
LP selling $300 million of bonds, and Fifth & Pacific Co. Inc.
with a $150 million add-on offering, according to people
familiar with the transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 