-- 5 Hackers Charged in Largest Data-Breach Scheme in U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-07-26T07:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/5-hackers-charged-in-largest-data-breach-scheme-in-u-s-.html
Four Russians and a Ukrainian were
charged in what prosecutors called the largest hacking scheme
in U.S. history, a break-in to computers of retail chains that
included 7-Eleven Inc. and  Carrefour SA (CA) , the French retailer.  U.S. prosecutors in  New York  separately indicted one of the
five men and another Russian in a hacking scheme that targeted
the  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and 800,000 bank accounts at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  The five in the New Jersey case conspired in a “worldwide
scheme that targeted major corporate networks, stole more than
160 million credit card numbers and resulted in hundreds of
millions of dollars in losses,” Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney
in New Jersey, said yesterday in a statement.  The group targeted companies that processed financial
transactions and retailers that received and transmitted
financial data, using ``sniffer'' programs to steal credit card
information.  The five men operated “a prolific hacking organization”
that “penetrated the secure  computer networks  of several of the
largest payment-processing companies, retailers and financial
institutions in the world,” according to an indictment unsealed
in federal court in  Newark ,  New Jersey . They are accused of
stealing user names and passwords, personal identification
information, and credit and debit card numbers.  Cutting Edge  “This type of crime is the cutting edge,” Fishman said.
“Those who have the expertise and the inclination to break into
our computer networks threaten our economic well-being, our
privacy and our national security.”  In the New York case, prosecutors said that after stealing
data, known as “dumps,” the two men sold it to “dumps resellers,”
who then sold it through online forums or to individuals and
organizations.  The men encoded the data into the magnetic strips of blank
plastic cards and withdrew money from automated teller machines
and made credit-card purchases, the U.S. said.  “Financial institutions, credit card companies and
consumers suffered hundreds of millions in losses, including
losses in excess of $300 million by just three of the corporate
victims, and immeasurable losses to identity-theft victims,”
according to the indictment.  The Link  The men conspired with Albert Gonzalez, a Miami hacker
serving 20 years in prison, according to the indictment.  Those indicted were Vladimir Drinkman, 32, of Moscow and
Syktyvkar,  Russia ; Aleksandr Kalinin, 26, of St. Petersburg;
Roman Kotov, 32, and Dmitriy Smilianets, 29, of Moscow; and
Mikhail Rytikov, 26, of Odessa, Ukraine.  All five were charged with conspiracy to gain unauthorized
access to computer and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . All but
Rytikov were charged with wire fraud and unauthorized access to
computers.  In New York, federal authorities also indicted Kalinin and
accused him of hacking computers used by the Nasdaq Stock
Market. From November 2008 to October 2010, Kalinin hacked
servers and installed malicious software or malware, which let
him and others execute commands to delete, change and steal
data, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Another Russian  Kalinin also was indicted in New York with another Russian,
Nikolay Nasenkov, on charges that they stole bank account
information from Citigroup and PNC through hacking and other
techniques.  “Cyber criminals are determined to prey not only on
individual bank accounts, but on the financial system itself,”
Bharara said in a statement. He noted the “close and growing
collaboration between the U.S. government and the private sector
on issues of cyber security.”  In 2006, Nasenkov, 31, of  St. Petersburg , supplied account
information taken from PNC to co-conspirators who encoded blank
ATM cards and stole $1.3 million from the accounts of victims,
according to Bharara’s statement.  In 2007, Kalinin placed malware on a computer network that
processed ATM transactions for Citibank and other financial
institutions, according to Bharara. The malware, which recorded
data passing over the network, allowed Kalinin to steal
information on 500,000 bank accounts, including 100,000 at
Citibank, the prosecutor said.  ATM Cards  The data were used to create ATM cards, which aided the
withdrawal of $2.9 million from Citibank accounts, according to
Bharara. Nasenkov in 2008 used a computer program “to mount an
attack against Citibank’s online banking website that resulted
in the theft of account information for more than 300,000
accounts,” according to Bharara. That stolen data were used to
create ATM cards that led to the theft of $3.6 million,
according to the prosecutor.  Gonzalez, 32, was sentenced in 2010 to 20 years in prison
for stealing 130 million credit- and debit-card records from
 Heartland Payment Systems Inc. (HPY) , 7-Eleven, Delhaize Group’s
Hannaford Brothers Co. and two unidentified national retailers.
Another judge sentenced him to 20 years for stealing 40 million
records from retailers including  TJX Cos. (TJX) ,  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  and
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. His terms run at the same time.  Drinkman and his conspirators are charged with targeting
Heartland, Hannaford, Carrefour and several other companies.  Kalinin and Drinkman were previously charged as Hacker 1
and Hacker 2 in a 2009 indictment of Gonzalez, according to
Fishman. Rytikov was previously charged by federal prosecutors
in an unrelated scheme in  Virginia , according to Fishman.  Drinkman and Smilianets were arrested at the request of the
U.S. while traveling in the Netherlands on June 28, 2012,
according to Fishman. Smilianets, who was extradited in
September and is in federal custody, will be arraigned at some
point in New Jersey. Drinkman is in custody in the Netherlands
pending an extradition hearing, according to Fishman.  Kalinin, Kotov, Rytikov and Nasenkov remain at large,
according to Fishman and Bharara.  The cases are U.S. v. Drinkman, 09-cr-00626, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark); and U.S. v. Kalinin and
U.S. v. Nasenkov, 09-cr-1093, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 