-- ABB Profit Rises on U.S. Construction, Demand in China
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-07-25T11:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/abb-profit-increases-on-u-s-construction-orders-china-demand.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s shares declined the most
in more than five weeks after the world’s largest maker of power
transformers said lower power-utility investments in  Europe 
weighed on orders.  The stock dropped as much as 4.9 percent to 20.40 francs in
Zurich trading after ABB said today that second-quarter orders
fell 7 percent from a year earlier to $9.3 billion. The shares
were down 4.8 percent as of 1 p.m. local time.  “Major transmission investments are being postponed as the
overall economic climate remains challenging and growth in
electricity consumption remains at low levels,” ABB said.
French rival  Alstom SA (ALO)  yesterday also reported lower quarterly
orders on weaker spending by utilities and railways in Europe,
 Africa  and the  Middle East .  Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan, who will hand over to
Ulrich Spiesshofer in September, has bet on growth in the U.S.
with more than $10 billion of acquisitions to add motors, low-voltage gear products and solar inverters, to reduce ABB’s
reliance on Europe. The first challenge for Spiesshofer, who
heads the discrete automation and motion unit, will be to
integrate Hogan’s deals, including electric motor-maker Baldor
Electric, Thomas & Betts and solar company Power-One.  “It will be some time” before power grid spending in
Europe picks up, ABB Chief Financial Officer Eric Elzvik said on
a conference call. “We are continuing to invest in it and we
think there is a clear future there,” he said, adding that ABB
sees “a lot of pending orders and tenders in high-voltage
direct current,” in the region.  ‘Going Sideways’  Net income rose 16 percent to $763 million in the second
quarter, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today.
That’s the first profit increase in six quarters. The average
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for $779
million. Sales rose 6 percent to $10.2 billion, meeting the
analysts’ estimates.  “ China  was good for us;  Germany  and parts of Northern
Europe were good for us also,” Hogan said in a  video  posted on
the company’s website. “What we see going forward is more of
the same. We see most of the markets going sideways over a
period of time.”  ABB kept its 2013 forecast and today reiterated comments
from April, when Hogan said the company was prepared for a
“flat” 2013 compared to 2012.  “Apart from the order intake the result was in line with
expectations,” said Richard Frei, an analyst at Zuercher
Kantonalbank. ABB’s greater project selectivity, especially in
Power Systems, explains the lower order intake, he added.  About 50 to 60 percent of the order slowdown was because of
ABB’s project selectivity while the remainder reflected the
economic cycle, Hogan said on a conference call today.  ‘Positive Momentum’  Spiesshofer takes over a company worth 50 billion francs
eight years after joining ABB and following 14 years as a
consultant. ABB’s new CEO should focus on building the Swiss
company’s service business and integrating acquisitions, Hogan
said on the call.  ‘It’s important particularly with the acquisitions we have
made that we maintain positive momentum,’’ Hogan said.  Spiesshofer oversaw the Baldor Electric deal and said this
month that ABB is “now realizing the synergies” of that
purchase. Buoyed by the acquisition, the Zurich-based company
increased market share in the $14.6 billion low-voltage motors
market by 1 percentage point to 14 percent in 2012, according to
a report by sector analysts IHS.  Thomas & Betts  Orders at the low-voltage unit rose 20 percent, buoyed by
the purchase of Thomas & Betts Corp. and increasing demand for
switchboards and low voltage gear in China,  Russia  and the U.S.,
ABB said.  The Power-One transaction, which will close in the second
half and give ABB inverters that allow solar power to be fed
into grids, is an example of how Hogan has been bringing new
technology to the Swiss company. ABB is looking to tap a market
forecast to grow by more than 10 percent annually, driven by a
need for affordable energy and declining costs of producing
solar power.  Before today, ABB shares had gained 14 percent this year,
compared to the 5 percent rise of  Siemens AG (SIE) , which is midway
through a program aimed at cutting costs by 6 billion euros
($7.9 billion) by the end of 2014.  General Electric Co. (GE)  has
gained 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  