-- AIA First-Half Profit Jumps 34% to Record, Beating Estimate
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-07-26T08:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/aia-group-first-half-profit-jumps-34-beating-analyst-estimate.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the  second-largest 
Asia-based insurer by market value, reported a high-than-expected 34 percent increase in first-half profit, helped by
acquisitions and paper gains from equity investments.  Net income for the Hong Kong-based insurer climbed to a
record $1.93 billion in the six months to May 31, or 16 cents a
share, from $1.44 billion, or 12 cents, a year earlier, it said
in a  statement  to the city’s stock exchange today. Six analysts
had a $1.6 billion median adjusted profit estimate, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s announcement marked the fifth time AIA beat analyst
profit estimates in six half-year periods as a publicly listed
company, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. AIA overtook
Ping An Insurance Group Co. as the second-largest Asia-based
insurer by market value this year.  “It’s strong result across the board,” Arjan van Veen, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an e-mail. “It should be well received.”  AIA’s shares rose 0.4 percent to HK$35.85 at the close of
trading in  Hong Kong . They extended this year’s gain to 19
percent,  compared  to the 0.8 percent drop in the Hang Seng
Finance Index tracking 12 banks, insurers and the city’s
exchange operator.  AIA’s after-tax operating profit grew 17 percent to $1.3
billion. Value of new business increased 26 percent to a six-month record $645 million, exceeding the median estimate of $633
million of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New Businesses  Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has been focusing on
new business value, or projected future profitability of new
policies, as a gauge of his success in rejuvenating a company
that lost market share during the global financial crisis.
Stronger premium growth in lower-margin  markets , including
Malaysia and  South Korea , helped boost it in the six months.  Annualized new premium, which tracks new policy sales,
increased 29 percent to $1.53 billion. New business margin, or
new business value as a percentage of annualized new premium,
slipped 1 percentage point to 41.6 percent.  AIA’s embedded value, a measure used to assess the economic
worth of life insurers, gained 3 percent to $32.2 billion over
the six months. It declared an interim dividend of 13.93 Hong
Kong cents a share, a 13 percent increase over a year earlier.  “Our positive growth momentum has been sustained for the
first half of 2013,” Tucker said of the results on a conference
call with journalists today. “We’ve just begun to tap the
potential for growth in our markets.”  Asia Expansion  AIA has been expanding in smaller markets and pushing more
profitable add-on policies such as accident and health products.  It completed the $1.7 billion  purchase  of ING Groep NV’s
 Malaysia  business in December, boosting its market standing in
one of  Southeast Asia ’s most promising life insurance markets to
first from fourth, it said in a statement in October.  Malaysia contributed 10 percent of AIA’s annualized new
premium in the six months, up from 6 percent a year earlier. Its
share of the company’s new business value rose almost two
percentage points to 7.6 percent.  “That’s a terrific start,” Tucker said of the Malaysia
business during the call. “This will be an enduring effect.”  AIA’s net mark-to-market gains from equity investments
doubled to $659 million from a year earlier, boosting profit.
Stocks in AIA’s largest markets rose 9 percent in the six
months, Credit Suisse’s van Veen and Frances Feng wrote in a
June 26 report.  Currency Impact  The insurer cautioned against volatility arising from
uncertainty over when the U.S. Federal Reserve will start
withdrawing liquidity support and over  China ’s efforts to rein
in credit growth.  AIA operates in 17 Asian markets. The insurer, which
collects local-currency premiums in those countries yet reports
financial figures in dollar, booked a $168 million loss from
foreign-exchange movements in its embedded value calculation.  Morgan Stanley analysts led by Ben Lin cut forecasts for
AIA’s 2013 to 2015 full-year new business value growth by as
much as 4 percent because of expeccted Asian currencies
depreciation, they said in a June 19 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  