-- Air Products Jumps After Adopting Poison Pill
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-31T19:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/air-products-jumps-after-adopting-poison-pill.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph of story published July 25 to
show that CNBC reported Ackman may have amassed a stake.)  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , whose
hostile bid for  Airgas Inc. (ARG)  was thwarted by a poison-pill
defense, rose the most in four years after adopting a similar
measure on concern that it may be a takeover target.  The industrial-gas producer rose 5.3 percent as of 11:56
a.m. in  New York  after climbing as much as 8.1 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since April 2009 and the highest price
since at least 1980.  The board “felt it was appropriate and prudent” to adopt
the shareholder rights plan after unusually high volumes of
 stock trading , George Noon, a company spokesman, said today by
phone. Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products hasn’t been
contacted by anyone accumulating its stock, he said.  The plan will give existing investors the right to acquire
deeply discounted new shares should another person or group
acquire 10 percent of the company without board approval, Air
Products said today in a statement. Such pills dilute the stake
of a hostile acquirer, making a takeover difficult.  Bill Ackman  may have amassed a position in Air Products,
CNBC’s David Faber reported today, without saying where he got
the information from. Noon said he doesn’t think anyone at the
company spoke to Faber.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP is raising
money to buy the stock of a large U.S. company that principally
operates in one business and that trades at a lower multiple
than its closest competitor, according to a letter Pershing sent
to investors earlier this month.  “The business is simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow-generative, and enjoys high barriers to entry, high customer
switching costs and substantial pricing power,” Ackman said in
the letter, without naming the company.  Air Products dropped its $5.9 billion hostile bid for
Airgas in February 2011 after pursuing its rival for more than a
year. The bid was withdrawn after Delaware Chancery Court
rejected a challenge to Airgas’s poison-pill defense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  