-- Alcoa Urges LME to Provide More Transparency in Aluminum Trading
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-07-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/alcoa-urges-lme-to-provide-more-transparency-in-aluminum-trading.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, is urging the London Metal Exchange to
provide more transparency into its marketplace for the
lightweight metal.  The current system isn’t sustainable, Klaus Kleinfeld,
Alcoa’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in an
interview. At stake, he said, is the London exchange’s relevance
as the price-setter to producers and users of aluminum, the
metal used in products from beer cans to aircraft.  “The outcome of price determination that is not
transparent is eventual lack of trust,” Kleinfeld said by phone
yesterday. “People will look for alternatives.”  Alcoa joins United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, and  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , Europe’s third-largest producer,
in calling on the LME to reveal more about who holds metal
contracts. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. bought the LME
for $2.2 billion last year. The market in  London  is the biggest
for aluminum and other industrial metals.  The LME should report similar data to that disclosed by
exchanges under the scope of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, New York-based Alcoa said in a letter to the U.S.
Senate Banking Committee’s Subcommittee on Financial
Institutions and Consumer Protection.  The letter was submitted to the subcommittee for hearings
held July 23, four days after the Federal Reserve said it’s
reviewing its decade-old decision to let banks store, transport
and trade raw materials.  Simple Data  While the LME publishes simple data on positions held by
buyers and sellers, it lacks details published weekly by the
CFTC such as net long positions held by hedge funds. The CFTC’s
weekly commitment of traders report provides a breakdown of
futures and options contracts held in commodity markets such as
gold, oil, corn and other raw materials.  MillerCoors LLC told the Senate subcommittee on July 23
that unfair LME rules used by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
owner of one of the biggest U.S. aluminum-warehouse networks,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other warehouse owners boost costs and
delay shipments.  Goldman Sachs said in a  statement  on its website that
commodity prices fell in recent years, countering claims of
rising costs by beverage companies.  The premium that buyers pay to obtain aluminum in the U.S.
fell for the first time this year, dropping to 11.8 to 12 cents
a pound on July 18 from a record 12 to 13 cents,  Harbor
Intelligence , an Austin,  Texas  based researcher, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  