-- Malema Revives S. African Mine Grab Push With New Party
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-07-26T14:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/malema-revives-s-african-mine-grab-push-with-new-party.html
Julius Malema , who was expelled from
South Africa’s ruling African National Congress and is fighting
corruption charges, is rallying support for his new party by
reviving a call for the state seizure of mines, banks and land.  Malema, 32, a former ANC youth wing leader, is targeting
the one-third of South Africans under the age of 34 who are
unemployed and have seen little economic benefit from the
nation’s transition to democracy since the first all-race
elections in 1994. He led a failed bid for the ANC to
nationalize mines in the world’s biggest platinum producer,
which spooked investors. His Economic Freedom Fighters will
begin a two-day conference in Soweto, near Johannesburg, today
to plan its challenge in next year’s election.  The party is the fourth to be formed since March to tap
disenchantment over the ANC’s failure to create jobs for the one
in four South Africans who are  unemployed  and narrow the gap
between rich and poor. While the ANC has won more than 60
percent support in every election since it took power, its image
has been tainted by a series of corruption scandals since
President Jacob Zuma came to the helm in December 2007.  “It might be worth giving Malema a chance,” Mosa
Mphahama, 21, an unemployed Soweto resident said in an interview
on July 24, as he sat on a bench in a public park watching
children play on the rusted swings. “I can trust him. He’s not
like Jacob Zuma with his empty promises.”  ANC Dominance  The ANC has secured support by extending access to welfare
grants, housing, clean water and electricity. It contested the
last national vote in 2009 against 26 parties and won 65.9
percent backing, almost four times more than its nearest rival,
the Democratic Alliance.  Aside from Malema’s party, the other newcomers challenging
the ANC are: Agang SA, led by former  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  chairwoman
Mamphela Ramphele, which is promising more accountable
government and to fight corruption; the Workers and Socialist
Party, whose backers include miners who waged a series of
strikes last year and is also pushing for the nationalization of
mines, factories and banks; and SA First, created by former
members of the ANC’s military wing who accuse the party of
abandoning its core principles.  “It’s nearly 20 years since the advent of democracy and as
South Africans we are taking stock,”  Aubrey Matshiqi , a
political analyst at the Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman
Foundation, said in a July 24 phone interview. “The formation
of these parties to some extent is a response to the question:
How has the ANC done?”  Monopoly Capital  Malema and the Economic Freedom Fighters have attracted
publicity by sporting red berets, using communist jargon and
praising the state seizure of assets in countries such as
Zimbabwe and  Venezuela .  “We are a protest movement,” Malema told a July 11 press
conference in Johannesburg. “We have got a completely different
plan. Ours is expropriation of land without compensation. We
want to nationalize and those mines we want to nationalize, we
are not going to pay for them. Our enemy No. 1 is monopoly
capital.”  The party’s manifesto, released yesterday, also calls for
the state to play a bigger role in the economy, provide free
education, healthcare and housing and introduce minimum wages.  Malema was expelled from the ANC in March last year for
sowing disunity after he criticized Zuma and refused to tow the
party policy line on issues including nationalization.  Corruption Charges  He was then accused of earning 4 million rand ($408,000)
from corrupt activities -- charges he says are part of a Zuma-led political conspiracy against him -- and is due to stand
trial in November. He has also had his houses and farm seized
and sold to defray unpaid tax bills.  The government is ready to act if Malema and his party
occupy farms, Agriculture Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson told
Johannesburg-based  Beeld  newspaper today. There is “no way we
will allow people to sow discord in our farming communities for
party-political gains,” she said.  As leader of the ANC Youth League, Malema helped Zuma to
wrestle control of the ruling party from Thabo Mbeki in 2007.
Malema dropped his support after Zuma failed to back his push to
nationalize mines owned by companies such as  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)   His party’s recruits include Kenny Kunene, a businessman
and ex-convict who gained notoriety after being photographed
eating sushi off a near-naked woman’s body in a nightclub, and
Floyd Shivambu, ex-spokesman for the ANC’s youth wing, who had
charges of hate speech filed against him after he used a racial
slur against a white journalist. He subsequently apologized.  ‘No Faith’  The new parties lack organizational capacity and are
unlikely to draw significant support in the elections, according
to Zwelethu Jolobe, a political analyst at the University of
Cape Town.  “Our party system is extremely saturated right now,”
Jolobe said in a July 23 phone interview. “Any new entrant is
going to enter under a very unfavorable climate.”  Dimakatso Motaung, 25, who shares a one-room shack with her
mother, sister and two-year-old daughter in Soweto, and has been
unemployed since finishing high school six years ago, isn’t
banking on the Economic Freedom Fighters to improve her lot.  “Julius Malema is just saying what he knows the youth
wants to hear and hoping that will get him votes in the
elections next year,” she said in an interview on July 24 as
she walked her child home from creche. “I don’t have faith that
he’ll actually create any jobs or better the economic
situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  