-- Rebellion-Hit Mali Holds Election in Bid to Unlock Aid
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y
-- 2013-07-26T06:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/malians-vote-for-president-in-election-designed-to-unlock-aid.html
Hit by an army coup, a rebellion by
Islamist and Touareg militants and French military intervention,
Malians vote on July 28 in a presidential election that may
satisfy international donors more than Malians themselves.  The electoral commission in the West African nation said
this month that it’s going to be “extremely difficult” for all
6.9 million eligible voters to cast a ballot. At least half a
million citizens have fled their homes in the north to the south
or to neighboring countries, according to the  United Nations .  “The main question is one of degree -- whether the vote is
‘good enough’ to underpin a legitimate national government, or
so flawed that it exacerbates existing tensions,” Jolyon Ford,
political analyst at U.K.-based Oxford Analytica, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  International donors say a vote must be held before they
can start providing as much as $4 billion in aid pledged in May.
Mali,  Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer, has been gripped by
conflict for more than a year after an ethnic Touareg uprising
in the north prompted underequipped soldiers to overthrow the
government. After the Touaregs linked up with Islamist militants
in an offensive that almost split the nation in half, former
colonial ruler  France  started an air and ground campaign to
drive them out of the main northern cities.  Holding the elections now is “a monumental mistake and a
political error,” Moussa Djire, a political science professor
at the University of Bamako in the capital, said in an
interview. “The new government will face criticism for a long
time after being elected because it will be accused of giving in
to pressure from the international community.”  Run-off Expected  Frontrunners among the 27 candidates in the first
presidential vote since 2007 are ex-prime minister Ibrahim
Boubacar Keita, 68, and 64-year-old Soumaila Cisse, a former
finance minister and ex-commission chairman of the West African
Monetary Union. Interim ruler Dioncounda Traore isn’t eligible
to run for president under an accord brokered by international
mediators last year.  A run-off on Aug. 11 is expected because the first round
won’t produce an outright victory, according to a poll conducted
in June by the Bamako-based Center for Statistical Studies and
Applied Informatics. The survey of 1,057 people found that 40
percent of voters didn’t have a preferred candidate.  “The elections can improve Mali’s international
reputation, foreign investors will have confidence in us
again,” Dieudonne Dacko, a 28-year-old massage therapist, said
in a June 15 interview in Bamako. “In terms of domestic
politics, I don’t think anything will change. Corruption and
nepotism will remain because we are seeing the same politicians
as before.”  Aid Pledge  French President  Francois Hollande  and the European Union
have insisted that the elections should be held this month.  The election “appears to be seen as a box to be ticked
before the political class and international partners can get
down to do serious business,” Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group , which recommended a delay of three months, said on
its website.  The argument in favor of elections is Mali’s need for funds
as people complain about soaring food prices, political
insecurity and a lack of jobs as a result of the collapse of the
tourist industry, Djire said.  “One has to take into account that the current government
is struggling with protests from civil society and an economy
that has stagnated since international aid was halted,” he
said.  Gold Mining  Mali’s $10.6 billion economy contracted 1.2 percent in
2012, according to the  International Monetary Fund . It may
expand 4.8 percent this year because gold mining hasn’t been
affected by the fighting, according to the fund.  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  are among the miners in
Mali.  In a July 8 speech on the state-owned broadcaster ORTM,
interim leader Dioncounda Traore urged people to respect the
election date and let the vote run smoothly.  “By scheduling this date, we knew we were going to face a
real challenge,” he said. “The faster the new government will
be installed, the sooner it can deal with the crisis.”  Issues that can’t be negotiated until after the election
are the disarmament of Touareg fighters loyal to the National
Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, known as the MNLA, around
the remote town of Kidal, 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) north of
Bamako and the degree of autonomy over the area they may demand.  UN Peacekeepers  The MNLA was able to retain a stronghold in Kidal amid
claims the Malian army discriminates against the Touareg people.
 Mali ’s military denies the allegations. The fighters won’t
disarm until a peace accord has been reached following the vote.  A UN mission deployed this month with African soldiers that
have been in Mali since January. The force is scheduled to have
11,200 troops by the end of the year.  Malian officials last month began registering voters among
175,000 refugees sheltering in camps in neighboring Mauritania,
Niger and Burkina Faso, according to the UN refugee agency.  Many refugees from northern Mali, notably ethnic Touaregs
who sympathize with the MNLA and allied groups, may boycott the
elections altogether, according to Ferdaous Bouhlel, an
anthropologist at the University of Tours, France, who
specializes in the nomadic Touareg culture.  “They do not feel concerned by this process at all and
besides, they are telling me they haven’t even received voter
cards yet,” she said by phone from the Mauritanian capital,
Nouakchott.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Francois Rihouay in Bamako at 
 frihouay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  