-- Amazon Sues U.S. Over $600 Million CIA Computing Contract
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-07-25T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/amazon-sues-u-s-over-600-million-cia-cloud-computing-contract.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which had won a
$600 million contract for Central Intelligence Agency cloud-computing services, sued the U.S. after  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  secured a government mediator’s ruling that could
reopen the bidding process.  Amazon filed its bid protest lawsuit yesterday in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims. The complaint and other documents in
the case are under seal until a judge decides what will be made
public.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, the agency that
makes recommendations on challenges to contract awards, sided
with IBM on June 6, agreeing that the spy agency failed to
properly evaluate prices and waived a contract requirement only
for Seattle-based Amazon.  The GAO recommended that the CIA reopen negotiations with
the companies. The decision, which agencies usually accept,
would give Armonk, New York-based IBM another chance to land the
computing contract.  IBM is a longtime federal contractor, amassing about
$1.5 billion in awards in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
2012. Amazon is newer to the market, setting up a dedicated
government sales division only a few years ago. More than 300
U.S. agencies use the company’s computing services, Teresa Carlson, an Amazon vice president, said in statement in May.  Allison Price, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and John
Tomczyk, a CIA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment the lawsuit. Ana Rigby, a spokeswoman for Amazon,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment sent
before normal business hours.  The CIA has until early August to decide whether to follow
the GAO’s recommendation to reopen the bidding process,
according to federal contracting regulations.  The case is Amazon Web Services Inc. v. U.S., 13-cv-00506,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 