-- Holcim Revamp Sparks Biggest Plunge in 5 Years at Ambuja
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-07-25T11:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ambuja-falls-the-most-since-2008-on-surprise-holcim-rejig.html
Ambuja Cements Ltd. fell the most in
about five years as at least seven brokerages cut ratings for
the stock after parent  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  asked the Indian company to
pay $593 million to buy its stake in a subsidiary.  The shares  plunged  10.6 percent, the sharpest drop since
October 2008, to 171 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The stock
sank 15 percent intraday, the most in 21 years. Ambuja will buy
Holcim’s 50.01 percent stake in ACC Ltd. by paying 35 billion
rupees ($593 million) to the world’s biggest cement maker and
through a share swap. ACC tumbled 3.54 percent to 1,187 rupees.  Brokerages including Bank of America Corp., Religare
 Capital Markets  cut their  recommendation  on Ambuja, saying the
transaction won’t benefit minority shareholders. The deal means
Ambuja will spend 92 percent of the 38 billion rupees it held in
 cash  and short-term investments on March 31, the data show.  “Ambuja Cements will be parting away with its huge cash
balance without any earnings per share accretion,” Ajit Motwani, an analyst with Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd.,
wrote in a report. The deal “dilutes standards of corporate
governance that could further impact its valuation.” He pared
his recommendation on the stock to reduce from hold.  Elara Securities  India  and Centrum Broking were other firms
that lowered their recommendations for Ambuja.  The company was rated a sell by 24 of 62 analysts tracking
the stock, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The consensus
rating, or the average of recommendations updated by analysts in
the past year, fell to 2.68 today from 3.05 at the start of the
month. Five denotes a buy and one a sell.  ‘Emotional Reaction’  “We should step over the emotional reaction,” Onne Van Der Weijde, managing director of Ambuja Cements told Bloomberg
TV India today. “We are putting the cash to better use by
buying a controlling stake in a fantastic, iconic brand. Ambuja
will have immediate cashflows after this acquisition is
completed, with no execution risk.”  The transaction will have a “synergy potential” of 9
billion rupees over two years after the deal is completed,
Ambuja said in a statement yesterday. The benefits will be
almost equally shared between  ACC (ACC)  and Ambuja, according Der
Weijde.  Mumbai-based Ambuja will first acquire a 24 percent stake
in Holcim India Pvt. for 35 billion rupees. Holcim India will
then be combined with Ambuja. That will enable Ambuja to control
Holcim India’s 50.01 percent stake in ACC. Holcim India also
owns 9.76 percent of Ambuja. Jona, Switzerland-based Holcim will
control 61.39 percent of Ambuja after the merger.  ‘Increasing Control’  “This is like having the cake and eating it too,” said
Jitendra Nath Gupta, founder of Mumbai-based proxy advisory firm
Stakeholders Empowerment Services. “Holcim has effectively
increased their control in Ambuja and also received 35 billion
rupees in cash.’  Ambuja will  spend  as much as 30 billion rupees to boost its
stake in ACC by 10 percent without triggering an open offer for
the remainder of the stock, according to the statement.  ‘‘ACC and Ambuja will remain separate brands with their
separate management teams,’’ Der Weijde said in a conference
call yesterday. ‘‘We have no plans to delist ACC and I want to
be very clear about this.’’  A direct merger would have created ‘‘merger costs,’’ Der
Weijde told Bloomberg TV India. ‘‘  Holcim paid 21 billion rupees for a 14.8 percent stake in
Gujarat  Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ACEM)  in January 2006. The holding was
raised later by 20 percent following an open offer. Holcim
bought shares in ACC a year earlier.  Royalty Payment  Bank of America lowered its rating on Ambuja ‘‘despite
expected industry-wide earnings improvement,’’ Reena Verma and
Amit Rathi, analysts at the brokerage, wrote in a report. ‘‘The
upside potential from Ambuja’s earnings per share recovery may
be dulled by potential concerns over the treatment of minority
shareholders vis-a-vis its controlling shareholder.’’  In February, both ACC and Ambuja agreed to nearly double a
royalty payout to Holcim, which reported a 7 percent drop in
sales in the three months to March 31, to 1 percent of sales
amid protests from smaller shareholders. Ambuja’s shares fell 6
percent that month, the biggest drop since the 30-day period
ending April 30, 2012.  About 28.2 percent of Ambuja shareholders and 24.3 percent
of ACC investors voted against the proposal which required
approval from only half the shareholders. Holcim controls more
than 50 percent voting rights in both the cement makers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  