-- Hamptons Home Sales Jump to 7-Year High as Prices Climb
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-07-25T16:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hamptons-home-sales-jump-to-7-year-high-as-prices-climb.html
Home sales in New York’s Hamptons,
Wall Street’s favored beach retreat, jumped to a seven-year high
as buyers rushed to secure deals before expected increases in
prices and  mortgage rates .  Purchases in the three months through June totaled 675, up
25 percent from a year earlier and the most since the second
quarter of 2006, when home values were climbing toward their
peak, according to a report today by appraiser  Miller Samuel
Inc.  and brokerage  Douglas Elliman Real Estate . Buyer
competition for a small inventory of listings pushed the median
price up 8.2 percent to $920,000.  “People are saying, ‘If there’s a time, now’s the time,’”
 Paul Brennan , Douglas Elliman’s regional manager in the
Hamptons, said in an interview. “ Interest rates  are probably
the driving force. Everybody from Bernanke on down are making
gestures that these rates can’t last forever.”  Mortgage rates have climbed from near-record lows amid
expectations that the  Federal Reserve , led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will scale back bond purchases as the  U.S. economy 
returns to health. Buyers lured to the Hamptons, where prices
have climbed 36 percent from a low in 2009, also are rushing to
beat competitors to purchase a home as the supply on the market
dwindles, according to  Jonathan Miller , president of New York-based Miller Samuel.  ‘Moving Faster’  The number of properties listed for sale in the quarter
fell 13 percent from a year earlier to 1,573, Miller Samuel and
Douglas Elliman said. The Hamptons, a group of villages and
hamlets on the eastern end of  Long Island , is traditionally a
second-home market.  The absorption rate, or the amount of time it would take to
sell all the properties at the current pace of deals, was seven
months, the second-fastest in more than six years of record
keeping. The rate was 10 months a year ago.  “The market is moving faster because you have more people
looking at less product,” Miller said in an interview.  Sellers in the Hamptons aren’t listing their properties
quickly enough for eager buyers, according to Miller. Owners who
bought during the peak, when the median price reached $1.1
million, may not have enough equity to sell now so they’re
waiting for values to climb further, he said.  “Your job is fine, your income is fine,” Miller said.
“The numbers just don’t work for you to sell so it’s not in
your plans. Story over.”  Luxury Deals  The average rate for  30-year fixed  mortgage climbed to a
two-year high of 4.51 percent earlier this month after reaching
a near-record low of 3.35 percent in early May, according to
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Purchases for less than $1 million accounted for 55 percent
of all deals in the second quarter, Miller said.  The median price for luxury properties, the top 10 percent
of all deals, fell 19 percent to $5 million, according to  Miller
Samuel  and Douglas Elliman. There were 33 purchases for $5
million or more, down from 38 in the second quarter of 2012.  The quarter’s most-expensive transaction was the $25
million purchase of a 7,207-square-foot (670-square-meter)
 waterfront home  in Southampton Village, according to Miller and
property-listings website StreetEasy.com. The deal was completed
on May 1.  In Southampton Village, $136.2 million worth of properties
changed hands in the quarter, more than double the amount from a
year earlier, according to a separate report by  Town & Country
Real Estate . The median price of the 30 homes that sold climbed
76 percent to $3.07 million.  In the Bridgehampton area, including Water Mill and
Sagaponack, the dollar value of sales fell 25 percent to $190.1
million, as the number of deals dropped 5 percent to 59, Town &
Country said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  