-- Antitrust Probe Targets Halliburton’s Fracking Business
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-07-26T07:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/antitrust-probe-targets-halliburton-s-fracking-business.html
A federal antitrust probe into the
$36 billion hydraulic fracturing market is increasing pressure
on oilfield-service companies already reeling as skyrocketing
competition cuts into their profit margins.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  said this week the
U.S. Justice Department is seeking documents for an antitrust
investigation related to pressure-pumping services, which
include hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. Stephen Harris, a
spokesman for  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services company, declined to say whether it has been contacted
by investigators.  The investigation was met with widespread surprise among
industry analysts and investors because it comes at a time when
rising competition and falling prices have been the business’s
biggest problem.  “It’s a big industry, it has lots of competition, and
right now the price of a frack job is as cheap as its been in
the last three years,” said Richard Spears, vice president of
Spears & Associates, an industry consultant in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .
“I can’t speculate what they’d be looking for or what they
would find.”  Companies providing fracking services have seen some of the
industry’s biggest profit gains followed by the steepest
declines as a flood of new business from the U.S. shale boom
brought rivals rushing in.  News of the investigation drew attention both to land-based
fracking, where more than 50 service companies currently are
vying for orders in the U.S., and to offshore fracking, where
Baker Hughes and Halliburton provide the bulk of service in the
Gulf of Mexico.  $36 Billion  Of the $36 billion that explorers and producers are
expected to spend on fracking globally this year, $31 billion
will be spent in the U.S. and  Canada , Spears said.  The Justice Department confirmed the probe, but gave no
details about what it’s looking into.  “The Antitrust Division is investigating the possibility
of anticompetitive practices involving pressure pumping services
performed on oil and gas wells,” said Gina Talamona, a
spokeswoman for the department’s antitrust division.  ““Overall, I’m baffled by it,” said Bennett Vig,
executive director at Dallas-based Round Rock Capital, whose
fund owns an undisclosed number of shares in Halliburton and
Schlumberger.  Halliburton rose to a high of $57.27 a share two years ago
and has since fallen 23 percent while Baker Hughes declined 41
percent in the same two-year period. The Philadelphia Oil
Services Index has climbed 26 percent since the middle of 2011.  Common Request  Joseph Simons, a partner at the firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP, said the government often issues Civil
Investigative Demands, or CID’s, without pursuing formal
charges. “It’s common for CIDs to go out, for the government to
investigate, and for an investigation to close without any
action,” Simons, a former chief antitrust enforcer at the
Federal Trade Commission, said in an interview.  Halliburton confirmed it had received a CID from the
antitrust division during the second quarter, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The company said it is cooperating
with investigators, and understands “other participants” in
the industry had received similar requests.  Baker Hughes said it had no comment on the investigation
after revealing in a July 24 filing that it had received a
request for information from investigators on May 30.  The U.S. fracking market, the world’s largest, peaked in
the second half of 2011 as prices soared with surging demand
from the shale drilling boom. The pressure-pumping technique
involves blasting water mixed with sand and chemicals
underground to free the oil and gas.  Boom Days  Companies such as Halliburton and Schlumberger were able to
push fracking prices higher as a backlog of uncompleted wells
swelled to 3,500 in the middle of 2011 from 1,145 in the second
quarter 2010, according to Halliburton. Producers saw delays
stretch as long as six months waiting for drilled wells to be
completed with the fracking technique.  An oversupply of equipment that exceeded demand by as much
as 29 percent developed in the industry by the fourth quarter
last year as competitors poured into the market, according to
PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-based industry
adviser. Prices charged for U.S. fracking services slid 14
percent in 2012 and are expected to fall another 6 percent this
year, according to PacWest.  Halliburton Profit  Halliburton, which owns 15 percent of the equipment
horsepower underpinning the U.S. pressure pumping market, saw
its operating profit margin drop to a low of 11 percent in the
fourth quarter last year from an average of 31 percent in 2011
in its North America completion and production division, which
handles fracking.  Baker Hughes’s profit margin for North American fell to a
low of 8 percent in the second quarter this year after reaching
a high of 22 percent in the third quarter 2011.  The market share of the four largest fracking service
providers is projected to slip to 43 percent in the fourth
quarter this year from 57 percent in the third quarter 2011,
according to PacWest.  “The market is way oversupplied,” said Luke Lemoine, an
analyst at Capital One Southcoast in New Orleans. “It’s crazy
to think that any of these guys would collude because they all -
- I don’t want to say hate each other -- but they’re true
competitors.”  Offshore Fracking  The antitrust probe turned some eyes to the less talked-about offshore fracking business. Deep-water fracking, a smaller
market than the booming business created by onshore shale field
exploration, is less competitive, said Surya Rajan, director of
upstream research at industry consultants IHS-CERA. That’s
partly because of the higher costs necessary to do the boat-based work, said Rajan, a former fracking engineer who worked at
service-provider Schlumberger and later at Marathon Oil as a
fracking customer.  Baker Hughes and Halliburton each own two fracking boats
that operate in the Gulf of Mexico; Baker Hughes said in May it
is adding a third to its fleet, and Schlumberger said on its
website it’s  launching five new  so-called stimulation vessels
this year to work in the deep-water Gulf, Indian Ocean and North
Sea.  ‘Confusing Timing’  Ultimately, however, the offshore pressure-pumping market
remains small compared to the North American land business, said
Alex Robart, a principal at PacWest.  Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis,
said he’s puzzled by what investigators might be searching for.  “The timing of their review is confusing,” he said in a
phone interview yesterday.  Schlumberger, Halliburton and Baker Hughes are the three
largest providers of oilfield services globally.  Privately held FTS International Inc., based in Fort Worth
and the third-largest provider of fracking services in the U.S.
behind Halliburton and Schlumberger, said it has not been
contacted by the Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  