-- Areva Won’t Endanger Finances to Pursue Urenco Bid, CFO Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-25T11:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/areva-won-t-endanger-finances-to-pursue-urenco-bid-cfo-says.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s biggest
supplier of nuclear fuel and services, is monitoring the planned
sale of uranium enricher Urenco Ltd. and said it won’t endanger
its finances to take part in a potential bid.  “We definitively monitor closely the situation,” Areva
Chief Financial Officer Pierre Aubouin said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “But we wouldn’t be doing anything
that would hurt our balance sheet.”  German utilities EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE) , the Dutch government
and the U.K., which own Urenco together, have said they’d like
to sell the centrifuge manufacturer, which competes with Areva
as well as Russian and U.S. rivals. Areva and Urenco also have a
joint venture that makes enrichment equipment.  Areva, based near Paris, sold 1.2 billion euros ($1.58
billion) of assets last year, and is paring investment and
 cutting costs  to shore up its balance sheet. Areva has suffered
from construction delays at a nuclear plant in  Finland , soured
investments in African uranium mines and nuclear plant closures
in Japan and Germany following the 2011 meltdown of atomic
facilities in Fukushima.  Aubouin said Areva’s strategy in its 2016 Action Plan
doesn’t rely on “massive acquisitions,” adding that the
company may purchase “selected” technologies.  The company’s net debt, rated BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s ,
rose to 4.47 billion euros at the end of June from 3.95 billion
euros at the end of 2012 as spending and working capital
requirements continued to dwarf earnings.  Areva, which is holding talks to sell nuclear reactors to
 China  and  India , is confident that European countries like the
U.K. will also reinvest in the technology, the CFO said.  The French company is working “strongly” with utility
 Electricite de France SA  to make a third nuclear power station
at Hinkley Point, England a reality “in a few months from now,
or next year,” Aubouin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  