-- Harvest Natural Resources Sued Over South China Sea Zone
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-25T17:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/harvest-natural-resources-sued-over-south-china-sea-zone.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR)  was
sued by dozens of Taiwan residents seeking to stop the company
from developing plans to search for petroleum and natural gas in
an area of the South China Sea.  The company found more than 500 million barrels of oil and
7.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in an area of the sea
that is partially located in the economic zone of the Sinnan
Islands, “whose natural and economic resources belong to the
people of Taiwan,” according to the complaint filed yesterday
in U.S. District Court in Houston.  Harvest in December 1996 acquired Crestone Energy Corp.,
which had a petroleum contract with China’s state-owned China
National Offshore Oil Corp. that permits it to explore in an
area of the  South China Sea  known as WAB-21, according to the
suit. The residents are seeking $2.9 million in damages.  “Plaintiffs allege that defendant will continue its
exploration in the WAB-21 area in the South China Sea pursuant
to the contract and at some point in time extract the oil and
natural gas reserves it found, thereby depriving plaintiffs of
the natural resources owned by plaintiffs,” according to the
complaint.  The company, based in Houston, “has no legal right to
trespass on plaintiffs’ property” despite its contract with
China National Offshore Oil, which also “has no ownership
right” over the property, the residents said in the suit. China
National Offshore Oil wasn’t named as a defendant in the
complaint.  A telephone message left for Stephen C. Haynes, chief
financial officer of Harvest Natural Resources, seeking comment
on the suit wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Sone v. Harvest Natural Resources Inc., 4:13-cv-02161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  