-- Ashland Considers Exit From Businesses With $2 Billion Revenue
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-25T14:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ashland-considers-exit-from-businesses-with-2-billion-revenue.html
Ashland Inc. (ASH)  plans to sell an
elastomers unit and will consider the divestment of a water-treatment business, transactions that could eliminate $2 billion
from the U.S. chemical maker’s revenue.  A sale process has already started for the elastomer tire-materials business, it said in a statement today. The asset,
inherited with the purchase of International Specialty Products
for $3.2 billion, generates about $330 million in sales. The
Covington, Kentucky-based company is also considering options,
including a disposal, for its water-treatment business, which
had $1.73 billion in revenue last year.  “We are committed to unlocking value for Ashland
shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  James O’Brien  said in
the statement. “While Water Technologies’ performance has
improved this year, we believe that evaluating strategic
options, including a possible sale, will help us determine the
best path forward for this business.”  The 2011 takeover of cosmetic and shampoo-ingredient maker
ISP, which at the time had sales of $1.6 billion and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $360
million, is giving O’Brien the leeway to consider exiting
operations with lower growth prospects.  Ashland rose 2.8 percent to $88.82 at 10:20 a.m. in  New
York  trading.  Ashland appointed Luis Fernandez-Moreno, a former Dow
Chemical Co. executive, to head the water technologies division
in late 2012 to improve profitability. At the time, O’Brien said
the problems with the business were at an “executive level”
rather than an industry problem.  Citigroup is working as an adviser to help evaluate options
for water technologies, Ashland said.  The unit reported a 2 percent advance in fiscal third-quarter sales to $435 million, with Ebitda rising 11 percent to
$41 million.  Ashland’s adjusted earnings per share fell to $1.66 from
$2.04 a year earlier, missing the $1.83 estimate of analysts in
a survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  