-- Asiana to Alaska Crashes Stretch NTSB as Bags Stay Packed
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-25T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/asiana-to-alaska-crashes-stretch-ntsb-as-bags-stay-packed.html
The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board and some of its 413 employees must keep “go bags”
packed at all times so they can rush to the scene of a
transportation accident with 90 minutes’ notice.  That wasn’t a burden during the longest stretch in U.S.
history without a passenger death in an airline accident. The
board made work for itself by advocating for tougher drunken-driving laws and a ban on wireless phones in cars.  Now, one of the smallest U.S. agencies is being stretched
thin in what may be its busiest period since the mid-1990s. In
addition to the  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  accident in  San Francisco 
on July 6, the first in the U.S. of a commercial airliner
involving fatalities since 2009, the board is investigating a
half-dozen private-plane crashes, train derailments affecting
 New York  commuters, a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 fire in  London  and even a
Maryland car wreck.  It’s asking a lot of an agency whose annual budget equals
what the U.S. spends every 11 1/2 hours in  Afghanistan .  “Some of our investigators are going straight from one
accident to another accident,” Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman 
said in an interview yesterday. “They really don’t have
recovery time. When you’re trying to collect that perishable
evidence, you really don’t have a lot of time.”  Hersman said the board may have to tap its  reserve fund 
before its fiscal year ends Sept. 30, after absorbing $5 million
in cuts from the automatic budget reductions known as
sequestration just before the streak of accidents began. The
agency’s annual budget before the cuts was $102 million.  TWA, ValuJet  So far this year, the board has worked on at least 16
accident investigations it calls major, about as many as it was
involved in all of last year.  Yesterday, it said it would look into a July 19 crash in
which a car was flung over  Maryland ’s Chesapeake Bay Bridge
after being hit by a tractor-trailer. The 22-year-old driver
survived by swimming to safety through a broken window.  “This has been one of the more busy periods for the
board,” said Peter Goelz, a former NTSB managing director who’s
now a senior vice president with O’Neill and Associates in
Washington.  He said the last time the board was this busy was in 1996
and 1997, when it was dealing with the aftermath of TWA and
ValuJet crashes that killed everyone on board.  While last year’s major incidents included a parasailing
accident and a near-miss at Washington’s Ronald Reagan National
Airport, this year’s have made headlines.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  It’s looked into fires in Boeing 787 Dreamliners, a train
crash in Connecticut involving about 700 passengers and two
highway-bridge collapses, a rare occurrence in the U.S.  The investigations have become more complex as technology
proliferates across transportation modes and travel has become
safer, Goelz said.  “The low-hanging fruit of accident investigations are
almost all gone,” he said. “The accidents they’re getting now
are more complex and take longer, take greater skills.”  The safety board is required to investigate all general
aviation accidents, including non-fatal ones, and plane crashes
in other countries that involve U.S.-made aircraft or
components. With planemaker Boeing and enginemaker  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  based in the U.S., that
keeps the work flowing.  When accident investigations come quickly and purse strings
are tight, board members cut down on advocacy work and travel
less to speak or meet with companies, said Mark Rosenker, a
former NTSB chairman.  Go Teams  “I wasn’t going to lose my people,” Rosenker said.
“They’re the most important assets.”  To adjust to the sequestration-related budget cuts, the
board is closing five regional offices around the U.S.
Investigators based in those offices now work from home when not
in the field. The board kept three offices in the West and its
training center in Ashburn,  Virginia , near  Washington .  One of the offices being kept open is in  Alaska , where the
board is investigating an air-taxi crash that killed 10 people -
- the pilot and two entire families from  South Carolina . The
wreck occurred the day after the Asiana accident.  “With fiscal constraints and the cuts that we’ve seen in
the sequester, we can’t do it all and we can’t do it all
quickly,” Hersman said.  When an accident happens, the NTSB communications center
contacts the chairman, who makes the call on whether to send a
so-called go team to the scene.  “When you get the phone call at 2 or 3 in the morning, you
know it’s never good news,” Rosenker said.  Little Sleep  Some cases are clear cut. Others aren’t. Last week, the
board sent two investigators to the Bronx after a  CSX Corp. (CSX) 
train hauling trash derailed. The accident snarled commutes yet
caused no injuries.  Investigators must work quickly while not missing evidence
at crash sites. In San Francisco, airport operators were eager
to clear away the crashed Asiana plane and reopen the runway,
Hersman said.  As the board member in charge at that scene, Hersman said
she got about 20 hours of sleep over six days.  “Our investigators work in very challenging conditions,”
she said. “They are working in the middle of a hot summer at a
railroad accident scene where the temperatures are very high.
They’re working out in the desert in Afghanistan or on a cruise
ship where there’s been a fire and there’s no air
conditioning.”  “But to an investigator, they believe the work they do
makes a difference,” she said. “They will face difficult
circumstances, harsh conditions and long hours because they
believe the work they do is important and saves lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  