-- Assange’s Wikileaks to Field Candidates in Australia Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-25T21:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/assange-s-wikileaks-party-to-field-senators-in-australia-ballot.html
Julian Assange will stand as one of
the seven candidates his Wikileaks Party will field for
 Australia ’s Senate in a national election due by the end of
November.  The party,  registered  with the country’s elections agency
on July 1, will “make sure whoever is in government does their
job,” Assange told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio
yesterday. “It’s an insurance policy for the election.”  Assange would only be able to take up a seat if he can
avoid extradition to Sweden, which is seeking to question him
over allegations of rape and sexual molestation. Assange, an
Australian citizen who gained notoriety for releasing thousands
of U.S. classified military and diplomatic cables through
WikiLeaks, has been holed up inside  Ecuador ’s embassy in  London 
for more than a year to avoid the Swedish request.  Independent candidates and minor parties have held the
balance of power in Australia’s Senate in all but three years
since the 1983 election, and the Greens and Democrat parties
have influenced the outcome of major government policies on both
carbon pricing and sales taxes.  The major political parties “say that they are
representing the Australian people, and once they’re in Canberra
we don’t see that,” Assange said. “We see them representing
their new-found friends” including property developers, U.S.
diplomats, and large companies, he said.  Assange will only return to Australia if  Sweden  drops his
extradition request and he’s assured safe passage back home, he
said in a  July 22 interview  with TNT Magazine. Ecuador granted
him asylum last August, saying he is the victim of political
persecution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  