-- Audi Targets Expansion in Smaller Chinese Cities to Drive Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/audi-targets-expansion-in-smaller-chinese-cities-to-drive-growth.html
Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest
maker of luxury cars, forecast sales in China will increase by
about 11 percent this year, driven by rising incomes and
expansion into smaller cities in the country.  Deliveries should reach 450,000 units this year in China,
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler told reporters in the
southern Chinese city of Foshan, where the automaker is building
its second factory in the country. Audi sold 405,838 vehicles
last year, a 30 percent increase from the year earlier,
according to company data.  Audi’s expansion in China, where it leads in premium car
deliveries, is crucial to helping parent  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  achieve
its goal of overtaking  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
to become the world’s biggest automaker by 2018. China remains
the German brand’s largest single market, with first-half sales
surging 18 percent to 228,139 deliveries.  “A lot of entrepreneurs are coming into the market, the
purchasing power is increasing, people are getting a little bit
more rich,” Stadler said late yesterday.  Audi has been “very strong” in north China and in
Shanghai and Beijing, though it has missed many opportunities in
the south, where it will focus a big part of its expansion by
opening dealerships in cities with populations of one million to
two million people, Stadler said. The automaker will target the
country’s western region in its next phase of expansion, he
said.  With the new Foshan plant and added capacity in its
existing factory in Changchun, Audi will be able to produce as
many as 700,000 vehicles in  China  annually in three to four
years, Stadler said. The automaker has started working with FAW
to develop plug-in hybrid vehicle technology, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  