-- Aussie Drops to 4 1/2-Year Low Versus Kiwi as Rate Bets Diverge
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-25T06:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/aussie-drops-to-4-1-2-year-low-versus-kiwi-as-rate-bets-diverge.html
Australia ’s dollar touched a 4 1/2-year low versus its New Zealand peer, as the smaller nation’s
central bank flagged a need to remove stimulus and drove a
divergence in monetary policy prospects for the two countries.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar rose against all of its 16 major
counterparts after  Reserve Bank  Governor Graeme Wheeler said
that a removal of monetary easing “will likely be needed in the
future” following a policy review today, prompting bets for an
increase in borrowing costs as early as January 2014. The Aussie
slid as traders increased bets the  Reserve Bank of Australia 
will cut its overnight cash rate target next month.  “New Zealand’s Reserve Bank has told us that they’re going
to tighten explicitly, no ifs or buts, while the RBA remains
with an easing bias,” said  Imre Speizer , a markets strategist
at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “That’s as clear a
divergence as you have between two close central banks. The
pressure from the markets would be to the upside for the kiwi
currency, particularly against the crosses.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.8 percent to NZ$1.1454 as
of 4:52 p.m. in Sydney, after earlier touching NZ$1.1453, a
level unseen since November 2008. Westpac sees the currency
falling to NZ$1.11 in the coming months, Speizer said. The
Aussie was little changed at 91.70 U.S. cents. Its New Zealand
counterpart climbed 0.9 percent to 79.99 U.S. cents.  The kiwi has risen 0.7 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its Australian
counterpart has fallen 9 percent, the biggest decline after the
yen among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
gauges.  Housing Impact  The  New Zealand  central bank kept its Official Cash Rate at
a record-low 2.5 percent today. The pace of future interest-rate
increases will depend on the booming housing market’s impact on
prices, the RBNZ said.  “Although removal of monetary stimulus will likely be
needed in the future, we expect to keep the OCR unchanged
through the end of the year,” Wheeler said in a statement in
Wellington today.  The nation’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates that is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to
3.32 percent, the highest close since September 2011.  ‘Digestive Issues’  “The market reaction is a reminder that the removal of
policy stimulus in an environment of low  interest rates 
elsewhere is going to cause some digestive issues,” ANZ Bank
New Zealand Ltd. economists  Cameron Bagrie  and Sharon Zollner
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. “We struggle to
pencil in any more than a couple of OCR moves in 2014.”  Traders see a 53 percent chance RBNZ’s Wheeler will raise
borrowing costs to 2.75 percent or higher by the January 2014
policy review, up from 17 percent odds yesterday,  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. There’s a 75 percent
probability RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board will lower
the country’s key rate by 25 basis points to 2.5 percent at
their next meeting on Aug. 6., according to the data.  Barclays Plc is “narrowly favoring” a quarter-percentage
point reduction to Australia’s cash rate next month, from a
previous forecast for no change.  “The currency remains a wildcard, however, in that a
further steep fall in the Australian dollar could see the RBA
hold its fire,” Sydney-based chief economist  Kieran Davies  and
Singapore-based currency strategist Hamish Pepper wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. The lender, the U.K.’s second-largest by assets, sees the Aussie falling to 86 cents in 12
months, according to the report.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  rose for a third-straight
day and touched 3.78 percent, the highest since July 16. The
rate on three-year bonds advanced five basis points to 2.66
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  