-- Australia’s Abbott Vows to Combat Refugee Surge With Military
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-25T00:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/australia-s-abbott-vows-to-combat-refugee-surge-with-military.html
Australia ’s military will lead
efforts to combat people smuggling should the coalition win
government, opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said, as an influx of
refugees arriving by boat becomes a key election issue.  Within 100 days of being elected, a coalition government
would turn back boats arriving in Australian waters where it’s
safe to do so, increase capacity at offshore processing centers
and deploy additional vessels to transfer refugees, Abbott said
in an e-mailed statement today.  “There is a national emergency on our borders,” he said.
“The scale of this problem requires the discipline and focus of
a targeted military operation, placed under a single operational
and ministerial command.”  The failure to cut the number of asylum seekers attempting
to reach Australia by sea has eroded support for the governing
 Labor party . Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  last week toughened his
government’s stance against asylum seekers by announcing
Australia would refuse entry to refugees arriving by boat and
send them to  Papua New Guinea .  Since 2008, more than 1,000 asylum seekers have died at
sea, with 48,000 people arriving on Australian soil on almost
800 illegal boats, Abbott said today.  Abbott said he intends to appoint a three-star military
commander to oversee his “Operation Sovereign Borders”
program, streamlining decisions into a single command structure
as opposed to the current system which involves 12 separate
government agencies.  Asylum seekers from war-torn countries including
Afghanistan and Pakistan have used Indonesia as a stepping stone
to seek asylum in Australia, hiring people smugglers to ferry
them in unseaworthy boats. Between 2002 and 2004, 69 refugees
arrived in Australia on three boats; last year, 17,202 came on
278 vessels, according to figures from the Refugee Council of
Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  