-- Lazard Profit Beats Estimates on Asset Management, Merger Advice
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-07-25T11:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/lazard-profit-beats-estimates-on-asset-management-merger-advice.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the biggest independent
merger-advisory firm, said second-quarter profit rose 81
percent, beating analysts’ estimates as revenue from asset
management and merger advice increased.  Earnings rose to $60 million, or 45 cents a share, from $33
million, or 25 cents, a year earlier, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based firm said today in a statement. The  average estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for per-share earnings of 33
cents.  Global merger-and-acquisition volume climbed 4 percent in
the second quarter from the first three months of 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as cheap debt and
rising equity markets spurred dealmaking. Lazard Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth M. Jacobs said in April that business had picked
up in industries including consumer, health-care services and
technology.  “The breadth and depth of our advisory services offset the
uneven pace of global M&A activity,” Jacobs, 54, said today in
the statement. “In asset management, we continue to broaden our
investment platforms in anticipation of client needs.”  Lazard rose 1.3 percent yesterday to $34.53 in New York.
The shares have gained 16 percent this year, compared with the
18 percent increase in the  Russell 1000 Index. (RIY)   Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the firm founded by former U.S.
Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , and Greenhill & Co.,
founded by Robert Greenhill, each reported higher second-quarter
profit when compared with a year earlier as revenue from
 investment banking  and advisory units increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Dickson in New York at 
 sdickson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  