-- Baidu CFO Li Says Online Video Offers ‘Tremendous’ Opportunities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-25T06:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/baidu-cfo-li-says-online-video-offers-tremendous-opportunities.html
Jennifer Li, chief financial officer
of Beijing-based  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , comments on the company’s
acquisition strategy and opportunities in the online video
segment. Li spoke in an interview in Beijing today.  “The online video sector carries tremendous business
opportunities.  ‘‘There is a huge demand for video content and quality. At
the same time there is a business model that can help you make
this a virtuous cycle. You continue to invest and fulfill the
users’ needs and meanwhile you make profit out of it.  ‘‘I don’t feel imminent pressure to feel that I have to
drive this unit to profitability. Mobile is developing fast. It
is important for them to really grow their presence, solidify
their market position and go from there.’’  On acquisition strategy:  ‘‘Our M&A strategy, we have said in the past, is to build
the core competency surrounding our main business, that is
search technology, and also to position ourselves for the future
so we invest in strategically important areas.’’  On investment rationale:  ‘‘Some of the things you need to keep in mind when
investing in Internet companies is, often times, you are
investing for the future. It’s the strategic fit of what this
company can offer, and what we need, and together strategically
how that can help us shape the future and build long-term growth
is how we really look at potential companies.’’  On advertisement fees on iPads versus PCs:  ‘‘The beauty of the tablet is it gives you the kind of user
interface experience like PC but it offers Baidu much more
information.  ‘‘We can drive more targeted information to capture what
you are looking for. The click through on a tablet can be very
precise. Click through can be much more targeted. What that
shows is really encouraging. The mobile monetization potential
is huge.’’  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  