-- Baidu Jumps on Earnings as Facebook Lifts Sina: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-25T21:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/baidu-surges-on-earnings-as-facebook-lifts-sina-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  jumped as earnings beat
estimates, leading a rally in Chinese equities traded in New
York. Sina Corp. gained after  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s results topped
forecasts, boosting the outlook for social-media companies.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 2 percent to 92.63, advancing
for the eighth time in nine days. Baidu gained the most in three
years and Sina, China’s biggest Twitter-like service provider,
climbed to a 10-month high. Social network operator  YY Inc. (YY) 
reached a record.  Barclays Plc raised its recommendation on Baidu to buy from
hold after China’s biggest search engine operator reported
second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ projections and
forecast better-than-estimated revenue. At least five other
brokerages  raised  their price targets for Baidu’s American
depositary receipts to as high as $157, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The trend in the mobile business is encouraging,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR Investment Strategy LLC in  San Francisco ,
said by phone yesterday. “Like Facebook, the key for Baidu’s
success is its mobile strategy and execution.”  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 0.9 percent to $34.64,
up for a third day this week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.3 percent as investors weighed corporate earnings and
reports showing durable-goods order and jobless claims rose.  Baidu jumped 11 percent to $125.85, the highest close since
August.  Mobile Revenue  The Beijing-based company reported net income of 2.64
billion yuan ($431 million), compared with the 2.6 billion-yuan
average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 39 percent to 7.56 billion  yuan  as advertisers
spent more to reach out to mobile users.  More than 10 percent of revenue in the quarter came from
mobile devices, with most of that generated through advertising
sales on its search app for smartphones and tablets, Chief
Financial Officer Jennifer Li said in an earnings call.  The result followed two quarters of earnings trailing
analysts’ forecasts as the company increased spending to fend
off challenges from rivals including Qihoo 360 Technology Co.  “We’ve seen the worst,” Chris Bertelsen, Chief Investment
Officer of Global Financial Private Capital, a Sarasota-based
wealth manager with a $2 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview. “You’ll get some pretty good appreciations in the
stocks.”  Barclays raised its rating on Baidu to the equivalent of
buy from hold, with a price target of $153. Pacific Crest
Securities LLC. boosted its target to $157 from $140.  Social Networks  Guangzhou-based YY led a rally in Internet stocks after
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook posted a 53 percent surge
in second-quarter revenue on July 24.  YY increased 11 percent to a record $39.35, while Sina rose
3.5 percent to $66.53, the highest since September. Online book
retailer  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  jumped 8.7 percent to
$8.75, the highest since April 2012.  American depositary receipts of  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd., (MPEL)  which operates casinos in Macau, fell 0.8 percent to
$23.74. The ADRs traded 2.3 percent below to its equivalent
shares in  Hong Kong .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong fell 0.3
percent to 9,752.6, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.6
percent to 2,021.174 in a second day of declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  