-- Halliburton, Baker Hughes Cooperating on U.S. Frack Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-07-25T21:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/baker-hughes-says-u-s-opens-probe-into-fracking-service.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI) , two of the largest providers of hydraulic-fracturing
services, said they are cooperating with a U.S.  Justice
Department  antitrust investigation related to the fracking
market.  Halliburton received a Civil Investigative Demand from the
department during the second quarter and is in the process of
providing responses, Beverly Blohm Stafford, a spokeswoman for
the Houston-based company, said in an e-mail today. Baker Hughes
got a May 30 demand from the department, covering the prior two
years of information, the Houston-based company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  “We understand there have been other participants in the
industry who have received similar correspondence from the DOJ,
and we do not believe that we are being singled out for any
particular scrutiny,” Stafford wrote.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) 
declined to comment on whether it is part of the probe. Closely
held FTS International Inc. hasn’t been contacted by the Justice
Department, Pamela Percival, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail today.  Booming North American oil and natural gas production has
been spurred by the use of fracking to access hydrocarbons
trapped in shale formations. The pressure-pumping technique
involves blasting water mixed with sand and chemicals
underground to free the oil and gas. The U.S. fracking market,
the world’s largest, peaked in the second half of 2011 as prices
soared with surging demand from the shale boom.  Price Drop  The department confirmed today its antitrust division is
investigating possible anticompetitive practices related to
hydraulic fracturing processes.  Baker Hughes fell 0.6 percent to $47.46 at the close in  New
York . Halliburton declined 1.1 percent to $44.34 and
Schlumberger dropped 0.3 percent to $82.57.  With more equipment and competitors pouring into the
market, as much as a 29 percent oversupply of equipment
developed by the fourth quarter of last year, according to
PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-based industry
adviser. Demand for fracking fell as natural gas prices slumped
amid a supply glut, the consultant said.  “With 54 frack players in the U.S. market, probably half
of which are new entrants in the last five years, the idea of a
non-competitive market is absurd,” Alex Robart, principal at
PacWest, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Prices charged for U.S. fracking services slid 14 percent
in 2012 and are expected to fall another 6 percent this year,
according to PacWest.  Surprising Move  The investigation is a surprise, Jud Bailey, an analyst at
International Strategy & Investment Group in Houston, said in an
interview yesterday. He expressed doubt about investigators’
ability to prove antitrust activity.  “It doesn’t seem to hold much water,” said Bailey, who
rates Baker Hughes the equivalent of a buy and doesn’t own the
stock.  Baker Hughes said it can’t predict what action, if any,
might be taken in the future by the Justice Department or other
government authorities because of the investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  