-- Barcelona Said to Open Hong Kong Office as Soccer Expands
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-26T03:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/barcelona-said-to-open-hong-kong-office-as-soccer-expands.html
FC Barcelona, the most successful
European soccer team in the past decade, plans to open an office
in Hong Kong as it challenges  Manchester United (MANU)  for fans in
Asia.  The Spanish soccer champion agreed to lease more than 3,000
square feet (279 square meters) of space at 8 Queen’s Road
Central in the city’s Central business district, according to
two people familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Spanish soccer has lagged behind the popularity of the
English Premier League in Hong Kong, where games are screened
live and British teams regularly play exhibition matches. EPL
champion Manchester United estimated in 2011 that 190 million of
its 330 million fans were in Asia.  Barcelona won the UEFA Champions League, Europe’s most
prestigious competition, three times in the past decade,
defeating Manchester United in the final twice. The club,
featuring four-time world player of the year Lionel Messi, was
ranked the world’s third-most valuable soccer team by Forbes
Magazine this year, one place behind Manchester United. Spanish
rival Real Madrid was rated first.  Barcelona Finance Director Javier Faus announced plans to
open an office in Hong Kong at a press conference in the Spanish
city July 23 without giving more details.  Chinese Followers  Barcelona will play exhibition matches in Bangkok and Kuala
Lumpur as part of its pre-season Asian tour in August, the team
said on its  website.  The team last played an exhibition match in
Hong Kong in 2007.  Manchester United, which will play a pre-season game in
Hong Kong on July 29, last year opened an office in the city’s
Central district after scrapping plans for a share sale worth as
much as $1 billion in  Singapore .  The team estimates it has 108 million followers in  China ,
where it’s played 11 times since 1975 and where soccer is the
most-played sport.  The 19-time English soccer champion in January signed
sponsorship agreements with Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., the
beverage maker owned by China’s richest man, and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest lender.  The team’s rivals in the EPL Manchester City, Sunderland,
and Tottenham Hotspur are now competing in the Barclay Asia
Trophy tournament in Hong Kong.  Central Rents  8 Queen’s Road Central is owned by closely held Sing Pao
Investment Ltd. Susanna Ho, a spokeswoman at Hong Kong-based
companay, declined to comment on the report.  Rents in Hong Kong have been soaring as the city
established itself as a financial gateway to China, the world’s
second-biggest economy.  Central’s rents rose to the world’s highest in 2008 before
dropping behind  London ’s West End last year, according to broker
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Average monthly rents in the district,
which houses the regional headquarters of HSBC Holdings Plc and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., fell 1.5 percent in the first half to
HK$96.90 ($12.50) a square foot, the New York-based broker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  