-- Beatles Music Back on Broadway Despite Lawsuit: Stage
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-07-25T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/beatles-music-back-on-broadway-despite-lawsuit-stage.html
The title “ Let It Be ” suggests a
departure from the formulaic Beatles tribute. Maybe a drama
about the recording of the final album that the band released
and the tensions that drove the four apart?  No such luck. The show at the St. James Theatre breaks no
new ground. Its producers were even sued in Manhattan federal
court for copyright infringement by a producer of Broadway’s
last dreary Beatles tribute, the 2010 “Rain.”  A spokesman for “Let It Be,” which opened last year on
the  West End , declined to comment about the suit.  “Let It Be” opens with “I Saw Her Standing There” and
ends with “Hey Jude.” In between are 39 songs, virtually all
hits that the most casual Beatles fan could’ve compiled. (Nearly
two dozen were also performed in “Rain.”)  High-volume and fast-paced, it begins in the Cavern, the
Liverpool club where the quartet got its start as a cover band.  It moves to the stage of the Ed Sullivan show, Shea Stadium
and, when the songs are ones the Beatles didn’t play live, to
fantasy locations, aided by projections and voiceovers.  Cute wigs, prim suits and genial mannerisms abound before
giving way to Eastern influences and psychedelia. In the show I
saw (a 10-member cast rotates roles) Graham Alexander as  Paul McCartney  bobbled his head to convey boyishness and innocence
(but sometimes seemed to be aping  Stevie Wonder ). John Brosnan
was all stoic business as  George Harrison .  No Fighting  The show proceeds chronologically from the early innocent
rock influenced by  Chuck Berry  and others to the more
experimental songs that changed pop music. The patter is kept to
a minimum and these Fab Four get along from beginning to end.  Although the musicianship is proficient and vocal range is
impressive, seldom does the show rise above what London critic
Michael Billington called “faintly necrophiliac nostalgia.”  I did enjoy absurd black-and-white 1960s television
commercials played on monitors during a set break, for products
such as Carnation Instant Breakfast and Pall Mall cigarettes.  A high point is “While My Guitar Gently Weeps.”
Introducing it, Brosnan, in character, points out that  Eric Clapton  handled lead guitar in the song’s recording session and
questioned whether he, George, was up to the task.  He is, to the audience’s delight. The moment is no less
gaudy than the rest of the show. But resistance is futile when
hearing a favorite Beatles tune -- even when played by
impersonators.  At 246 W. 44th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **  (Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 