-- Berkshire’s BNSF Allowed to Count Purchase Costs in Rates
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-25T18:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/berkshire-s-bnsf-allowed-to-count-purchase-costs-in-rates.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  can count the $8.1 billion premium it paid to acquire
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  Corp. in the formula used to
calculate prices for some shippers, a decision that may make it
harder for some rail customers to challenge their rates.  The U.S. Surface Transportation Board, which regulates some
rail rates, today ruled that Berkshire may count the premium
from its 2009 purchase of BNSF by spreading those costs over
seven years.  Shippers moving products, including coal, asked the
regulator to prohibit the company from counting the premium in
its cost base, saying Berkshire was unfairly trying to make them
reimburse its expenses in the $26.5 billion BNSF acquisition.
The deal was the largest in  Warren Buffett ’s more than four
decades as Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer.  Today’s ruling may make it harder for shippers of grain,
coal and chemicals to challenge their rates, because the
regulator’s decision allows railroads to show higher expenses
than if they couldn’t build in the acquisition costs.  “It makes it harder to pursue rate cases, which are
already very hard to win,” said Robert Szabo, an attorney with
VanNess Feldman in Washington who represents railroad customers.
Shippers known as captive, who are only served by one railroad,
can challenge their rates with the STB through a process they
consider lengthy and expensive.  Rail Deals  BNSF said the ruling upheld the regulator’s precedent to
factor acquisition costs into its accounting, which it said
follows Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and Securities
and Exchange Commission procedures.  “The decision today essentially supports well-settled
board precedent and confirms our assertion that this methodology
would have no appreciable impact on customers,” Steve Forsberg,
a spokesman for BNSF, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , said in an e-mail.  Buffett, whose company is based in Omaha,  Nebraska , didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment sent to an
assistant.  The ruling affects a small portion of Burlington Northern
customers, said Anthony Hatch, an independent rail analyst based
in  New York  who has tracked railroad companies for almost three
decades.  “I don’t think it’s a very big deal for BNSF in terms of
their bottom line,” Hatch said in a telephone interview.  The ruling provides a disincentive for future railroad
mergers by making them more expensive, said Hatch, who said he
doesn’t expect large railroad mergers in the U.S. The country is
served by two large U.S.-based railroads in its eastern half and
two others in its western half following a series of mergers
that consolidated the industry.  ‘All-In Wager’  The STB, which regulates rail mergers and acquisitions,
previously criticized Berkshire for not getting its approval
before buying Burlington Northern, then the second-largest U.S.
railroad by traffic.  Buffett agreed to buy the BNSF shares that Berkshire didn’t
already own in 2009 for $100 a share, or 31 percent more that
the railroad’s closing price the day before the announcement.  He’s called the acquisition an “all-in wager” on the U.S.
and justified the price Berkshire paid in an interview with
 Charlie Rose  on PBS in 2009, saying that it was a good asset for
his company to own for the next century.  “You don’t get bargains on things like that,” Buffett
told Rose. “It’s not cheap.”  BNSF has boosted Berkshire’s earnings since the deal was
completed and reduced the company’s reliance on profit from
insurance operations and Buffett’s investments. The railroad has
benefited from increased shipping tied to U.S. oil production
and provided about a quarter of Berkshire’s $22.2 billion in
profit before income taxes last year.  -- With assistance from Noah Buhayar in New York. Editors:
Bernard Kohn, Elizabeth Wasserman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 