-- Biofuel Makers Seek to Ease Mandates to Avert Congress
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-25T14:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/biofuel-makers-seek-to-ease-mandates-to-avert-congress.html
Makers of some renewable fuels are
asking the federal government to ease quotas for use of their
products in a bid to head off a congressional overhaul of a
program that refiners say is driving up costs at the pump.  With production of fuels made from sources such as wood
waste, algae or used cooking oils at a fraction of what was
envisioned in a 2007 law, the Environmental Protection Agency
needs to adjust requirements for use of biofuels in coming
years, according to the Advanced Biofuels Association. The
statute allows the EPA to modify the requirements, and prompt
EPA action would quell refiners’ fears that there won’t be
enough renewable fuel to meet the mandate, they say.  “It’s highly likely they will be lower than what’s in the
statute,” Michael McAdams, the president of the group
representing 46 companies, said of the quotas. While changes
aren’t needed this year, EPA should set out the proposed
mandates for 2014 and 2015 “in one move, so everybody sees what
the glide path is.”  Under the federal law, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  must use a certain amount of renewable
fuels each year, or buy credits called Renewable Identification
Numbers, known as RINs, to meet their production quotas. The
program, the Renewable Fuel Standard, has separate requirements
for cellulosic fuels, diesel made from biomass such as soybean
oil, as well as a general renewable category that is largely
filled by ethanol made from corn.  Unsafe Blend  With the use of gasoline falling, refiners say that EPA’s
current mandate means they can’t sell enough ethanol without
exceeding the 10 percent blended level deemed safe for all
vehicles. The risk of insufficient capacity for ethanol has in
recent weeks pushed up RIN prices to record levels.  The program “is today completely untethered from reality,
and unless it is immediately halted will unnecessarily cost our
economy and consumers billions of dollars,” Jack Gerard, the
president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents
oil majors such as Exxon, told a congressional panel on July 23.
Gerard, who participated in two days of hearings in the House
Energy and Commerce committee this week, called on Congress to
scrap it.  Supporters say that the EPA can save it by reducing some of
the quotas in the next few years, which would allow the cost of
RINs to fall.  “EPA needs to show more flexibility going forward than
they have in the past,” Jeremy Martin, senior scientist at the
Union of Concerned Scientists, said in an interview. “And I
think they will be more flexible.”  Biofuel, Cellulosic  In implementing the program, the EPA has relied on an
increase in biodiesel production to make up for the lack of
production of cellulosic fuels, such as a gasoline made from
wood or switchgrass. While cellulosic fuels production is
 forecast  by the U.S. Energy Information Administration to grow
to 250 million gallons in 2015 from 5 million gallons this year,
the increase is far short of the 3 billion gallons  mandated  by
the law for 2015.  “It’s coming, but it’s coming slower and at lower volumes
than were originally anticipated by people looking at this,”
Adam Sieminski, the head of the EIA, said in Washington today.
He said it’s “impossible” that producers would meet the 36
billion gallon goal set for 2022.  Supporters of the program such as Martin agree, and say EPA
can and should cut the overall renewable requirement to account
for lower production in cellulosic fuels. The final regulation
for the 2013 quotas is at the White House for review now, and
could be issued next month. A proposal for 2014 is due soon
after, according to an agency statement.  McAdams said adjustments should ease concerns from
refiners, and reverse the run-up in the price of RINs.  “I have not found anybody in the oil industry who
disagrees” with this recommendation, he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  