-- Blaming Full Moon for Sleep Troubles May Not Be Lunacy
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/blaming-full-moon-for-sleep-troubles-may-not-be-lunacy.html
A full moon may be to blame for
sleepless nights after all.  Scientists at the University of Basel,  Switzerland  say they
have found the first reliable evidence that sleep patterns are
influenced by lunar changes. The study, published in  Current
Biology , shows brain activity related to deep sleep in
volunteers dropped by 30 percent around the full moon. The study
subjects also took longer to fall asleep and had shorter nights.  “It could be important,” said  Eric Chudler , executive
director of the Center for Sensorimotor Neural Engineering at
the University of  Washington  in Seattle. The Swiss researchers
aren’t “saying the moon controls the person’s sleep pattern,
they’re saying the body has an internal clock that’s similar to
the lunar cycle. It’s different to the traditional myth.”  The full moon has been blamed for murder and mayhem since
ancient times. The term lunacy was coined in the 16th century to
refer to an intermittent form of insanity believed to be related
to the moon. For generations, people around the world have
passed down tales of werewolves and other moon-related curses.
Scientists have attempted over the years to discover a link
between the satellite’s impact and human behavior. These latest
findings may provide a boost to the field.  Researchers at the Centre for Chronobiology at the
Psychiatric Hospital of the University of Basel originally set
out to examine 33 volunteers’  circadian rhythms , which are
physical, mental and behavioral changes that respond to light
and darkness over a 24-hour cycle.  Lunar Calendar  One evening at the pub several years later, the research
team got talking about how the moon -- which was shining full
that night -- could affect sleep. Christian Cajochen, head of
the Centre for Chronobiology, said he came to realize several of
the scientists believed there could be an impact. The team
decided to go back over their study data, which included
electroencephalograms of patients’ non-rapid-eye-movement sleep
and hormone secretions related to sleep, and match it up with a
lunar calendar.  The results showed a steep drop in brain activity related
to deep sleep. The volunteers, 33 of them divided in two age
groups, took 5 minutes longer to fall asleep and their sleep
duration was reduced by 20 minutes, according to the research.
Their bodies also produced less melatonin, a hormone known to
regulate sleep.  “I was very skeptical until we saw the data,” said
 Cajochen , the lead researcher on the study. “We have to follow
it up.”  Controversial Issue  Cajochen said he didn’t “dare publish it right away
because the issue is very controversial. Until now there hasn’t
been a peer-reviewed study like this.” Cajochen wants other
researchers to confirm his team’s findings. An ideal study would
look at patients over the full lunar cycle, which is 29.5 days,
he said.  Earlier studies have provided promising yet ultimately
inconclusive glimpses of the moon’s impact on humans and
animals.  The British Medical Journal published two articles on dog
bites and the full moon in its Dec. 23, 2000 edition. One showed
the number of people bitten by animals “accelerated sharply”
at the time of a full moon based on 1,621 patients seen in the
emergency room at Bradford Royal Infirmary in Bradford,  England ,
over a two-year period. The other, based on admission rates for
dog bites over a one-year period at public hospitals in
 Australia , showed no moon impact.  Police Records  Data on crime has been equally mixed. Based on police
records and emergency room visits in Dade County,  Florida , over
a five-year period, researchers found a “significant clustering
of cases” of homicides and aggravated assaults around the full
moon, according to a study published in The Journal of Clinical
Psychiatry in May 1978. Another study looking at police records
of arrests in Decatur,  Illinois , between 1967 and 1973 found no
relationship between lunar activity and violence.  “The overwhelming evidence is negative,” said Chudler of
the  University of Washington , a neuroscientist who has looked at
100 peer-reviewed papers on the lunar effect. “Most of them
show no correlation but even if there is a correlation, it
doesn’t mean one causes the other.”  That hasn’t stopped police from drawing their own
conclusions. In the seaside resort of Brighton, England, the
police department decided in 2007 to put extra officers out on
the streets during full moons after comparing crime data and
lunar graphs and finding that violence waxed and waned along
with the moon.  “From my experience, over 19 years of being a police
officer, undoubtedly on full moons, we do seem to get people
with, sort of, stranger behavior -- more fractious,
argumentative,” Andy Parr, an inspector with Sussex police,
told the  BBC .  Chudler’s sister-in-law, a sheriff in the  Seattle  area, is
a staunch believer in the lunar effect, he said.  “Of course when you talk to the bartender or the police
officer or the nurse they’ll say there’s an effect,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  