-- BMC Seeking $3.2 Billion in Loans; True Religion Revises Rates
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-07-25T20:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bmc-seeking-3-2-billion-in-loans-true-religion-revises-rates.html
Technology provider  BMC Software
Inc. (BMC)  is seeking as much as $3.2 billion of loans in the U.S. to
back its buyout by a group including Bain Capital LLC and Golden
Gate Capital.  True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG)  raised rates on its LBO
financing.  BMC is offering to pay 4 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate on the seven-year, first-lien
loan, according to a person familiar with knowledge of the deal
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set. The
Houston-based company is also seeking a 750 million-euro ($996
million)  term loan , the person said.  True Religion, the maker of designer jeans worn by Megan
Fox and  Angelina Jolie , increased the rate it is willing to pay
on $375 million of loans it’s seeking to finance its acquisition
by Towerbrook Capital Partners.  The Vernon, California-based apparel manufacturer is now
offering to pay 5 percentage points more than Libor on the six-year, senior-secured loan, compared with 4.5 percentage points
more than the lending benchmark it originally proposed,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be identified because terms haven’t been set. It
also reduced a second-lien term loan to $92.5 million from an
initially planned $110 million.  There are about $44 billion of deals in general
syndication, with about $668 billion signed in the last 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices on the
largest first-lien junk loans dropped 0.05 cent to 98.34 today,
according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
index.  Hibu Write-off  Hibu Plc (HIBU)  lenders will write off 800 million pounds ($1.2
billion) of loans under proposals for them to take control of
the U.K. yellow pages publisher in a debt-for-equity
restructuring. The company, formerly known as Yell, has
agreement from lenders representing 32.8 percent of its debt and
needs the support from at least 75 percent of all holders for
the deal to be implemented, according to a statement today.  Go Daddy Operating Co., the website registration and
hosting company known for its salacious Super Bowl commercials,
may sell shares to the public as early as next year, Chief
Executive Officer Blake Irving said in an interview yesterday.
The company has a $741 million loan outstanding that comes due
in 2018 and pays 3.25 percentage points more than Libor with a
one percent minimum on the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  