-- Bond Vigilantes Burn Sao Paulo to Whip Inflation: Brazil Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-07-25T17:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bond-vigilantes-burn-sao-paulo-to-whip-inflation-brazil-credit.html
Protesters who forced authorities to
cut bus fares last month in  Brazil ’s largest demonstrations in
two decades are helping inflation ease to the slowest in almost
three years, providing an unintended boon to the nation’s
bondholders.  Yields on the government’s fixed-rate notes due in 2023
dropped 0.74 percentage point through today since reaching a 15-month high of 11.63 percent on June 21. The decline was more
than three times as fast as comparable Mexican bonds as data
published on July 19 showed consumer prices in Brazil  rose  0.07
percent in mid-July from the prior month, the slowest increase
since August 2010.  Bus fare reversals are hastening a slowdown in inflation
that has exceeded the government target range twice this year,
which may let the central bank curtail the fastest pace of
interest-rate increases in the world, according to  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  More than 1 million protesters in June
demanded better public services, an end to corruption and a
lower cost of living after prices for everything from housing to
flour surged in the first half of the year.  “It’s good news for investors who aren’t protected against
inflation,” Enestor Dos Santos, principal economist at BBVA and
the top forecaster of Brazil’s rate decisions based on a two-year history of estimates compiled by Bloomberg, said by phone
from  Madrid . “This may even make the central bank stop raising
rates in October, as opposed to November. It’s very important.”  Biggest Decline  The central bank, whose press office declined to comment
whether last month’s protests are helping bondholders, targets
annual inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  has fallen 26
basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, this month to 217 basis
points as of 2:30 p.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Brazil’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
have declined three basis points to 182 basis points in the same
span.  Transportation prices in Brazil decreased 0.55 percent on a
monthly basis in the first half of July, the biggest decline in
a year. A decline in food and clothing prices also helped offset
increased housing, health care and education prices as inflation
fell short of the 0.11 percent median forecast made by analysts
 polled by Bloomberg .  ‘Main Reason’  Protests that saw demonstrators set up burning barricades
and that claimed the lives of at least six people were set off
in early June after the Sao Paulo government announced it was
raising bus fares 7 percent. Authorities in that city and other
metropolitan centers including  Rio de Janeiro ,  Porto Alegre  and
Recife in June eventually bowed to demonstrators and reduced
prices on city buses.  “The main reason you had a lower rate was because of the
undoing of the fare increases,”  John Welch , macro strategist at
the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from
Toronto about inflation. “You had quite a bit of backlash
against inflation.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  is taking other steps to cool
inflation, which has reduced purchasing power and contributed to
a decline in her government’s approval rating. Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said on July 22 the government will cut spending
by 10 billion reais ($4.4 billion) in 2013 and in June
authorities cut  import duties  on beans, a staple in the country.  Rising Dissatisfaction  Gross domestic product expanded 1.9 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, missing analysts’ estimates for 2.3
percent growth as household spending fell to its lowest level
since 2011. Growth slowed to 0.55 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three-month period.  The percentage of Brazilians who were dissatisfied with
Rousseff’s policy to slow inflation jumped 10 percentage points
to 57 percent in June from March, according to an Ibope poll
published by the National Industry Confederation June 19. The
June 6-7 survey of 3,758 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus two percentage points.  Brazil also is one of only three major economies tracked by
Bloomberg that is raising benchmark borrowing costs this year,
after policy makers cut the key rate more than any other Group
of 20 nation to a record low 7.25 percent last year.  Egypt  has boosted its deposit rate by a half-percentage
point since January and  Indonesia  has increased its  reference
rate  by 0.75 percentage point.  Temporary Relief  Brazil’s central bank on July 10 raised the benchmark
interest rate by a half-percentage point for the second straight
meeting following an increase of 0.25 percentage point in April.
Borrowing costs will rise from today’s 8.5 percent to 9.25
percent by the end of the year, according to a central bank
survey of about 100 economists published July 22.  Monthly inflation in July will be close to zero, Rousseff
said July 17, adding that prices will slow to the central bank’s
target range by year-end.  Even as reduced fare prices provide temporary inflation
relief, the lower prices may not be viable in the long term,
according to  Tony Volpon , director of emerging-market research
for the Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc. While regulated price
increases are below 2 percent, inflation in other parts of the
economy is closer to 8 percent, he said.  Hard Argument  The price cuts increase “the unsustainable wedge between
regulated prices and free prices,” Volpon said by phone from
 New York . “It creates more fiscal pressure because
municipalities are going to have to subsidize. It’s hard to make
an argument that this is good macroeconomic news.”  Brazil’s inflation will accelerate to 5.87 percent next
year from 5.75 percent in 2013, according to the July 22 central
bank survey. Analysts have boosted their 2014 inflation forecast
from a low of 5.50 percent at the start of the year.  Yields on  interest-rate  futures contracts due in January
2015 climbed two basis points to 9.36 percent today. The real
weakened 0.1 percent to 2.2527 per dollar and is down 8.9
percent this year, the fourth-worst performance among the 16
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While street demonstrations have died down this month, the
uprising put policy makers under renewed pressure to follow
through on their promises to rein in inflation, according to
Carlos Kawall, chief economist at Banco Safra.  “There’s a perception that people pay a lot for services
that are of bad quality,” Kawall said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Part of that has to do with public tariffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  