-- Boris Johnson Awards $103Mln in Olympic Stadium Contracts
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-25T16:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/boris-johnson-awards-103mln-in-olympic-stadium-contracts.html
A year after  London 2012 , the city
awarded 67.5 million pounds ($103 million) of contracts to
redevelop the Olympic Stadium and announced plans to construct
the U.K.’s biggest indoor ski slope.  London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  said Australia’s Westfield Group
will be making a planning application for the city’s first
indoor ski center next to its Stratford shopping center at the
Olympic Park by the end of the summer. Financial details weren’t
revealed, although the Evening Standard said it will cost up to
200 million pounds.  The ski center forms part of “an astonishing economic
story of regeneration of east London,” Johnson said at a press
conference at  City Hall  today.  London won the bid to host the 2012 Olympics in 2005 with
the promise it would regenerate parts of east London, which has
some of the most deprived boroughs in the U.K.  The 500-acre (200-hectare) Olympic Park will have 11,000
homes and create 10,000 jobs. The park’s eight Olympic venues
“have long-term secure private sector futures” and avoided
becoming “a herd of white elephants,” once the games were
over, Johnson said.  The ski center project -- which will have a combined ski
run of 800 meters and be about the same size as  Ski Dubai  in the
United Arab Emirates -- may be completed within two years by
 Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s biggest owner of shopping centers.
The application is also set to include retail, hotel and
restaurant facilities.  New Roof  Johnson and the London Legacy Development Corporation
(LLDC) also announced a 41 million-pound contract with  Balfour
Beatty Plc (BBY)  to build a new roof that will help turn the Olympic
Stadium into “an all-round multi-use venue” that’s fit to
deliver a lasting sporting and commercial legacy in east London.  In addition, a 25 million-pound contract was awarded to
Imtech G&H to carry out electrical and plumbing work in the
stadium.  The LLDC is also in talks with  University College London 
about the possible development of a new UCL campus on the
Olympic Park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 