-- Brazil’s Corsan Must Raise Rate to Attract $2 Billion Investment
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-25T19:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/brazil-s-corsan-must-raise-rate-to-attract-2-billion-investment.html
Cia. Riograndense de Saneamento, the
government water utility serving  Brazil ’s Rio Grande do Sul
state, said it must charge more to attract the 5 billion reais
($2.22 billion) of private investment needed to expand sewage
services throughout the state.  The utility must be allowed to as much as double rates from
21 reais a client per month before investors agree to build
waste-treatement plants, Tarcisio Zimmermann, president of
Corsan, as the company is known, said today in a telephone
interview.  Corsan collects about 12 percent of the sewage generated in
Rio Grande do Sul and must invest as much as 10 billion reais in
treatment infrastructure to boost that to 100 percent, he said.
The utility wants private companies to shoulder half of those
investments.  Tariffs for treating sewage “need to be much higher,” he
said. “At the moment, the higher rate we get for distributing
water is subsidizing” the cost of treating sewage.  The utility has received proposals from five of the
nation’s biggest sanitation and construction companies to build
sewage projects, he said. An auction for the development rights
is planned for next year.  Corsan, based in Porto Alegre, plans to invest 4 billion
reais in waterworks through 2017, he said. It’s invested about
1.5 billion reais since 2007.  The regulator “is open to discussions” over a rate
increase, Zimmermann said. “Whether this will happen I can’t
say because it’s an independent organ and it does its own
studies.”  Federal law permits tariff revisions that adequately
account for the costs of water supply and sanitation, Juarez
Molinari, counsel president of Rio Grande do Sul’s regulator
Agencia Estadual de Regulacao dos Servicos Publicos Delegados,
said today in an e-mail. Utilities can boost revenue by reducing
water losses in their distribution grids, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  