-- Breakthrough Status May Spur J&J Drug to Market Early
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-25T20:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/breakthrough-status-may-spur-j-j-drug-to-market-early.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pharmacyclics
Inc. (PCYC)  may push their experimental cancer drug to market two years
faster than projected after gaining a new status the government
now grants promising therapies.  Pharmacyclics sent an application for review for ibrutinib
to the  Food and Drug Administration  on July 10 to treat two
blood cancers, which the agency may decide on by March 10. This
is two years ahead of schedule after the FDA in February named
ibrutinib a breakthrough therapy, said Jay Siegel, J&J’s head of
global regulatory affairs. Such a designation prioritizes a
drug’s development among agency staff.  J&J may seek more breakthrough designations for ibrutinib
as it studies the therapy for other uses, Siegel said in an
interview in  Washington . The FDA gained the power to grant the
status in legislation passed a year ago and began issuing the
classification in January.  “This has had an enormous impact,” Siegel said during a
congressional briefing yesterday on the new-drug designation.
“There is a very proactive role on the part of the FDA. They’ll
pick up the phone and call us and say ‘Have you thought of this
way to do this faster? Have you thought about this problem?’”  The FDA suggested some avenues the companies should take to
seek approval that they hadn’t thought of, Siegel said, without
being specific. The agency also helped J&J and Sunnyvale,
California-based Pharmacyclics determine which trials must be
done before submitting an approval application and which could
be conducted after potential approval, he said.  Clinical Trials  The companies based the application on the second of what
are typically three phases of clinical trials. J&J, the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, is based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  FDA inspectors who check quality at drugmakers’ facilities
before drug approval and manufacturing compliance workers at the
agency also have been working with the companies to help
ibrutinib through the process. Scheduling agency inspections of
overseas factories, which tend to take a long time, may prove a
stumbling block for breakthrough-drug approvals, Siegel said.  Ibrutinib has been assigned as a breakthrough designation
for  mantle cell lymphoma , chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small
cell lymphoma and another rare lymphoma. The companies have
applied to market the drug for use against mantle cell lymphoma
and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small cell lymphoma.  Pharmacyclics rose 2.2 percent to $103.71 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. J&J gained less than 1 percent to $92.57.  Two Dozen  The FDA has made 24 breakthrough designations. A new era of
drugs that target patients who will best respond has made the
classifications possible,  Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said at the briefing.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , was the first to receive a breakthrough
designation for expanded use of its cystic fibrosis drug
Kalydeco.  “It’s a different kind of conversation,” Jeffrey Leiden,
president and chief executive officer of Vertex, said at the
briefing. “It’s iterative. It’s continuous. It’s pick up the
phone if you have a problem.’  ‘‘That makes the progression of the trial immeasurably
better -- smoother, easier for us,” Leiden added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  