-- Bristol-Myers Cuts Forecast on Slow Start to Heart Drug
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-25T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bristol-myers-cuts-forecast-on-slow-start-to-heart-drug.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  plans a new
marketing and advertising push for its prized new drugs for
blood clots and diabetes that are selling slower than company
expectations and analysts’ estimates.  Eliquis, a blood thinner approved at the end of 2012, and
Bydureon, a diabetes treatment gained in the $6.49 billion
acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals last year, have
disappointed, the New York-based company said today after
cutting its 2013 profit forecast. Second-quarter revenue
declined 9 percent to $4.05 billion, reflecting generic
competition to two former top drugs.  “In some areas we did not get the results we wanted,”
Chief Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti said on a conference
call. Andreotti and Chief Financial Officer Charles Bancroft
said doctors aren’t prescribing Eliquis at the rate initially
expected, and the diabetes market had grown more competitive.  Disappointing sales of the new drugs hasn’t hurt Bristol-Myers’s stock yet. Eliquis sales last quarter were below analyst
expectations as well, and despite only beating their estimates
of adjusted earnings once in the last seven quarters, the shares
have  gained 34 percent  since January 2012.  Bristol-Myers fell 1.5 percent to $43.93 at 4 p.m. New York
time.  Reduced Forecasts  Bristol-Myers  forecast  full-year earnings, excluding one-time items, of $1.70 to $1.78 a share from the previous outlook
of $1.78 to $1.88. The company also reduced its full-year sales
 forecast  to $16 billion to $16.5 billion, from $16.2 billion to
$17 billion.  For Eliquis, Andreotti and his executive team said the
company will be spending more on doctor education, paying
physicians to give lectures to peers about the treatment’s
benefits and using a direct-to-consumer ad campaign.  “We are convinced the new supportive actions will deliver
results,” Andreotti said. “I continue to believe that Eliquis
will be the leading new agent over time.”  Cardiologists are prescribing the drug at good rates, the
company said. Primary care doctors, though, are still relying on
warfarin, an older, generic medicine that Eliquis was designed
to replace.  While Eliquis, which the company sells with New York-based
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , is projected to generate at least $1 billion a
year, sales in the second quarter headed in the wrong direction.
The pill generated $12 million for Bristol-Myers compared with
 $22 million  during the first quarter, and below the $48.3
million average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The drug competes with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
Pradaxa and Johnson & Johnson and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Xarelto.  Bydureon Sales  Bydureon, acquired in the Amylin deal, also came in below
estimates. Analysts had projected $84 million in sales. The
drug’s revenue was $66 million, Bristol-Myers said.  “Clearly, the diabetes market has become increasingly
competitive,” Bancroft said. “We, along with our partner
AstraZeneca, recognize the need for adequate resources in this
business and to execute better to drive growth. Therefore, we
plan to increase our commercial investment in the second half of
the year.” London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  splits promotion of
some of Bristol-Myers’s diabetes products.  Second-quarter  earnings  of 44 cents matched the average of
17  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income fell 17
percent to $536 million, or 32 cents, from $645 million, or 38
cents, a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  Long-Term View  The slow quarter wasn’t a huge surprise, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy & Investment
Group in New York. “Investor expectations for the quarter and
guidance were low -- and most shareholders presumably hold
Bristol-Myers not for 2013 numbers, but for the longer-term
upside,” he said in a note to clients today.  Investors are focused on the company’s pipeline and its
leading position in developing new cancer therapies that use the
body’s own immune system to fight the disease, Schoenebaum said.  The experimental cancer drug nivolomab, being studied in
melanoma and  lung cancer , is driving investors’ interest in the
company, which “dominates the paradigm-changing immuno-oncology
opportunity,” said Jami Rubin, an analyst with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  The immune-oncology effort is part of a strategy to move
the company past Plavix, once its  best-selling  anti-stroke
medication that lost patent protection in May 2012. Spending on
research and development is projected to increase “in the low-single digit percentage range” this year, the company said.  Higher Expectations  That long-term focus by investors has given Bristol-Myers
has the highest price-to-earnings ratio of any major U.S.
drugmaker. “Bristol-Myers is and has been a higher-expectation
name,” said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. who has a “market perform” rating on the stock.  Yervoy, Bristol-Myers’ immune-based cancer drug approved in
2011, sold $233 million, a 44 percent increase from a year
earlier and $5 million more than estimates. Sprycel, a chronic
myeloid leukemia treatment, grew 28 percent to $312 million.  Forxiga, a diabetes treatment rejected by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration in 2011, was resubmitted to the agency for
approval. The company said it added new studies and long-term
data on the drug’s use to its application. Before it was
rejected, a panel of advisers to the agency questioned whether
its risks of cancer outweighed benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  