-- Brown Scuttled Prison Bond Haunts Inmate Release Order
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-07-25T03:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/brown-scuttled-prison-bond-haunts-inmate-release-order.html
Six years ago,  California  lawmakers
shook hands on a $7.4 billion deal to build lockups for 53,000
prisoners to reduce overcrowding that was so severe a federal
judge threatened to set thousands of convicts free.  Today, just a fifth of the money has been spent, violent
crime is rising in the most-populous U.S. state and Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat, risks contempt charges for resisting a
court order to lower inmate numbers still further.  Brown has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to block a lower
court order to trim almost 10,000 from the 119,000 inmates held
in the state by the end of the year. Brown says the state has
already lowered the count by 43,000 since 2006, spent $1 billion
on improving care and conditions, and that obeying the order
would force the early release of violent criminals.  “There is no question that there were big problems in
California prisons such as overcrowding, lack of health care,
and lots of other problems,” Brown, 75, told reporters in
January. “But after decades of work, the job is now complete.
Our prisons are not overcrowded.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  is set to make the decision on
whether to let the reduction proceed or put the matter on hold
until the full court returns in October from its summer recess.  California’s prison system, one of the country’s largest,
once locked up almost twice the number of prisoners that its 33
penitentiaries were designed to hold. The figure is now about
149 percent of capacity. Brown calls the gauge “a somewhat
arbitrary figure.”  Federal judges seized control of the state’s prison health
system in 2006, saying inmate care was so bad it amounted to
cruel and usual punishment and violated the U.S. Constitution.  Cramped Conditions  The judges cited cramped conditions where inmates were
lodged in gyms and dayrooms because there weren’t enough cells.
They ordered the state to cut the population to 137.5 percent of
capacity.  The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the lower court’s order to
reduce inmate crowding in 2011. That year, Brown came to office,
seeking a different approach from the multi-billion-dollar
building program.  He pushed fellow Democrats to pass his plan known as
 realignment  -- shifting felons convicted of nonviolent, low-level crimes to county jails, or to alternatives such as house
arrest and electronic monitoring -- then scuttled much of what
was envisioned in the 2007 prison agreement.  At the time, the Corrections Department said slashing the
program would save the state $2.2 billion annually in new
operating and debt-service costs.  Interest Wanes  Public interest in building new prisons and paying to
operate them has waned in the six years since the spending plan
was approved, said Raphael J. Sonenshein, the executive director
of the Edmund G. “Pat” Brown Institute of Public Affairs at
 California State University ,  Los Angeles .  “That was probably the high-water mark of an era, which
was for voter-approved measures that kept sending more and more
people to state prisons,” he said. “The solution at the time
was to lock everybody up in state prison, and construction was
popular. The consensus on that model has quietly evaporated.”  Brown says his approach has helped reduce the number of
prison inmates, with more than half of the 43,000 decline since
2006 made in the past two years. That’s made the new prisons
unnecessary, he said.  To comply with the court order, the state would have to
consider early release of elderly and sick inmates, provide
money to lease private prison space, continue to use out-of-state lockups and build new prisons, Brown said in May.  Those measures would come close to meeting the court’s
target by year-end, state lawyers said in a court filing.  ‘Quality Care’  “This is a system that is delivering quality care, a
constitutional level of care,” Jeffrey Beard, Brown’s prison
secretary, said in May. “Any further forced reductions in our
population is both unnecessary and unsafe. I’m disappointed the
judges haven’t taken an in-depth look at all we’ve done.”  Twice this year, a  three-judge panel  has chided Brown over
his resistance to reduce the population any more. In April, they
said in legal filings that they had “exercised exceptional
restraint” in not citing the governor for contempt of court.  Critics such as Senate Republican leader Bob Huff of
Diamond Bar seized on the concern that dangerous criminals could
be freed, after Brown had refused to use a tool at hand -- the
billions in bonds -- to increase the number of prison beds.  “They chose the path of realignment and when they drew a
line in the sand on early release, it makes them look like the
heroes,” Huff said. “But in fact, the first decision was the
flawed decision.”  Bond Plan  Former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, in
2006 proposed an $11 billion bond program to build new prisons
and local jails as a way to avoid a court-ordered release.
Democrats who control both chambers of the legislature balked,
demanding more funds for drug treatment, rehabilitation, job
readiness and re-entry programs as a way to curb the number of
inmates who end up back in prison.  In April 2007, after months of closed-door talks between
the governor and lawmakers, they compromised to produce the plan
to sell $7.4 billion of lease-revenue bonds for prison and jail
construction and spend $300 million from the annual state budget
to overhaul aging support infrastructure such as sewers. Another
$50 million was earmarked for rehabilitation programs.  Lease-revenue bonds don’t need voter approval and require
lawmakers to appropriate the funding. In the years that
followed, little of the money was ever appropriated as Democrats
tinkered with the proposal, lawsuits challenged the plan and the
18-month recession that began in December 2007 left the state
with more than $100 billion of cumulative deficits by last year.  Brown Cancels  Brown, after taking office, abruptly canceled $4.1 billion
of the building projects. Democrats also passed a budget bill
that reduced the amount that could be borrowed to $3.6 billion.
To date, the state has sold $1.6 billion of the bonds, according
to Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office.  “This crisis was entirely foreseeable, and the state plan
to address it was disregarded by the governor and legislative
Democrats,” Huff said.  Evan Westrup, a Brown spokesman, referred a request for
comment on the prison issue to the Corrections Department.
Jeffrey Callison, an agency spokesman, said the state is adding
a $900 million prison medical and mental-health facility in
Stockton, which is scheduled to open this month.  “By reducing the inmate population through realignment in
partnership with  law enforcement , and by enhancing medical care
by making targeted investments like the building of the 1,722-bed California Health Care Facility in Stockton, the state will
continue to make the case that it’s providing constitutional
medical and mental health care to inmates while helping ensure
that Californians are safe,” Callison said by e-mail.  Rising Crime  The potential for the early release of inmates comes as new
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation  data  show that felonies in the
state are on the rise. Violent crime increased 2.9 percent last
year in California cities with 100,000 residents or more. Rape
rose 6 percent, while property crimes climbed almost 12 percent.  Local jails are filling up. Statewide, county lockups have
been operating above rated capacity since February 2012, the
 Public Policy Institute of California  said last year. Some
counties, lacking cell space, have released prisoners early.  “He has made it very clear he doesn’t want to spend any
more money on expanding capacity and it’s unfortunate,” former
Lieutenant Governor Abel Maldonado, a Republican seeking to win
the governor’s office in the next election, said of Brown.  Reluctant Governor  “We had $7.4 billion that was passed by the legislature in
2007,” Maldonado said. “The money was there for everything to
do with what the judges are asking us to do. The solution is in
Governor Brown’s hands. He just doesn’t want to do it.”  Some of the bond money has been spent, with one of the
projects financed being the Stockton hospital. To ease county
jail crowding, the state is paying for 10,000 new local beds.  Prisons take the fourth-biggest bite of California’s
budget, at $11.2 billion this fiscal year, behind schools and
colleges, health and welfare, and transportation, according to
the  Finance Department .  “We can’t spend more and more dollars down the rat hole
that is incarceration,” Brown said. “We have to spend as much
as we need and no more, and I think we’ve hit that point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  