-- BT Profit Falls Less Than Expected Ahead of Sport Release
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-25T14:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bt-beats-earnings-estimates-in-run-up-to-sports-tv.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest fixed-line
phone company in the U.K., reported first-quarter earnings that
fell less than analysts’ estimates as spending cuts cushioned
investments in premium sports package.  Adjusted  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 0.8 percent to 1.44 billion pounds ($2.2
billion) in the quarter ended in June, BT said in a statement.
Analysts had predicted 1.41 billion pounds, according to the
average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  BT is cutting costs including  capital spending  and labor
expenses to maintain Ebitda as the company builds up its sports
programming. BT Sport and ESPN channels will be available on
Aug. 1, an expansion into content that will probably cost the
company 1 billion pounds in broadcasting rights alone over the
next three years. While the channels -- free for BT broadband
subscribers -- will lose money initially, the London-based
company’s said they’ll boost subscriptions and customer loyalty.  “More than half a million households have now ordered BT
Sport, and that’s before the channels have even launched,”
Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said in the statement. BT
is making good progress “despite the impact of regulation and
the significant investments we are making for the future.”  BT reiterated its full-year forecast. It has said adjusted
Ebitda will be 6 billion to 6.1 billion pounds this fiscal year.  The new subscriptions for BT Sport don’t prove “this has
had a positive impact on the key metrics the investment was
designed to boost,” Informa Plc analyst Ted Hall wrote today.
BT “spent a small fortune” on the channels, he said.  BT fell 2.5 percent to 333.5 pence at 2:49 p.m. in  London ,
parring the stock’s gains this year to 44 percent.  BT Sport  Revenue declined to 4.45 billion pounds from 4.5 billion
pounds a year earlier. Gavin Patterson, who will become chief
executive officer after Livingston leaves the post in September,
will continue efforts to modernize the 165-year-old company as
it builds up high-speed Internet and TV to find ways to
compensate for declining demand for fixed phone lines.  The company is joining  John Malone ’s television giant
 Liberty Global (LBTYA)  Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc, the second-biggest
mobile-phone operator, in adding new services to
telecommunications packages to lock in customers and boost
monthly bills.  The sports packages are seen as a threat to other pay-TV
operators in the U.K.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
Britain’s most popular pay-TV service, fell 6.2 percent on May
9, the day BT unveiled the channels. TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc,
which sells Internet, phone and TV service through the YouView
platform, fell 12 percent that day.  Global Enterprise  BT’s global enterprise business had a 50 percent increase
in new orders for the quarter as it won large international
clients including Credit Suisse Group AG, Livingston said on a
call with reporters today. Revenue from the new business will be
recognized over the course of the contract.  “Things are a little bit more positive on global
services,” Livingston said. “The standout remains double-digit
growth in the high-growth regions around the world, but also in
 Europe  it’s a little bit better. It’s not declining as much.”  Global services revenue was 1.7 billion pounds for the
quarter, down 2 percent from a year earlier. The company’s
retail business, its largest, was little changed at 1.8 billion
pounds. Openreach, the company’s local access network that
provides infrastructure for calls and Web service, fell 2
percent to 1.25 billion pounds.  Ofcom, the U.K. telecommunications regulator, requires the
former monopoly to give other carriers access to its network at
regulated prices that decline every year. The company has
estimated that the cap will cut revenue by 50 million to 100
million pounds this fiscal year and next.  Adjusted profit before tax rose 4.9 percent to 595 million
pounds, beating analysts’ 563 million-pound estimate, according
to the average of those surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  