-- Buffett Says Coal’s Slide to Be Permanent, Yet Gradual
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-25T19:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/buffett-says-coal-s-slide-to-be-permanent-yet-gradual.html
Coal use in the U.S. will continue
to fall though the slide will be gradual as electric utilities
switch to cleaner alternatives over “years and years,”
billionaire  Warren Buffett  said at an event in  Indiana  this
week.  “Coal will gradually decline in importance, and of course
when natural gas prices get low enough you have a big switch
over,” Buffett said July 22, according to a recording posted
online by WFYI, a public radio station in Indianapolis.  “Coal plants are producing about 38 percent of all the
electricity in the United States now,” Buffett said. “You
can’t scrap that. That takes years and years and years to
replace. It will be happening gradually.”  Buffett was in Indiana to open a Geico Corp. call center in
Carmel, north of Indianapolis. The insurance company is owned by
Buffett’s Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , as is
the utility MidAmerican Energy Co. Berkshire also owns companies
that use and transport coal.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a message left with
an assistant.  Hydraulic fracturing for natural gas in shale formations
has increased supplies and lowered prices for the fuel, and
decreased coal’s share of electricity generation. In 2007, coal
accounted for 49 percent of U.S. power production. Natural gas
futures have rebounded from record lows in 2012 and are up more
than 9 percent this year.  MidAmerican Energy, based in Des Moines,  Iowa , generated
about 45 percent of it electricity from coal at the end of 2012.  Burning Halted  The utility has since announced plans to stop burning coal
at five Iowa electric generating plants in an agreement with the
 Sierra Club , a San Francisco-based environmental group that had
threatened to sue over the plants’ emissions.  In May, the company said it would invest $1.9 billion to
build more wind farms in the state.  Berkshire also owns the rail line Burlington Northern  Santa
Fe  Corp., which ships coal from the Powder River Basin in
 Wyoming .  “If there was no coal moving we would not find a lot of
use for some of the tracks we have,” Buffett said at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in May. Should natural gas prices
increase, coal use will probably go back up, he said.  Meanwhile, BNSF will continue to benefit from the rising
production of oil in  North Dakota , Buffett said. About 75
percent of the crude is transported by rail lines, according to
the state.  “I think there will be a lot of rail usage for a lot
longer,” Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  