-- Buffett Reinsures Irish State Health Claims as Population Ages
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-25T12:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/buffett-reinsures-irish-state-health-claims-as-population-ages.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. will reinsure about 700 million euros ($923 million) in
claims for Ireland’s state health insurer, which is seeking to
stem losses and its burden on taxpayers as the population ages.  Vhi Healthcare and Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire signed a
deal for one year, which Vhi will seek to extend, Brighid Smyth,
a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based insurer, said by phone. She
declined to give terms of the agreement, which will cover half
of Vhi’s 1.4 billion-euro claim book.  The agreement may save Irish taxpayers as much as 90
million euros, Smyth said, as Vhi will require a smaller boost
to its reserves given Berkshire’s assumption of some of the
insurer’s risks. Berkshire, rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s , is
willing to take on risks that other insurers are looking to
unload in deals that give Buffett, 82, more funds to invest.  “This should help reduce our  capital requirements  and
minimize the amount of capital required from government,” Smyth
said. “We are working on securing a longer-term partnership.”  Vhi, founded by the government in 1957, had a monopoly on
health insurance until 1997. It lost 7.2 million euros last year
underwriting private health care as the mix of its customers
aged and it paid out more for medical procedures.  The number of Vhi customers under the age of 60 has shrunk
by 29 percent over the past eight years, while clients older
than 60 have risen by 12 percent. By the end of this year, Vhi
is set to become regulated by the Irish central bank, which may
demand higher reserves.  Central Bank  Vhi reported a surplus after tax of 54.3 million euros in
2012 after it booked a one-time retirement credit and its
investments returned to profit.  “While the surplus recorded this year is very welcome, we
will need to build on this in the coming year,” John O’Dwyer,
chief executive officer of Vhi, said when the insurer posted its
yearly figures in June. “We will need to record a surplus of at
least 60 million euros each year if we are to maintain the
correct solvency level required for authorization.”  The insurer booked investment returns of 19.4 million euros
last year, compared with a loss of 23.5 million euros in the
previous 12 months. The company’s reserves rose 22 percent to
324 million euros in the period.  The Irish Times reported in April that the government may
have to invest as much as 200 million euros in Vhi to satisfy
the nation’s central bank.  A year ago, the European Commission called on Ireland to
end what it called an “unlimited state guarantee” for Vhi.  Buffett’s company agreed last month to buy a U.K. annuity
business from Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., adding
$1.75 billion in assets under management. Cigna Corp. agreed in
February to give  Berkshire (BRK/A)  $2.2 billion to take on liabilities
tied to retirement products. Hartford is seeking to increase its
focus on property-casualty coverage, while Cigna sells health
insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  