-- Bulgarian Premier Resists Calls to Resign, Seeks Dialogue
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-25T12:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bulgarian-premier-resists-calls-to-resign-seeks-dialogue.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski  rejected demands that he resign and said he would
try to stabilize the Balkan country after protests against his
government turned violent.  The cabinet has a “clear plan” to improve conditions for
people and businesses and make the administration more
transparent, Oresharski said in an e-mailed statement in the
capital Sofia today. Capping almost six weeks of protests,
dozens of people were injured on July 23 in clashes with police
when officers evacuated lawmakers from parliament following a
10-hour siege.  “A consensus is needed to find a way out of the crisis,”
Oresharski said. “We are resolved to seek social dialogue and
agreement to achieve these goals.”  Bulgarian political leaders are struggling to maintain
public confidence as voters are increasingly aggressive about
their dissatisfaction with what they see as a corrupt political
system in the European Union’s poorest member. Oresharski came
to power May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his
predecessor, Boyko Borissov, and triggered snap elections.  President Rossen Plevneliev has said a new vote may be
needed.  The latest round of protests began with the June 14
appointment of media executive Delyan Peevski as head of the
State Agency for National Security. Nationwide demonstrations
forced Peevski, who also has interests in tobacco, banking and
telecommunications companies, to back off from the appointment.  Budget Revision  The protests escalated into daily anti-government marches
that turned violent for the first time two days ago, when
parliament’s budget and finance committee approved a budget
revision to cover increased spending on social benefits,
reimbursement of value-added tax receipts and payment for public
services to companies. Demonstrators besieged the building
trapping about 120 lawmakers, ministers and journalists for 10
hours.  About 50 people gathered briefly in front of the assembly
today as lawmakers started debates on the revision, which would
widen the deficit to 2 percent of economic output from a
previous 1.3 percent and raise the debt sale limit by 1 billion
lev ($676 million). The package needs two rounds of voting for
final approval.  Plevneliev said on July 5 that early elections are the only
democratic solution to the standoff between Oresharski’s cabinet
and the protesters. Plevneliev has no power to call early
elections before the government resigns.  Oresharski, backed by the Socialists and the Movement for
Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic Turks, has said he
won’t resign because doing so would further destabilize the
country.  Borissov, the leader of the opposition Gerb party, said
more parties will be represented in parliament after a new round
of elections, which will help “normalize the country.”  “Elections are the only way to have functioning
parliament,” Borissov told lawmakers today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  