-- Bullion Bear Market Seen Ending Zinc’s 7-Year Glut: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-25T04:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/bullion-bear-market-seen-ending-zinc-s-7-year-glut-commodities.html
The bear market in silver is poised
to turn around the fortunes for zinc as miners reduce production
and end the seven-year glut in the industrial metal.  Silver makes up 40 percent of the value of byproducts from
zinc mining and helps reduce costs for mineral companies, HSBC
Holdings Plc says. Its 33 percent slump in the past seven months
added about $130 a metric ton, or 7 percent, to average zinc
production costs, according to CRU, the London-based research
company. Zinc demand will exceed supply by about 4,000 tons in
2014, from a 44,800-ton surplus this year, the average of 14
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies from  Terramin Australia Ltd. (TZN)  to Yukon Zinc Corp.
said they are curbing unprofitable operations. Prices will rise
3.6 percent to an average of $1,952.50 in the fourth quarter and
$2,000 in the following three months, according to the median of
as many as 14 analyst estimates. Silver fell as investors lost
faith in precious metals as a store of value. Citigroup Inc. is
forecasting the lowest annual average in five years in 2014.  “A falling silver price effectively raises the cost curve
in the zinc industry,” said  Andrew Keen , the global head of
metals and mining equity research at HSBC in  London , who has
covered metals markets for more than two decades. “It doesn’t
have to fall as far as it used to to trigger closures of mine
capacity.”  Bear Markets  Zinc fell 9.4 percent to $1,884.50 a ton on the London
Metal Exchange this year, the smallest drop of the six main
metals on the bourse. Aluminum went into a bear market in 2011,
followed by copper in April and nickel, lead and tin in May. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 1 percent
since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities climbed 10 percent. A Bank of America Corp. index
shows Treasuries lost 2.8 percent.  Silver is found in all four major types of zinc deposits,
which also yield gold, lead and copper, according to the
International Zinc Association. Gold dropped 21 percent this
year. Lead and copper fell 12 percent.  About 10 percent to 15 percent of zinc mine output is
probably breaking even or losing money at current prices,
according to  Max Layton , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in London. The bank says prices will rise 10 percent in the next
12 months to $2,100. Silver will average $18 an ounce in 2014,
or 11 percent less than yesterday’s price of $20.2801, Citigroup
says.  Slowing Production  Growth in refined zinc production will slow to 2.8 percent
next year from 3.9 percent in 2013 as demand accelerates 5
percent from 4.1 percent, according to Barclays Plc. The
Bloomberg survey showed four of 14 analysts expect  consumption 
to exceed smelter output this year and another five in 2014.  Construction will account for 50 percent of the 13.36
million tons consumed in 2013, and transport another 21 percent,
HSBC estimates. Both industries use galvanized steel sheet,
which reached a record 35.3 million tons in the second quarter,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  While zinc  stockpiles  monitored by the LME fell 13 percent
to 1.06 million tons this year, they are still about double the
10-year average. Inventory around the world is closer to 3
million tons, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd., a research
company in Edinburgh. That’s almost three years of U.S. demand.
Macquarie says  China ’s zinc mine supply will grow about 8
percent this year.  Seventh Surplus  “We still see the market in surplus even if those
surpluses are more modest than we experienced in prior years,”
said Andrew Shaw, head of industrial metals research at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . The surplus anticipated in the
Bloomberg survey for 2013 would be the seventh consecutive year
of  oversupply , according to the Lisbon-based International Lead
& Zinc Study Group.  As little as 40 percent of LME-tracked stockpiles may be
available to consumers because the rest is tied into financing
deals, Societe Generale SA says. The transactions typically
involve a simultaneous purchase of metal for nearby delivery and
a forward sale to take advantage of a market in contango, when
contracts for later delivery cost more than nearer-dated supply.  Even if consumers can buy the metal, lines at warehouses
can stretch to months. About 84 percent of LME-tracked zinc is
held in  New Orleans , Antwerp and Vlissingen in the Netherlands,
creating congestion at storage sheds, bourse data show. Orders
to withdraw metal rose almost fourfold in a year.  Mirroring Aluminum  Zinc  premiums  in  Europe  are the highest since November 2011
and are mirroring increases in the aluminum market. A U.S.
Senate subcommittee on July 23 heard complaints from the
beverage industry that banks and other warehouse owners are
manipulating aluminum supplies and slowing deliveries to drive
up the price.  The average U.S. home probably contains more than 40
kilograms (88 pounds) of zinc, from door handles to sinks to
heating ducts to screws, according to the International Zinc
Association. The average North American car has 16 pounds of the
metal, the Durham, North Carolina-based industry group estimates.  Terramin  Australia , based in Adelaide, said July 5 it will
close the Angas zinc mine in southern Australia by the end of
September because the new ore discoveries aren’t profitable at
current prices. Yukon Zinc, based in  Vancouver , said June 27 it
would cut output and staff at its Wolverine operation in  Canada 
to reduce costs, citing declines in zinc and silver prices.  Profitable Ore  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the biggest zinc miner, closed
Brunswick in Canada in April after it ran out of profitable ore
and said in May that the Perseverance mine would wind down in
the second quarter. The Baar, Switzerland-based company got 26
percent of revenue from metals and minerals last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With lower silver prices the cost has gone up for some
zinc miners,” said  Bart Melek , the head of commodity strategy
at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto and the second-most accurate
zinc forecaster tracked by Bloomberg over the past two years.
“That will put more pressure on the zinc price to go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  