-- Capital Stage Grows Abroad as German Clean-Power Yields Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-26T09:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/capital-stage-expands-abroad-as-german-clean-energy-yields-slide.html
Capital Stage AG (CAP) , Germany’s biggest
solar-farm operator, is shifting its investment focus to  Italy ,
 France  and Scandinavia as new clean-energy projects on its home
turf no longer boast double-digit returns.  Vying for profitable solar and wind projects in Germany’s
state-backed renewables market, the company faces increased
competition from insurers and pension funds trying to plug a
fixed-income void, said the head of Capital Stage, which made
headlines in 2011 selling a solar-farm stake to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “Solar parks mostly offer about 20 years of reliable
returns and enjoy political support,” Chief Executive Officer
Felix Goedhart said at the company’s headquarters overlooking
Hamburg’s port. “That’s driving up prices, while depressing
returns at new German projects to 8 percent from 10 percent.”  Germany’s solar industry is mired by insolvencies of module
producers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  as green-energy subsidies fall
and competition from  China  weighs on margins and panel prices.
At the height of the solar boom in 2007,  Conergy AG (CGYK) , which filed
for insolvency on July 5, was valued at more than 2.2 billion
euros ($2.9 billion) and is now worth about 10 million euros.  Capital Stage has quadrupled in value to 201 million euros
since 2010, ranking second after  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  in
Germany’s solar industry. The company, whose supervisory board
is led by former  EON AG (EOAN)  management board member Manfred Krueper,
is a candidate to join the German SDAX index of smaller stocks.  Acquisition Ethos  Its relative success results from purchasing medium-sized
solar and, to a lesser extent, wind farms, Goedhart said. That
way it steers clear of utilities that prefer larger projects and
avoids module manufacture and development of farms, he said.  “Forget about module production in  Germany , but you can
earn money at the right end of the value chain,” he said. “We
mostly buy parks that have been on the grid for some years so we
can see exactly how much they earn a year.”  Since 2009, Capital Stage has accumulated capacity of about
193 megawatts at peak times, or MWp, enough to power about
80,000 average households. Solar projects have a share of about
75 percent. The biggest is a 18.6-MWp farm in northern Germany,
in which Google bought a 49 percent stake. The smallest is a
0.99-MWp park in the Italian region of Emilia-Romagna.  “We currently have about 18 million euros to spend on
enlarging our portfolio,” Goedhart said. Sometimes the company
buys a project with its own equity, while at others lenders
typically cover 80 percent of the investment, he said.  Loan Terms  Capital Stage has teamed up with banks such as BayernLB’s
Deutsche Kreditbank unit and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in Germany, and with
Italian lenders including  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa San Paolo
SpA (ISP) , Goedhart said. “Our loans usually run about 18 years with
a fixed interest rate of currently about 3 percent for a decade,
after which we calculate very conservatively with a 6 percent
interest rate on remaining debt.”  Northern Italy , where the company operates nine solar farms
and one wind park, helps compensate for falling returns at new
projects in Germany. Italy runs a reliable feed-in tariff system
similar to Germany’s, with costs passed on to consumers and not
the state, while the yield averaged 14 percent, Goedhart said.  “Italy’s system is less risky than  Spain ’s, where the
government has retroactively cut feed-in tariffs. In Germany,
all parties, including the Liberals, have ruled out such banana-republic policy,” he said.  Goedhart’s team is also studying France for solar and wind
opportunities and Scandinavia’s wind industry. “In about three
years we might also look at other countries that are politically
stable such as Canada, Australia or the U.S.”  Solar Maintenance  Solar-park maintenance, with profit margins of 50 percent,
is another business where Goedhart is eager to expand. “We earn
150,000 euros a year from servicing a 10-megawatt solar park,”
he said. Capital Stage has a maintenance division in the east
German city of Halle.  In the runup to Germany’s parliamentary election in
September, which  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats
are set to win, operators of clean-energy plants are trying to
spot shifts in the government’s renewables strategy.  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, a member of the liberal
Free Democratic Party, said he seeks to replace feed-in tariffs
that guarantee state aid for 20 years with fixed levels of
renewable generation.  The government has said it plans to end fixed-price
guarantees for solar-power production when total capacity tops
52 gigawatts, compared with about 34 gigawatts today. That could
happen within five years, according to Goedhart. “Until then we
need to cut solar-plant prices by another 30 percent to 700
euros a kilowatt-hour, which is possible. The goal to operate
plants in a profitable way without subsidies is within reach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  