-- CapitaLand to Alter Home Sizes to Tackle Curbs: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-07-26T09:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/capitaland-to-alter-home-sizes-to-tackle-curbs-southeast-asia.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Singapore’s biggest
developer, may alter the size of its apartments as it seeks to
improve affordability to combat government measures aimed at
curbing speculation and lowering prices.  The developer sold 139 residential units in the island-state in the three months ended June, 31 percent fewer than in
the same period last year, it said yesterday as it forecast
“headwinds” in the near term with the housing curbs.  After adding taxes on home sales and mortgage limits, the
city’s central bank last month capped property loan repayments
at 60 percent of salaries, which the developer cited as an
additional measure on home sales. Prices and sales of Singapore
residential properties are expected to moderate because of the
housing curbs, the company said.  “We are now looking at how we can respond to the current
market situation,” Lim Ming Yan, president and chief executive
officer at CapitaLand, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Singapore  yesterday. “We want the right sizing, put in the
right layout, so our users will find it a lot more user-friendly
and at the same time something they can afford. This is the
direction we’re moving towards.”  Lim, who took the  helm  at the start of the year, didn’t
elaborate on details for the change in apartment sizes.  Singapore home prices climbed to a record in the second
quarter as gains in suburban housing values accelerated, leading
to new government measures on property loans in June. Today’s
revised data showed residential values increased 1 percent in
the three months from an earlier 0.8 percent estimate.  Housing Bubble  The  price  increases amid low interest rates raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-year campaign in January to curb speculation in Asia’s second-most expensive housing market. In January, the government
increased stamp duties for homebuyers by 5 percentage points to
7 percentage points.  CapitaLand will start selling two  projects  in the second
half of the year including Marine Point and its second
condominium project in the central suburb of Bishan comprising
694 units, the developer said.  The plans for the new project in Bishan show that it will
construct apartments with an average size of between 800 square
feet and 900 square feet, based on the number of units planned,
according to Tricia Song, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
Singapore. For previous developments, the average size was
between 1,200 square and 1,600 square feet, she said.  “The fact that they are similar plots and that they are
planning about 40 percent more units means they are thinking of
downsizing units,” she said. “It will make it more affordable
and this is the trend of Singapore residential sales as we see
it.”  Shoebox Apartments  Singapore decided to regulate the sale of smaller-sized
residential units after developers sold a record number of so-called shoebox apartments last year. Shoebox apartments are
those smaller than 50 square meters (538 square feet).  Singapore is the most-expensive residential market after
Hong Kong, according to a Knight Frank LLP and Citi Private Bank
report released last year that compared 63 locations globally.  The central bank estimates that between 5 percent and 10
percent of borrowers have probably over-leveraged on their
property purchases with total debt service payment at more than
60 percent of their income, Monetary Authority of Singapore
Managing Director Ravi Menon said on July 23. Low interest
rates, growing leverage, and surging property prices pose
significant risks to financial stability, he said.  Shares of CapitaLand, also the biggest developer in
Southeast Asia, climbed 1.2 percent to S$3.26 at the close in
Singapore, the highest in more than a month. The stock has
fallen 10 percent in the past three months, compared with the
8.4 percent decline in the  measure  tracking Singapore property
stocks and 8.6 percent drop in the Bloomberg Asia Pacific Real
Estate Index.  “These are policies that will have an impact on
transactions,” Lim said, adding that “on the whole, the market
has more or less digested the measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  