-- CapitaLand Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Lower Gains
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-07-25T09:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/capitaland-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-lower-portfolio-gains.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast  Asia ’s
biggest developer, said prices and sales of  Singapore 
residential properties are expected to moderate because of
government measures aimed at curbing speculation.  The developer sold 139 residential units in the island-state in the three months ended June 30, 31 percent fewer than
in the same period last year, the company said in a statement
through the Singapore stock exchange today. Second-quarter
profit fell 0.7 percent on lower portfolio gains, it said. The
shares were 0.3 percent higher at S$3.22 at the close of trading
in Singapore.  CapitaLand expects some headwinds for Singapore’s private
residential property market in the near term, according to its
earnings statement. The Monetary Authority of Singapore
introduced a total debt servicing ratio cap of 60 percent for
property loans granted by financial institutions. This is
expected to have an impact on residential property sales,
CapitaLand said.  “Most developers have been cautious post the latest round
of measures,” Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB
Kay Hian Pte, said.  Singapore home prices climbed to a record in the second
quarter as gains in suburban housing values accelerated, leading
to new government measures on property loans at the end of June.  Housing Bubble  Record home prices amid low  interest rates  raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-year campaign in January to curb speculation in Asia’s second-most expensive housing market. In January, the government
increased stamp duties for homebuyers by 5 percentage points to
7 percentage points.  Singapore’s central bank estimates that between 5 percent
and 10 percent of borrowers have probably over-leveraged on
their property purchases with total debt service payment at more
than 60 percent of their income, MAS Managing Director Ravi
Menon said on July 23. Low interest rates, growing leverage, and
surging property prices pose significant risks to financial
stability, he said.  Net income  at Singapore-based CapitaLand declined to
S$383.1 million ($302 million) in the three months ended June
30, from S$385.9 million a year earlier. Earnings in the same
quarter last year included divestment gains of S$81.8 million
primarily from the sale of two shopping malls, CapitaLand said.
Sales rose 37 percent to S$1.18 billion.  “We will continue to focus on our core markets of
Singapore and  China  to develop homes, offices, shopping malls,
serviced residences and mixed developments,” Lim Ming Yan,
president and group chief executive officer at CapitaLand, said
in the statement.  The developer in June said it acquired a 70 percent stake
in Shanghai Guang Chuan Property Co. for 1.95 billion  yuan  ($318
million), through which it will develop a mixed-use project,
which will include homes, offices and retail space.  Singapore and China accounted for 75.3 percent of the
group’s profit before interest and tax as of June 30, the
company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  