-- Capita Drops Most in 15 Months on Margin Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-25T13:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/capita-drops-most-in-15-months-on-margin-outlook-london-mover.html
Capita Plc (CPI) , which provides services
to the U.K. Justice ministry, declined the most in 15 months
after saying that full-year operating margin would remain lower
than last year “for the foreseeable future.”  The  shares  fell as much as 5.5 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since April last year, and were down 3.7 percent
at 999 pence at 12:50 p.m. in  London , making it the fourth-worst
performer in the  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  The volume of shares traded was
20 percent more than the three-month daily average. The slump
pared this year’s advance to 32 percent.  “We expect medium- to long-term operating margin to be
12.5 percent to 13.5 percent,” Chief Executive Officer Paul
Pindar said in a telephone interview. “You will see some
variability around that.”  The reduced margin partly reflects start-up costs
associated with winning new business. A contract with  Telefonica
SA (TEF) ’s O2 unit in the U.K., worth 1.2 billion pounds, came into
effect after the company incurred preparation expenses.  “Some costs are going through where we haven’t had any
revenue,” Pindar said, adding the 4 billion-pound ($6.1
billion) life-long value of the contracts Capita won in the last
nine months exceeded its  revenue  last year.  Operating Margin  The first-half underlying operating margin declined to 12.5
percent from 13.3 percent a year earlier, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The operating margin fell to
14.1 percent last year from 14.6 percent, the company said at
the time of its annual results.  “The key disappointment was the movement in operating
margins,”  Mike Allen , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. who
maintained his sell  rating , said in a note to clients. “The
margin decline has been greater than anticipated.”  Capita, the largest U.K. provider of outsourcing services,
will review parts of its general insurance unit, given the
challenges faced in some of the more competitive segments of the
market, the company said in today’s statement.  That was a “pretty major reversal of strategy” for the
company’s private sector business, Michael Donnelly, an analyst
at Westhouse Securities Ltd. with a sell rating on the stock,
said in a note to clients. “General insurance represents 4
percent of revenues and profits.”  First-half revenue rose 13 percent to 1.82 billion pounds
from a year earlier, Capita said in the statement. Underlying
pretax profit increased 10 percent to 205.2 million pounds.
Capita said it was on track for organic growth of at least 8
percent this year in addition to increased sales as a result of
acquisitions. The company raised its first-half dividend 10
percent to 8.7 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  