-- Cashman Says Yankees Aren’t Trying to Delay Rodriguez’s Return
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/cashman-says-yankees-want-rodriguez-back-as-soon-as-possible.html
The  New York Yankees  aren’t trying
to delay the return of  Alex Rodriguez , General Manager  Brian Cashman  said in response to a report that the third baseman
suspects the team has conspired to keep him sidelined.  “It’s the Yankees’ desire to have Alex return to the
lineup as soon as possible,” Cashman said last night in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve done everything to try and accomplish
this.”  A doctor retained by Rodriguez questioned the results of a
scan and diagnosis by Yankees physician Christopher Ahmad that
showed a strained quadriceps muscle in Rodriguez’s left thigh,
ESPN reported yesterday. Rodriguez’s doctor didn’t examine the
player directly, Cashman said in his statement, attributing that
knowledge to media reports.  Rodriguez, who hasn’t played in  Major League Baseball  this
season while recovering from left hip surgery in January, first
complained of tightness in his thigh on July 12, when he refused
to change his rehabilitation assignment to Triple-A Scranton
from Tampa,  Florida , Cashman said.  Rodriguez complained of tightness again nine days later,
prompting the Yankees to send him to Ahmad at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, who diagnosed a Grade 1 strain, Cashman
said.  Under Article XIII, Section D, of baseball’s collective
bargaining agreement, “Prior to undergoing a ‘second
evaluation,’ a player shall inform the club in writing of his
decision to seek a second medical opinion.” Cashman said in his
statement that never happened.  Basic Agreement  “Rodriguez did not notify us at any time that he was
seeking a second opinion from any doctor with regard to his quad
strain,” Cashman said. “We will follow the rules and
regulations set forth in the Basic Agreement and will again re-evaluate Alex in Tampa” today.  The injury, sustained during a rehab stint in Tampa,
delayed Rodriguez’s season debut indefinitely, the Yankees said
July 21. Rodriguez, who turns 38 on July 27, said in a statement
the same day that he was “extremely disappointed” with the
result of the scan.  An unidentified person with ties to Rodriguez was cited by
ESPN yesterday as saying that the third baseman approached
orthopedic surgeon  Michael Gross  for a second opinion because he
wants to play and is ready to play. The person said Rodriquez
maintains he’s fit and is being prevented from playing by the
Yankees, with the help of MLB officials.  Rodriguez will remain on the disabled list and in Tampa for
rest and treatment, Cashman said, though he can no longer play
in official minor-league games because the 20-day window for his
rehab stint has expired, the team said.  Braun’s Suspension  A 14-time All-Star and three-time American League Most
Valuable Player, Rodriguez hasn’t played in the majors since
last season’s playoffs, when he batted .120 with three hits and
12 strikeouts in 25 at-bats. He was benched at times during the
postseason.  The Miami New Times reported in January that Rodriguez’s
name appeared on a client list at the now-shuttered Biogenesis
of America LLC clinic in  Coral Gables , Florida, which was
accused of selling performance-enhancing drugs.  ESPN reported in February that Biogenesis founder Anthony
Bosch injected Rodriguez with banned substances and the network
said this month that MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  would seek to
suspend as many as 22 players without pay for their relationship
with the clinic.  Rodriguez, who is fifth on baseball’s career list with 647
home runs, has said he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and otherwise
declined to comment on the issue.  Milwaukee Brewers outfielder  Ryan Braun , the 2011 National
League Most Valuable Player, will miss the final 65 games of the
season without pay after three days ago becoming the first
player to be banned for connections to Biogenesis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 