-- Casino First-Half Profit Beats Estimates on Cost-Cutting
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-25T07:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/casino-keeps-2013-targets-as-first-half-profit-beats-estimates.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the
owner of the Monoprix and Geant supermarket chains, reported
first-half profit that beat analysts’ estimates as cost-cutting
measures helped offset declining sales in  France .  Trading profit rose 52 percent to 969 million euros ($1.28
billion), boosted by Casino’s buyout of its Brazilian unit and
the Monoprix chain, the  Saint Etienne , France-based grocer said
today in a statement. Analysts predicted 930 million euros,
according to the median of 11 estimates surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue advanced 37 percent to 23.8 billion euros.  Cost-cutting plans at Casino France helped limit the impact
of declining sales on trading profit, while Franprix-Leader
Price’s trading margin is stable and Monoprix’s trading margin
is improving, Casino said. Casino is also cutting prices in
France in a bid to revive sales in its home market as government
austerity measures and rising unemployment weigh on  consumer
spending .  “We continue to like the story,” Andrew Gwynn, an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a note to clients. He has an
outperform rating on the shares. Profit in each of Casino’s
French units was better than expected, he said.  Casino rose as much as 4.1 percent and was up 3.2 percent
at 79.24 euros at 9:04 a.m. in Paris trading.  Price cuts and continued expansion abroad should benefit
the grocer in the second half, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Charles Naouri said in the statement. Casino
confirmed its 2013 targets.  Same-store sales gained 2.8 percent, excluding currency
moves, gasoline and calendar effects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  