-- McCain Ditches Combative Role to Become Obama Senate Ally
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-07-25T20:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/mccain-ditches-combative-role-to-become-obama-senate-ally.html
In one week,  John McCain  brokered a
compromise to avoid paralysis in the Senate over President
 Barack Obama ’s nominees, introduced banking legislation with
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  and publicly disputed some
Republicans’ approach to raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  McCain, who championed the Senate immigration measure
that’s a major part of Obama’s agenda, also has been a frequent
visitor to the White House. He’s met Obama there at least three
times in the past two months and had conversations with White
House aides every few days.  The fifth-term Arizona senator said there’s “nothing
unusual” about his partnerships and compromises with Democrats,
which he likened to his willingness to defy Republican President
 George W. Bush  and his defense secretary,  Donald Rumsfeld .  “Everybody said when I called for Rumsfeld’s resignation,
when I voted against the tax cuts and all that, I was the brave
maverick,” McCain said in an  interview at the Capitol. “And
then when I was against President Obama, I was the angry, bitter
old man. I’m the same guy, OK?”  The 76-year-old senator has become Obama’s strongest
Republican ally on Capitol Hill, in a major shift from the
acrimony that marked their relationship during and just after
their 2008 White House race.  “I’m going to reluctantly have to agree that he’s
changed,” said  Jim Manley , a former aide to Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. “At a crucial time in the
Senate, he’s been one of the few Republicans willing to sit down
and negotiate compromises with Democrats.”  Erasing Damage  McCain’s critics have suggested that the often short-tempered lawmaker is trying to reclaim his “maverick” image in
the twilight of his political career to erase damage to his
legacy resulting from his choice of Sarah Palin as his 2008 vice
presidential running mate.  McCain also had been criticized for moving to the right in
his 2010 primary challenge from former congressman J.D. Hayworth, who accused McCain of supporting “amnesty” for
undocumented immigrants. In December 2010, McCain called it a
“very sad day” when the Senate voted to repeal the military’s
policy banning openly gay and lesbian service members.  McCain is a natural fit for negotiating in part because the
Senate’s top two Republicans -- Kentucky’s  Mitch McConnell  and
 John Cornyn  of Texas -- are facing primary rivals in their 2014
re-election bids. Challenger Matt Bevin, a Louisville investor,
yesterday called McConnell “a career politician who’s been
throwing the taxpayers’ money away.”  ‘Straight Talk’  Over his 25-year Senate career -- and 2000 and 2008 White
House bids where he traveled the country on his “Straight Talk
Express”campaign bus -- McCain cultivated a reputation as a
centrist willing to take on his party.  He was the main Republican sponsor of the 2002 law revising
the nation’s campaign-finance laws, which McConnell opposes, and
was an early advocate of abolishing congressionally directed
spending known as earmarks. That eventually became a chief
rallying cry of the anti-tax Tea Party wing of his party.  In the days just before a July 16 compromise that averted a
Democratic threat to strip Republicans of their ability to block
Obama’s nominees, McCain said he made “phone call after phone
call after phone call” to try to resolve the dispute and met
with Reid.  “He’s doing some of the same things he’s done all along --
trying to protect the institution,” said Senator Jeff Flake,
McCain’s Republican colleague from Arizona. “I’ve seen more
consistency than anything else.”  Cordray Vote  The deal that McCain helped broker led to the confirmation
of  Richard Cordray , Obama’s choice to run a consumer financial
protection bureau born of the worst recession since the Great
Depression. McCain was among 12 Republicans who voted to confirm
Cordray while McConnell, Cornyn and other Republican leaders
opposed the nominee.  “John McCain is why we are where we are: No one was able
to break through but him,” Reid said on the Senate floor
announcing the deal. The compromise included replacing two Obama
nominees to the  National Labor Relations Board  that Republicans
contended had been unconstitutionally appointed.  On July 11, McCain paired with Warren -- an icon of the
Democratic base -- to introduce legislation that would create a
modern version of the  Glass-Steagall Act , the Depression-era
measure that separated commercial and investment banking.  ‘Real Independence’  “Senator McCain has shown real independence and a
willingness to take tough stands that I admire,” Warren said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Nobody understands how to get
things done in Congress better than he does.”  McCain said he and Warren “share the same view about
Glass-Steagall so it shouldn’t surprise anyone” that they are
working together on a measure he says restores a firewall needed
to protect taxpayers and restore confidence in the U.S.
financial system.  The proposal would separate commercial banks insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from participating in riskier
investment activities, including swaps dealing,  hedge funds  and
private equity.  McCain in 1999 voted for the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which
overturned core portions of Glass-Steagall.  Debt Limit  In a July 19 radio interview with host Michael Medved,
McCain cautioned his party against another round of
“shenanigans” over the  debt  limit increase that Obama is
tentatively scheduled to seek later this year. He added that
pressing to repeal the 2010 health-care law as a condition for
increasing U.S. borrowing authority would prove futile.  Obama and Senate Democratic leaders are demanding a
“clean” debt limit increase, while House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, said this week that more spending cuts
should be agreed to before raising the ceiling.  Rebecca Tallent, a former McCain aide who directs the
Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center’s immigration task
force, disputed any notion that McCain’s politics were a moving
target. She said by chance the Senate has debated in recent
weeks matters where McCain was naturally well positioned to
serve as a lead Republican negotiator.  “Everybody wanted to write the story after the campaign
that he was bitter and he was angry at Obama,” Tallent said.
“But I think it really is more about the issues.”  Tallent pointed out that McCain has been a vocal critic of
the administration’s response to the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on
the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya.  Benghazi Criticism  Following the attack, McCain and South Carolina Republican
 Senator Lindsey Graham  vowed to block  Susan Rice  if she were
nominated to replace Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . McCain
and Graham accused Rice, then the U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations , of misleading the public about the roots of the attack,
which led to the death of four Americans, including U.S.
Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens.  “If Benghazi happened tomorrow, I think you’d see him
saying the exact same thing he said six months ago,” Tallent
said of McCain.  Last week, McCain, who spent more than five years as a
prisoner of war in North Vietnam, threatened to block General
Martin Dempsey’s nomination to a second term as chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff because of a dispute over U.S. policy in
 Syria . He has since said he won’t block Dempsey’s nomination,
while leaving open the possibility he could vote against it.  ‘Contentious’ Times  Graham, a close friend of McCain’s, said he hadn’t seen a
shift in McCain’s approach.  “The times in which we live are getting more contentious,
and that’s when a guy like John sticks out,” Graham said in an
interview at the Capitol.  During an almost two-hour White House meeting July 17,
McCain said he pledged to help Obama close the U.S. prison at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a goal that the two men have shared dating
back at least to the 2008 campaign.  “Does he want to end up the end of his second term with
Guantanamo open?” McCain said of Obama. “The president of the
 United States , like all presidents in their second terms, looks
at their legacy. And there are areas that we have worked on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  