-- Cemex Loss Narrows as Accelerating U.S. Rebound Boosts Sales
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-07-25T13:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/cemex-loss-narrows-as-accelerating-u-s-rebound-boosts-sales-1-.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, said its second-quarter loss narrowed as the
U.S. housing recovery and a Latin American rebound outside
 Mexico  bolstered sales.  The net loss was $152 million, compared with a $187 million
loss a year earlier, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company said in
a statement today. Sales rose 3.8 percent to $4.01 billion, in
line with the $3.99 billion average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, with U.S. revenue jumping 9.2 percent as
 home starts  accelerated from their year-ago level.  Cemex is benefiting from a U.S. housing rebound that pushed
the company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the country to $80 million in the second
quarter, almost triple the level of a year earlier. Sales
advanced 6 percent in Central America,  South America  and the
Caribbean after a first-quarter decline.  “Material margin expansion in the U.S. and strong results
in the South America, Central America and Caribbean region”
buoyed Cemex last quarter,  said Esteban Polidura, a Deutsche
Bank AG analyst in Mexico City who recommends  buying  the
company’s American depositary receipts. “We expect these two
regions to continue supporting operating leverage, which should
translate into positive free cash flow generation.”  Mexico Volumes  The company’s operating earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, a profit measure known as Ebitda,
rose 4 percent to $730 million, Cemex said. That trailed the
$744.7 million average of eight analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Total cement sales volume was little changed at 17.3
million metric tons and ready-mix concrete volume added 1.7
percent to 14.5 million cubic meters. Aggregates such as sand,
gravel and crushed stone advanced 3.6 percent to 42.7 million
metric tons.  Cemex’s U.S. revenue was $868 million as the annual rate of
 housing starts  in June rose 10 percent from a year earlier. The
U.S. unit posted an Ebitda profit for the fifth quarter in a row
as cement volume climbed 3 percent and prices advanced 4
percent. Ready-mix concrete volumes climbed 14 percent with a 5
percent price gain, Cemex said.  Northern  Europe  was the company’s largest market by revenue
in the second quarter with sales of $1.09 billion, down 1.1
percent from the same period a year ago. The region’s operating
Ebitda slid 11 percent to $108 million.  Cost Cuts  Sales in Mexico rose 1.7 percent to $847 million as cement
volumes fell 7 percent and prices gained 5 percent. Ready-mix
concrete volume in Cemex’s home country fell 3 percent while
prices climbed 8 percent.  Cemex said cost cuts in Mexico and Northern Europe would
lead to about $100 million in savings in the second half of the
year.  The savings give “upside to our model,”  Vanessa Quiroga ,
an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in Mexico City, said.  “First reaction should be positive on the back of better
than expected U.S. margins and savings announcement,” Quiroga
wrote in a note to clients today.  Cemex advanced 1.1 percent to 14.53 pesos at 8:39 a.m. in
Mexico City trading and through yesterday have added 18 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  