-- Central African Republic Plans Emergency Economic Revival
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e
-- 2013-07-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/central-african-republic-plans-emergency-economic-revival.html
The  Central African Republic  is
preparing an emergency program to deal with the effects of a
coup four months ago that has left the government without funds,
Finance Minister Christophe Mbremaidou said.  A 261 billion-CFA-franc ($525 million) budget approved in
December is no longer in effect because individuals and
companies have stopped paying taxes, Mbremaidou said in an
interview in the capital, Bangui. The government plans to
approach donors to help deal with “urgent problems” including
a lack of access to healthcare and education, he said.  “The coffers are empty,” Mbremaidou said on July 20.
“With the recent crisis, companies and institutions that
facilitate the movement of money into state coffers through the
payment of taxes are closed and no longer work.”  Central African Republic has descended into a “state of
anarchy and total disregard for international law” since former
President Francois Bozize’s government was deposed by rebel
Seleka forces on March 24, according to the  United Nations
Security Council . The economic outlook is “highly uncertain”
after the fall of Bozize’s regime, the  African Development Bank 
said on its website.  Growth in Central African Republic last year was 3.1
percent, lower than forecast, and the outlook for 2013 and 2014
has deteriorated, the bank said in May. Mbremaidou didn’t
provide an estimate for this year.  To revive the economy, the government plans to improve
security to encourage people to return to work, Mbremaidou said.
The state is also urging those displaced by the recent conflict,
including employees of aid agencies, to return to the country,
he said.  ‘Important’ Partners  “Most organizations that support us have left the country
and many of the people who manage projects also left,”
Mbremaidou said. “These activities are important for the
development of the country.”  The nation’s entire population of 4.6 million people has
been affected by the political crisis, with 1.6 million people
in need of humanitarian aid, United Nations humanitarian chief
 Valerie Amos  said on July 12.  “Security is a major concern and the UN is working hard to
reestablish its presence and programmes in different parts of
the country,” she said.  The emergency program will be presented to “external
partners” at a roundtable to be held at an unspecified date in
the future, Mbremaidou said.  President Michel Djotodia this month appealed to the
 African Union  to lift its suspension of his country from the
continental body to enable aid flows to return. The nation needs
foreign aid to prevent the threat of famine, he said.  Bangui Battles  The country has been plagued by violence since independence
from France in 1960, with at least five battles for the capital,
Bangui, taking place from 1996 to 2003.  Seleka began its rebellion after accusing Bozize of failing
to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement signed in Libreville
in January ended the fighting and created a unity government.
The insurgents resumed combat in March, saying Bozize had failed
to meet a new set of demands.  Central African Republic has a gross domestic product of
about $3.6 billion and earns most of its foreign currency from
timber and diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession that is currently on care and
maintenance, according to its website. Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
 Africa ’s biggest lender, earlier this year ended talks with
 Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, over a $100 million loan
to help finance a gold mine there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa in Bangui via Nairobi at 
 cdembassa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  