-- Chevy Impala Awarded Consumer Reports’ Top Sedan Rating
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-07-25T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/chevy-impala-awarded-consumer-reports-top-sedan-rating.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s redesigned
Chevrolet Impala has received the highest rating from Consumer
Reports among all sedans, the first time in at least 20 years
that a U.S. automaker has outscored a Japanese or European
competitor in that segment.  The new Impala from Detroit-based GM scored 95 after the
previous version rated at the bottom of its class with a 63, the
influential, non-profit magazine said today in an e-mailed
statement. Only two vehicles have scored better than the 2014
Impala: the Tesla Model S hatchback and BMW 135i coupe.  “U.S. automakers are clearly in the midst of a bona fide
renaissance,” the magazine wrote in an article scheduled to be
posted online today. “The most dramatic turnaround yet is the
phoenix-like rise of the revamped Chevrolet Impala.”  The Impala is one of the 18 new or refreshed GM vehicles
arriving in the U.S. this year, among the largest waves of new
products in the company’s history, that will transform GM’s
lineup into one of the newest in the industry from one of the
oldest.  The Audi A6 Premium Plus and Infiniti M37 previously tied
as the highest ranking sedans, Matt Fields, a Consumer Reports
spokesman, said. The magazine isn’t recommending the Impala yet
as there isn’t enough reliability data so far to do so.  In its review, the publication noted: “One of our testers,
not known for effusive praise, said, ‘There’s little the Impala
doesn’t do well.’”  First American  Consumer Reports, which began testing vehicles more than 75
years ago, only started calculating numerical scores and
compiling comparative charts in 1992. In that time, a Japanese
model has held the top-scoring sedan spot 12 times and a
European model has had it on nine occasions, according to the
statement.  Since 2000, the Impala has sold well to car-rental fleets
and police departments, with U.S. sales peaking at 311,128 in
2007 before sliding to 169,351 last year. The new one will be
sold mostly to retail customers, so its volumes may not be as
high. The 2014 Impala rides like a luxury sedan while driving
with agile handling, the magazine said.  “Inside, the spacious cabin sets a new standard for
Chevrolet fit and finish, with generally high-quality materials
and trim. The backseat is roomy and comfortable, the trunk is
huge, and controls are refreshingly intuitive and easy to use.”  The magazine “found the Impala is competitive with cars
that cost $20,000 more, including the Audi A6 and Lexus LS460L,
as well as the recently reviewed Acura RLX and Jaguar XF,”
Consumer Reports said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  