-- Chicago Midway Said to Get Bids From Two Remaining Groups
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-25T14:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/chicago-midway-said-to-get-attract-ferrovial-ifm-bids.html
Ferrovial SA (FER)  and  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG)  as well as Industry Funds Management of  Australia  and
Manchester Airports Group Plc are the two bidding groups left
for the lease of Chicago’s Midway International Airport,
according to people familiar with the auction.  The almost 40-year airport concession may be awarded as
early as September, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because talks are private. The contract for the
smaller airport in the third-biggest U.S. city could be valued
at $2 billion, they said.  The Midway  lease , which initially drew six bids including
from Gatwick owner Global Infrastructure Partners, is part of a
wider U.S. Federal Aviation Administration pilot program to
privatize airports and spur infrastructure investment.  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest low-fare carrier, dominates the volume
of flights at Midway.  Spain’s Ferrovial, the largest stakeholder in Europe’s
busiest airport,  London Heathrow , has teamed with Macquarie’s
infrastructure arm in a group called Great Lakes Airport
Alliance. Ferrovial operates the Chicago Skyway, a toll road on
the south side of the city about six miles from Midway.  Industry Funds Management is leading the rival bid with
Manchester Airports, owner of Stansted airport outside London,
providing only operational expertise, one of the people said.  City Owners  The City of Chicago, which will retain ownership of the
airport, didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.
The winning bidders will pay the city a percentage fee that will
grow over time,  Chicago  said previously.  Representatives for Manchester Airports Group, Ferrovial,
Macquarie and IFM declined to comment about their Midway bid
plans.  Final bids, which were due to be submitted next month, may
be delayed until September, one of the people said. The deal
will probably be financed by up to 70 percent debt, with loans
later refinanced through a bond issuance, and equity comprising
the rest, one person said.  Midway traces its history to 1927 and handled about 19.5
million passengers last year, 3.4 percent more than in 2011,
according to the Chicago Department of Aviation’s  website . In
comparison, 66.8 million passengers traveled through O’Hare
during the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  