-- China Cuts Capacity in Some Industries to Reshape Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T06:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/china-cuts-capacity-in-some-industries-to-reshape-economy.html
China  ordered more than 1,400
companies in 19 industries to cut excess production capacity
this year, part of efforts to shift toward slower, more-sustainable economic growth.  Steel, ferroalloys, electrolytic aluminum, copper smelting,
cement and paper are among areas affected, the Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology  said in a statement
yesterday, in which it announced the first-batch target of this
year to cut overcapacity. Excess capacity must be idled by
September and eliminated by year-end, the ministry  said ,
identifying the production lines to be shut within factories.  China’s extra production has helped drive down industrial-goods prices and put companies’ profits at risk, while a survey
this week showed manufacturing weakening further in July.
Premier  Li Keqiang  has pledged to curb overcapacity as part of
efforts to restructure the economy as growth this year is poised
for the weakest pace since 1990.  “This is a real move and is very specific compared with
previous high-level conceptual framework for economic
restructuring,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist
at ANZ Banking Group Ltd. “They maintain the overall tone that
they’re not focusing on the quantity of growth but the quality
of growth.”  Keeping Promise  The move also reflects that Li has settled in the job and
is willing to deepen the reform on overall economic structure,
which he promised after taking over the premiership in March,
Yeung said.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.4 percent as of 2:25
p.m., while  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies dropped 0.2 percent.  More than 92 million tons of excess cement capacity and
about 7 million tons of excess steel production capacity are
expected to be wiped out under the government’s plan, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in Hong
Kong, wrote in an e-mailed research note yesterday. Nomura
maintained its forecast of 7.4 percent economic growth for China
in this quarter and 7.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  China also plans to shut 654,400 tons of copper and 260,000
tons of aluminum capacity as part of its first-batch target,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the ministry’s
statement yesterday.  Bigger Target  The first-batch target for cement is bigger than a full-year number the ministry had announced April 11. In the  April
statement , China ordered the closing of 73.45 million tons of
cement, 7.81 million tons of steel, 273,000 tons of aluminum and
665,000 tons of copper this year.  Xinjiang Tianshan Cement Co. (000877) , which trades on the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange, is among companies on lists published by the
MIIT accompanying the statement. It was told to phase out
450,000 tons of capacity. One factory of state-owned Wuhan Iron
& Steel Group Corp., has been told to eliminate 400,000 tons of
steel capacity, according to the MIIT.  “Many of these companies who are running overcapacity
problems may actually have the  production line  in idle for a
long time,” ANZ’s Yeung said. “So the actual impact on the
growth number may not be as big as many people have expected.”  China’s economic planners have sought to rein in steel
industry growth since at least 2004, when work on a 10.6 billion
 yuan  project in the eastern province of Jiangsu was halted. Yet
annual capacity has risen to 970 million metric tons, according
to the steel association, exceeding the industry’s output of
716.5 million tons in 2012. Output is seven times larger than
that of  Japan , the No. 2 producer.  Steel Capacity  The steel capacity to be shut accounts for less than 1
percent of the nation’s total, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Shandong Chenming Paper Holdings (1812)  has been ordered to shut
production lines that can make a combined 284,200 tons of paper
products. The company has sold or closed down some outdated
facilities over the years to focus on high-end products and the
government’s curbs won’t have an impact on its operations,
Chenming said in a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Separately, China central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
wrote in People’s Daily today that the nation still faces large
downward pressure on the economy. He reiterated that the country
will pursue a “prudent” monetary policy and “reasonable”
levels of money supply and credit, according to the article in
the Communist Party newspaper.  The industry ministry said on July 24 that China will
accelerate the phase-out of overcapacity in the second half of
this year.  China is struggling to meet its annual economic growth
target amid signs of weakening manufacturing. A preliminary
reading on July 24 for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 47.7, which if
confirmed in the final report Aug. 1, would be the lowest in 11
months. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  