-- Chinatrust Said to Agree to Buy Tokyo Star for $520 Million
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-07-25T09:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/chinatrust-said-to-agree-to-buy-tokyo-star-bank-for-520-million.html
CTBC Financial Holding Co. (2891)  agreed to
buy Tokyo Star Bank Ltd. for about 52 billion yen ($520
million), the first takeover of a Japanese commercial lender by
a foreign bank, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  CTBC, the Taipei-based lender known as Chinatrust, will buy
a controlling stake from shareholders including  Lone Star Funds ,
 Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the people said,
asking not to be named because the information is private. The
acquisition is subject to approval from financial regulators in
Japan and Taiwan, according to the people.  The deal was reached after a meeting in Tokyo yesterday,
one of the people said. Talks had earlier stalled as  Tokyo  Star
Bank’s rising profit and a rally in Japanese bank  stocks 
bolstered shareholders’ expectations of a higher price, three
people with knowledge of the situation said on July 5.  Chinatrust said today in a statement to Taiwan’s stock
exchange that reports of an agreement to purchase Tokyo Star
Bank are speculation, without elaborating.  Raymond Spencer, a spokesman for Shinsei in Tokyo, declined
to comment, as did Jed Repko for Lone Star and Anne-Sophie Gentil for  Credit Agricole . Hiroki Nakano, a spokesman for Tokyo
Star Bank, said the company isn’t in a position to talk about
the matter.  The Nikkei newspaper reported the agreement earlier today
and said the Taiwanese lender will increase Tokyo Star’s
capital, without mentioning how it got the information.  Lone Star  agreed to sell Tokyo Star Bank to Japanese buyout
firm Advantage Partners LLC in December 2007, and less than four
years later took control of the lender again with Shinsei,
French lender Credit Agricole and Tokyo-based  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304)   Tokyo Star Bank was delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange
in 2008 after the acquisition by Advantage. The bank, led by
Chief Executive Officer Masaru Irie, had 1.53 trillion yen of
loans outstanding as of March 31 with 31 branches and 1,256
employees, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  