-- China’s HNA to Double Computer Tablets to Soothe Delayed Fliers
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-07-25T03:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/china-s-hna-to-double-computer-tablets-to-soothe-delayed-fliers.html
     July 25 (Bloomberg) --HNA Group Co., parent of China’s
 Hainan Airlines Co. (600221) , plans to double computer tablets available
on flights to 20,000 this year to help lure passengers amid
flight delays and competition with high-speed rail.  “The tablets are very popular among passengers, especially
when they are stuck in cabins and waiting for planes to take off,”
Pan Yunbin, general manager of HNA’s air-technology unit, said
by phone. “Flight attendants say the tablets helped them to
comfort passengers during delays.”  The 7.85-inch tablets, the same size as Apple Inc.’s iPad
mini, provide entertainment and information for passengers on
HNA Group company planes, about 90 percent of which lack video
screen entertainment systems, Pan said. Chinese carriers are
improving entertainment systems and promotions amid intensified
competition with high-speed trains linking Beijing and Guangzhou
that started operation last year.  Spring Airlines Co., a Shanghai-based budget carrier, said
in April it would offer theme flights with flight attendants
dressed up as French maids and butlers to draw passengers.  Air ticket prices in  China  have declined about 5 percent
this year because of the competition and expansion of capacity
by airlines, according to Patrick Xu, a Hong Kong-based analyst
with Barclays Plc.  The flight delays also make bullet trains more appealing
for travelers, he said. About one of four flights in China is
delayed amid a surge in traffic and as only about 20 percent of
airspace is alloted to civil aviation.  HNA is working to install inflight-wifi to better serve
customers, the company said.  Scoot Pte, the long-haul budget air unit of  Singapore
Airlines (SIA) , is also offering Apple Inc. iPads to travelers after
ripping out aircraft entertainment systems weighing more than
two tons to save fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  