-- China’s Hanergy Purchases Third Thin-Film Solar Producer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-07-25T21:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/china-s-hanergy-buys-a-third-thin-film-solar-panel-maker.html
Hanergy Holding Group Ltd., the
Chinese clean-power producer, acquired the U.S. photovoltaic
manufacturer Global Solar Energy Inc. for an undisclosed amount,
its third purchase in a year of a thin-film panel maker.  Global Solar joins Miasole Inc., which Hanergy purchased in
January, and the Q-Cells SE Solibro unit it acquired in
September, the Beijing-based company said yesterday in a
 statement  on its website. They all make thin-film panels using
copper indium gallium selenide.  Hanergy is seeking to become a more significant supplier in
the solar-panel market while avoiding the commoditized silicon-based products that have plunged in value as global production
capacity exceeds demand, said Dan Ries, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in New York.  “Hanergy would like to join the big guys but with a
differentiated product,” Ries said in an interview yesterday.  “Thin-film photovoltaic technology is the future and the
trend of the industry,” Hanergy Chairman Li Hejun said in the
statement. The company didn’t respond to e-mail to its media
department in  China  or voicemail at its U.S. office in
Burlingame,  California .  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest producer of thin-film
panels, applies cadmium-telluride between sheets of glass. It
has 1.9 gigawatts of production capacity, mainly in Malaysia and
 Ohio , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Production Capacity  Global Solar, based in Tucson,  Arizona , has a factory with
40 megawatts of capacity and makes flexible solar panels for
portable chargers and recreational products. That will add to
Hanergy’s 3 gigawatts of production capacity, according to its
 website .  “What Chinese companies often show for capacity on their
websites is their goal, or what their factories could produce if
they had the equipment,” said Ries. “They rarely update these
things to show their actual capacity.”  Hanergy operates hydropower plants with 6 gigawatts of
capacity and 131 megawatts of wind farms. It purchased the U.K.
residential solar installer Engensa Ltd. in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  