-- Colorado Firearm Advocates Push Recall in Gun Control
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-07-25T02:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/colorado-firearm-advocates-push-recall-of-gun-control-backers.html
The backlash against  Colorado ’s
toughest gun restrictions in a decade intensified as the laws
took effect this month, with two Democratic state senators
fighting unprecedented recall efforts and seven rural counties
pushing to secede and form a 51st state.  State Senate President John Morse, who represents a
district in conservative  Colorado Springs , the state’s second-largest city, and Senator Angela Giron, whose constituents are
in Pueblo, south of Morse’s district, face a Sept. 10 election.
They’re the first state lawmakers in Colorado history to be
targeted for recall.  Morse and Giron hosted telephone town-halls this week as
their opponents held a campaign kickoff party in a six-week race
to raise money to reach voters during the summer in an off-election year.  “If I’m not knocking on doors, I’m on the phone calling
and raising money in order to get our message out -- especially
since it’s been so distorted,” said Giron, a first-term
Democrat elected in 2010 and a former administrator at the Boys
& Girls Club.  “I had my most successful year this year,” she said. “I
introduced 26 pieces of legislation and 21 of them are now law -
- that’s almost a career.”  Recall Effort  The recall efforts began in April, a month after Governor
John Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat, signed measures passed
by the Democrat-controlled legislature requiring background
checks for all firearms sales and limiting the capacity of
ammunition magazines. The laws, which went into effect July 1,
were inspired by a shooting in an Aurora movie theater in July
2012 that killed 12 people and wounded 58.  Both recall-backers and opponents in this gun-friendly
state assert that outside money is propelling the race and
turning it into a battle between the  National Rifle Association 
and  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s Mayors Against Illegal
Guns for the second time this year. Bloomberg is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “Recalls are very disruptive of the whole process --
generally odd-numbered years are spent governing and even-numbered years are spent politicking,” said Morse. “If we
can’t defeat this recall effort, then special moneyed interests
will be able to use it as a weapon in 19 different states.”  Morse, who was first elected to the Senate in 2006, won re-election in 2010 by just 340 votes in a district that largely
reflects the political makeup of Colorado, with Democrats,
Republicans and unaffiliated residents comprising a third each
of registered voters. Under state law, the former police chief
and accountant can’t campaign again for his senate seat after
his second term ends in 2014.  ‘Social Welfare’  Campaign finance reports filed with the Secretary of State
show recall proponents and opponents collecting large sums from
501(c)(4) “social welfare” organizations that aren’t required
by law to disclose their donors.  The  El Paso Freedom Defense Committee  created by recall
proponents accepted at least $56,798 in in-kind contributions
from IACE Action, a 501(c)(4), and used the money to pay Kennedy
Enterprises to collect signatures,  records  show.  “One hundred percent of that is Colorado money, including
a mixture of large and small donors and zero NRA money,” said
Laura Carno, a Black Forest resident and founder of several
groups that contributed to recall efforts. “This isn’t a
difference of opinion on the gun laws, this was the constituents
saying, ‘Senator Morse you’ve changed dramatically from the guy
we hired, we would like to talk to you about that.’”  NRA Giving  The NRA gave recall advocates $985.20 on May 22 for mailing
and phone banking, according to filings.  A Whole Lot of People for John Morse  reported donations
from as far away as  Hawaii ,  California ,  Georgia ,  Washington ,
 Connecticut ,  Michigan ,  Vermont  and  Maryland , as well as a
$35,000 contribution from the Washington-based Sixteen Thirty
Fund, a nonprofit that promotes “progressive politics,”
records show.  Morse’s committee raised about twice as much since April as
recall proponents, bringing in about $160,865 in monetary and
non-monetary contributions, compared with about $84,118 reported
by the El Paso Freedom Defense Committee.  Tougher gun-control laws in Colorado also brought to the
surface frustrations in more conservative rural areas, whose
residents say their interests are overlooked by Democrats in
urban centers.  ‘Way of Life’  “Guns was just the tip of the iceberg,” said Weld County
Commissioner Douglas Rademacher. “We took it as an assault on
our way of life.”  Weld lawmakers and representatives from six other counties
in the northeastern corner of Colorado, including Logan,
Sedgwick, Phillips, Yuma, Morgan and Washington, will meet in
coming weeks to discuss placing a measure on the November ballot
asking voters if they wish to secede and form a 51st state. The
question would appear on ballots in each of the counties.  At least 60 percent of the voters in Weld would need to
approve of the idea before the county would move forward, said
Rademacher, acknowledging such a move is a long shot because it
would also require approval from the state’s General Assembly
and the  U.S. Congress .  Rural counties will also discuss putting forward a
statewide ballot initiative in 2014 that would allow each of
Colorado’s 64 counties a representative in the legislature,
Rademacher said.  Adequate representation is what the recall effort is about,
proponents say, adding that Morse failed to acknowledge his
constituents’ wishes when he pushed gun-control measures through
the Senate.  ‘Message Sent’  “We want the message to be sent to folks that are standing
up for their constituents that we’ll work for you and not for
anyone in  New York City ,” Carno said.  Recall opponents say some of the 10,000 or so signatures
collected to call a special election are invalid. Second
Amendment advocates needed 7,178 signatures to qualify.  “We want everyone to be questioning the idea of grassroots
support for the recall of an elected official when we’re really
not sure whose signatures are on there, or where those
signatures came from,” said Christy Le Lait, campaign manager
for A Whole Lot of People for John Morse.  At a press briefing on July 22, Le Lait called on 4th
Judicial District Attorney Dan May to conduct an investigation
into invalid signatures on recall petitions.  ‘Faulty Signatures’  “There are many categories of faulty signatures including:
petitions that were not properly notarized, signatures from
voters residing outside Senate District 11 as well as those that
have been forged,” according to an affidavit filed by Le Lait.  Recall proponents countered that they conducted their own
investigation and found 50 signatures “may be invalid or
inaccurate,” said  Jennifer Kerns , a spokeswoman for the Basic
Freedom Defense Fund, which oversees the El Paso Freedom Defense
Committee.  “This is a pattern we’re seeing in this campaign of false
allegations,” Kerns said following Le Lait’s press briefing.
“They are blown up to try to detract from the real message here
which is Senator John Morse’s failure to represent his
constituents.”  The Secretary of State’s office and a Denver judge both
validated signature gathering  efforts  over the protests of
recall opponents, prompting Hickenlooper on July 18 to declare a
special recall election.  Nineteen states allow recalls. Referendums on state
legislators are rare compared with those conducted on the
municipal level, according to data compiled by the Denver-based
 National Conference of State Legislatures .  Facing Recall  About half of the 36 state legislators in U.S. history who
faced recall lost their seats, NCSL data show.  “We’ve had recalls in about 10 other states, so they are
not unusual, but Colorado has never had a statewide, or state
official, recalled,” said  Tom Cronin , a political scientist at
Colorado Springs-based Colorado College. “My prediction is that
turnout will be higher than expected and there will be a lot of
money spent on both sides.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Jennifer Oldham in
Denver at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  