-- Consol Evaluates Structure While Selling Coal Assets
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-07-25T13:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/consol-evaluates-structure-while-selling-coal-assets.html
Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , the largest U.S.
coal company by market value, said it may change its corporate
structure as it continues to sell coal and natural gas assets.  Consol is “evaluating our overall corporate structure to
consider different alternatives to unlock additional value for
shareholders,” the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based company said
in a statement today.  The company “is not receiving the full value of what these
assets are worth,”  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Clarkson
Capital Markets in  New York  who rates the company the equivalent
of a buy, said in an interview today.  Consol is expanded asset sales beyond mines to include coal
and gas transportation, reinvesting the proceeds in projects
with higher returns. The company, which got about 79 percent of
its revenue from coal and 14 percent from gas last year, has
faced declining U.S. demand for coal and gas prices that reached
a 10-year low in New York last year.  The company reported a  second-quarter loss  of $12.5
million, or 5 cents a share, compared with profit of $152.7
million, or 67 cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items,
the 3-cent per-share loss missed the 16-cent average profit of
23 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 16
percent to $1.22 billion, surpassing the $1.2 billion average
estimate.  Consol sold undeveloped coal assets in  Canada  for $105
million this year and coal mines in  Wyoming  for $300 million in
2012. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brett Harvey said in
October the company was looking at a master-limited partnership
and other structures “as a vehicle to add value to our
shareholders over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  