-- Corn-Based Ethanol RINs Drop on Speculation Law May Be Adjusted
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-07-25T15:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/corn-based-ethanol-rins-drop-on-speculation-law-may-be-adjusted.html
The value of certificates that track
compliance with a U.S. law to use corn-based ethanol dropped the
most since March on speculation Congress will adjust biofuel
consumption targets.  Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, for  ethanol made
from corn  slumped 18 percent to $1.03 at 10:51 a.m.  New York 
time. It was the steepest decline since March 12, a day after
the U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Committee
held hearings on the Renewable Fuels Standard.  Lawmakers at the session, including Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman of the committee, said
modifications are needed to the law that calls for the use of
escalating amounts of renewable fuels.  “You’ve got everyone from trade groups to Congress calling
for a review,” said Michael Slider, director of business
development at Fauser Energy Resources in  Oregon ,  Illinois . “If
there are any reductions, then the RIN values will obviously
fall. You’ve got buyers that are wary.”  RINs rose to a record $1.43 on July 17 from 7 cents on Jan.
3, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Advanced RINs, which cover
biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol, were unchanged
today at $1.30. They were at 37 cents on Jan. 7.  The 2007 energy law mandates that refiners use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year and 14.4 billion in 2014. RINs are
attached to each gallon of biofuel and can be traded or sold
among refiners.  Oil companies  have called for repeal of the law, saying
that the targets would force them to sell gasoline containing
ethanol beyond the previous 10 percent limit, and that more
testing is needed to determine the effect that would have on
engines.  Supporters of the biofuel argue that refiners should sell
higher concentrations in gasoline, citing a 2011 Environmental
Protection Agency ruling that allows for as much as 15 percent
ethanol in the motor fuel for vehicles made after 2001.  The EPA this month sent the final rule for this year’s
volume standards to the White House Office of Management and
Budget for review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  