-- Cowboys Reach Agreement With AT&T to Name NFL Stadium
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-25T18:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/cowboys-reach-agreement-with-at-t-to-name-nfl-stadium-correct-.html
(Corrects to Cowboys being most valuable franchise in NFL
in second and 10th paragraphs.)  The  Dallas  Cowboys and  AT&T Inc. (T) 
reached an agreement to name the National Football League team’s
stadium after the U.S.’s largest phone company.  The $1.2 billion stadium, home of the league’s most
valuable franchise, will become AT&T Stadium, the team said
today in an e-mailed release. AT&T is based in Dallas, 19 miles
(31 kilometers) away from the four-year-old stadium in
Arlington.  “Dallas is our hometown, and we’re proud to expand our
successful relationship with the Cowboys, one of the most
visionary sports franchises around,” AT&T Global Marketing
Officer Cathy Coughlin said in the release.  AT&T already has its name on two major North American
sports venues -- baseball’s San Francisco Giants play in  AT&T
Park  and the National Basketball Association’s San Antonio Spurs
play in the  AT&T Center . The company’s sports sponsorship
portfolio includes a golf tournament on the PGA Tour, a college
football bowl game and Major League Soccer.  The agreement also provides AT&T with “substantial”
advertising opportunities inside and outside the stadium, the
release said. The company and team will work together to improve
mobile technology in the building, including expanding its Wi-Fi
network.  Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed and AT&T spokesman
Brad Burns declined to comment on financial details.  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  agreed to a 25-year, $400 million deal in 2011 to place its
name on the home of the NFL’s New York Giants and Jets, at $16
million annually the largest naming-rights deal in league
history.  Smaller Market  Chuck Costigan, founder of Denver-based  Costigan &
Associates LLC , a sponsorship and naming-rights firm, said
today’s deal probably is worth less than what MetLife paid
because Dallas is a smaller television market and the venue
holds one NFL team, as opposed to two. The league record for a
single-team venue is $11 million a year, which Levi Strauss &
Co. agreed to pay to put its name on the San Francisco 49ers’
Santa Clara stadium, which is under construction.  “That’s not to say that a corporate partner that has
unique objectives to be reached in that marketplace would not
find it to be of a high value,” Costigan said in a telephone
interview. “Given the current environment and given how the NFL
is perceived, this is definitely one of the more premier
properties in play.”  Cowboys Stadium  The building, which can hold more than 100,000 people, has
been called Cowboys Stadium since it opened in 2009, replacing
Texas Stadium. The new venue, which has a retractable roof,
hosted the Super Bowl in 2011, the National Basketball
Association All-Star Game in 2010, as well as college and high
school football, boxing, soccer and concerts. It will host the
men’s college basketball finals next year, as well as the first
college football national title game under the new playoff
system in 2015.  The stadium’s first regular-season game in 2009 drew
105,121 people, a single-game NFL record. The team is worth $2.1
billion, according to Forbes Magazine’s  annual valuations ,
making it the most valuable NFL team, almost double the league
average.  “AT&T is an iconic American leader that has guided the
path of communication in the world for more than 100 years,”
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said in the release. “With AT&T we
are growing our relationship with one of the world’s strongest
and most innovative companies.”  AT&T had $127.4 billion in revenue in 2012, making it the
largest U.S. phone company, and yesterday posted second-quarter
earnings that fell just shy of analyst estimates.  Today’s news comes on the same day that the Giants,
Dallas’s rival in the National Football Conference East
division, announced  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  would assume the
naming rights on their 20-acre practice facility adjacent to
MetLife Stadium.  -- With assistance from Scott Moritz and Aaron Kuriloff in New
York. Editors: Michael Sillup, Crayton Harrison  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  