-- Credit Suisse Profit Rises 33% on Investment Bank
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-07-25T10:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/credit-suisse-profit-rises-33-on-investment-bank.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, posted a 33 percent jump in second-quarter
profit as earnings at the investment bank more than doubled.  Net income climbed to 1.05 billion Swiss francs ($1.1
billion) from 788 million francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said today. Earnings compare with the 1.03 billion-franc average estimate of 10 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The  wealth management  business attracted 7.5 billion francs
of net new money from clients in the quarter and increased
margins on the funds it oversees. While earnings rose at the
investment bank, the fixed-income unit posted a bigger revenue
decline from the first quarter than most of its largest
competitors. The shares fell as much as 3 percent in Zurich.  “We are a bit disappointed with fixed-income results at
second worst in the industry so far and worst in terms of
quarter-on-quarter decline,”  Kian Abouhossein  and Amit Ranjan,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts who rate Credit Suisse overweight,
wrote in a note to clients.  Credit Suisse said its rates and  emerging markets 
businesses, both part of the fixed-income unit, were hurt by
reduced client activity in a volatile trading environment in the
quarter. Chief Executive Officer Brady Dougan also said he
increasingly sees the rates business being affected by
regulatory constraints, such as a greater focus on leverage.  Expected Better  Revenue from equities trading and from underwriting and
advisory rose 24 percent and 45 percent from a year earlier,
respectively, while the fixed-income unit showed a 13 percent
increase. Debt revenue fell 38 percent from the first quarter in
U.S. dollars, compared with an average 23 percent decline at
U.S. competitors, adjusted for own debt valuations, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  “While the wealth management unit clearly was a positive
surprise, we had expected better results from the investment
bank in view of the outperforming U.S. investment banks,”
 Teresa Nielsen , a Zurich-based analyst at Vontobel with a hold
rating on Credit Suisse, said in a note.  Credit Suisse  fell  2.7 percent to 27.64 francs by 11:42
a.m. in Zurich trading, after climbing 13 percent in the
previous three weeks. The company has gained 27 percent this
year, compared with an 8.8 percent increase in the  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index , which tracks 40
companies.  “We saw a pretty good second quarter in terms of client
activity,” Dougan, 53, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “How that will play out for the rest of the year
remains to be seen. The pipelines are pretty strong, so there is
actually a fair amount of business to be done if the markets are
there to do it.”  Cost Cuts  Credit Suisse carried out more than 60 percent of 4.4
billion francs in cost cuts planned by the end of 2015 by
eliminating jobs and reorganizing businesses at the investment
bank. Dougan said last month the bulk of future savings will
come from private banking and wealth management as well as
wringing expenses from operations that cross divisions.  “The results show progress,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA with an outperform rating
on Credit Suisse. “The investment bank did OK. And wealth
management saw margins creep up, which is what they’ve been
needing to show.”  The investment bank posted a pretax profit of 754 million
francs, up from 314 million francs in the year-earlier period as
revenue rose 24 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  reported a cumulative 24 percent gain in revenue at
their investment banks from the year-earlier quarter, excluding
own debt valuations, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Higher Rates  The private banking and wealth management division, which
includes all other businesses, saw profit fall 6.1 percent to
917 million francs. Wealth management gross margin, which
reflects the revenue made on assets overseen at the unit,
increased to 111 basis points from 109 basis points in the first
quarter. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  Market volatility related to rising interest rates
“continued into July, although more recently we have seen signs
of stabilization in our major markets,” Dougan said in the
statement. “In the longer term, the transition to higher rates
will benefit our business.”  Wealth management profit was hurt by a 100 million-franc
charge related to a Swiss-U.K. tax agreement, which requires
banks to collect taxes on accounts of U.K. citizens and has been
in force since January. The  Swiss Bankers Association  said
earlier this month that the country’s banks face losses of about
500 million francs on payments made to the U.K. government as
part of the deal related to untaxed assets in  Switzerland .  Wealth Management  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , Switzerland’s third-biggest wealth
manager, said this week that  increased  client trading boosted
margins.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, reported quarterly
earnings that beat analysts’ forecasts this week, and plans to
provide further details on July 30.  Dougan said last month the bank is working on boosting the
profitability of its wealth management businesses in the U.S.
and western  Europe , while it expects “solid growth” in its
Swiss and emerging-markets units. Credit Suisse is seeking to
“enhance efficiency” in its onshore wealth-management units in
western Europe and expand product offerings in the U.S., Dougan
said at an investor conference in  New York .  The bank is losing money in its U.S. wealth management unit
and turning that around would help boost profitability, Chief
Financial Officer  David Mathers  said today.  Credit Suisse is considering the sale of part of its wealth
management business in  Germany , three people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified said last month. The
bank may focus on ultra-rich clients and sell the remainder of
accounts, said two of the people. Dougan said the bank is
weighing all options for the German business, without being more
specific.  U.S. Probe  Credit Suisse said in 2011 it would seek to increase profit
at its private bank by 800 million francs by 2014 as sluggish
client activity squeezed margins. The company integrated its
Clariden Leu wealth management unit with the rest of the
division and merged consumer and private-banking units in
Switzerland to cut expenses. Last year, the bank said it would
also combine private banking with asset management to boost
efficiency and improve cooperation.  The bank is trying to resolve a U.S. investigation into
whether some of its private bankers may have helped American
clients evade taxes. Credit Suisse has been a target of a
criminal investigation by the  Department of Justice  over former
cross-border private-banking services to American customers
since at least July 2011. About a dozen other Swiss banks are
also being investigated.  Data Delivered  Credit Suisse said today it got permission from the Swiss
authorities to pass on data to the U.S. relating to American
clients who moved their accounts to other institutions. The bank
is in the process of preparing that data now, Mathers told
journalists on a conference call.  “Quite a lot of data and analysis has been delivered on a
redacted basis over the course of the last 18 months,” Mathers
said. “The next installment will be the so-called leaver
analysis and we’ll see where we go from there. We’d clearly
welcome such a resolution in the second half and we’re actively
seeking to achieve it, but I don’t think we could make a
commitment or a forecast that it necessarily will be resolved in
the second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  