-- Credit Suisse Says Adequately Positioned on U.S. Mortgage Suit
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-07-25T11:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/credit-suisse-says-adequately-positioned-on-u-s-mortgage-suit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, is set to weather a possible
settlement tied to U.S. mortgage-backed bond sales, Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  “We clearly feel we’re adequately positioned and we’ll see
how the process moves forward in terms of the timetable and
result,” Dougan told analysts on a conference call today,
adding that the bank reviews all litigation provisions
quarterly.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said this week it
reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Federal Housing
Finance Agency to settle claims related to residential mortgage-backed securities offerings between 2004 and 2007. The bank
didn’t disclose the cost of the settlement, which was included
in about 765 million francs ($815 million) in charges in the
second quarter as well as previous provisions that amounted to
$658 million by the end of 2012.  “We are surprised about the potential magnitude of charges
and potential impact/capital at risk it could generate for other
global investment banks,”  Kian Abouhossein  and Amit Ranjan,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts in  London  who rate Credit Suisse
overweight, wrote in a note to clients.  The FHFA sued UBS in 2011 over $4.5 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities that the bank sponsored and $1.8
billion of third-party RMBS sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
claiming the bank misstated the securities’ risks. These suits
alleged losses of at least $1.2 billion plus interest.  FHFA Suits  The FHFA also sued 17 other banks, including Credit Suisse,
later that year, seeking to recover losses on $196 billion in
mortgage-backed bonds sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
have operated under U.S. conservatorship since 2008.  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  reached a settlement with the FHFA in May on a lawsuit over
$3.5 billion in bonds the bank sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac. The lawsuit said the housing agencies bought $14.1 billion
from Credit Suisse.  Dougan, 53, said the performance of bonds sold to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac should be considered, not just the notional
amounts that were sold. To date, losses on the portfolio that
Credit Suisse sold were about $100 million, he said.  “We feel like in our mortgage business we actually cut
back originations quite substantially in 2006,” as the rest of
the industry was still growing, Dougan said. “We were very
rigorous around due diligence processes, etc., so we think that
that is reflected actually in better performance of the
portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  