-- Daily Mail Third-Quarter Revenue Rises on Advertising
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-25T13:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/daily-mail-revenue-advances-on-advertising-consumer-businesses.html
(Corrects final paragraph to specify trust is considering
a bid for stake and hasn’t yet decided.)  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGT) , the
publisher of Britain’s second-biggest U.K. daily newspaper, said
third-quarter revenue rose on more advertising and progress in
the consumer businesses.  Sales advanced 3 percent to 448 million pounds ($689
million) in the three months through June, as advertising gained
2 percent, both on an underlying basis, the London-based company
said in a statement today.  The publisher, which makes three quarters of its operating
income from non-newspaper sources, is focusing on consumer
businesses such as real-estate listings as the print industry
contracts. Sales of its DMG Information and DMG Events units
rose 13 percent and 6 percent respectively.  “Our consumer business and DMG media have held underlying
revenues growth flat in the period, which is an encouraging
performance with strong digital performance continuing to offset
the weaker print side.” Finance Director Stephen Daintith said
on a conference call.  The  Daily Mail ’s website Mail Online increased monthly
unique browsers 29 percent to 121 million in June compared to
the same month last year.  The group’s merger with Zoopla, a real-estate search engine
is progressing well, according to Daintith. The unit, which
competes with Rightmove, receives a third of  Internet traffic  in
the market and will probably have full-year revenue of 60
million pounds to 65 million pounds, Daily Mail said.  Rothermere Continuation Ltd., a trust for Daily Mail
Chairman Viscount Rothermere and his immediate family, is
considering a bid for the remaining 10.8 percent of shares it
doesn’t own, according to Daintith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  