-- Daimler to Supply Aston Martin With Engines for 5% Stake
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-07-25T14:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/daimler-gets-5-of-aston-martin-in-engine-supply-accord.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  will supply high-performance engines to Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., giving the
world’s third-biggest luxury-vehicle maker a wider toehold in
the high-end sports car market.  Daimler will over time receive a 5 percent stake in Aston
Martin as part of the agreement, depending on the progress of a
technical partnership the companies are setting up in a non-cash
transaction, the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer said
today in a  statement . Daimler’s Mercedes-AMG high-performance
division will provide the U.K. company with engines, it said.  Aston Martin, the only global luxury-auto producer that
doesn’t belong to a larger manufacturing group, is seeking to
limit spending on new models as the maker of the  189,995-euro 
($251,000) Rapide competes with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat
SpA (F) ’s Ferrari and Maserati. AMG makes the similarly priced SLS
and is introducing an all electric version that will cost more
than double the standard model.  “It’s important for Aston Martin to gain access to the
engine technology,” said Daniel Schwarz, a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Commerzbank AG. “They are too small volume-wise to
keep down development costs on their own.”  Top-End Pullback  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand ranks third in worldwide
sales to Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s namesake marque and
Volkswagen’s Audi nameplate. Daimler shuttered the Maybach
ultra-luxury division in 2011 because the business, which made
limousines priced in excess of $300,000, wasn’t profitable. That
left the company without the equivalent of Bentley or BMW’s
Rolls-Royce.  Bentley has expanded its line-up into sports cars such as
the Continental GT Speed to challenge Gaydon, England-based
Aston Martin. The VW division announced plans on July 23 to
build the world’s most-expensive sport-utility vehicle.  Daimler is among carmakers that cooperate to share
development costs in specific projects without taking the more
complicated step of merging.  The German company has an agreement to supply engines to
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti division under a three-year-old
cooperation project with the Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker and
its French partner,  Renault SA (RNO) , on developing components and
models. Daimler and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  added Nissan as a partner
earlier this year to develop fuel cells for electric cars that
the manufacturers plan to start selling in 2017.  BMW Cooperation  BMW signed an agreement in January with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the world’s biggest carmaker, to jointly develop fuel-cell
systems and a new mid-sized sports car. Fiat will produce a new
Alfa Romeo roadster based on the next version of Japanese
producer’s  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s MX-5 to revitalize the upscale
Italian brand.  AMG, based in the Stuttgart suburb of Affalterbach, is
known for hand-made engines embossed with a signature badge of
the worker who assembled it. The division’s all-electric SLS
supercar, costing 416,500 euros, is just starting deliveries.  The partnership with Aston Martin is “proof of AMG’s
technological and performance expertise, and a real win-win
situation for both sides,” Ola Kaellenius, head of Mercedes-AMG, said in the statement.  In addition to the AMG engine agreement, Mercedes-Benz will
provide electronic components to Aston Martin, Daimler said
today. The carmakers, which have been in talks since the
beginning of the year, plan to sign a definitive agreement in
the second half of this year.  Aston Martin, whose sports cars have been featured in James
Bond movies, laid out plans in January to invest 500 million
pounds ($765 million) over the next four years. The carmaker,
which turns 100 this year and sold 3,800 vehicles in 2012, is
backed by London-based Investindustrial, a private-equity fund
whose previous assets include high-end motorcycle maker Ducati,
which Audi bought last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  