-- Dementia Slowed in Patients on Blood-Pressure Drugs
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-07-25T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/dementia-slowed-in-patients-on-blood-pressure-drugs.html
Patients taking drugs known as ACE
inhibitors that are used to treat high  blood pressure  and heart
failure had lower rates of deterioration caused by certain types
of dementia, according to researchers who reviewed Canadian
hospital records.  The researchers led by  William Molloy  of University College
Cork in Ireland conducted what is known as an observational
study, by looking at records of past treatment of 361 dementia
patients at two memory clinics in Ontario,  Canada . Those who
were taking ACE inhibitors showed a smaller drop in their score
on a test measuring cognitive ability than those who weren’t on
the drugs, according to the study published today in  BMJ Open ,
an online journal.  The findings indicate that ACE inhibitors hold promise as
an inexpensive way to ease the burden of dementia, Molloy said.
The affliction will probably become more common as the world’s
population ages. A further study is needed to examine if ACE
inhibitors also prevent the onset of dementia, Molloy said.  “The $64,000 question is will they prevent dementia?”
Molloy said in a phone interview.  The results merit additional study because treating blood
pressure in mid-life is known to lower dementia risk, said A.
 David Smith , professor emeritus of pharmacology at Oxford
University in  England . He said today’s study doesn’t show that
ACE inhibitors slow the disease’s progression because
significant treatment effects were limited to a small number of
patients who’d been newly prescribed the drugs and 80 percent
were on other medicines to manage the symptoms of dementia.  Blocking Enzymes  “It’s a study that hasn’t produced convincing evidence,”
Smith said in a telephone interview.  ACE inhibitors lower blood pressure by blocking
angiotensin-converting enzymes in the body’s blood pressure
regulation system and reducing blood volume and tension in blood
vessels. Most are generic and cost pennies a day.  Alzheimer’s disease and dementia mostly affect older people
and the number afflicted by the conditions is growing worldwide
as populations age. The  World Health Organization  predicted
dementia cases would triple from 36 million worldwide in 2010 to
115 million in 2050.  Scores on one test measuring cognitive ability fell 1.8
points in patients suffering from vascular dementia and dementia
from  Alzheimer’s disease  who took the drugs, compared with 2.1
points in those who didn’t take them, according to the study
published today.  A previous U.S. study of cardiovascular risk in the general
population found that people taking ACE inhibitors were 60
percent less likely to be diagnosed with dementia, Molloy said.
Other studies that focused on blood pressure haven’t found as
much effect, Molloy said.  “The drugs we have for Alzheimer’s work for a year and
they stop working,” Molloy said. “Many of these patients were
on ACE inhibitors for years. The main thing is it’s continuing
to work.”  It’s too early for doctors to prescribe ACE inhibitors to
everyone at risk of dementia, Molloy said. People who already
need treatment for cardiovascular disease such as high blood
pressure and who are at risk of dementia may benefit if they
take a centrally-acting ACE inhibitor, he said.  The effect could be due to the drugs acting against
swelling in brain tissue or improving blood flow to the brain,
Molloy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  