-- Denmark Rejects S&P Warning to Tighten Rules for Covered Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-25T05:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/denmark-rejects-s-p-warning-to-tighten-rules-for-covered-bonds.html
Denmark ’s government isn’t planning
to tighten covered bond rules on short-term funding beyond
measures already laid out, rejecting warnings from Standard &
Poor’s that stricter standards are needed.  “We have no such plans currently,” Benny Engelbrecht,
business spokesman for the ruling Social Democrats, said in an
e-mailed reply to questions.  S&P said last week existing proposals in Denmark and the
rest of Europe to cut banks’ reliance on short-term borrowing
weren’t enough to contain funding risks. The rating company
lowered its outlook on Copenhagen-based Nykredit Realkredit A/S,
Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds,
warning downgrades would follow if “funding profiles do not
improve materially over the short term.”  S&P is adding its voice to warnings from Moody’s Investors
Service and the central bank, which have urged lenders in
Denmark’s $500 billion mortgage market to do more to match
funding and lending maturities. One-year bonds used to finance
30-year mortgages in Denmark -- home to the world’s biggest
home-loan market per capita -- made up 28 percent of the total
last quarter, according to Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage
unit of  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   A committee appointed by the government to identify
Denmark’s too-big-to-fail banks said in March systemically
important lenders should aim to comply with a basic stable
funding level from 2014. That’s four years earlier than a target
set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision for its
guidelines, which Denmark says it will incorporate into its
final rules.  ‘Not Sure’  “The government is of course planning to implement both
the Capital Requirement Directive IV and the proposed
legislation for systemically important financial institutions,”
Engelbrecht said. Lawmakers will follow recommendations from
Denmark’s Systemic Risk Board to push the existing proposals
through as soon as possible, he said.  “It’s a step in the right direction that the Sifi proposal
raises the issue of the funding mismatch,” Alexander Ekbom, a
Stockholm-based S&P credit analyst, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “But we’re not sure that it will lead to a
sufficient solution.”  S&P said in its July 19 report that Denmark’s mortgage
finance model sets its “banking sector apart from most banking
markets within the European Union, where mismatches are lower.”  ‘Very Limited’  The rating company also cut its outlook to negative from
stable on the credit grades of BRFkredit A/S and reduced the
outlook to stable from positive on Danske and DLR Kredit A/S.
S&P rates Nykredit A+. Moody’s, which Nykredit fired last year
after criticizing the rating company’s methodology, gives
Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank a Baa2 grade, two steps above
junk.  Danish  mortgage  banks have cut issuance of one-year bonds
since the second quarter of 2012, according to data provided by
Realkredit Danmark. The loans accounted for more than 30 percent
of the total just over a year ago.  Still, banks in the Nordic country are unlikely to take
adequate steps to reduce their funding risks without regulatory
interference, according to S&P. So far, the Sifi committee’s
guidance on the subject is “very limited,” Ekbom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  