-- Detroit Immunity Ruling Opens Way for Eligibility Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/detroit-immunity-ruling-opens-way-for-eligibility-fight.html
Detroit obtained federal protection
from lawsuits while in bankruptcy, opening the way for a hearing
near the end of the year over whether Michigan’s biggest city
belongs in  bankruptcy court  in the first place.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in Detroit yesterday
blocked lawsuits by public employee unions and pension funds
that said the state overreached in seeking court protection from
creditors. He also shielded Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  from
litigation related to the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  The ruling gives Detroit breathing room it says it needs to
address $18 billion in debts. To stay in bankruptcy, the city
must now convince the judge that it can’t pay in full and that
it tried in good faith to reach a deal with creditors. Ron Oliner, a lawyer for a police union that fought to get Vallejo,
 California ’s bankruptcy case thrown out, said that process can
be costly.  “In Vallejo, the unions challenged eligibility
unsuccessfully,” Oliner, a partner at Duane Morris LLP in  San
Francisco , said in an interview. “Doing so delayed the case for
a great period of time and cost the unions and the city many
millions of dollars.”  After losing the eligibility fight, the police union hired
Oliner to represent it during the rest of the case as the city
worked out a plan to adjust its debts.  Stockton Proof  It took Stockton, California, months to prove it was
eligible to remain in bankruptcy, while San Bernardino,
California, won’t get a hearing on the issue until next month,
about a year after it sought court protection.  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , also tried to restructure debt
using Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which covers
municipalities. Its case was thrown out in November 2011 after a
federal bankruptcy judge found the filing wasn’t authorized
under state law.  Kevyn Orr, Detroit’s emergency manager, filed his Chapter 9
petition July 18 at Snyder’s direction, saying six decades of
economic decline had left the city unable to both provide
residents necessary services and pay creditors, including
retired city workers, all they are owed.  Orr, 55, has proposed giving creditors until the end of
August to object to eligibility. After that, the two sides would
exchange information and interview witnesses, submitting final
written arguments in November. The eligibility hearing would
happen sometime after that.  Michigan Constitution  City unions and pension officials claim Snyder, 54,
violated  Michigan  law by authorizing the bankruptcy. Pension
funds sued in state court to have the filing declared illegal,
contending the Michigan constitution bars any government in the
state from reducing pension benefits. Rhodes said such disputes
belong before a federal court.  Michael Artz, a lawyer for the American Federation of
State, County & Municipal Employees, part of the AFL-CIO, said
after yesterday’s hearing that while the question of the
constitutionality of the Chapter 9 filing belonged in state
court, the union “will fight whatever court we’re in.”  The bankruptcy came amid negotiations between Orr and
creditors including bondholders, public workers and retirees.
Before the filing, Orr proposed canceling about $2 billion in
bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in unfunded pension
liabilities. Those debts would be replaced with about $2 billion
in new notes, forcing bondholders and the pension systems to
accept less than what they are owed.  Bond Prices  Prices on  Detroit ’s general-obligation bonds moved in both
directions after yesterday’s ruling, indicating that investors
are still debating the debt’s fate in bankruptcy. No
municipality has used Chapter 9 to force holders of such bonds
to take a cut in principal.  Detroit general obligation bonds maturing in April 2028
traded after the decision at as little as 82 cents on the
dollar, the lowest since March 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Similar debt due in April 2025 traded at 94 cents on the
dollar following the ruling, up from 91 cents earlier this week.  Unlike companies, municipalities don’t need to ask the
bankruptcy judge for permission to pay any bills they ran up
before filing for court protection, including wages, utilities
and rents.  That means creditors can’t put as much pressure on a city
over its spending habits as they can on companies in bankruptcy.
Chapter 9 creditors also can’t offer their own reorganization
plan and aren’t entitled to form an official committee with
legal fees paid by the municipality. Unsecured creditors
typically have those rights under Chapter 11, which companies
use to try to stay in business and reorganize.  Rhodes, 64, may name a fellow jurist to oversee mediation
between the city and its creditors. On the agenda he posted for
an Aug. 2 hearing, Rhodes included a proposal to appoint Gerald Rosen to mediate. As chief judge of the U.S. District Court in
Detroit, Rosen, 61, oversees Rhodes and the other bankruptcy
judges in the district.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in federal court in Detroit at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  