-- Snyder Touts Aggressive Detroit Bankruptcy Timeline
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-26T14:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/detroit-s-orr-welcomes-offer-of-bankruptcy-mediator.html
Detroit’s 15-month deadline to
reorganize $18 billion in debt in a record federal bankruptcy is
an “aggressive” goal needed to restore essential city services
after 60 years of decline,  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  said.  “This probably is the largest challenge in the  United
States ,” Snyder, a 54-year-old Republican, said today.
 Bankruptcy court  gives the city “one forum to resolve all the
issues.”  The emergency manager Snyder appointed, Kevyn Orr, can be
removed from his post by the city council in September 2014,
returning local control to elected officials. Orr and Snyder, in
separate interviews at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York ,
argued that the July 18 bankruptcy filing is the best way to
adjust the city’s debts by that deadline.  “I don’t have time to run in place or to play games as
usual or to engage in the usual banter that’s happened all too
often in  Detroit ,” Orr, 55, said yesterday. He endorsed a plan
by the bankruptcy judge to name a mediator to help the city
negotiate with its unions, pension funds and bondholders.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy after
decades of decline left the city unable to pay its debts and
provide needed services. Orr said creditors refused to give an
“honest response” to his June debt-reduction proposal and
instead sued him and Snyder to block the bankruptcy filing.  ‘Talking Past’  “I’m hoping the mediator provides a process by which we
can stop talking past each other,” said Orr, who worked on the
Chrysler LLC bankruptcy while an attorney at  Jones Day .  The proposal by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to name
U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen as mediator is on the agenda
for a hearing on Aug. 2 in Detroit.  Orr, who was appointed in March, agreed that the September
2014 deadline to reach a solution in bankruptcy court is
ambitious. He also said that should mediation fail, Detroit has
already met most of the conditions required to ask Rhodes to
impose cuts on creditors, a procedure available to the court
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  Snyder said private industry is doing its part to help
Detroit recover, citing new businesses such as  Dan Gilbert ’s
Quicken Loans Inc. that have opened or expanded offices in the
city. The last piece of the recovery will be fixing the city’s
government and public finances, he said.  Oversight Body  That could include creating some kind of outside financial
oversight body once the emergency manager leaves office, Snyder
said, an idea Orr also mentioned.  Before the bankruptcy, Orr proposed eliminating about
$2 billion in unsecured bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in
future pension liabilities. Under that proposal, those debts,
and money owed for other retiree benefits, such as health care,
would be replaced with about $2 billion in new debt.  No U.S. city or county in bankruptcy has successfully
invoked the  Bankruptcy Code ’s so-called cram-down procedure to
force creditors to take losses on their principal.  “Records are made to be broken,” Orr said.  Last month, in the $4 billion bankruptcy of Jefferson
County,  Alabama , creditors voluntarily agreed to take about
$1 billion less than they are owed. That proposal will go before
a judge in November, and the county may exit bankruptcy by the
end of the year.  Two federal judges have said consensus will be the key to
ending the California municipal bankruptcies they are
overseeing. Stockton is in mediation with its creditors, and the
judge in the case of San Bernardino has proposed a mediator.  Shore Up  Orr meanwhile is looking for other ways to shore up
Detroit’s finances.  The city will “definitely” exercise an option to buy its
way out of interest-rate swap contracts by paying 75 percent of
their current market value, he said. The termination payment to
end the contracts could run into the hundreds of millions of
dollars, according to court papers. On June 28, the market value
of the swap contracts was $296.5 million, the city said.  “That’s $80 million in savings,” Orr said.  Orr said he’s still talking to some creditor groups,
including those representing bond insurers that may have to pay
investors if Detroit can’t meet all its obligations.  Carol Connor Cohen, a lawyer for bond insurer Ambac
Assurance Corp., declined to comment on the timeline or the
mediator proposal.  Robert Gordon , an attorney for a pension fund
for Detroit city workers, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in New York at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  