-- Deutsche Boerse Second-Quarter Earnings Fall on Trading
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-25T19:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/deutsche-boerse-second-quarter-earnings-fall-on-trading.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , operator of the
Eurex derivatives market and the Frankfurt stock exchange, said
second-quarter profit fell 8.2 percent as trading volumes
declined.  Net income for the quarter dropped to 171 million euros
($227 million) from 186.2 million euros in the second quarter of
2012. Earnings before interest and taxes dropped to 256.3
million euros from 278.8 million euros a year earlier, the
Frankfurt-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Deutsche Boerse and its rivals, including NYSE Euronext and
London Stock Exchange Group Plc, have seen trading volumes drop
following the global financial crisis of 2008. Traditional
exchanges have also lost market share to new venues such as Bats
Chi-X Europe. The German company says it’s focused on organic
growth and  Asia  as it tries to drive profits.  “For the remainder of the financial year 2013,  Deutsche
Boerse  expects to see a slight deterioration compared with the
forecasts for its operating environment made in its 2012”
statement, the company said on its website today.  “If the capital market environment and investor confidence
fail to improve and the markets continue to be impacted by
uncertainty regarding global economic performance and the future
situation in the euro zone, business activity would be on a
level comparable to the second half of 2012,” the company said.  In such a case full-year net  revenue  would fall 7 percent
to 1.8 billion euros. If the environment improves
“significantly” net revenue will rise to 2 billion euros,
Deutsche Boerse said.  Equity Investments  The second-quarter   results  included a 3 million euro one-time payment from equity investments the firm has in the
 European Energy Exchange , Scoach Holding SA and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, Deutsche Boerse said.  Net revenue fell 1.9 percent to 497.1 million euros from
506.7 million euros, the company said, citing a “difficult
capital market environment.” Operating costs rose to 243.8
million euros in the quarter from 228.9 million euros. Costs
included a 9.7 million euro one-time payment related to the
company’s cost-cutting program and mergers and acquisitions.  Deutsche Boerse plans to eliminate about 250 jobs as part
of a program to reduce expenses by as much as 70 million euros
annually by 2016. The exchange operator will spend 90 million
euros to 120 million euros implementing the proposals.  CME Deal  CME Group Inc. previously approached Deutsche Boerse to
consider starting talks on a merger, four people familiar with
the situation said in February. The European Commission blocked
Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition of NYSE Euronext last year, citing
concern over competition in the markets for derivatives and
clearing.  Eurex,  Europe ’s largest derivatives exchange, reported
earnings before interest and tax fell 12 percent to 114.9
million euros. Xetra, the exchange’s electronic equity trading
business, reported earnings before interest and tax that were
little changed at 16.9 million euros from 17 million euros a
year ago.  Clearstream, Europe’s largest settlement house, said
earnings fell 3 percent to 78.1 million euros. Profit for the
market data and services segment slid 8 percent to 46.4 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  