-- Deutsche Bank Sells Largest Structured Note Tied to EAFE Index
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-07-25T16:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/deutsche-bank-sells-largest-structured-note-tied-to-eafe-index.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sold $108.1 million
of one-year notes tied to the MSCI EAFE Index, the largest such
offering in data going back three and a half years.  The securities, issued July 19, yield twice the benchmark’s
gains, with returns capped at 22.3 percent and all capital at
risk, according to a prospectus filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. If the index declines from its initial
value, the investor loses a proportionate amount of principal.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. distributed the notes for a 1 percent fee.  The  gauge  of 908 companies in developed-market countries
outside the U.S. and Canada rose 9 percent this year to 1,753.91
at the close of trading yesterday. Index members include Vevey,
Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company,
and HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank.  “It looks like Europe is starting to mend itself,” said
Tom Mangan, a money manager at James Investment Research Inc. in
Xenia,  Ohio , who oversees about $4.2 billion in assets. Growth
in Asia and accommodative economic policies have contributed to
the index’s rise this year, he said.  Investors have bought $880 million of securities tied
directly to MSCI EAFE this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s more than three times the $269.2 million sold
during the year-earlier period.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  