-- Dexus Buy Stokes Commonwealth Office Share Surge: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-25T01:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/dexus-buy-stokes-commonwealth-office-share-surge-sydney-mover.html
Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA) 
surged the most in more than four years after  Dexus Property
Group (DXS) ,  Australia ’s  biggest listed office landlord  by market
value, said it bought a stake in the trust.  Dexus agreed to acquire a 14.9 percent interest in the
fund, buying the units on a forward contract basis at A$1.1334 a
share, the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange. Shares in Commonwealth Property
Office Fund rose as much as 6.2 percent.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  yesterday proposed that its
three real estate funds -- Commonwealth Property Office Fund,
 CFS Retail Property Trust (CFX)  and Kiwi Income Property Trust -- set
up their own management teams. Commonwealth Office, the smaller
of the two Australian trusts with assets of A$3.8 billion, may
be a takeover target of office operators including Dexus,  GPT
Group (GPT)  and  Investa Office Fund (IOF) , groups including CLSA Asia
Pacific Markets and Morgan Stanley forecast.  “We know the assets very well and we think Commonwealth
Property Office Fund may be important to Dexus in the long
term,” Dexus Chief Executive Officer Darren Steinberg said in a
telephone interview today. “However at this point in time,
there’s no proposal to go any further.”  Steinberg was head of property at Colonial First State
Global Asset Management, the funds management arm of CBA, before
taking over as CEO of Dexus in March 2012.  Commonwealth Property Office Fund  shares  climbed 4 cents to
A$1.17 as of 11:00 a.m. in Sydney. They earlier rose 7 cents to
A$1.20, the biggest daily increase since June 2009. Dexus shares
rose 1.2 percent to A$1.0425.  Dexus’s purchase price is a 1.5 percent discount to
Commonwealth Office’s net tangible asset value of A$1.15 as of
Dec. 31, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  