-- Dow Chemical May Sell Units With $6 Billion Revenue
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-25T15:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/dow-chemical-may-sell-units-with-6-billion-revenue.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  may sell three
businesses with $6 billion in combined revenue if the largest
U.S. chemicals maker fails to improve profit margins.  The underperforming units are epoxy, building and
construction products outside of  North America , and chlorine
derivatives. Midland, Michigan-based Dow is exploring all
options for those businesses, including creating joint ventures
or selling them entirely, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Liveris  said today on an earnings conference call.  “We see the need for more dramatic interventions,”
Liveris said.  Dow, DuPont Co. and  Ashland Inc. (ASH)  are among chemical
companies considering or planning asset sales as they try to
unlock growth amid a tepid global economy. The Dow segments
earmarked for possible divestment are in slow-growing markets
and face margin pressure, Dow said. Epoxy, used to make plywood,
is facing “tough competition” from  China , Liveris said.  The company has previously announced plans to sell by year-end three other units with a total of $1.5 billion of revenue:
plastics additives; polypropylene licensing and catalysts; and
fumigants.  “We have said for about a year that this is the type of
economy where self-help is important and critical,” Liveris
said in a phone interview earlier today.  Dow rose 1.4 percent to $34.86 at 11:30 a.m. in  New York 
after posting second-quarter earnings and sales that beat
analysts’ estimates as stronger transportation and packaging
demand helped its plastics unit.  China Strength  Net income climbed to $1.87 a share from 55 cents a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. Excluding an
arbitration award and other one-time items, profit was 64 cents,
beating the 62-cent average of 17 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales were little changed at $14.6 billion, topping
the $14.5 billion average estimate.  Cost cuts and revenue gains in China and other  emerging
markets  helped drive earnings, Liveris said in the interview.  “Companywide volume growth in emerging markets was far
stronger than we have been hearing,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who recommends buying
Dow shares, said by phone yesterday.  Dow is investing $4 billion to expand production in the
U.S., where an abundance of natural gas from drilling in shale
formations has made U.S. plastics competitive with the  Middle
East . At the plastics unit, which uses natural gas liquids as a
raw material, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 33 percent to $1.01 billion, the highest in
eight years.  Agriculture Ebitda fell 5.5 percent even as sales gained,
partly because of the expense of introducing four new products,
Liveris said in the interview.  Dow received $2.19 billion in May from Petrochemical
Industries Co. of  Kuwait  as compensation for the cancellation of
a plastics joint venture four years ago. Dow used the after-tax
proceeds to help pay down debt to 36 percent of total
capitalization, Liveris said. The company plans to focus on
retiring high-interest preferred shares, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  