-- Dow Chemical Earnings Top Estimates After Gains at Plastics Unit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-25T11:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/dow-chemical-earnings-top-estimates-after-gains-at-plastics-unit.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by revenue, posted second-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates after improved transportation and
packaging demand helped its plastics unit.  Net income rose to $1.87 a share from 55 cents a year
earlier, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement.
Excluding a payment that followed the resolution of arbitration
with Petrochemical Industries Co. of  Kuwait , earnings were 64
cents, beating the 62-cent average of 17 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue was little changed at $14.6 billion, topping the
$14.5 billion average of 12 estimates.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris is
investing $4 billion to expand production in the U.S., where an
abundance of natural gas from drilling in shale formations has
made U.S. plastics competitive with the Middle East. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 33
percent in the plastics unit.  “Plastics margins in the U.S. are up quite strongly,”
Hassan Ahmed, a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors who recommends buying Dow shares, said by phone
yesterday. “The whole amalgam grew nicely in the quarter.”  Dow fell 0.5 percent to $34.37 yesterday in New York. The
shares have gained 6.3 percent this year.  Prices for  ethane , the primary raw material used to make
polyethylene plastics in the U.S., fell to an average 23.9 cents
a gallon in  Texas  during the second quarter, from 28.3 cents a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  K-Dow Settlement  Dow received $2.19 billion in May from Petrochemical
Industries as compensation for the cancellation of a plastics
joint venture more than four years ago. Dow used some of the
cash to redeem $1.25 billion of securities as part of a plan to
reduce interest costs.  The failure of the venture in December 2008 deprived Dow of
a $9 billion payment during the financial crisis, almost
derailed its 2009 purchase of Rohm & Haas Co. and prompted the
company’s first dividend cut.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and polyethylene
plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical maker behind
 Germany ’s BASF SE.  (Dow scheduled a conference call for 9 a.m. New York time,
accessible on its website:  http://www.dow.com/investors/events .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  