-- Dow Says ‘Rest Assured’ on Effort to Redeem Buffett Stake
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r ,   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-25T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/dow-says-rest-assured-on-effort-to-redeem-buffett-stake.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  said its prospects
have improved for redeeming $4 billion in preferred stock held
by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Kuwait ’s
sovereign wealth fund after  interest rates  climbed.  “As interest rates tend to go upward, the potential
premium that we would need to pay to retire those decreases,”
Dow Chief Financial Officer Bill Weideman said today on a
conference call. “Things are moving in the right direction from
that standpoint. You can be rest assured that we’ll be looking
at different opportunities there.”  Dow Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  has
been seeking to reduce debt after receiving $2.19 billion from
Petrochemical Industries Co. of Kuwait as compensation for the
cancellation of a joint venture more than four years ago.
Midland, Michigan-based Dow pays an 8.5 percent annual dividend
on preferred shares it sold to help fund the 2009 purchase of
Rohm & Haas Co.  Redeeming those is a “top priority for us,” Weideman
said. “As we’ve said all along, timing’s important on this.”  Buffett, 82, didn’t return a message left with an assistant
at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. An attempt to reach the
 Kuwait Investment Authority  for comment outside of normal
business hours wasn’t successful.  Interest rates have climbed since Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in May that the central bank may begin
tapering some of its efforts to stimulate the economy. Ten-year
Treasury  yields  were about 2.57 percent today, compared with
1.67 percent at the end of April.  Joint Venture  PIC canceled a joint venture with Dow in 2008, depriving
the chemical maker of a $9 billion payment during the financial
crisis. The scuttled venture almost derailed the Rohm & Haas
deal and prompted Dow’s first  dividend  cut.  The chemical maker said in July 2008 it would sell $4
billion of preferred shares -- $3 billion to Berkshire and $1
billion to Kuwait’s sovereign wealth fund -- to help fund its
purchase of Rohm & Haas. In addition to the dividend, the
securities also gave Berkshire the right to purchase 72.6
million shares of Dow common stock for $41.32 each.  Starting in April 2014, Dow has the right to convert the
preferred investment into common stock if its shares traded
above $53.72 for any 20 trading days in a consecutive 30-day
window. The chemical maker rose 1.8 percent to $34.99 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York .  Transportation, Packaging  Dow said today that second quarter net income climbed to
$1.87 a share from 55 cents a year earlier as stronger
transportation and packaging demand helped its plastics unit
while emerging-market sales volume rose. Excluding the
arbitration award and a loss from early debt repayment, profit
was 64 cents, beating the 62-cent average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and CEO, has been winding
down other crisis-era investments. Earlier this year, he agreed
to settle warrants he received in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
General Electric Co. that gave him the option to buy common
stock in both.  Berkshire committed a combined $8 billion to the companies
in 2008 to help them shore up capital and restore market
confidence after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. Both
 repaid  the money at a premium in 2011.  A surging  equity portfolio  and higher earnings at
Berkshire’s operating businesses, from railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  to insurer Geico, have boosted the company’s
stock by 31 percent this year. Class A shares advanced 0.5
percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  