-- Du Prepares for Competition as Net Jumps at Dubai Phone Operator
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-07-25T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/du-prepares-for-competition-as-net-jumps-at-dubai-phone-operator.html
Du, (DU)  the phone company that posted a
46 percent jump in quarterly profit, is firming up plans to face
competition from a possible third operator in the United Arab
Emirates as it expands its network and restructures operations.  Du expects the telecommunications regulator to allow a new
company to start operations in the second-biggest Arab economy
in 2015, Chief Executive Officer Osman Sultan said in a
conference call with reporters today. “I wouldn’t be doing my
job if I don’t plug this assumption in the business plan,” he
said. “We should be ready today because my job is to make this
company ready for competition at every moment.”  Du has secured 47 percent of the mobile-phone market share
since it broke the monopoly of Etisalat and started operations
in 2007. The U.A.E., with a population of more than 8 million,
had almost 2 million fixed-line phones and 13.8 million active
mobile  subscriptions  at the end of 2012, according to the
Telecommunications Regulatory Authority. The regulator said last
year Etisalat and Du were meeting the needs of the U.A.E. market
and it didn’t have immediate plans to license a third operator.  Second-quarter profit rose to 474 million dirhams ($129
million) from 325.5 million dirhams a year ago, the company said
in a statement today. Mobile-phone customers increased 16
percent to 6.65 million.  The shares  rose 0.5 percent to 6.73 dirhams after the
company said it proposed a one-time payment of 10 fils a share
and an interim dividend of 12 fils. The stock has surged 93
percent this year, compared with a 32 percent gain for  Etisalat. (ETISALAT)   Growth Opportunity  Du’s profit compares with a 6 percent increase in second-quarter net income at Etisalat, which is seeking to expand away
from its home base to boost revenue. Etisalat said earlier this
week it entered exclusive talks to purchase Vivendi SA’s stake
in Moroccan mobile operator Maroc Telecom SA for 4.2 billion
euros ($5.5 billion).  In contrast, Du, which is in talks with Etisalat on network
sharing, started a reorganization this year and plans to
outsource some roles at call centers and in information
technology, Sultan said in January. Du raised three loans valued
at $700 million since mid-December to help finance its network
expansion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is incredible economic momentum in the U.A.E., we
all can see the growth,” Sultan said. “There is a lot of
opportunity for the sector to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  