-- The U.S. Can’t Afford to Economize on Child Care
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-25T17:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/the-u-s-can-t-afford-to-economize-on-child-care.html
Day care is the most neglected area
of U.S. public policy for children.  It isn’t only a matter of spending -- although the
difference between what’s budgeted for babies and toddlers and
what goes to educate older kids is stark. In 2008, federal,
state and local governments together invested about $300 for
every child of 2 or younger on day care, while spending almost
$11,000 per 6-year-old to 11-year-old on education and after-school programs, according to an Urban Institute  study . For 3-year-olds to 5-year-olds, some of whom are in preschool, the
outlay for education and care amounted to about $5,000.  Just as important is the way day care has been short-changed on attention. Although  some states  set a high bar for
quality and safety -- North Carolina and  Delaware , for example,
inspect centers regularly and pay more generous government
support to better operations -- others enforce only limited
standards. In  South Dakota , a home-care provider can look out
for as many as 12 youngsters and meet  no standards  at all.  Twelve states  require  no CPR training for licensed child-care providers, and 29 demand no instruction in how to prevent
sudden infant death syndrome.  Up to now, the federal government has mainly left
regulation to states’ discretion. This is about to change, in
what we hope will be the first of several steps -- by the Obama
administration, Congress and the states -- toward better child-care quality and safety.  National Rules  Next month, the  Department of Health  and Human Services
will begin to finalize  new rules  for the half a million child-care centers nationwide that receive federal money through the
Child Care and Development Block Grant program. For the first
time, such centers will have to undergo annual, unannounced
inspections to ensure that they comply with fire, health and
building codes and that staff members are looking out for
children’s health and safety. All caregivers will be required to
undergo background checks, including fingerprinting, and to be
trained in such health practices as CPR, safe sleeping, poison
prevention, allergy management, nutrition and basic child
development.  What’s more, states will need to post online quality
information about all such centers, make it easier for eligible
parents to sign up for federal vouchers, and stop automatically
canceling support if the parents lose their jobs. (When it
began, the block-grant program was aimed mainly at giving
parents coming off welfare the chance to work.)  It’s a shame it has taken a decade and a half since the
program was instituted to come up with such basic standards. But
never mind, if policy makers are finally wakening to the sorry
state of day care in the U.S.  A much-discussed  article  in the New Republic in April
documented the neglect and danger that babies experience in
poorly staffed and managed centers. The very young are
extraordinarily vulnerable.  Science has shown  how, when babies
or small children are deprived of close attention, their stress
responses work overtime, weakening their brains -- at least as
much as if the children had been physically hurt. Such children
later have trouble learning, paying attention, developing
coordination, building confidence and managing their own
behavior. They also wind up with more infections and other
illnesses.  The case for protecting America’s youngest is irresistible.
So it’s good to see  bipartisan  support in the Senate for
reauthorizing the block-grant program, which would write into
law the new federal safeguards -- and then some. The
reauthorization bill, which we hope will be acted on this fall,
would strengthen background checks by requiring searches of sex-offender and abuse-and-neglect registries in every state where
the employee has lived in the past 10 years.  Quality Push  The law would also gradually raise to 10 percent the amount
of block-grant money that states must devote to improving child-care quality. Currently, that floor is just 4 percent. And it
would specify what actions qualify for such investment, such as
teacher training, the expansion of infant and toddler programs,
and the creation of quality-rating systems like  North Carolina ’s
and Delaware’s. States would have to adopt at least two of more
than a dozen listed suggestions.  Because many centers that accept children eligible for
federal support also care for other children, passage of a
toughened federal law would do much to improve child care
generally. Of course, we’d also like to see Congress approve the
$5.4 billion slated for the program in 2014 (up from $5.2
billion in 2012).  The nation can barely afford to spend less. Consider that
the federal program now funds day care for only one in six
 eligible  children (those from families earning no more than 85
percent of their state’s median income). Only one state --  New
York  -- is  meeting  the program’s goal of paying providers 75
percent of the going rate.  States should adopt their own initiatives as well. Ideally,
all of them would have quality-ranking and payment systems that
reward high performers. States should also make sure that all
parents -- not only those eligible for federal support -- have
easy access to information that lets them compare the quality of
day-care centers.  The gain for society if all young children got the best
possible care would be enormous. Policy makers have neglected
this need long enough.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 