-- Hedging Stocks With Commodities Seen as Flawed: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hedging-stocks-with-commodities-seen-as-flawed-chart-of-the-day.html
Commodities track stocks too closely
to make them suitable for equity investors seeking to minimize
risk, according to Marco J. Lombardi, an economist at the  Bank
for International Settlements .  “The common lore that commodities should serve as a hedge
does not seem to be solidly grounded,” Lombardi and Francesco
Ravazzolo, an economist at the Norwegian central bank, wrote in
a paper two weeks ago. The research was published by the BIS,
which keeps records for the world’s central banks.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the indicators they used to
reach their conclusion, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
commodity prices and the MSCI World Index of stocks in developed
countries. The study was based on weekly figures from 1980 to
2012, the time period displayed in the chart, as compiled by
Bloomberg.  Correlation between the indexes surged from mid-2008 onward
after staying near zero for more than a decade, the paper said.
The reading could have been as high as 1 if the S&P GSCI and
MSCI World rose and fell in tandem, and as low as minus 1 if
they swung in opposite directions.  Investors may have been able to produce higher returns by
owning commodities along with stocks than with equities alone,
according to  Lombardi , who is based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , and
 Ravazzolo , based in Oslo.  Yet any increase may not have been enough to outweigh the
“substantially higher volatility” resulting from the commodity
investment, they wrote in the  working paper . Their judgment was
based on Sharpe ratios, an indicator of returns after adjusting
for risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  