-- Edwards Profit Rises on Strong Demand for Heart Valves
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-07-25T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/edwards-profit-rises-on-strong-demand-for-heart-valves.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , a maker
of  heart valves , said second-quarter profit increased 39 percent
on greater demand for devices that replace a damaged aortic
valve without cracking open the chest.  Net income rose to $94.1 million, or 82 cents a share, from
$67.8 million, or 57 cents, a  year earlier , the  Irvine ,
California-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding one-time items of 82 cents a share beat the 76 cents
average of 22 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
increased 7.3 percent to $517.2 million, topping the consensus
estimate of $514.4 million.  Quarterly sales of transcatheter heart valves increased 25
percent to $182 million, including $90 million in the U.S. from
the Sapien aortic valve approved last October. Edwards had cut
its estimates for U.S. sales of Sapien three times in the past
six quarters.  “During the quarter, we were pleased to receive regulatory
approval for the Edwards Sapien XT in  Japan , which makes us the
first commercially available transcatheter valve in that
country,” Michael Mussallem, the company’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “We believe transcatheter
technology will be particularly attractive to Japanese patients,
and its introduction there should represent meaningful sales
growth beginning next year.”  The company affirmed its 2013  forecast  excluding one-time
items from April of $3 to $3.10 a share. Edwards had  projected 
full-year profit of as much as $3.31 in February.  “While the U.S. launch of Sapien has been disappointing
relative to management’s initial expectations, we think street
expectations for Sapien in the U.S. have come down to a more
reasonable level,” said Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst at Well
Fargo, in a note to investors before the earnings announcement.
“We think it’s worth noting that although 2013 has been a
tough, to put it mildly, year for Edwards shares, the stock is
still one of the best performing medtech names over the past 5
and 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Sasha Damouni in  New York  at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  