-- Legg Mason Has Profit of $47.8 Million on Market Rally
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-25T11:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/legg-mason-has-profit-of-47-8-million-on-market-rally-correct-.html
(Corrects amount of net deposits into bond funds in third
paragraph.)  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the money manager
seeking to reverse more than five years of net redemptions,
posted a profit as rising equity markets lifted assets from a
year earlier and clients deposited money into bond funds.  Net income was $47.8 million, or 38 cents a share, in the
quarter ended June 30, compared with a  loss  of $9.5 million, or
7 cents a share, a year earlier, the Baltimore-based firm said
today in a statement. Earnings included a cost of $26 million
related to opening a closed-end fund. Legg Mason beat the 35
cent-a-share average estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  The company ended a five-month search for a leader when it
named Joseph A. Sullivan as chief executive officer in February.
Sullivan, 55, has said he will focus on acquisitions related to
non-U.S. equities and alternative investments to spur growth.
Clients deposited a net $900 million into the firm’s bond funds
in the quarter, the first since the second quarter of 2012. They
pulled $700 million from equities and $8.7 billion from money-market funds during the quarter.  “They’ve made some progress in terms of performance and
continuing to look at the affiliates in terms of the mix of
products, distribution and marketing,” Michael Kim, an analyst
with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in an
interview before the results were announced. “I do think you’re
going to see ongoing improvements in flows in equities and fixed
income.”  Client Deposits  Legg Mason, whose assets peaked at $1 trillion in 2007 as
investors flocked to funds managed by top-ranked managers such
as Bill Miller, oversaw $644.5 billion at the end of June, a 2
percent increase from a year earlier and a 3 percent decrease
from the previous quarter.  The company reported results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The  stock  increased 32 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 29 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 20-member index of custody banks and asset managers. Legg
Mason reached a  two-year high  of $36.13 in May. The shares have
fallen 75 percent from their peak of $136.40 in February 2006.  The firm’s stock assets rose 8.8 percent to $164.4 billion
in the year ended June 30. Bond assets, managed mostly by
Western Asset Management Co., fell 2.7 percent to $351 billion
and money funds increased 7.5 percent to $129.1 billion.  Bond Funds  Money managers, which earn fees based on the assets that
they manage for clients, traditionally benefit from rising stock
markets and investor deposits into higher-fee equity funds. The
U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 2.4 percent
in the second quarter while the MSCI All Country World Index of
global stocks fell 1.2 percent. In the second quarter of 2012,
the S&P 500 Index dropped 3.3 percent and the MSCI Index
declined 6.4 percent.  Stock and bond markets worldwide slumped in June amid
concern that the Federal Reserve may reduce its bond purchases.
Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond funds, the
biggest monthly redemptions in records going back to 1961,
according to estimates from the Investment Company Institute.
Equity funds industrywide gathered about a net $260 million,
according to ICI estimates.  “Fixed-income skew represents formidable near-term
headwind” with more than half of Legg Mason’s assets under
management in bonds, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Matthew Kelley wrote in a July 8 research note. In the longer term, the
firm will benefit from improved performance and the migration to
providing more specialized fixed-income strategies to
institutional clients, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  