-- Egypt Islamists Call for ‘Freedom’ Rally Amid Army Pressure
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-25T18:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/egypt-s-brotherhood-calls-for-freedom-rally-amid-army-pressure.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s leader
urged Egyptians to rally for “freedom,” setting the Islamists
on a collision course with an army that’s signaled it’s losing
patience with protests in support of ousted President Mohamed Mursi.  The appeal by Mohammed Badie, the Brotherhood’s supreme
guide, came a day after military chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi urged
Egyptians to take to the streets tomorrow to give the military
and police a broad mandate to combat “violence” and
“terrorism.” The military issued a further statement on its
Facebook page today, giving a 48-hour ultimatum and warning that
its tactics in dealing with violence and terrorism would change
after tomorrow.  The appeal by al-Seesi, who announced Mursi’s overthrow on
July 3, signaled a potential crackdown against Islamists who
have occupied part of Cairo’s Nasr City district as a staging
ground for pro-Mursi demonstrations. The protests have sometimes
escalated into clashes with the Islamist’s opponents that have
left about 100 dead, mostly supporters of Mursi.  Al-Seesi’s speech made it clear that “he’s the real ruler
of the country, and that everyone around him are extras,” Badie
said in a weekly e-mailed statement. He urged Egyptians to rally
in defense of “freedom and legitimacy” and to announce “your
rejection of the military coup.”  “The people always triumph and teach criminals one lesson
after another,” Badie said. He said the “coup” carried out by
al-Seesi was more criminal than demolishing the Kaaba, the most
holy pilgrimage site for Muslims in Mecca.  Shares Slide  The potential for further violence helped push Egypt’s
 benchmark stock index  down 1.7 percent yesterday was little
changed at the close of trading today in Cairo.  The army-installed interim government has said it will make
it a priority to revive an economy that’s growing at the slowest
pace in decades amid the tensions that followed the fall of
 Hosni Mubarak  in 2011.  The military urged Egyptians in a statement broadcast on
state television today to rally tomorrow “to recall the
historical revolutionary stance of the Egyptian people which has
always impressed the world.”  The state broadcaster announced it started yesterday a
three-day special program “to cover and encourage the people in
its support for its revolution,” according to state-run Ahram
Gate.  Armored Vehicles  The interior ministry has prepared “unprecedented security
plans” to protect tomorrow’s rallies, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Armored police vehicles were parked outside Tahrir
square today, the focal point of the protests against Mubarak
two years ago.  Army-appointed Interim President Adly Mansour and Prime
Minister Hazem El Beblawi supported the military’s call.  Since Mursi was deposed and detained following days of mass
protests by his opponents, the authorities have launched a
broad-scale crackdown on the Brotherhood and sympathetic
Islamists.  Al-Seesi said yesterday he had opposed the idea of an
Islamist standing in last year’s presidential election, and had
warned Mursi that the nation was becoming polarized under his
leadership. He said he always showed Mursi his statements before
he published them and insisted that he hadn’t deceived him.  Arrest Warrants  In a recorded message aired today on Al-Jazeera Mubashir
Misr, Mursi’s premier, Hisham Qandil, disputed al-Seesi’s
assertions that the president was told of the military’s
statements in advance or that Mursi opposed a referendum, which
he thought should be held after parliamentary elections.  The country’s top prosecutor issued arrest warrants for
Badie and eight other Muslim Brotherhood officials in connection
with allegations of stoking unrest, according to a statement e-mailed by the prosecutor’s office yesterday. Badie and several
allies were already wanted on other charges.  The Brotherhood says it’s the target of a campaign by the
military and the interim government it appointed to discredit
the Islamist group, after the toppling of  Egypt ’s first freely
elected civilian president. Al-Seesi’s call for a show of street
support for the army has fueled those allegations.  The military says that al-Seesi is trying to stabilize the
country. Among the concerns is an escalation in attacks by
militants in Sinai since Mursi was toppled, which have killed
several members of the security forces in recent days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  