-- Egyptian Shares Head for 2-Week Low as Army Calls for Protests
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-07-25T10:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/egyptian-shares-head-for-2-week-low-as-army-calls-for-protests.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index headed
for the lowest close in two weeks after the country’s army chief
urged the public to protest, spurring concern that unrest since
former President Mohamed Mursi was toppled could escalate.  The EGX 30 Index fell 1.2 percent to 5,292.96, set for the
weakest level since July 11, at 11:35 a.m. in Cairo as 25 stocks
declined. Orascom Construction Industries  led the retreat ,
decreasing the most in a month. Stocks  valued at  70 million
pounds ($10 million) traded, compared with a daily average over
the past year of 392 million pounds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Stocks extended declines into a second day after Defense
Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi called on
all “honorable” Egyptians to rally tomorrow to back the army
as it seeks to combat “terrorism.” Supporters of Mursi and his
Muslim Brotherhood have held daily protests since the army’s
July 3 intervention, demanding his reinstatement and frequently
clashing with opponents and security forces.  “We are in a very critical situation now, no one can
expect what will happen tomorrow and how the day will end,”
Margo Moussa, head of research at Cairo-based Arab Finance
Brokerage, said by phone. “If violence spreads and escalates
that would be very negative.”  Orascom Construction  fell 2.1 percent, the most since June
23, to 245 pounds. The yield on the government’s benchmark $1
billion of 5.75 percent bonds maturing in 2020, which plunged
more than 200 basis points in the weeks after Mursi’s removal by
the military, has climbed 11 basis points this week to 8.56
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Political Divide  Moody’s Investors Service maintained its negative outlook
on Egypt’s debt yesterday and affirmed a rating of Caa1, its
fifth-lowest junk score, saying the country faces a deepening
political divide after Mursi’s ouster.  The Brotherhood has called Mursi’s removal a coup against
Egypt’s first freely elected civilian president. The group has
also planned mass rallies for tomorrow, and Essam El-Erian,
vice-chairman of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party,
said al-Seesi’s call was a “threat to plunge the country into
seas of blood” to which Egyptians would not respond.  The ultraconservative Nour Party, the only Islamist group
that supported Mursi’s ouster, said that rival street protests
could lead to a civil war. Egypt’s credit default swaps,
contracts insuring the nation’s debt against default, have risen
14 basis points this week to 763, after increasing 93 basis
points last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  