-- Elderly Reveal Japan Grows Without Wage Growth: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-07-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/elderly-reveal-japan-grows-without-wage-growth-cutting-research.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies
to boost  Japan ’s growth and reflate the economy can succeed even
if wages don’t immediately accompany price increases, according
to Barclays Plc.  People born between 1947 and 1949, part of the country’s
baby boom, are starting to retire and will become buyers rather
than workers and savers, Tokyo-based economists Kyohei Morita
and Yuichiro Nagai wrote in a July 23 report. A “staggering”
2.21 million people will join Japan’s consumer ranks annually by
2014 even as the total population declines, they said.  A key part of Japan’s recovery this year has been the
strength of private consumption, which is often attributed to
better consumer sentiment and wealth effects stemming from
higher share prices and yen depreciation under the so-called
first arrow of Abe’s economic policies, Barclays said. With
 wages  not growing as strongly as consumption, this suggests
financial assets are an important source of funding for
expenditure as well as income, they wrote.  “In this context, the retirement of Japan’s baby boomers
cannot be overlooked,” they said. “While Abenomics has helped
to stimulate  consumption , the retirement of Japan’s baby boomers
may have been the catalyst.”  The emergence of the elderly as consumers also tends to
prompt a swing from goods to services spending, Barclays said.  “As the target of consumption shifts from goods to
services, the correlation between consumption and  industrial
production  naturally drops,” wrote Morita and Nagai, adding the
link has weakened since about 2012, when the baby boomers began
to turn 65. “This weakening correlation highlights an important
point in terms of economic analysis -- there is a risk that
economic analysis based on industrial production will
underestimate the momentum of private consumption and the
economy as a whole.”  * * *  Concerns that the Chinese economy is threatened by
overinvestment may be misplaced, at least for the time being,
according to a report by consulting firm EC Harris LLP. In the
first Global Built Asset Wealth Index, the company  quantified 
the value of all the public and private property and
infrastructure in a country, including its residential and
commercial office space, transport infrastructure and utility
networks.  China  had $35.45 trillion of built assets in 2012. That’s
one rank below the U.S., which led with the world with $39.73
trillion. China’s total stock of built assets is estimated to be
286 percent of its gross domestic product, compared to the
average of 284 percent in the study of 30 economies.  “The comparison between China and the general relationship
found between built assets and GDP across our sample suggests
that the Chinese economy is expanding its investment largely in
line with what could reasonably be expected,” the firm said in
the July 22 report. “However, if investment continues to expand
at a high rate, as we expect it to, overinvestment becomes a
growing concern.”  The amount of built assets in a country indicate the wealth
the nation has accumulated and resources it can use to generate
growth, according to EC Harris. That, in turn, can affect
incomes, it said.  China will overtake the U.S. as the wealthiest nation in
those terms in the next decade, the report showed. By 2022,
Asia’s largest economy will probably have accumulated $75.7
trillion of such assets, compared with $47.3 trillion in the
U.S.  “The fastest growth over the next decade is expected in
the Middle East and  Africa  and in Asian economies, as built
assets are forecast to rise by 63 percent in both regions,” the
firm said in its report. “This rapid expansion, combined with
slower growth in the developed economies of North America and
Europe, will allow these regions to continue to close the built
asset wealth gap.”  * * *  A hard landing in China would mean trouble for asset prices
and economies far from Beijing.  Economists at Societe Generale SA led by Patrick Legland
updated a report on the potential impact of a sharp slowdown in
Chinese growth, showing a slump in the 2013 expansion to less
than 6 percent could trim 1.3 percentage points from global
growth. Trade shocks or “an intended credit deleveraging going
out of control” could trigger such a slump, according to the
report.  The slowdown would also lead to a 30 percent to 40 percent
drop in base metal prices and a 30 percent drop in the price of
Brent crude oil. Equities across Asia would suffer, the
economists said.  A hard landing in China is not the French bank’s base case,
according to the report -- it forecasts growth of 7.4 percent
this year, slowing to six percent by 2017.  * * *  Baby Boomers may have trouble selling their big houses as
they retire.  Condominiums and other smaller multiple-unit dwellings are
becoming more popular as fewer young people marry and have
smaller families, according to a  study  of census figures by
Conference Board of  Canada  economist Julie Ades. The Boomer
generation, now 46 to 67 years old, will add to the trend as the
popularity of living in single-unit houses starts to decline
when people hit 55, she said.  Boomers make up 29 percent of Canada’s population and are
the biggest owners of single homes. The last census showed the
percentage of people in their 20s who were part of a couple fell
to 30.8 percent from 32.8 percent in 2006, down from more than
50 percent in 1981.  “These trends raise the question of whether future demand
for single-detached homes will be enough to support  price
growth , particularly for homes far from city cores,” Ades wrote
on the Conference Board’s blog.  The prospects for Boomer downsizing aren’t “all bleak,”
she said. Greater immigration and new families will support
demand, while builders will reduce the supply of new single-family homes and convert others into semi-detached units.  “While pockets of oversupply might remain, these factors
will help balance the market,” she said.  * * *  The formation of the euro has not led to true convergence
of euro-region economies as evidenced by unemployment rates,
output gaps and competitiveness, according to Capital Economics
Ltd.  While nominal economic variables such as inflation or
public and private sector debt levels have become more similar,
the divergence in real variables such as joblessness paint a
“stark picture,” said Ben May, a London-based economist, in a
July 23 report.  Core euro economies are operating at close to full capacity
while there is a huge amount of resources idle in peripheral
ones, he said. In the labor market in 2012, German unemployment
was near a  record low  while the rates in Spain and  Greece  rose
above 25 percent. Rising unit labor costs in peripheral
economies have also led to a divergence in competitiveness
within the region, he said.  “It has been a bit like wearing a corset in order to
appear slimmer -- the fat just bulges out in different places,”
May said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  