-- Telefonica to Look for More M&A, Network-Sharing Deals
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-25T15:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/telefonica-second-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-as-net-debt-falls.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , which this week
agreed to buy Royal KPN NV’s German wireless business, said it
plans to continue to seek cost savings through mergers and
acquisitions as well as network-sharing agreements.  Confident of reaching its goal of cutting net debt to less
than 47 billion euros ($62 billion) by the end of this year,
Telefonica will actively manage its portfolio of assets either
by selling or buying businesses, Chief Financial Officer Angel Vila said after its second-quarter earnings report today.  “This type of approach to the market, trying to get a
better position -- being in market share or being in potential
to create value -- will continue,” he said. “We will explore
opportunities for doing so in each one of the markets where we
operate and potentially so in  Latin America .”  The combination of Telefonica’s O2 and KPN’s E-Plus, two of
Europe’s fiercest competitors, sets up the likelihood of more
deals in a region where phone companies struggle to keep up
profitability and need to boost investments in faster services.
With earnings under pressure, carriers from EE in the U.K. and
 France ’s SFR to  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and Spain’s Yoigo are
considering partnerships or share sales.  Telefonica predicts its $10.7 billion German acquisition
and the sale of its Irish unit last month to  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13)  won’t face significant regulatory hurdles, Chief Operating
Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete said on the same call.  Telecom Italia  “It doesn’t make sense to have so many players in
 Europe ,” he said. “If Europe as a region wants to play scale
it needs to consolidate. That consolidation is going to be in
the interest of European consumers and therefore it needs to
happen.”  Telefonica, which holds a 10.5 percent indirect stake in
Telecom Italia through Telco SpA, still sees value in keeping 
the investment, Vila said. Telco, whose other investors
are  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) , owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia.  “We are not contemplating taking full control of Telco but
we are talking to our partners to convince them on the merits of
extending such structure,” Vila said, referring to the
shareholder agreement.  Telefonica  shares  climbed 1.6 percent to close at 10.44
euros in  Madrid , valuing the company at 47.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  