-- Emerging Stocks Fall 2nd Day as Commodities Drop; India Slides
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-25T22:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/emerging-stocks-decline-for-second-day-as-won-to-rupiah-weaken.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
second day and currencies weakened as commodities declined and
investors weighed prospects for an end to Federal Reserve
stimulus. India’s benchmark index slid to a two-week low.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s sole copper producer, and
OAO Severstal, Russia’s second biggest steelmaker, slumped as
metal prices declined. The Russian ruble lead currencies lower
versus the dollar.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) 
retreated to a nine-month low after tax authorities started a
probe into the Turkish oil refiner.  Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ACEM)  plunged
11 percent in Mumbai. Brazil’s Ibovespa advanced as oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA climbed.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.4 percent to 962.36.
Reports showed today that U.S. durable goods orders increased
more than analysts estimated in June while initial jobless
claims rose last week, after data yesterday indicated that new
home sales in the country jumped to a five-year high last month.
The S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities fell 0.2 percent.  The Fed “is always in the back of investors’ minds,”
 Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $380 billion,
said by phone. “Fed actions have a mathematical link to the
pricing of equities.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that
any reduction in stimulus would depend on the economy’s
performance. The developing-nation gauge has fallen 8.3 percent
since May 22, when the Fed first signaled the central bank’s
asset-buying program could be cut if the economy showed
sustained improvement.  Turkey Probe  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund climbed 0.6 percent to $39.92. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 4.1 percent to 21.51.  Tupras slid 3.1 percent in Istanbul and parent company Koc
Holding AS lost 3.9 percent. The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 Index dropped 0.2 percent, declining for a sixth
day in the longest losing streak in almost two months.  Commodity producers declined as copper fell 0.6 percent in
 London . The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index
dropped 0.4 percent. KGHM sank 2.2 percent in Warsaw. PKN Orlen
SA and Grupa Lotos SA, Poland’s largest oil companies, lost at
least 1.3 percent and the WIG20 Index slid 0.3 percent.  Severstal dropped 2.8 percent in Moscow and OAO GMK  Norilsk
Nickel , Russia’s largest producer of the metal, declined 2
percent. The Micex Index lost 0.4 percent.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose 2.1 percent
in its fourth day of gains, paring this month’s losses to 4.5
percent. Nepszabadsag newspaper reported that the government has
rejected “radical” plans to phase out foreign-currency
mortgage loans.  Ibovespa Gains  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  added 1.4 percent amid speculation that
this year’s worst-performing major equity index will rebound as
the country’s commodity exporters report earnings that may have
been boosted by a depreciating local currency. Petrobras, as the
state-controlled oil producer is known, climbed 2.7 percent to a
one-month high.  The MSCI developing-nations gauge has lost 8.8 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure
trades at 10.1 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with
the MSCI World’s 13.9 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gauges of health-care, consumer and energy stocks in MSCI’s
developing-nation index fell at least 0.5 percent.  Shandong
Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. (1066)  tumbled 4.8 percent in  Hong
Kong  after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut the stock to neutral from
overweight.  Thailand, India  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  slumped to the lowest since
July 16. Thailand’s SET Index declined 3 percent, the most in
two weeks. The S&P BSE Sensex slid 1.4 percent.  The rupiah fell 0.4 percent after touching a four-year low.
The won sank for the first time in five days and government
bonds dropped after South Korea’s central bank reported today
that the nation’s gross domestic product increased 1.1 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, the most
in more than two years.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s second-largest television
maker, declined 2.4 percent, the sharpest loss since July 3. The
stock was downgraded to hold from buy at HMC Securities Co.,
citing lower-than-expected smartphone margins. The Kospi index
lost 0.1 percent.  CSR Corp., China’s biggest trainmaker, added 2.4 percent
and China Railway Construction Corp. gained 2.5 percent to the
highest level since May 10. Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said
yesterday the nation will speed railway construction, especially
in central and western regions.  Ambuja Tumbles  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped for a second day,
losing 0.6 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong fell 0.3 percent.  Ambuja plunged the most since 2008 in Mumbai as analysts
cut recommendations for the stock after parent  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  asked
the Indian company to pay $593 million to buy its stake in a
subsidiary.  Phison Electronics Corp. (8299)  tumbled 6.6 percent in Taipei, the
most since Nov. 5. Nand flash memory product prices may drop in
the third quarter as some customers may have overbooked, the
Economic Daily News said, citing an unidentified official at
Silicon Power Computer & Communications Inc.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 309 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  