-- Eurotunnel Says Fear of Deutsche Bahn Puts Fire Under Eurostar
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-07-25T08:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/eurotunnel-says-fear-of-deutsche-bahn-puts-fire-under-eurostar.html
Channel Tunnel operator  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA (GET)  said Deutsche Bahn AG’s plan to run trains to the
U.K. via the subsea link has pushed Eurostar Group Ltd. to boost
services and will prompt a step-change in passenger numbers.  Eurostar, which has had a monopoly on inter-city routes
through the tunnel since 1994, has introduced new destinations
including to Aix-en-Provence and may be compelled to cut fares
once the German company commences services, Eurotunnel Chief
Executive Officer Jacques Gounon said in an interview.  A wrangle with Eurostar over access charges was prompted by
the train operator’s displeasure over the opening up of the
market rather than any excessive fee burden, Gounon said, adding
that Paris-London fares are 55 percent higher than for Paris-Amsterdam, even when the tunnel rates are discounted.  “Competition must come to the tunnel, and Eurostar is
angry about that, Eurostar is terrified,” the CEO said in Paris.
“ Deutsche Bahn ’s arrival will bring three to four million
passengers more, a 30 or 40 percent increase, and that will mean
a step change, that’s very clear.”  The European Commission last month warned Britain and
France -- which together regulate Eurotunnel -- to curb
“excessive” fees levied from Eurostar and freight-train
companies. Eurostar has said it backs the commission’s view.  Ferry Hit  Eurotunnel today reported a first-half net loss of 18
million euros versus a year-ago profit of 5 million euros after
its new MyFerryLink business posted a 19 million-euro shortfall.  Excluding the cross-Channel ferry unit, the group had a
profit of 1 million euros, it said. The year-ago figure after
restating for currency changes was 2 million.  Gounon said Eurotunnel has no intention of succumbing to
pressure to lower fees, saying Eurotunnel’s private shareholders
deserve a return on their investment.  The CEO said it’s still not clear whether U.K. Competition
Commission opposition to the 65 million-euro acquisition of
ships from French rail operator SNCF’s defunct SeaFrance arm in
2012 will cause the MyFerryLink project to unravel.  In June, the commission barred the service between  France 
and Dover in the U.K. for two years on concern Eurotunnel would
gain dominance on the Channel traffic route. The company has
appealed the decision and the French transport ministry said in
June it would raise the matter the matter with U.K. authorities.  Gounon said today he’s hopeful the governments will come to
a negotiated solution. Eurotunnel traded down 1.1 percent at
5.90 euros as of 10:45 a.m. in Paris, where it is based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  