-- Ex-Goldman Exec Calls Central E-Mail in Fraud Case ‘Inaccurate’
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ex-goldman-exec-calls-central-e-mail-in-fraud-case-inaccurate-.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
executive  Fabrice Tourre  denied he misled ACA Management LLC
into backing a mortgage bond deal that later made Paulson & Co.
$1 billion as part of a massive bet against the housing market.  Testifying yesterday in his own defense in a federal civil
fraud trial in  Manhattan , Tourre said an e-mail of his sent to
an ACA executive in the 2007 transaction at the center of the
case against him “was not accurate.”  Laura Schwartz, the ACA executive who’s a key witness in
the case brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
testified that the e-mail helped persuade her that Paulson was
going to invest in the equity of the deal, a collateralized debt
obligation known as Abacus, rather than sell it short.  “The statement was false?” SEC lawyer Matthew Martens
asked Tourre just after he took the witness stand.  “It was not accurate,” said Tourre, 34, who’s now
studying for a doctorate in economics at the  University of
Chicago . “It was not an attempt to try to confuse anyone, it
was not accurate at that time.”  Martens questioned Tourre for almost two hours, trying to
prove that he was the source of the misinformation about Paulson,
a Goldman client that initiated the deal, helped choose the
portfolio of 90 residential mortgage-backed securities
underlying it, and then made a huge profit when Abacus failed.  Purple Tie  Martens asked Tourre about the Jan. 10, 2007, e-mail that
was forwarded to ACA, the portfolio selection agent, showing the
planned capital structure of the deal, including a
“precommitted first loss” or equity tranche.  Tourre, dressed in a black suit, white shirt and purple tie,
testified in French-accented English. Early in his testimony, he
knocked a closed water carafe off the witness box, and grinned
with embarrassment after it crashed to the floor. Martens walked
over to retrieve it, unsmiling.  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at St. John’s University in
 New York , said Tourre’s statement that he sent an inaccurate e-mail may alienate jurors.  “It seems evasive,” said Sabino. “When a jury of regular
 New Yorkers  hears a highly educated, highly compensated Wall
Street figure say something is ‘inaccurate,’ they normally
interpret that in the worst possible way.”  Goldman Sachs, which is covering the fees for Tourre’s
lawyers and public relations team, agreed to pay $550 million in
2010 to settle SEC claims stemming from the transaction.  Paulson, run by billionaire  John Paulson , made $15 billion
on short bets against the residential mortgage market in 2006
and 2007. Paulson hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing in
connection with the Abacus deal.  Good, Not Too Good  Tourre frequently disagreed with how Martens characterized
aspects of the transaction. He said that ACA, in selecting
mortgage-backed securities for the Abacus portfolio, wanted
securities that were good, but not too good. Abacus had to
attract short investors to balance the investors who were
betting the assets would perform well, he said.  “If the portfolio is just too good, then there’s no
transaction,” Tourre said.  Tourre, who graduated from an elite engineering school in
his native  France , came to the U.S. to earn a master’s degree
from  Stanford University . He spent time before the trial
volunteering in  Rwanda  and is now a student at  Chicago .  Talking Latin  At one point in today’s testimony, Tourre explained the
abbreviation “i.e.,” which he used in an e-mail: “It stands
for ‘id est’ in Latin.”  Tourre followed Schwartz to the witness stand and will
continue tomorrow.  Schwartz, who headed ACA’s asset management business in
early 2007, testified she didn’t know Paulson was taking a
short-only position in Abacus. The misimpression led ACA to lend
its prestige to the deal and to make a disastrous bet that the
portfolio would perform well, the SEC says.  Goldman Sachs and Paulson never corrected ACA’s
misimpression through e-mails, phone conversations and meetings,
including a chance encounter between Schwartz and a top Paulson
executive in a  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , hotel bar, Schwartz said.  Under questioning today by Tourre’s lawyer, John “Sean”
Coffey, Schwartz said she can’t recall any specific conversation
or meetings in which she was told that Paulson was investing in
the equity of Abacus.  Slender Reed  “There’s been no direct evidence tying Fabrice Tourre to
any fraud against ACA,” said Michael Santoro, a lawyer and
professor at Rutgers Business School who’s been attending the
trial. “At the moment, we have only the slenderest reed to even
believe he misled ACA that Paulson was long.”  Schwartz said that Tourre failed to correct an e-mail she
sent referring to “Paulson’s equity perspective” on the deal.
Tourre testified today that he can’t remember reading the e-mail.  Schwartz testified she is sure she was never told that
Paulson planned to make a short-only bet on Abacus.  “A pure short was a bet against something that was
designed to fail,” Schwartz testified. “It would have been a
shock if I had learned that they were only short in the AC1-Abacus transaction.”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 