-- Exim Seeks Clout in Myanmar as China Pours Cash: Corporate India
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-07-26T10:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/exim-seeks-clout-in-myanmar-as-china-pours-cash-corporate-india.html
Myanmar, called Asia’s “next
economic frontier” by the International Monetary Fund, is the
new battleground for Indian companies seeking to wrest business
from Chinese firms.  Export-Import Bank of India, the state-controlled trade
financing institution, has pledged $800 million in Myanmar,
which includes funds to upgrade the Yangon-Mandalay railway and
a plant for  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  to assemble vehicles in the
Southeast Asian nation, Executive Director David Rasquinha said.
 China , which has beaten Indian companies in the race to invest
in energy assets from Kazakhstan to  Venezuela , has agreed to
lend more than $2.4 billion in Myanmar.  Exim Bank of India faces an uneven contest as  China
Development Bank Corp. , which has a loan book more than three
times the size of the World Bank, and the Export-Import Bank of
China offer cheap loans to snare business. The Indian lender
plans to sign credit agreements of as much as $500 million by
next month to participate in an economy that the IMF forecasts
will expand 7 percent over the next five years.  “We shouldn’t get pessimistic because competition is
there,” Rasquinha said in an interview in Mumbai. “We should
be seeing the size of the pie and fighting smart.”  State-run Chinese companies have spent $19.5 billion this
year acquiring energy and resources assets overseas versus
India’s single $2.5 billion investment by  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)   Gas Pipeline  China Development Bank signed a $2.4 billion loan agreement
with Myanmar’s Foreign Investment Bank in 2010, according to
Myanmar Times, to help fund a natural gas pipeline between the
two countries. In May 2011, the bank agreed to provide Myanmar’s
Ministry of Taxation and Finance with a 540 million euro ($718
million) line of credit during a meeting between Myanmar
President Thein Sein and former Chinese President Hu Jintao.  Yields on Mumbai-based Exim Bank’s 4 percent dollar-denominated notes maturing January 2023 fell 16 basis points,
the most in more than two weeks, to 5.27 percent today,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Exim Bank has been focusing on  Africa . About 60 percent of
the Indian lender’s lines of credit are for countries in the
continent, Rasquinha said. Export-Import Bank has so far signed
172 lines of credit with commitments of about $10.5 billion,
covering 75 nations, he said. That compares with a $219 billion
loan book at  Exim Bank of China .  Indian Exim Bank in part helped boost India’s trade with
Africa, according to a report by the lender. The South Asian
nation was Africa’s fourth-largest trading partner as of 2011,
with $63 billion trade. That compares with business valued at
$5.2 billion in 2001, the lender’s data show.  ‘Big Pie’  “No single country and no matter whichever country, can
provide that kind of funds to Africa,” Rasquinha said. “The
pie is so big that there is room for all of us.”  Rasquinha cites a World Bank study that Africa needs about
$50 billion every year for developing its infrastructure.
Export-Import Bank signed a $216 million of lines of credit with
 Mozambique  this month, according to a statement on the lender’s
website.  The lender expects to mirror some of its African success in
Myanmar. Exim Bank is trying to “excite” Indian companies to
conduct business in Myanmar, Rasquinha said. The lender charges
a floating 50 basis point over the London interbank offered rate
to a fixed 2 percent on overseas lines of credit, Rasquinha
said.  India in 2010 approved plans by state-owned ONGC and GAIL
India Ltd. to invest a combined $1.3 billion in natural gas
projects in Myanmar.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest
engineering company, is “discussing about some things but they
are at a very initial stage,” Chief Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman said.  Democratic Process  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest mobile carrier, was
among companies that had bid for a telecom license in Myanmar,
the nation’s selection committee said on its website in April.
Norway’s Telenor ASA and Ooredoo QSC of Qatar won licenses to
expand telecommunications in Myanmar, one of the world’s last
remaining untapped markets where only about one in 10 people has
a mobile phone.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  in July 2012 authorized the
nation’s companies to invest in Myanmar after President Thein Sein started a democratic process that saw opposition leader
Aung San Suu Kyi elected to parliament following years of house
arrest and prompted visits by U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
and  India ’s Manmohan Singh.  Myanmar needs $650 billion of investments by 2030 to
support an 8 percent gross domestic product growth potential,
according to McKinsey Global Institute, the research unit of
McKinsey & Co. Global companies wanting to do business in
Myanmar, that seeks to emerge from 50 years of economic and
political isolation, will need to deal with the military’s pace
of opening the country and corruption in one of Asia’s poorest
countries.  Reduce Dependence  The Southeast Asian nation, that shares borders with India
and China, is  ranked  No. 172 of 176 in Transparency
International’s 2012 corruption perception index.  Myanmar’s liberalization may reduce the nation’s dependence
on China, according to Olivia Boyd, a Beijing-based energy
analyst at IHS Global Insight. She cited opposition from local
residents against Wanbao Mining Co.’s Latpadaung copper mine as
an example.  “Myanmar’s dependence on China is lessening,” Boyd said.
“Chinese companies wield less bargaining power, meaning that
Chinese companies may face further contract revision of this
sort in the future.”  Indian companies may be able to tap part of the business if
they take a long-term view, said Rasquinha.  “The pie is so big that there’s room for all of us,” he
said. “China has large large amounts of money available and can
lend at very low rates, but they can’t finance every single
project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  