-- Expedia Slumps After Missing Profit, Sales Projections
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-26T20:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/expedia-tumbles-after-missing-quarterly-profit-sales-estimates.html
Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online travel
agency, plunged the most in eight years after increased
competition led it to miss second-quarter sales and profit
estimates.  The stock  slumped  27 percent to $47.20 at the close in New
York, for the biggest decline since July 21, 2005. The stock,
which is down 23 percent so far this year, was the worst
 performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today.  Expedia is competing with  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) ,
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  for travelers seeking to
book trips online. TripAdvisor has introduced a new search
product that’s drawing traffic away from Expedia, which was spun
out of  Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  in 2005. Expedia, in
which Diller still  holds  a 3.6 percent stake, is also suffering
from poor performance at its Hotwire unit, according to  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  San
Francisco .  “The industry is getting more competitive in the U.S. and
Europe,” said Kessler, who rates Expedia shares the equivalent
of a buy.  Net income slumped 32 percent to $71.5 million, or 51 cents
a share, from $105.2 million, or 76 cents, a year earlier,
Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia said in a statement
yesterday. Excluding some items, earnings were 64 cents a share.
Analysts had estimated 81 cents on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 16 percent to $1.21 billion last quarter,
missing the $1.26 billion estimated by analysts.  Traffic Disruption  “We knew we were facing second-quarter headwinds and those
which we expected, as well as some we didn’t, materialized,”
Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi said in the statement.
“Despite this, we remain confident about our long-term
strategy.”  Priceline has boosted efforts to promote its Booking.com
service in the U.S. as well, spending more than $1 billion
annually in the hotel-booking market.  TripAdvisor’s new meta search product, which provides a
single online travel agent recommendation instead of deals from
all online travel agents, has reduced traffic to Expedia and
other agents it partners with, according to Brian Fitzgerald, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New York .  “Instead of popping up five sites, they’re sending one
lead out the door, so now it’s just a window,” said Fitzgerald,
who has a hold rating on the shares.  Expedia hasn’t been able to adapt to this disruption in
traffic by adjusting their price for TripAdvisor’s leads,
Fitzgerald said.  Shares in TripAdvisor rose 4 percent to $73.95.  “We think Priceline.com has a good idea on what to pay for
the new leads, but we don’t think Expedia has figured out what
they’re willing to pay,” Fitzgerald said. “They’ve dropped
budget as they’ve wrestled with this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  