-- FAA to Examine Safety of Radio Beacons Linked to 787 Fire
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-25T14:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/faa-to-examine-safety-of-radio-beacons-linked-to-787-fire.html
U.S. aviation regulators ordered
inspections of emergency locator transmitters linked to a July
12 fire on a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 and said they may take more action
affecting thousands of identical beacons on other models.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the only U.S. airline
flying the Dreamliner, must complete the inspections of the
emergency locator transmitter on its six planes by Aug. 5, the
 Federal Aviation Administration  said today in its  rule . It will
be published in the Federal Register tomorrow.  “The investigation indicates that the ELT may have
initiated the event,” the FAA said in the order.
“Discrepancies within the ELT, if not corrected, could cause a
fire in the aft crown of the airplane.”  The blaze that broke out on an Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise 787 parked at  London ’s Heathrow Airport was traced to
a  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  transmitter powered by a lithium
battery. The FAA, in its order, said it will look at safety of
such devices on other aircraft.  Boeing 787 operators in  Europe  are due to be told tomorrow
what to do with the beacon, after U.K. aviation-safety officials
called for the device to be disabled -- a step beyond what the
FAA is recommending.  The Cologne-based European Aviation Safety Agency said it
is still working on details of the instructions, according to an
e-mailed response to questions. The order will apply to all
European 787 operators.  Smashed Wires  Rules vary around the world on whether commercial aircraft
must have emergency beacons to operate. While they aren’t
mandated on airliners operating in the U.S., other nations
require them, according to the FAA.  EASA may provide additional instructions on whether planes
could operate temporarily without the beacons when it issues its
version of the directive, it said.  The FAA had said July 19 it intended to issue its order.  Investigators are examining whether two wires smashed under
a cover on the ELT may have short-circuited, triggering the fire
in the ceiling of the 787 that was parked at  Heathrow airport 
and had no one aboard, a person familiar with the probe said.
The ELT contained a lithium-manganese-dioxide nonrechargeable
battery that became involved in the fire, according to the U.K.
Air Accidents Investigation Branch.  The FAA’s action is an interim step, according to the
order. There have been about 6,000 of the Honeywell beacons
installed on aircraft, according to the AAIB.  Further Action  “We acknowledge that ELTs are installed on various other
aircraft,” the FAA said in the order. “Therefore, continued
investigation is required. Once final action has been
identified, we might consider further rulemaking.”  The FAA order requires airlines to inspect the device or
remove it. The agency estimated it would take a mechanic one
hour per plane to follow the directive, at a cost of $85 per
hour.  The order didn’t say what mechanics should look for in the
inspection. The FAA said in its earlier statement they should
examine the device for pinched wires, signs of excessive heat
and moisture.  “We will comply with the airworthiness directive, and we
do not expect any operational impact,” Christen David, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based United, said in an interview.  Thomson Airways, the only U.K. carrier operating the jet,
removed the Honeywell locators while  Poland ’s LOT, the first
European airline to receive the jet, said it has made checks and
the part is “fine.”  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  also operates
Dreamliners on lease from International Lease Finance Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  