-- Faurecia First-Half Profit Falls 16% on Sluggish Europe
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-25T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/faurecia-first-half-profit-falls-16-on-sluggish-europe.html
Faurecia SA, (EO)  Europe’s largest maker
of car interiors, reported a 16 percent drop in first-half
profit as slowing production in its home region pushed down
prices.  Operating profit declined to 256 million euros ($338
million) from 304 million euros a year earlier, the Nanterre,
France-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Earnings
beat the 248 million-euro average of six analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue gained 5.7 percent to 9.27
billion euros.  Faurecia, 57 percent owned by  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , is
struggling with industrial overcapacity in Europe as the
region’s car market declines for the sixth straight year. The
parts-maker, working to lower spending, reduced net debt by 100
million euros in the first half to 1.7 billion euros.  “In  Europe , measures have been introduced to reduce fixed
costs which will positively impact operating income in the
second half,” Chief Executive Officer Yann Delabriere said in
the statement. “The strategy deployed to reconcile growth and
cash flow generation delivered on its promise in the first
half.”  The cost-cutting measures put in place will yield savings
of 50 million euros this year and 100 million euros in 2014,
Faurecia said.  The  French manufacturer  reiterated its 2013 targets which
include targeting positive net cash flow before restructuring
charges of 120 million euros for 2013. Faurecia is also
forecasting full-year revenue between 17.8 billion euros and 18
billion euros and an “improvement” in operating income.  U.S. Expansion  The French company, which last year bought Ford Motor Co.’s
car-interior business in Saline,  Michigan , has a goal of
becoming one of the top five industry suppliers in  North America 
with $7 billion in yearly sales there by 2016.  Ford and Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are
Faurecia’s two biggest customers, while controlling shareholder
Peugeot ranks third. The Paris-based carmaker consumed 3 billion
euros in cash last year amid falling sales. Peugeot’s turnaround
efforts include reducing capacity, cutting jobs and selling
assets.  The Faurecia holding, Peugeot’s largest remaining asset
that it could easily dispose of, isn’t for sale, Peugeot Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said in February.
The company is reluctant to sell the stock because of Faurecia’s
contribution to profit, two people familiar with the situation
said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  