-- FGB Jumps to Record on U.A.E. Loan-Growth Bets: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-07-25T12:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/fgb-jumps-to-record-on-u-a-e-loan-growth-bets-abu-dhabi-mover.html
First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  surged to a
record on bets the United Arab Emirates lender, whose second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates, will benefit from a
recovery in loan growth in the country.  Shares of the bank known as FGB, which is controlled by Abu
Dhabi’s ruling family, increased 3.6 percent, the most since May
2001, to 17.45 dirhams at the close in Abu Dhabi. The stock was
the biggest gainer on the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and the
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which climbed 1.1 percent, taking
its gain this week to 2.3 percent.  FGB yesterday reported quarterly net income of 1.17 billion
dirhams ($319 million), beating the 1.08 billion-dirham  average
estimate  of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Net interest
income and income from Islamic financing grew 9 percent,
according to its financial statement. The bank’s net interest
margin of 3.6 percent compares with 2.54 percent for Commercial
Bank of Qatar QSC, whose shares have retreated 4.7% since it
reported results yesterday.  “FGB is the bank of choice for institutional and foreign
investors because of stock liquidity and because it doesn’t have
any fat tail concerns on asset quality and capital adequacy,”
Digvijay Singh, a Dubai-based analyst at VTB Capital, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. The stock is a good “play on
credit growth and asset quality recovery in U.A.E.,” he said.  The second-largest Arab economy is picking up after
suffering from one of the world’s worst property crashes. Loans
and advances at the nation’s banks grew 5 percent in the year to
May, compared with expansion of 2.6 percent in December,
according to central bank data.  The economy is poised to grow 4.6 percent, on average,
between 2012 and 2015, more than twice as fast as the prior four
years, according to government forecasts.  Abu Dhabi , the U.A.E.
capital, sits on about 6 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves.  Twelve analysts recommend investors buy FGB shares, while
six have a hold rating on the stock and one advises selling it,
according  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  