-- Freddie Mac May Get Risk-Sharing Notes Rated as Lessons Learned
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-25T13:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/freddie-mac-may-get-risk-sharing-notes-rated-as-lessons-learned.html
Freddie Mac  may seek credit ratings
in the next offering of the firm’s new securities sharing its
mortgage-default risks with investors, as it learns from the
first issue and plans for another later this year.  The lack of grades on $500 million of notes sold this week
“definitely detracted from a further breadth in the investor
base,” Kevin Palmer, a vice president of costing and  portfolio
management  at the government-controlled mortgage-finance
company, said in a telephone interview.  While Freddie Mac first began working toward the
transaction more than two years ago, it’s weighing tweaks such
as the move while planning regular sales, he said.  The U.S. government may need to expand the types of buyers
as it seeks to limit taxpayer risk, according to Deutsche Bank
AG analyst Christopher Helwig.  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ’s sale was part of an
effort to build a market that may produce more than $100 billion
of “highly structurally levered” notes, Helwig wrote in a
report yesterday. Of the bonds sold, $250 million would have
straddled investment and speculative grades had they been rated,
with the rest riskier, he wrote in a report.  The Treasury Department and  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
the regulator for the McLean, Virginia-based company and
competitor  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , applauded the deal yesterday as a step in
the right direction with government-backed mortgages accounting
for more than 85 percent of new lending.  Fifty Buyers  Almost 50 different buyers participated in the offering,
including mutual funds,  hedge funds , real-estate investment
trusts, pension funds, insurers, banks and  credit unions ,
according to Freddie Mac.  Palmer’s comments about ratings underscore that the grades
remain important to some investors because of regulations and
client guidelines, even after moves to reduce their weight after
the 2008 financial crisis fueled by faulty rankings.  “If it had a rating, we would have been interested” in
the safer bonds at the yields offered, said  David Land , a  money
manager  at  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Advantus Capital Management
Inc., which oversees about $26 billion.  Investors including Land said during marketing of the debt
that terms that reduced the need to predict actions by servicers
and the size of  foreclosure  losses were appealing. Structures
that make it easier to understand the risks may help draw buyers
that don’t typically purchase mortgage debt, Palmer said.  Private Capital  “We have a $10 trillion  mortgage market  and the GSEs are
covering about half of it,” Palmer said, referring to Freddie
Mac and  Fannie Mae  as government-sponsored enterprises. “If we
want to draw more private capital into it, you have to simplify
what is a complex market.”  Investors also want regular sales, according to Donna Corley, a senior vice president of credit pricing, structuring
and securitization at Freddie Mac, who also worked on the deal.  “One of the common themes that we heard on the roadshow
was the excitement from investors about something being
programmatic and a whole new asset class coming in to the
marketplace,” she said. “It’s been quite a period of time
since investors have had that. We’d want to take advantage of
it.”  At the same time, the company will “continue to explore
other avenues” for reducing risk, Palmer said. The notes sold
were direct obligations of Freddie Mac, rather than mortgage-backed securities or debt known as credit-linked notes.  New Regulations  CLNs involve packaging derivatives and cash-like assets
into bonds. New regulations and the company’s conservatorship
made it harder for Freddie Mac to use those, though it may do so
in the future, he said.  While  mortgage REITs  can be limited in how much of either
Freddie Mac’s unsecured debentures or CLNs they can buy, it
helps that the corporate bonds can be counted as government debt
in some of their tests under tax rules, according to Palmer.  The FHFA’s directive to Freddie Mac’ executives to try to
share risk on $30 billion of loans this year wasn’t the only
reason for the deal, he said. Before any push from its regulator
the company started in early 2011 investigating doing an issue,
after conducting a similar one in 1998, he said. It also
regularly shares risk on multifamily mortgages.  Such transactions can “reduce our credit exposure when we
think it’s prudent to do so,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  