-- Fried Frank, McDermott, Akin, Fenwick: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/fried-frank-mcdermott-akin-fenwick-business-of-law.html
Goldman Sachs executive David J. Greenwald will join his former firm Fried, Frank, Harris,
Shriver & Jacobson LLP as co-chairman.  Greenwald, deputy general counsel and international general
counsel at Goldman Sachs, will take on the leadership role
alongside current chairman, Valerie Ford Jacob. In March 2015,
Greenwald will assume the chairmanship and Jacob will become
senior partner.  “David is an outstanding lawyer and well-respected
leader,” Jacob said in a statement. “His 19 years of
experience as general counsel of the merchant banking division,
as international general counsel and in other significant roles
for our client Goldman Sachs, one of the world’s preeminent
financial institutions, will be a tremendous benefit to our
clients and to our firm,”  Greenwald joined Goldman Sachs’s legal department in 1994
and was named managing director in 1998 and partner in 2000.
Before joining Goldman, Greenwald focused on mergers and
acquisitions and private-equity transactions at Fried Frank. He
represented clients such as Goldman Sachs and Forstmann Little &
Co., the firm said.  “I am delighted to return to my roots at Fried Frank and
deeply honored by the opportunity to take a leadership role,”
Greenwald said in a statement. “Valerie has been the longest
serving chair of the firm and under her leadership the firm has
grown and is well positioned for strong performance going
forward.”  Fried, Frank, has about 500 attorneys at offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office GC Moves to McDermott  Bernard J. Knight Jr., general counsel of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, is joining McDermott Will & Emery LLP’s
Washington office as a partner in the intellectual-property
litigation practice group. He will be co-chairman of the firm’s
post grant practice, joining the firm in September.  “Bernie has been in the public spotlight as a key
architect of the 2012 America Invents Act, which fundamentally
changed several of the key provisions of  patent law ,” Sarah Chapin Columbia, partner and head of the firm’s intellectual
property litigation practice group, said in a statement.  Knight has been the Patent Office’s general counsel since
2010. He was previously acting general counsel of the  U.S.
Treasury .  McDermott’s intellectual-property practice has more than
200 lawyers and patent agents worldwide. The firm has more than
1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Justice Department Lawyer Joins Akin Gump White-Collar Practice  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP announced that Steven F. Reich, who, was an associate deputy attorney general at the  U.S.
Department of Justice , joined the firm as a New York-based
partner in the firm’s white-collar defense and government
investigations practice.  Reich’s practice will focus on representing companies and
individuals on matters related to criminal and civil litigation
as well as in congressional and internal investigations.  At the  Justice Department , Reich was a senior adviser to
Attorney General Eric Holder and Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  and supervised a staff of almost two dozen lawyers
responsible for defending the department and its leaders in
investigations conducted by Congress and watchdog agencies, the
firm said.  “Our white-collar practice is one of the crown jewels of
Akin Gump, and Steve represents a formidable addition to our
already strong team. His broad experience in both the private
and public sectors gives him a unique ability to assist the
firm’s clients with their most complex problems, and we are
extremely pleased to welcome him to Akin Gump,” Chairwoman Kim Koopersmith said in a statement.  Before working for the Justice Department, Reich was co-chairman of the corporate investigations and white-collar
defense practice at Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP. He also worked
on the staff of former Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle.  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in 18 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Willkie Farr Hires Bankruptcy Partner Graham Lane in London  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP hired reconstruction and
insolvency lawyer Graham Lane as a partner in the London office
as of Sept. 1. He was previously a partner with Kirkland & Ellis
LLP in London.  Lane represents stakeholders in restructuring and
insolvency matters with a focus on cross-border situations.  Willkie Farr has about 600 lawyers at eight offices in the
U.S. and Europe.  Firm News  Ropes & Gray to Review China Fraud Probe for GlaxoSmithKlein  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said the U.K. drugmaker commissioned an independent review to
investigate the root cause of alleged fraudulent behavior among
senior executives in China.  The law firm  Ropes & Gray  LLP will conduct the review,
which will begin within days, said Simon Steel, a Glaxo
spokesman.  Allegations this month by the Chinese government that Glaxo
bribed hospitals, doctors and health officials prompted Witty to
dispatch his head of  emerging markets  to China to oversee the
London-based company’s response. Some senior executives appear
to have acted outside of Glaxo’s processes and controls to both
defraud the company and the Chinese health-care system, Witty
said.  “To see these allegations made about people working for
Glaxo is shameful,” he told reporters on a second-quarter
earnings conference call in his first public statement since the
investigation was disclosed. “We are absolutely committed to
rooting out corruption, and we are also absolutely committed to
getting to the bottom of what’s happened here.”  The anti-corruption probe will probably hurt the
drugmaker’s sales in China, Witty said, adding that it’s too
early to say what the impact will be. Glaxo also will probably
adopt a tiered pricing structure for the market, Witty said on
the call.  While a fine and legal damages are expected, Glaxo may also
give further price discounts as a means of goodwill and
reparation, Fabian Wenner, a health-care analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich, said in a note.  China detained four senior Glaxo executives on suspicion of
economic crimes, the Ministry of Public Security said July 15.
Its finance chief in China, Steve Nechelput, has been unable to
leave the country since June because of the investigation,
though he hasn’t been arrested or questioned, the company said
last week. Mark Reilly, the head of Glaxo’s China
pharmaceuticals business, returned to the U.K. on a planned
business trip, according to the company.  For more, click here.  Arthur Makadon, Ballard Spahr’s Former Chairman, Dies at 70  Arthur Makadon, chairman of Ballard Spahr LLP from 2002 to
2011, died at the age of 70.  Makadon died yesterday at the Hospital of the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, Mark Stewart, Ballard’s current
chairman, said in a phone interview. The cause was  lung cancer ,
he said.  “Arthur was as fine a litigator as the firm has ever
seen,” Stewart said in a  statement  on the firm’s website. “ He
was tenacious and possessed of uncommon wisdom and impeccable
judgment. He cared deeply about Ballard and the people who work
here, and he led the firm as chair with passion, compassion, and
resolve. He was fun-loving, irreverent, fierce, and beloved.”  Makadon was born on March 11, 1943, in Philadelphia, the
son of Frances Rudnick Makadon and her dentist husband William.
He grew up in Lower Merion, a suburb of Philadelphia, and
attended  Pennsylvania State University  in  State College ,
graduating in 1964. Makadon graduated cum laude from the
University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1967 and clerked for
U.S. District Judge Joseph S. Lord III in Philadelphia before
becoming an associate at Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP in New York in 1969.  He returned to Philadelphia a year later to work in the
district attorney’s office as chief assistant to  Arlen Specter 
until 1973. He joined Ballard in 1975.  Makadon tried more than 35 cases before juries and an equal
number of nonjury trials. He represented public officials and
publicly traded companies in grand jury matters and did
corporate defense work in antitrust, consumer protection and
Employee Retirement Income Security Act cases.  For more, click here.  Western Law Firms Lewis & Roca, Rothgerber Johnson & Lyons Merge  Phoenix-based law firm Lewis & Roca LLP and Rocky Mountain
firm Rothgerber Johnson & Lyons LLP will combine Sept. 1 to
create a 250-lawyer firm that will be called Lewis Roca
Rothgerber LLP.  The firm will have nine offices in the western U.S. with a
presence in Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada,  New Mexico 
and Wyoming.  “Our growth into new markets is driven by our commitment
to client service and our clients’ interest in gaining access to
legal services throughout the West,” Lewis & Roca’s managing
partner,  Kenneth Van Winkle , said in a statement.  Van Winkle will become managing partner of Lewis Roca
Rothgerber and will continue to reside in the Phoenix office.  Lewis and Roca, with about 180 lawyers, has strengths in
litigation and real estate.  Rothgerber Johnson’s 75 lawyers are in one Wyoming and two
Colorado locations. The firm has strengths in litigation and
insurance reorganization, religious institutions, banking and
energy practices. Rothgerber Johnson Chairman  Frederick J.
Baumann  will become executive committee chairman of the new
firm, in the Denver office.  “Our clients have been expanding in the Southwest region
for some time and encouraged us to find an opportunity to
establish a presence there,” Baumann said in a statement.
“With Lewis and Roca, we are partnering with a firm with an
equally strong reputation in its practices and markets.”  Deals  McDermott Advises Telefonica on KPN’s $10.7 Billion Purchase  McDermott Will & Emery LLP advised  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which
agreed to buy the E-Plus German wireless unit of  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  in
a cash-and-stock deal valuing the unit at 8.1 billion euros
($10.7 billion) to become the country’s biggest mobile-phone
operator by customers. Allen & Overy LLP is acting for KPN.  McDermott’s deal team included corporate partner Joseph
Marx, based in Frankfurt along with corporate partners Philipp
von Ilberg, Andreas Kurtze, Clemens Just and Martin Kniehase. In
addition, trial/arbitration partner Sabine Konrad, international
tax partner Kian Tauser, antitrust/competition partners Martina
Maier and Philipp Werner, and IP litigation partner Ralf Weisser
advised on the transaction. The German firm CMS Hasche Sigle is
representing the company’s subsidiary, Telefonica Deutschland.  A&O’s deal team for KPN was led by Amsterdam corporate
partner Jan Louis Burggraaf, flanked by Frankfurt corporate
partner Hartmut Krause, Amsterdam competition partner Kees Schillemans and Frankfurt tax partner Asmus Mihm.  The Dutch phone company will get 5 billion euros in cash
and a 17.6 percent stake in the combination of E-Plus and
 Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , the Spanish carrier’s German
unit, which uses the O2 brand, KPN  said .  The purchase would let Telefonica’s O2 surpass  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  as stiffening competition in
the German wireless market forces carriers to cut prices and
seek mergers. Still, the elimination of a carrier by combining
the third- and fourth-largest operators will face scrutiny from
antitrust regulators.  For more, click here.  Cisco Agrees to Acquire Sourcefire for About $2.7 Billion  Fenwick & West LLP advised  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, on its agreement to acquire
 Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE)  for about $2.7 billion, adding anti-hacking
technology used extensively by the U.S. government.  Morrison &
Foerster LLP  represented Sourcefire.  The Fenwick transaction team included corporate attorneys
Doug Cogen and Andrew Luh; Scott Spector, executive compensation
and employee benefits; Stephen Gillespie, technology
transactions; and Ron Schrotenboer, tax.  MoFo Northern Virginia partners Lawrence Yanowitch and
Charles Katz led the deal team for Sourcefire. Other deal team
partners include Thomas Knox, intellectual property matters;
Domnick Bozzetti, employee compensation matters; David Meyer and
Jonathan Gowdy, antitrust matters; John Harper, tax matters; and
Lawrence Bard, securities matters.  Cisco will pay $76 a share in cash, the San Jose,
California-based company said.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  is expanding in
cybersecurity to fend off competition from smaller rivals such
as  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  and  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) , which make
Internet firewalls. Sourcefire’s intrusion-detection products
may help Cisco win more business from corporate and government
customers seeking to beef up network protections as hacker
attacks become more sophisticated and widespread.  For more, click here.  News  Munger Triples Publisher’s Value With Panic-Era Wager on Stocks  Daily Journal Corp. (DJCO) , the California publisher that counts
Charles Munger as its chairman, more than tripled in value since
2008 after the company jumped into stocks during the financial
crisis.  Best known as  Warren Buffett ’s longtime business partner,
Munger began accumulating equities in early 2009 at the Daily
Journal. The portfolio was worth $112.3 million as of March 31,
or about 65 percent of the Los Angeles-based publisher’s current
market value. Investors who attend the company’s annual meetings
said he signaled that  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was among the bets.  Munger’s involvement has drawn investors for years to the
Daily Journal, which covers the law, business and real estate at
its 10 newspapers and California Lawyer magazine. The 89-year-old helped Buffett build  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  from a failing
textile maker into one of the world’s largest companies through
stock picks and takeovers.  The Daily Journal portfolio includes stocks in three
Fortune 200 companies and a pair of foreign manufacturing firms,
according to regulatory filings that don’t name the holdings.
The publisher said it relies on the judgment and suggestions of
Munger and Vice Chairman J.P. Guerin in managing the portfolio.  The billionaire declined to comment about the investments
through an assistant. Daily Journal Chief Executive Officer
Gerald Salzman also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  