-- German Heat Wave Zenith Set to Extend Power Price Rally
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-07-26T09:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/german-heat-wave-zenith-set-to-extend-electricity-price-rally.html
Electricity prices  in Germany are
headed for their longest rising streak since 2011 as  Europe ’s
biggest power user prepares for its hottest weekend of the year.  Day-ahead prices have gained 0.3 percent since July 21,
extending a 34 percent increase over the previous three  weeks  on
the Epex Spot SE exchange in Leipzig, Germany. Temperatures
tomorrow and July 28 may rise to records near the upper Rhine in
the southwest of the country and on the eastern border with
 Poland  as highs approach 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit),
according to national forecaster  Deutscher Wetterdienst .  The heat has boosted electricity use for air conditioners
and fans and lowered the efficiency of thermal power stations at
a time when they typically undergo maintenance, cutting supply.
The reduction has been exacerbated by a drop in wind generation
as  Germany  increasingly relies on turbines and solar panels to
meet the demands of Europe’s most populous country.  “At the weekend there will be a new top of the heat wave,
with temperatures above 35 degrees Celsius,” Andreas Friedrich,
a meteorologist at Deutscher Wetterdienst in Offenbach, near
Frankfurt, said by phone on July 23. “Maybe in the Rhine valley
near to 40 degrees.”  Baseload power for the  next day , for delivery around the
clock, sold for 43 euros a megawatt-hour in a daily auction on
EPEX Spot yesterday, 0.3 percent more than at the start of the
week and above the average of 37.33 euros this year. A fourth
weekly increase would be the longest run of gains since November
2011. The weekend contract traded at 30.75 euros at 10:51 a.m.
Berlin time, the highest for a Friday since April 4, according
to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wind Output  Wind generation has averaged 2,592 megawatts so far this
month, according to EEX data on Bloomberg, 46 percent less than
the 12-month average of 4,772 megawatts.  “There is not much wind so if it stays hot here then we
have the possibility for higher prices,” Min-Soo Park, a power
trader at MVV Trading GmbH in Mannheim, Germany, said by
telephone.  Germany is building wind and solar plants as the nation
seeks to source 35 percent of its power from renewables by 2020,
up from 22 percent now, and seeks to close all of its nuclear
reactors by 2022.  Available generation capacity yesterday was 19 percent
lower than on a typical winter day in December, according to
data from  European Energy Exchange AG .  Temperatures this month may average as much as 20 degrees,
above the 18-degree norm for July, and record highs may be set
at weather stations such as  Frankfurt , Friedrich said.  40.2 Degrees  The highest-ever temperature recorded in Germany is 40.2
degrees in Freiburg and Karlsruhe on Aug. 13, 2003, Jonathan
Tunster, a forecaster at MetraWeather in Reading,  England , said
by e-mail July 23.  In  France , a rise in temperature of 1 degree during peak
demand times triggers an increase in power generation of around
500 megawatts to meet higher demand, French grid operator Reseau
de Transport d’Electricite said in its  summer report  published
in May. One megawatt is enough to supply 2,000 average European
homes.  “For Germany, the calculation is roughly the same during
the summer,” Ricardo Klimaschka, a trader at Energie-Union GmbH
in Schwerin, Germany, who has been buying and selling power for
more than 12 years, said by phone yesterday.  While there may be a slightly warmer period around the
middle of August, temperatures are expected to be around normal
for the time of year next month, Tunster said.  “There is a fairly strong signal for a return to near-average temperatures in both the U.K. and Germany as we move
into the first parts of August,” he said.  Cutting Output  High temperatures forced EON SE, the nations’s largest
utility, to cut output at its 846-megawatt gas-fired Irsching-5
plant by 100 megawatts today, Markus Nitschke, a company
spokesman in Hanover, said by phone yesterday. Hotter weather
expands air and gas, leading to lower combustion efficiency, he
said.  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  cut output at three of
its hard coal-fired plants by a total of 205 megawatts due to
higher water temperatures in the Rhine River, Maria Dehmer, a
spokeswoman for the company in Stuttgart, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  EON doesn’t have any cooling restrictions at its nuclear
plants, Almut Zyweck, a company spokeswoman, said by phone from
Hanover.  RWE AG (RWE) ’s plants don’t face any production bottlenecks
due the heat, according to Lothar Lambertz, a company spokesman
in Essen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  