-- Ghana Said to Plan 10-Year Eurobond Priced Above Nigeria
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-25T09:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ghana-said-to-plan-10-year-eurobond-priced-above-nigeria.html
Ghana  plans to sell its second
Eurobond after investor meetings in  Europe  and the U.S. this
week, with yields priced over  Nigeria ’s latest dollar-bond
issuance, three people with knowledge of the transaction said.  The yield for the 10-year, dollar-denominated notes will be
around 8.125 percent, according to the people, who asked not to
be named as the details are private. That compares with 6.63
percent yielded in Nigeria’s sale of 10-year bonds on July 2.
Ghana is planning $1 billion of Eurobonds after stops in London,
Frankfurt and Los Angeles, Adams Nyinaku, head of treasury at
the Accra-based  Bank of Ghana , said July 11.  The planned bond sale in the world’s second-biggest cocoa
producer follows Rwanda and Nigeria as African nations tap
appetite for assets from the world’s fastest growing region
after developing Asia. Ghana is rated five steps below
investment grade at B by  Standard & Poor’s , compared with BB-for Nigeria, which is three steps away.  Emerging borrowers have raised at least $13 billion since
July 10, when comments from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  tempered speculation the U.S. would scale back
stimulus.  ‘Decent Premium’  Developing-nation yields had soared to 5.54 percent June
24, the highest since 2011, as Bernanke signaled he may reduce
bond buying that fueled gains in emerging assets. Yields were at
4.87 percent yesterday, the Bloomberg USD Emerging Market
Sovereign Bond Index shows.  “At first glance, the new bond looks cheap, but this
suggests that Ghana is offering a decent premium to compensate
investors for the risks associated with the country’s fiscal and
macroeconomic imbalances,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said in e-mailed comments today.  Ghana’s budget deficit jumped to 12.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 from 4.3 percent the previous year as
the government boosted salaries for civil servants. The  Finance
Ministry  is forecasting the gap will narrow to 9 percent this
year. In the first four months of 2013, the shortfall was 3.8
percent of GDP, compared with a forecast of 3 percent, the
central bank said in May.  Nigeria’s bond sale, which was oversubscribed, was
“encouraging,” Ghanaian Finance Minister Seth Terkper said on
July 8. The nation sold $500 million each of five-year and 10-year bonds on July 2, with the shorter-date notes yielding 5.38
percent.  Ghana’s investor meetings this week were arranged by
Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc., according to the three people.
The yield on the nation’s $750 million Eurobonds due October
2017 rose ten basis points to 5.8 percent at 10:11 a.m. in
 London , the highest in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  