-- Ghostbusting Bad Bank Summoning Cranes Back to Dublin
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-26T13:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ghostbusting-bad-bank-summoning-cranes-back-to-dublin.html
On the northern edge of Dublin, one
of the most visible scars of Ireland’s real estate crash is
healing, as cranes and workers return to a mall whose expansion
stalled during the bust.  The country’s mainstream lenders aren’t financing the
construction work at the Charlestown Shopping Centre. Instead
it’s the National Asset Management Agency, the government’s bad
bank, which has at least 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to
invest in Irish projects before finding buyers for them.  “Some people say we’re only selling the low-hanging
fruit,” Chairman Frank Daly said in an interview at the four-month-old Marker Hotel, close to the European headquarters of
Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in Dublin’s rejuvenated docklands.
“But by investing, we are also creating the low-hanging fruit
for the next year and the year after that.”  NAMA, having sold loans and projects in the U.K. and
Ireland, plans to finish off some of Dublin’s half-built ghost
developments as the country’s real estate market emerges from
the biggest slump in Western Europe. Irish commercial-property
returns rose to the highest in almost six years in the second
quarter, research firm Investment Property Databank Ltd. said.
Annual home prices  climbed  in June for the first time in more
than five years, the  Central Statistics Office  said this week.  U2 Tower  Last week, NAMA said it’s teaming with Los Angeles-based
 Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and Irish building company Bennett
Construction Ltd. to develop part of Dublin’s south docklands.
NAMA’s holdings in the area around the River Liffey include a
plot of land once earmarked for the U2 Tower, a project endorsed
by the Irish  rock band  that was shelved in 2008.  NAMA is seeking to resurrect the residential project,
according to a filing to the city’s municipal authority. This
time, the tower would have 18 stories instead of 36.  Office-property values in the docklands area climbed 5
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
IPD said in a July 23 report. The rest of central Dublin had an
increase of 0.6 percent.  NAMA, set up in 2009 to take on and sell toxic mortgages
purged from Irish banks, is spending 13 million euros to finish
the second phase of Charlestown, a mall complex close to Dublin
Airport that opened at the  height  of Ireland’s Celtic Tiger boom
in 2007. A movie complex, a bowling alley and restaurants will
be added to existing outlets operated by companies including
Mothercare Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s  Ulster
Bank .  Retail Slump  “With more attractions, more people will come,” said
Robert Graham, owner of Dublin-based retailer Village Jewellers,
which has had a store in the mall since the building opened.
“It was great in the early days, but everybody has suffered the
way the economy has gone.”  Ireland, which received a 67.5 billion-euro bailout in
2010, entered a recession in the first quarter for the first
time since 2009. Retail sales have fallen in four of the last
five years, hurting businesses such as Village Jewellers, where
business in the last 18 months has been the worst Graham’s
experienced.  “In the good times, it wasn’t uncommon to sell a diamond
ring for 5,000 to 10,000 euros,” he said. “Now you’re talking
1,000 to 1,500 euros.”  Commercial real estate prices have dropped 65 percent from
their 2007 peak, land values have declined as much as 90 percent
and  home prices  are 50 percent below the market’s peak. As a
result, there are unfinished developments across the country.  Bankrupt Builder  NAMA is also finishing a 120-apartment block in a Dublin
development called the Grange, on the city’s affluent south
side. Surrounded by well-maintained gardens and served by a
dedicated concierge service, the project was started by
Glenkerrin Homes, whose former head, Ray Grehan, was one of
Ireland’s biggest developers during the boom. He was declared
bankrupt in the U.K. in 2011 after NAMA won a judgment against
him for 312 million euros.  About 100 miles (160 kilometers) away in  Northern Ireland ,
the agency is providing 15 million pounds ($23 million) to
complete office buildings at  Belfast ’s Lanyon Place. The office
and leisure complex includes Waterfront Hall, where U.S.
President  Barack Obama  spoke last month.  NAMA wants to “get away from this kind of bad bank where
all you’re doing is sweating down assets,” Daly said. The
agency has loaned or invested more than 500 million euros in
Ireland; it may invest as much as 100 million euros in
individual projects currently under consideration, he said.  Empty Offices  The drop in Irish property prices since 2010, when NAMA
acquired most of its loans, has made the agency’s goal of
recouping its investment more difficult, according to Constantin Gurdgiev, an adjunct finance lecturer at Trinity College Dublin.  Dublin’s office-vacancy rate stood at 19 percent in the
second quarter, broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. estimates, and a
recovery in office-property prices outside Dublin is a “distant
prospect,” IPD said in its report this week. The city accounts
for about 39 percent of the country’s office market, according
to the company.  “The danger is that Ireland will undergo a two-tier
recovery, much like that seen in the U.K.,” where gains in
London commercial property values have outstripped most of the
rest of the country, IPD said.  In all, NAMA paid five banks 31.8 billion euros for the
loans in its portfolio, a discount of 57 percent on the debt
with a par value of 74 billion euros.  “I don’t see how NAMA can achieve the valuations it paid
for the loans and assets that it holds, given their quality and
the overall outlook for the market,” Gurdgiev said.  Google Project  NAMA’s Daly disagrees, pointing to the city’s docklands as
evidence of the agency’s potential. The bad bank controls about
70 percent of undeveloped land in the area, which is already
home to State Street Corp. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.
Nearby, Google is building the Foundry, a conference center
close to the 15-story Montevetro building it bought in 2011.
With more than 2,500 people working for the technology company
in the area, the neighborhood is now known locally as
Googletown.  “If things do get moving, the docklands is going to be
developed fairly quickly,” said Dick Gleeson, who is
responsible for planning and development in the Irish capital.
“It’s a benefit to have NAMA involved because they represent a
lot of the land owners.”  NAMA’s strategy may also help to restore confidence among
Ireland’s battered construction companies. The industry has been
shrinking for six years, according to monthly data compiled by
Ulster Bank.  No new offices were built in 2011 and 2012 in Dublin for
the first time since 1964, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said last
month.  “You’re not going to get 20 cranes back overnight,” Daly
said. “But let’s see one or two cranes and that will instill
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  