-- Glaxo Names China Drug Unit Head as Allegations Detailed
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-07-26T11:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/glaxo-names-gisserot-new-head-of-china-drugs-business.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  appointed a new
head at its China unit as Chinese state media published details
of allegations the company used cash and sexual favors to bribe
doctors and health officials in the country.  Herve Gisserot replaces Mark Reilly, who left China after
four executives were detained in the nation last month. Gisserot
was the senior vice president of Glaxo’s European business.
Reilly will become part of the drugmaker’s senior executive team
in London, said Simon Steel, a company spokesman.  The crackdown on medical corruption has extended to other
foreign drugmakers and local hospitals since China announced the
Glaxo allegations in June. The claims prompted Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  to dispatch Glaxo’s head of  emerging
markets  to China to meet government officials and oversee the
reponse to the probe in the country, where it earned 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) in sales last year.  “It appears that this is a consequence of some individuals
working outside of the controls and processes of the company to
defraud the company as well as to then go on and do things which
are potentially illegal,” Witty said on a July 24 call to
discuss quarterly earnings. “We’re also seeing an inflection
point in the Chinese environment in terms of how the government
wants to see their entire health-care sector modernize.”  Sales Contribution  Glaxo’s sales contribution from China, where revenue gained
20 percent last year, is “likely to be impacted by the current
inquiries” in the second half of 2013, Chief Financial Officer
Simon Dingemans said on the call. “It’s too early to quantify
this,” he said.  Witty commissioned law firm  Ropes & Gray  to conduct an
independent review on the China investigation.  The allegations against London-based Glaxo involve 3
billion  yuan  ($489 million) in spurious travel and meeting
expenses as well as trade in sexual favors, the Public Security
Ministry said July 15.  Some Glaxo salespeople in China established “good personal
relations with doctors by catering to their pleasures or
offering them money, in order to make them prescribe more
drugs,” the official Xinhua news agency reported today, citing
interviews with police handling the case.  ‘Sexual Desires’  The report detailed alleged sales practices of a 31-year-old regional sales manager in central China, and a 35-year-old
female medical representative who would meet doctors’ needs “as
much as possible, even their sexual desires.” Glaxo targeted
raising drug sales by 30 percent a year in the last two years,
Xinhua reported, citing the two salespeople.  The police also said 7 percent to 10 percent of the sales
volume went to doctors’ personal accounts, according to the
report. Some doctors received payment for lectures they never
gave, Xinhua reported, and pharmaceutical representatives
reimbursed “a large amount of money” in the name of lecture
fees, covering expenses such as travel and other entertainment.  Executives at Glaxo in  China  were aware of the practices,
and some “gave clear directives to the sales department to
offer bribes,” Xinhua said.  “As we have previously said, we are deeply concerned by
allegations of fraudulent behavior and ethical misconduct by
individuals in our China business,” Glaxo said in a statement
today. “This behavior is a clear breach of GSK’s systems,
governance, values and standards. We will continue to cooperate
fully with the Chinese authorities in their investigation and
take any and every action that is required.”  Restriction Lifted  Reilly, who moved to China in 2009, left the country for
the U.K. on June 27 after four of his colleagues, all Chinese
nationals, were detained. His return was for a routine, planned
business trip, the company said at the time.  He will help Glaxo respond to the investigation and support
Gisserot during a transition period, the company said. Gisserot
has served as president of  Leem , a French trade group
representing pharmaceutical companies, since January.  A travel restriction on Steve Nechelput, Glaxo’s finance
chief in China, has been lifted, and he will remain in his
current role, the company said.  “There is still a lot we need to find out,” Witty said on
the July 24 conference call. “We will learn from this and we
will make changes.”  The company supports the efforts of the Chinese government
to reform the medical industry and is open to looking at ideas
to improve affordability and access to Glaxo’s drugs, including
changing its business model in the country, Witty said.  Separately, Yu Yingzeng was identified by Reuters yesterday
as being a U.S. citizen detained in China’s crackdown on medical
corruption. Yu is the wife of Peter Humphrey, the British
national also detained by Chinese authorities, Reuters said,
citing two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The couple co-founded ChinaWhys, a Shanghai-based risk
consultancy that provided services for Glaxo in the past, the
report said. It’s unclear if their detention is directly related
to the investigation into Glaxo, Reuters said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  