-- GM Beats Profit Estimates Ahead of New-Model Wave
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-07-25T20:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/gm-beats-profit-estimates-ahead-of-new-model-wave.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s second-quarter
sales rose 3.9 percent, signaling the largest U.S. automaker is
poised for growth with one of the biggest waves of new models in
its history.  While net income dropped on falling profit from the unit
that includes India and southeast Asia, earnings excluding some
items beat analysts’ estimates. Revenue rose to $39.1 billion
from $37.6 billion. The stock was little changed at $37.08 after
touching the highest intraday price since January 2011.  Demand for new pickups in the U.S. as well as Cadillacs and
Buicks in China made up for declines in southeast Asia and
 Australia , where the weaker yen hurt GM’s profit by $100
million. The Detroit-based automaker is bringing 18 new or
refreshed vehicles into showrooms this year, transforming its
lineup into one of the market’s newest from one of the oldest.  “I’ve been telling clients for a long time that GM’s stock
is cheap today partly because they’re not operating at their
full potential,” David Whiston, an analyst with  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  The sales growth for GM, which follows yesterday’s positive
report from  Ford Motor Co. (F) , is further evidence of the
industry’s resurgence even after  Detroit  this month filed the
largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history. Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler Group LLC releases earnings next week.  “There will always been currency shifts, recessions or
unrest somewhere in the world that we have to manage through,”
Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told analysts today. “But
at GM the short-term challenges are no longer the tail wagging
the dog.”  Top Markets  Profit excluding a one-time item was 84 cents a share, GM
said, exceeding the 77-cent average of 13 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 90 cents a share a year earlier.
GM was down 0.2 percent at the close in  New York  time after
reaching an intraday high of $37.71. The shares have soared 29
percent this year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s
19 percent gain.  GM’s North American operations reported adjusted earnings
before interest and taxes that rose 4.5 percent to $1.98
billion. That exceeded the $1.73 billion average of three
analysts’ estimates. Companywide net income fell 23 percent to
$1.41 billion in the second quarter, the automaker said today in
a statement.  “We’re just at the very beginning of our new launch cycle
here,” Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann told reporters today
at the company’s Detroit headquarters. “A lot of the new
product is yet to really come into the market at full-run
rate.”  CEO’s Targets  The redesigned Chevrolet Corvette and Silverado are among
18 new or refreshed GM vehicles arriving in U.S. showrooms this
year. The surge will transform GM’s lineup into one of the
newest in the industry from one of the oldest. One of the
earliest new offerings, the 2014 Impala, was rated by Consumer
Reports today as the best sedan on the market -- a first for a
U.S. automaker in at least 20 years.  The product push is part of Akerson’s efforts to boost
North American profit margins to 10 percent, stem European
losses and increase  China  sales to 5 million, all by mid-decade.  GM’s European unit, which includes the Opel brand, lost
$110 million before interest and taxes, compared with a $394
million Ebit loss a year earlier and the $175 million deficit in
the first quarter. The European operations were helped by $400
million in cost reductions, the company said.  The second half may face seasonal challenges in Europe and
the company expects results “to exhibit some seasonal
decline,” Ammann said.  International Setback  The company’s international operations, which include
China, India and other markets, reported that adjusted Ebit fell
64 percent to $228 million from $627 million a year earlier even
as profits from China increased.  The unit’s results were weakened by falling sales in
markets such as  India , and by Japanese automakers’ use of the
weak yen to pressure GM in ASEAN and Australian markets, Ammann
said.  In those markets, “we have a lot of competition from the
Japanese manufacturers who are sourcing to those markets out of
 Japan  whereas we’re sourcing more out of  Korea ,” Ammann said.  The region was also hurt by recall and warranty costs, GM
said.  “More than half of the impact is market related and less
than half is the warranty and other expense related,” Amman
said.  China Gains  In China, where GM is the largest foreign automaker, Ebit
rose 26 percent to $418 million, according to a regulatory
filing today.  In South America, GM’s operating profit more than tripled
to $54 million from $16 million a year earlier, the company
said. The company’s South American operations have been hurt by
political unrest in  Venezuela  and weakening currencies,
including in  Brazil , Ammann said.  Year-earlier regional results were revised as part of GM’s
previously announced financial reporting change implemented
during the first quarter, said Tom Henderson, a company
spokesman.  Total revenue rose to $39.1 billion,  beating  the $38.57
billion average estimate of six analysts.  The one-time expense came from April when GM Korea paid
$700 million to acquire preferred shares that had a carrying
value of $500 million, GM said in a filing.  While GM’s lineup may be old, it’s still making some of the
best vehicles it has produced in a generation along with Ford
and Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler, helping all three gain U.S.
market share during the first half for the first time in 20
years.  GM’s Pickups  GM’s second-quarter performance in its home market, where
it’s No. 1 in sales, was bolstered by sales of its old pickups.  Combined deliveries of the Silverado and the Sierra, the
GMC brand equivalent, rose 26 percent. The average transaction
prices of GM’s full-size pickups in the quarter rose 5.3 percent
to $36,641 from a year earlier, according to Edmunds.com, a
website that tracks auto sales. That trails Ford’s F-150, which
averaged $38,841.  GM’s pickup growth was in line with the gain posted by
Ford’s F-Series, the market’s top-selling line of vehicles. The
high-volume F-150 is due for a redesign next year.  Ford yesterday reported second-quarter net income of $1.23
billion. Excluding some items, Ford’s per-share profit was 45
cents, exceeding the 37-cent average of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Shares of the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker
closed at the highest level since January 2011.  Ford’s Outlook  Ford raised its full-year pretax profit forecast to equal
or exceed last year’s $8 billion after earning $4.7 billion in
the first half. The company had previously projected its annual
result would be in line with last year’s. Ford also narrowed its
loss forecast for Europe to about $1.8 billion from $2 billion.
Its pretax loss in the region narrowed to $348 million from $404
million a year ago.  GM has predicted modest profit improvement this year
because it didn’t expect the new models to boost earnings until
the second half.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week swapped GM for Ford on
its Americas Conviction Buy list and projected that the largest
U.S. automaker’s shares may rise to $45 in the next year.
 Patrick Archambault , a New York-based auto analyst for Goldman
Sachs, said the new pickups will boost GM’s profit margins and
that the automaker may pay a dividend by the end of the year.  “We see GM as one of the most attractive product stories
in the sector,” he wrote.  New Trucks  The new Silverado Crew Cab began trickling into showrooms
in May with plans for the double cab to arrive in the third
quarter, followed by the regular cab a month to 45 days later,
GM has said. It won’t be until the fourth quarter when GM is
selling more of the 2014 models than 2013s.  Other new GM vehicles arriving in the fourth quarter
include the redesigned Cadillac CTS sedan and refreshed Buick
Regal car. The new Chevrolet Impala sedan began arriving in
showrooms in the second quarter.  GM returned to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the
second quarter, a milestone triggered in part by the U.S.
Treasury reducing its  stake  in the automaker. GM said in
December that the U.S. planned to divest its holding within 15
months.  Shares on May 17 topped the $33 initial public offering
price for the first time in two years, and a union retiree
medical trust has begun selling its stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  