-- Goldcorp Takes $1.96 Billion Writedown After Price Slump
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-07-25T20:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/goldcorp-takes-1-96-billion-writedown-after-price-slump.html
Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the biggest gold
producer by market value, wrote down the value of assets by
$1.96 billion and is slowing some project spending because of
lower metal prices.  The writedown helped lead to a second-quarter  net loss  of
$1.93 billion, or $2.38 a share, compared with net income of
$268 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier, the Vancouver-based
miner said today in a statement.  Profit excluding the writedown and other one-time items was
14 cents a share, trailing the 23-cent average of 19  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 18 percent to $889 million,
missing the $1.15 billion average estimate.  Gold-mining companies have announced at least $13 billion
of writedowns in the past two months after the precious metal’s
steepest quarterly drop in London trading in more than nine
decades. Goldcorp said its writedown was mainly related to the
value of exploration potential at its Penasquito mine in  Mexico ,
its biggest source of  revenue  last year.  “Penasquito continues to possess strong exploration
upside, but due to lower metals prices, the current in situ
market value of exploration potential has decreased
significantly,” Chief Executive Officer Chuck Jeannes said in
the statement.  Shares Drop  Goldcorp fell 1.2 percent to C$28.88 at the close in
Toronto, compared with a 0.5 percent increase for the S&P/TSX
Global Gold Sector Index of 50 companies.  Goldcorp is reviewing operating plans and will defer some
spending this year and next at mines it’s building in Argentina
and  Canada . The changes aren’t expected to have material impacts
on project schedules, the company said.  Capital spending  will be about $2.6 billion, or $200
million lower than a previous forecast, Goldcorp said. The
company also plans to cut administration expenses by about 10
percent and reduce its exploration budget by 11 percent.  Gold, which rose for 12 consecutive years, slipped into a
 bear market  in April and has dropped 21 percent this year in  New
York . Goldcorp’s average realized price in the quarter was
$1,358 an ounce, compared with an average of $1,417 an ounce on
the Comex in New York.  “This happens in a falling price environment and if you
are unlucky on the timing of gold sales,”  George Topping , a
Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note.  Jeannes said profit was affected by the timing of gold
sales. Goldcorp sold about half of the gold and silver in the
quarter in June, when  gold prices  fell to a 34-month low.  Goldcorp is Canada’s second-biggest gold miner by sales. It
overtook Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  this year to become
the most valuable company in the industry, despite producing
less than half the metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  