-- IBM Judge OKs Foreign Bribe Settlement Two Years Later
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ibm-judge-approves-10-million-foreign-bribe-settlement-with-sec.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s two-year-old settlement of accusations of bribery in
 China  and  Korea  won federal court approval as the company faces
new scrutiny for possible payoffs in other countries.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  yesterday
signed off on the $10 million agreement between IBM and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission initially submitted in March
2011. Leon refused to approve the deal until the company agreed
to file reports to him and the regulator on its possible
wrongdoing.  During a 10-minute hearing, Leon said he’s satisfied IBM
“has learned its lesson and is moving in the right direction to
ensure this never happens again.” If there’s another violation
over the next two years, “it won’t be a happy day,” he told
company officials in attendance.  The approval comes almost three months after IBM disclosed
that the  Justice Department  is investigating whether it violated
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in connection with contracts
in  Poland ,  Argentina ,  Bangladesh  and Ukraine. IBM said in an  SEC
filing  it was notified of the probes by the department in April
and asked to provide information on its global anti-corruption
compliance program. IBM said it was cooperating.  Of at least 34 foreign bribery settlements the SEC reached
with companies since 2010, only two others failed to win
judicial sign-off in less than three months.  Robert Weber, IBM’s general counsel, who attended the
hearing, declined to comment afterward. None of the parties or
Leon mentioned the Justice Department probe.  Final Judgment  In the final judgment Leon signed yesterday, IBM agreed to
make annual reports to the judge and the SEC describing its
efforts to comply with the FCPA. The company also agreed to
immediately report to the SEC and the court “upon learning that
it is reasonably likely” IBM violated the FCPA in connection
with improper payments to foreign officials or any fraudulent
books and records.  IBM opposed a requirement that’s now part of the judgment
requiring it to report to the court and the SEC within 60 days
of learning that it is the subject of any probe or enforcement
proceeding by a federal agency or party to an administrative
proceeding or civil litigation. The reporting requirements will
remain in effect for two years.  Leon said the reports can be filed under seal, according to
the judgment.  ‘Extensive Discussions’  “In this matter, after extensive discussions with the SEC,
IBM and the SEC agreed on a settlement in the matters before
this court, and we are pleased the settlement has now been
approved,” according to a statement handed out after the
hearing by Whitney Forster, a spokeswoman for the Armonk, New
York-based company.  The SEC case involved allegations that IBM bribed Chinese
and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million in
government contracts. The alleged payments at issue in the IBM
case occurred from 1998 through 2009 and were made by employees
at three subsidiaries of IBM, as well as LG IBM PC Co., a joint
venture with  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , according to the SEC’s
complaint.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed to the $10 million in disgorgement and penalties to
settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and internal-control provisions of the FCPA.  Leon, who had the case under review for 28 months, said in
earlier hearings that he wouldn’t accept the agreement without
continuing disclosure on a broader range of possible wrongdoing
than the company was willing to turn over.  ‘Rubberstamp’ Settlement  At a hearing in December, Leon said he wouldn’t
“rubberstamp” the settlement or “roll over like the SEC has”
regarding IBM’s objections that the reporting demands were too
burdensome. He also said IBM had a history of books and records
violations.  In 2000, IBM settled with the SEC over alleged bribes in
Argentina -- one of the countries involved in the current probe.
An IBM subsidiary in the country was accused of making payments
through a subcontractor in 1994 and 1995 to win a $250 million
contract.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, IBM paid
$300,000 to settle the matter.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 