-- Michael Dell Bets on Rule Change in Final Push for Deal Approval
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a ,   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/michael-dell-bets-on-rule-change-in-final-push-for-deal-approval.html
When all else fails, change the
rules.  After weeks of failing to garner enough support among
shareholders for his bid to buy  Dell Inc. (DELL) , founder Michael Dell
is now trying to persuade board members to approve a voting rule
change that would boost his chances of completing the takeover.  As an enticement, Dell and financial ally Silver Lake
Management LLC yesterday said they would raise their bid by a
dime to $13.75 per share, or $24.6 billion, if Dell’s special
committee changed the rules so that nonvoters wouldn’t count as
opposing the deal. The original rules “skew the playing
field,” he said in a letter to shareholders last night.  The board’s initial response wasn’t favorable, according to
a person familiar with the situation. It might agree to altering
the voting terms if the bid was at least $14 a share, the person
said. The special committee rescheduled yesterday’s already-postponed  investor  vote to Aug. 2, giving Michael Dell another
week to scrounge for votes if the board rejects the change.  “I am at peace either way and I will honor your
decision,” Dell, 48, wrote in his letter, in which he also said
that his $13.75 bid was his best and final offer.  His proposed rules maneuver is an attempt to break a
stranglehold that nonvoters have had on the success of his bid
for the Round Rock, Texas-based computer maker he founded 29
years ago. He and Silver Lake had agreed to the counting
provision when they signed the leveraged buyout deal with Dell’s
board in February.  Seeking Votes  A majority of investors, excluding Dell’s 15.6 percent
stake, are needed to approve the deal, meaning only about 43
percent of all holders can block it.  About 27 percent of shares -- not including  Michael Dell ’s
holdings -- haven’t been voted, the buyers said in a statement
yesterday, so they are counted as “no” votes. In addition,
investors opposed to the CEO’s transaction owned more than 20
percent of Dell shares as of early July, according to a report
from shareholder adviser Glass Lewis & Co., which backed Dell’s
original bid with Silver Lake.  “If he gets the voting rule changed, it’s a game changer,
and I think the deal is a done deal,” said Angelo Zino, an
analyst at S&P Capital IQ in New York.  Counting nonvoters thwarts “the will of the majority,”
Dell and Silver Lake said in pressing for the rule change. “If
this majority wishes to accept our offer, it is only fair to
permit them to do so,” they said in a statement yesterday.  Less Protection?  The original provision would have helped the transaction
fall under the protection of the the business-judgment rule as
interpreted by the  Delaware  courts, said  Erik Gordon , a
business professor at the University of Michigan.  If the buyout complied with that rule, it would make it
more likely that Delaware judges would defer to the board's
actions and not subject the deal to heightened scrutiny, Gordon
said. Like many Fortune 500 companies, Dell is incorporated in
Delaware and disgruntled shareholders have already filed suit
there seeking to block the transaction.  “Michael Dell is risking losing the protection of the
business judgment rule in return for an easier vote rule,” he
said. “The real big thing here is: ‘Wow, he just doesn’t think
he has the votes and is willing to take a risk that is rarely
taken in order to try to get this deal done.’”  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Billionaire  Carl Icahn , who holds an 8.7 percent Dell
stake, and partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc. have made
a series of alternative proposals to derail the bid, most
recently suggesting that the company repurchase most of the
outstanding shares at $14 apiece and offer some warrants.  Crossing Rubicon  Icahn, 77, said yesterday that changing the rules of the
vote would remove an important shareholder protection. He
reiterated that the offer undervalues the company and called for
the CEO and the board to be replaced.  “We have spent the past six months explaining why we
believe that not only does the Michael Dell/Silver Lake
transaction undervalue the company, but it also freezes out
loyal stockholders who deserve the opportunity to stay with
Dell,” Icahn said in a letter. “Today, Michael Dell and Silver
Lake crossed the Rubicon by trying to take away the one
provision in the merger agreement that actually provided
stockholders with a voice in their company. It is time for
Michael Dell and this board to go.”  In his shareholder letter, Dell said Icahn’s proposals to
recapitalize “would be destructive to  the company ” and he
won’t support them.  Potential Opposition  In addition to Yacktman Asset Management Co., opponents may
also include Harris Associates LP and Pzena Investment
Management Inc., according to the report by adviser Glass Lewis.  Separately, T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which holds 4.1
percent, reiterated its opposition to the Dell-Silver Lake
offer, saying the previous buyout offer didn’t “reflect the
value of Dell.”  BlackRock Inc., Vanguard Group Inc. and State Street Corp.,
three of Dell’s largest shareholders, indicated last week that
they’re voting in favor of the Silver Lake-led deal, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. BlackRock had
previously been leaning against the buyout, another person said.
Those funds, like any Dell shareholder, can still change their
votes before the final tally.  The new offer from Michael Dell and Silver Lake is 26
percent more than the computer maker’s closing share price of
$10.88 on Jan. 11, the last trading day before news of a deal
surfaced. Dell had originally planned a shareholder vote on the
buyout last week and rescheduled that to yesterday after it was
unable to secure enough support.  Since announcing the buyout Feb. 5, the special committee
of Dell’s board has argued that the company’s prospects of a
turnaround are better outside of the public lens, a point
Michael Dell made again in his shareholder letter.  “We need to transform, and we need to do it quickly,” he
wrote. “The transformation is not without risks and challenges,
and I believe that we can do what we need to do better as a private
company than a public company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at   ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  