-- Time Warner Cable’s Marcus to Replace Britt as CEO in 2014
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-26T20:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/time-warner-cable-s-marcus-to-replace-britt-as-ceo-next-year.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Britt will retire at the end of the
year, to be succeeded by Chief Operating Officer Rob Marcus.  Marcus, 48, will take over as CEO and chairman on Jan. 1,
2014, the company said yesterday in a statement. Britt, 64, will
remain on the board in a non-executive role.  Bloomberg News 
reported in February that Britt would retire at year’s end.  “Rob and I have had a chance to work together knowing this
transition would be coming for a few years know, and I just
couldn’t be happier with the outcome,” Britt said in an
interview. “We set out to make a company that was transparent,
that was a good place to work, and that was happy to reinvent
itself as the world around us changes.”  Marcus steps into the role just as the company is popping
up in merger speculation.  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the
fourth-largest U.S. cable company, is interested in a
combination with Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S.
cable operator, people familiar with the matter have said. Britt
and Marcus declined to comment on Charter.  The new CEO also faces challenges in the traditional pay-TV
business. Time Warner Cable has failed to add video customers
for more than five years as consumers have switched to competing
services such as Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS or canceled
cable altogether.  Britt is “passing the baton to a highly talented leader in
Rob Marcus, who has impressed me for years with his focus and
drive toward success,”  Brian Roberts ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s CEO, said
in an e-mail. Comcast is the largest U.S. cable company by
subscribers.  Time Warner Cable shares fell less than 1 percent to
$116.85 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 20
percent this year.  ‘Changing World’  Marcus joined  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 1998 and knows both the
programming side of the business and the cable-distribution
industry,  David Zaslav , CEO of cable-channel programmer
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , said in an interview.  “Rob will be a great choice to continue to lead Time
Warner Cable through a changing world,” Zaslav said. “He’s
very focused on how the business is changing. He and I have had
long conversations about online streaming and Netflix and  HBO  Go
and how consumers want to consume content.”  Marcus is “a known commodity to the investment
community,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries,
said in an e-mail. “The management continuity suggests the
company will retain its cash-return policies, which investors
favor.”  Stock Buybacks  The company has reduced its outstanding shares by 17
percent through repurchases since the end of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It replenished its buyback fund to
$4 billion yesterday.  Britt has been Time Warner Cable’s CEO since 2001 and
oversaw the company’s transition to a public company after it
was spun off from Time Warner Inc. Britt joined Time Inc. in
1972 and has worked in the cable industry for about 40 years.
His 2012 compensation was $17.4 million.  “This isn’t a guy, like most in the media, that you’d have
to carry out on a stretcher before they were ready to go,”
 Richard Parsons , former Time Warner Inc. CEO, said in an
interview. “Glenn’s had it in his mind that he’d do his thing
and then have an orderly retirement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  