-- IMF Says Europe Risks Stagnation Without Further Crisis Action
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-07-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/imf-says-europe-risks-stagnation-without-further-crisis-action.html
The euro area risks years of
economic stagnation without greater efforts to bolster banks and
employment, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Incomplete or stalled policy commitments at the national
or euro-area level could also reignite financial market
stresses” the IMF said in a review today of the 17-nation
currency bloc. “Over the medium-term, there is a high risk of
stagnation, especially in the periphery.”  With  euro-area gross domestic product  shrinking for a
second year and the debt crisis in its fourth year, policy
makers are balancing deficit reduction with the need to foster
growth. The IMF expects the euro-area economy will contract 0.6
percent this year before expanding 0.9 percent in 2014.  The region’s governments need to make bank recapitalization
a priority and promote a more flexible labor force, while the
European Central Bank should stand ready to easy monetary
conditions, the Washington-based fund said.  “The first priority is to restore sound bank balance
sheets to revive credit,” the IMF said. “Immediate steps
include full recognition of losses, recapitalization of weak but
viable banks and closure or restructuring of non-viable banks.”  The ECB said today that lending to companies and households
fell 1.6 percent in June, the biggest decline on record. The
Frankfurt-based central bank is also preparing to take over
supervision of European banks in 2014, though wrangling between
European governments risks delaying the handover from national
supervisors until the second half.  “Unwavering political backing for institutional reforms
remains critical and in the interests of all” members of the
monetary union, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  