-- In Mexico’s Drug War, Real Progress Is Local
-- B y   A l e j a n d r o   H o p e
-- 2013-07-25T13:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/in-mexico-s-drug-war-real-progress-is-local.html
When Mexican marines recently
captured Miguel Angel Trevino, the head of Los Zetas, the
country’s most infamous and ruthless drug gang, Mexicans heard
about it not from President Enrique Pena Nieto or one of his
cabinet officials, but from a spokesman at the Interior
Ministry.  That low-key approach fits with the government’s effort to
play down information about drugs and violence, and it has been
rewarded with improved public perceptions about crime and
security.  Yet this strategy is also fraught with risk. Pena Nieto’s
administration is caught between saying so much that fear is
reignited and saying so little that it appears insensitive to
the very serious threats still facing many Mexicans.  Another threat is the potential public backlash if security
doesn’t improve at a faster rate in coming months. Combined with
slow economic growth, unmet expectations on the security front
could undermine the government’s political standing.  In terms of reality, however, while  Mexico ’s fight against
crime is moving in the right direction, it is doing so at a
haltingly slow pace, much as it was a year ago. Pena Nieto seems
to be following the script laid out by his predecessor, Felipe Calderon: using the armed forces for policing; going after major
kingpins; maintaining close, albeit more discreet, ties with
U.S. security agencies.  Likewise, the criminal underworld is undergoing a
transition that started under Calderon: The old cartels are
fragmenting into smaller gangs that are less involved in large-scale drug trafficking and more devoted to myriad forms of
“rent extraction” (extortion, kidnapping, theft).  Ambitious Reforms  An ambitious reform of the criminal-justice system is
proceeding unevenly: Some states have already completed the
transition to a new oral and more open system, modeled somewhat
on U.S. lines (as opposed to a written, inquisitorial system in
which most proceedings happen behind closed doors); others have
barely started the necessary legal changes. Some states have
created new, better-trained, better-paid, more honest police
forces; most are still stuck with corrupt, unreliable,
unprepared law-enforcement units.  Thus, Pena Nieto must find ways to accelerate the
pacification of Mexico. There are two possibilities.  First, he could pursue the ethically unpalatable and
potentially suicidal option of finding some accommodation with
the drug gangs.  Second, he could try to accelerate institutional reform at
the state and local levels. Given the weakness of most local
security institutions, even relatively minor improvements can
yield quick gains. In the northern state of Nuevo Leon, for
example, the creation of a new police force has led to a 50
percent decline in homicides and a 70 percent reduction in car
thefts over the past year.  How do you replicate that experience? Some budgetary
incentives might help -- creating, for instance, block grants
for states and cities that achieve specific institutional
transformation goals, such as the creation of vetted police
forces or elite anti-kidnapping units. In addition, if state
governments request the presence of federal forces, there could
be stricter conditionality, linking their deployment or
permanence to police and criminal-justice reforms.  U.S. economic assistance needs to be creatively leveraged
if it is to be truly useful. At less than $300 million a year,
the Merida Initiative is too small to change the security
equation at the national level, but it could potentially
modulate the behavior of local players. U.S.-funded programs
could be aimed at state governments that make serious reform
efforts, leading to virtuous competition among subnational
jurisdictions.  Institutional Change  In a broad pacification strategy, the Mexican government
could complement institutional change with focused targeting of
the most violent groups. The demolition of the Zetas provides a
useful template: The government could warn other gangs,
explicitly or tacitly, that they are next in line for the same
treatment unless they reduce the violence.  These items are not yet part of the current policy mix. The
authorities seem to trust that a somewhat improved version of
the Calderon strategy -- with slightly better interagency and
intergovernmental coordination -- along with some ramped-up
crime-prevention programs can produce radically superior
results. They could be right, but big bets on that outcome would
be rather risky.  In the long run, Mexico is likely to become more peaceful,
particularly if structural reforms lead to stronger economic
growth. A larger middle class will demand improved public
services, including the police and the criminal-justice system.
However, that process is too far off in the future to be
relevant to the current administration.  Violence devoured the Calderon presidency. To avoid that
fate, Pena Nieto must go beyond just talking a good game -- or,
in this case, not talking a bad one. Media savvy can only take
you so far in a country with 25,000 murder victims every year.  (Alejandro Hope is a security policy analyst at IMCO, a
Mexico City think tank, and a former intelligence officer.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alejandro Hope at  alejandro.hope@imco.org.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 