-- Indian Nifty Futures Drop on Tightening Concerns, Futures Expiry
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-25T02:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/indian-nifty-futures-drop-on-tightening-concerns-futures-expiry.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped
before the expiry of derivatives contracts today, and amid
concerns tightening measures by the central bank in the last
week will curb economic growth.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery fell 0.6
percent to 5,972 at 10:18 a.m. in Singapore. The July contract
expires today. The most-actively traded August contract lost 0.4
percent to 6,011. The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index plunged 1.4
percent to 5,990.50 yesterday, the biggest loss since July 3.
The S&P BSE Sensex fell 1 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon
 India  ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares slid 0.4 percent.  India’s benchmark indexes slumped yesterday after the
 Reserve Bank  of India tightened banks’ access to cash on July 23
to support a declining rupee, a week after raising two interest
rates. The cash squeeze in India is threatening to erode gains
from the past year’s pro-growth policies that included interest-rate cuts and steps to allow more foreign holdings in industries
and markets.  “We expect the effects of the RBI’s tightening measures to
continue, given it’s an expiry day, too,” Surya Narayan Nayak,
an analyst at Networth Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone from
Mumbai today. “The central bank’s biggest battle is to save the
rupee now, and growth can be a casualty in that endeavor.”  The S&P BSE India Bankex index of 13 local lenders plunged
4.6 percent yesterday to the lowest level since Sept. 14, 2012
after the central bank announcement.  Inflation Risks  Asia ’s third-largest economy grew 5 percent in the year
ended March 31, the least in a decade, while the current-account
deficit widened to a record. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left
 interest rates  unchanged in June, citing persistent inflation
risks, after cutting the benchmark repo rate in each of the
authority’s three previous meetings. The next policy review is
on July 30.  A weaker rupee stokes inflation by raising the cost of
India’s imported oil, limiting the central bank’s ability to cut
interest rates, threatening to increase costs for companies
facing at least $20 billion in foreign debt repayments in the
coming year.  Corporate bond sales plunged 96 percent in July as yields
surged to a one-year high after the central bank’s tightening
measures. Borrowing costs for leading companies have climbed
back above 10 percent.  Earnings Reports  “The RBI’s seeming determination to squeeze liquidity will
almost certainly tighten financial conditions, slow credit
growth and amplify the already substantial downside risks to the
Indian economy,”  Richard Iley , a chief economist at BNP Paribas
SA, wrote in a note e-mailed today.  Shares of  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s largest motorcycle
maker, may be active today after the company reported profit
dropped 11 percent from the previous year to 5.49 billion rupees
($92.8 million) for the quarter ended June 30. That compares
with the 5.45 billion-rupee median estimate of 43 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest automaker,
may report today quarterly net income of 6.12 billion rupees,
compared with 4.24 billion a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 42 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Cigarette maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , the biggest company in the Sensex
by weight, may say net income rose to 19 billion rupees for the
quarter, from 16 billion last year, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 30 analysts.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , the country’s largest
copper producer, may say net income dropped to 10.1 billion
rupees, from 12 billion in the same quarter last year, 21
analysts forecast.  Foreign Inflows  The Sensex has climbed 8.6 percent since slumping to a two-month low on June 24, helped by better-than-estimated corporate
earnings. The gauge  trades  at 14.1 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.1
times.  Six out the eight index members that have reported earnings
so far for the June quarter exceeded analyst estimates. About 27
percent of companies in the gauge missed forecasts for the three
months ended March, and 43 percent in the quarter through
December.  Global funds  bought $37 million of local shares on July 23,
increasing this year’s net purchases to $12.4 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. They have sold a net $961 million of
domestic stocks this month, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, extending June’s $1.8 billion sell-off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  