-- India’s Rupee Strengthens to Five-Week High After RBI Measures
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-25T05:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/india-s-rupee-strengthens-to-five-week-high-after-rbi-measures.html
India ’s rupee rose to a five-week
high after the central bank took steps to tighten cash supply
and arrest a slide in the currency.  The currency has advanced 1.5 percent against the dollar
since the  Reserve Bank  of India further restricted banks’ access
to funds late on July 23, paring its decline this year to 6.6
percent. The rupee weakened as much as 0.4 percent earlier after
a report showed sales of new U.S. homes increased to the highest
level in five years in June, potentially bolstering the case for
the  Federal Reserve  to cut stimulus that has driven demand for
emerging-market assets.  “Recent measures announced by the RBI to curb liquidity
and stabilize the rupee are likely to provide some support,” L.
Subramanian, an analyst at ICICI Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in a
report today. Increased speculation the Fed will taper had
weighed on the Indian currency, he wrote.  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 58.87 per dollar as of
10:50 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 58.865 earlier, the
strongest level since June 19. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, rose 16 basis points to 11.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $8.8
billion since May 22, when the Fed first signaled it could curb
asset purchases this year should economic risks subside. Data
today will show claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. fell,
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey shows. The Fed will
start trimming its $85 billion in monthly bond buying, known as
quantitative easing, in September, according to 50 percent of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  between July 18 and 22.  RBI Steps  The RBI capped the amount lenders can borrow in daily
repurchase auctions at 0.5 percent of their deposits, it said in
a July 23 statement. The authority also raised the daily balance
requirement for lenders’ cash-reserve ratios to 99 percent from
70 percent effective July 27, while separately announcing an
auction of 60 billion rupees ($1 billion) of cash-management
bills today.  The moves follow steps announced July 15, when the RBI
raised two  interest rates  and drained money through bond sales.
The central bank kept its main repurchase rate at 7.25 percent
as the economy grows at the slowest pace in a decade.  Forwards Rise  “As money-market liquidity tightens, the cost of carrying
a speculative position in anticipation of further rupee weakness
increases significantly,” economists at Barclays Plc, including
Siddhartha Sanyal in Mumbai, wrote in a research report
yesterday. “While the current moves should push short-term
interest rates higher and make foreign-exchange speculation
costlier, we don’t think that such speculation is the key driver
of current rupee weakness. Accordingly, we do not gain much
confidence that these measures will effectively curb pressures
on the rupee.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.2 percent to
60.39 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 0.3 percent to 60.24. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  