-- India Said to Be Concerned Etihad Deal May Cost Jet Some Rights
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-25T09:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/india-said-to-be-concerned-etihad-deal-may-cost-jet-some-rights.html
India ’s aviation ministry is
concerned that  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ’s deal to sell a stake
to Etihad Airways PJSC may result in the nation’s biggest
publicly-traded carrier losing some overseas flying rights, a
government official familiar with the matter said.  Countries including the U.S. and the U.K. may not treat Jet
as an Indian carrier for granting flying rights if Abu Dhabi-based Etihad gets operational control, said the official, who
asked not to be named citing rules. The ministry has conveyed to
the nation’s Foreign Investment Promotion Board its concern over
the deal’s potential impact on the flying rights, the official
said in New Delhi today.  The FIPB will consider on July 29 Jet’s agreement to sell
its 24 percent stake to Etihad, the first overseas investment in
an Indian carrier after the government eased aviation rules in
September. The agency last month deferred a decision on the
deal, as authorities sought more details about the control and
ownership of the Mumbai-based carrier after the stake sale.  Jet  fell  as much as 5.1 percent to 337.50 rupees and
changed hands at 339 rupees as of 2:48 p.m. in Mumbai trading.
The stock has declined 39 percent this year, compared with a 2.3
percent gain for the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Ragini Chopra, a Jet spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call and text message to her mobile phone seeking
comment. Rupert Hugh-Jones, a spokesman at Etihad, also didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions from  Bloomberg News .  Chairman Goyal  Jet’s accord in April to raise 20.6 billion rupees ($349
million) from selling a stake to Etihad may win approvals from
Indian authorities if the companies address the questions over
the transfer of effective control, the official said.  Jet, controlled by Chairman Naresh Goyal, is due to
announce first-quarter earnings Aug. 8, according to an exchange
filing. The carrier hasn’t posted an annual profit in the six
years through March and had a net  debt  of 80 billion rupees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The airline is seeking to sell its stake to Etihad to raise
funds for fleet expansion and to pare debt. India has eased
aviation investment rules, allowing foreign carriers to own as
much as a 49 percent stake in local airlines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  