-- Infineon Wins Most of Appeals Case Over Qimonda Patents Rights
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-25T16:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/infineon-wins-most-of-appeals-case-over-qimonda-patents-rights.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest chipmaker, won an appeals court ruling saying it
still holds license rights to patents owned by insolvent Qimonda
AG.  The Munich Higher Regional Court today dismissed the
majority of arguments brought by Qimonda insolvency
administrator Michael Jaffe. The judges rejected his claim that
the  patent rights  ended under German insolvency rules, court
spokesman Wilhelm Schneider said in an e-mailed statement.  Infineon argued in a lower court that the suit covers
thousands of Qimonda patents and that the question of whether it
still has rights to that portfolio is key to Infineon’s
business.  Infineon completed an initial public offering of Qimonda,
its former unit, in August 2006 to reduce its dependence on
businesses with volatile demand and prices. Qimonda filed for
insolvency in 2009 after memory-chip prices fell.  Today’s case is part of a wider dispute between Jaffe and
Infineon. In a separate suit still pending in Munich, Jaffe is
seeking 3.35 billion euros ($4.4 billion) he says is owed to
Qimonda because of an incomplete filing when Infineon
transferred its memory business to a shell company that became
Qimonda. As part of that transaction, the patents were also
transferred to Qimonda and licensed back to Infineon.  Jaffe has already appealed today’s ruling, Sebastian
Brunner, his spokesman, said by phone.  Infineon is “delighted” that a second panel of judges has
backed its legal argument, said Kay Laudien, company spokesman.  Infineon shares jumped 2.6 percent on the news, paring
earlier losses. The shares closed at 7.24 euros, up 0.2 percent,
in Frankfurt trading.  Today’s case is OLG Muenchen, 6 U 541/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 