-- Insurance Bill for Renewables Seen Tripling to $2.8 Billion
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-25T12:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/insurance-bill-for-renewables-may-rise-to-2-8-billion-by-2020.html
Insurance costs for the renewable
 energy industry  may more than triple to $2.8 billion by 2020 as
projects become more complex and risky, a report commissioned by
Swiss Re Ltd. found.  The report by Bloomberg New Energy Finance examined markets
for wind and solar power including  Australia ,  China , the U.S and
Germany and estimated the industry spends about $850 million a
year on insurance now, according a statement from the London-based researcher released today.  The increases will be driven by a move by the wind energy
industry to generate more power from offshore farms and as more
risk-averse investors such as pension funds enter the industry,
the report for the world’s second-biggest re-insurer found.  Nations from the U.S. to China are seeking to build cleaner
 power plants  to curb air pollution and maintain steady energy
supplies with as much as be $2 trillion of renewable power
capacity added between now and 2030, BNEF said. Insurers are
tapping the growing industry, with  Munich Re , the world’s
biggest re-insurer, agreeing the first offshore wind turbine
insurance in December with REpower Systems SE.  “The demand for risk management solutions will grow,
partly because the renewable energy sector will simply get
bigger, but also because of increasing uncertainty affecting
power markets in general,” said  Guy Turner , BNEF’s chief
economist. As the technologies mature, they’ll need to evolve
from one where risks are “taken on the chin” to one with fewer
surprises, he said.  ’Silver bullet’  Offshore wind turbines in particular require risk
management because their revenue may be hurt by unfavorable
weather leading to damage and delays, according to BNEF.  European nations are leading a push to install machines in
the  North Sea  where winds gust at more than 90 miles (145
kilometers) an hour and waves may top 15 feet (5 meters).  As nations seek to wean onshore wind and solar parks off
subsidies, they will become exposed to new, market-related risks
such as grid constraints and price volatility as they compete in
open electricity markets, the researcher said. While developers
will manage some risks internally, they’re likely to boost
insurance-product use, it said.  “Insurance is not a silver bullet,” Juerg Trueb, head of
environmental and commodity markets at  Swiss Re (SREN)  Corporate
Solutions, said. “But by mitigating the risk in the
construction phase and improving the consistency and surety of
revenues during operation, insurance can help improve the return
on investment for renewable energy projects,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  