-- Investec Bank Has $25 Million at Risk in First Strut
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-07-25T16:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/investec-bank-has-25-million-at-risk-in-first-strut.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , the owner of a bank
and money manager in  South Africa  and the U.K., loaned about 240
million rand ($24.8 million) to First Strut Ltd., the
Johannesburg based company which is in liquidation.  The debt is “fully secured on underlying collateral which
is predominantly property,” Ursula Nobrega, head of  investor
relations  at Investec in the city, said in an e-mailed response
to questions late yesterday. Investec Asset Management, the
company’s money management arm, has invested client funds in
First Strut bonds, said Nobrega. That unit declined to disclose
details of client exposure in a separate statement yesterday.  First Strut, a manufacturer supplying the transport, mining
and power industries, was placed in provisional liquidation on
July 16, said John Louw, business rescue practitioner for the
firm that employs more than 5,000 people. That came after Jeff
Wiggill, chairman of the company which also trades as First Tech
Group, was murdered last month.  Wiggill, 59 was found next to his car in Soweto with bullet
wounds to his head, the South African Press Association reported
June 20. His wallet and mobile phone were missing and the motive
for the killing was unknown, SAPA said, citing police captain,
Augustinah Selepe.  First Strut Chief Executive Officer Andris Bertulis was
unavailable for comment yesterday, according to an e-mailed
response from Megan Bell at First Tech Group.  Standard Bank Guarantee  First Strut, which sold 450 million rand of senior secured
bonds in 2011, has 925 million rand of floating-rate notes
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global
Credit Ratings withdrew its coverage of First Strut bonds this
month, after initially rating them BBB.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s largest bank, had a
performance guarantee facility with First Strut worth 103.3
million rand, according to a document, created by Johannesburg
law firm Bowman Gilfillan, which is on First Strut’s  website .  Standard Bank  declined to comment because of client
confidentiality agreements, said Ross Linstrom, a spokesman for
the Johannesburg-based lender.  “Nedbank is one of a number of financiers that has credit
exposure to the First Strut Group of companies and is adequately
provided,”  Mike Brown , the bank’s chief executive officer, said
in an e-mailed response to questions late yesterday.  Rand Merchant Bank, the investment banking unit of
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , acted as lead manager for the sale of First
Strut’s 925 million-rand bond. With First Strut under
provisional liquidation, RMB doesn’t want to comment on the
matter, spokeswoman Joandra Griesel wrote in e-mailed comments.  Standard Bank fell 1.3 percent to 109.10 rand by the close
in Johannesburg while Investec declined 0.3 percent to 68.56
rand. FirstRand rose 0.7 percent to 28.99 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  