-- Israel’s Shalom Says Good Chance Talks to Start July 30
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-25T11:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/israel-s-shalom-says-good-chance-talks-start-tuesday-in-u-s-.html
Israel’s Regional Cooperation
Minister Silvan Shalom said there is “a good chance” Israelis
and Palestinians will renew long-stalled peace talks on July 30
in  Washington .  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry announced last week that
the sides had agreed on a basis to restart negotiations that
broke down in 2010. No date was set, and Shalom, speaking to
reporters today in the West Bank city of Jericho, was the first
official on either side to publicly give a specific day.  “There is a good chance that negotiations with the
Palestinians will resume next week in Washington on Tuesday,
provided there are no last-minute complications,” he said.  Shalom said Israel would not agree to freeze construction
on lands the Palestinians seek for a future state, a
longstanding Palestinian demand that had stymied the renewal of
talks. The Palestinians say they have not given up that
condition, and neither they,  Israel  nor the U.S. have disclosed
on what basis the talks are to resume.  Shalom’s visit to Jericho -- the first by a high-ranking
Israeli official to Palestinian-administered territory since
2007 -- was another sign of diplomatic thawing. He and
Palestinian Planning Minister Mohammed Abu Ramadan pledged to
cooperate economically, and to make that tangible, signed a
joint declaration backing an industrial park in Jericho whose
opening has been held up for years by political disputes.  No Substitute  “I believe it is better to talk than to fight,” Shalom
said. “That doesn’t mean that economy is a substitute for the
political track; the two should go together.”  Israel contributed water and electricity infrastructure to
the park and has agreed to extend hours at the bridge between
the West Bank and nearby  Jordan  to ease the shipment of goods,
he said. While the Palestinians are responsible for
administering Jericho, Israel maintains security control over
all of the West Bank, which it captured in 1967.  The Japanese government, which is financing the project’s
construction, said in a statement that the park is expected to
create 7,000 jobs for Palestinians after it opens next spring.  “This project will have a high risk of failure if we fail
to reach a just and lasting solution to the conflict,” Abu
Ramadan said.  Twenty-four companies have agreed to be tenants in the
project, which is being built with Japanese grants to total
about $200 million, according to a statement handed out at
today’s ceremony. So far, all the businesses are Palestinian-owned, and efforts are being made to bring in foreign investors,
officials said.  Japan ’s foreign minister, Fumio Kishida,
attended the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  