-- ITC Quarterly Profit Rises 18%, Slowest Pace in Four Years
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-25T10:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/itc-quarterly-profit-rises-18-slowest-pace-in-four-years.html
ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
listed tobacco company, reported an 18 percent rise in first-quarter profit, the slowest pace in four years as   India ’s
economic growth slowed. The stock fell.  Net income rose to 18.9 billion rupees ($320 million) in
the three months ended June from 16 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Kolkata-based company said in a statement today.
This compared with the 19-billion rupee  median  of 30 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s economy  expanded at its slowest pace in a decade
last fiscal year damping demand for consumer products. Revenues
from cigarettes sales at ITC, which is partly owned by  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , will likely shrink in the short term
because of the company’s push into shorter, cheaper cigarettes,
 Standard Chartered  said in a July 12 report.  “It appears that the cigarette volume growth was lower
than expected,” Rohit Chordia, analyst at Kotak Institutional
Equities, said in an interview.  Cigarettes which are less than 65 millimeters in length are
charged lower excise duties in India, and profit margins on them
are also lower compared to the premium variants, according to
IIFL Institutional Equities. The company introduced three brands
of cigarettes during the quarter, according to the statement.  ITC shares dropped 4.5 percent to 358.9 rupees in Mumbai
trading today.  Sales at ITC, which has the biggest weighting in the
Sensex, rose 10 percent to 73.4 billion, also the  slowest  growth
in four years, according to Bloomberg data. That fell below the
78.5 billion rupee median of 29 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profits before tax at its hotels business fell 66 percent
to 89 million rupees, likely due to slowing economic growth and
a fall in luxury travel, the company said.  Profit before tax for the cigarettes segment rose 18
percent to 22.4 billion rupees, while net cigarettes sales
increased 7 percent to 35.4 billion rupees, the company said.  The consumer goods business, which includes Bingo packaged
snacks and Fiama di Wills shampoo, narrowed its loss to 189
million rupees, from 388 million rupees in the same period last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  