-- Japan Prices Rise Most Since ’08 in Boost for Abe
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-07-26T03:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/japan-s-consumer-prices-rise-most-since-late-2008-amid-recovery.html
Japan consumer prices rose the most
since 2008 in June, an early sign that the world’s third-biggest
economy may be starting to shake off 15 years of deflation.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food increased 0.4 percent
in June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in a
statement today. The median estimate of 29 economists was for a
0.3 percent gain, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Excluding
energy as well, prices dropped 0.2 percent, continuing more than
 four years  of declines.  As Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies weaken the yen and
energy costs rise, the increase in consumer prices could stoke
inflation expectations and encourage companies and consumers to
spend more, bolstering the economic recovery. After April’s
unprecedented monetary easing, the next challenge for Abe is to
loosen constraints on the labor market and companies to achieve
sustained growth and a goal of 2 percent inflation.  “ Japan ’s economy is on the right track to pull out of
deflation,” said Tomo Kinoshita, chief economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Tokyo . “The relatively large increase in
prices should have a knock-on effect of enhancing consumer and
business inflation expectations.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 2.1 percent in the
morning session in Tokyo after dropping the previous two days.
The yen rose 0.4 percent to 98.87 per dollar, the highest in 2
weeks.  Weak Yen  The large increase in the CPI was partly due to a
comparison with a low level in June last year that was depressed
by a decline in energy prices, said Kinoshita. The weak yen also
lifted the cost of goods, said  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at
BNP Paribas SA, before the data were released.  The yen lost almost 21 percent against the dollar in the
past year, pushed down by the government’s calls for unlimited
easing and the Bank of Japan’s April policy expansion. West
Texas Intermediate  oil prices  have risen almost 36 percent since
June 2012, when they fell to an almost two-year low.  “Oil prices are rising. There’s still a way to go, but I
get the feeling things are moving a little away from deflation
and toward inflation,” Finance Minister Taro Aso said today in
Tokyo.  While the rise in consumer prices eliminates the need for
further monetary easing for the time being, a planned increase
in the  consumption tax  in April may prompt the central bank to
take additional steps next year, said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official.  Milk, Mayonnaise  “The focus will be on what the BOJ will do to cope with a
slowdown next year after the sales-tax hike,” Kanno said. “The
BOJ may cooperate with the government by announcing additional
measures,” probably increasing purchases of exchange-traded
funds in January, he said.  Japanese companies have started to pass the increase in
costs on to consumers. Meiji Holdings Co.  announced  this week it
will raise milk prices by as much as 4 percent from October,
citing higher costs on rising commodity prices and the yen’s
fall. Other food companies such as mayonnaise maker  Kewpie Corp. 
and  Yamazaki Baking Co.  announced price increases earlier this
year.  Japan’s  corporate services price index  rose 0.4 percent in
June from a year earlier, the most since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, BOJ data showed
yesterday. Hotel accommodation and engineering services were
among the costs that increased.  Citigroup Inc. said it expects consumer prices to rise at a
faster pace of around 0.5 percent in July and August from a year
earlier, with the increases easing from September.  Inflation Expectations  A growing number of Japanese expect inflation to gain
traction, with a BOJ report on July 5 showing 80.2 percent of
people it surveyed expect prices to rise in the next 12 months,
the highest since September 2008.  Absent an increase in personal incomes, higher consumer
prices would reduce the spending power of households, weighing
on consumption. Wages haven’t risen in Japan on a sustained
basis since the bursting of the asset bubble in the early 1990s,
as companies focused on fixing balance sheets and consumers
reined in spending. Labor cash earnings fell 0.1 percent in May
from a year before.  Abe has launched monetary and fiscal stimulus and steps to
make it easier to do business -- a policy mix dubbed Abenomics -
- in a bid to boost the economy and end deflation that has been
driven by sluggish demand, excess capacity and a shrinking
population.  Wage Growth  After growing up amid deflation, Tetsuro Yoshida, 22, isn’t
sure if inflation is good for the economy yet, with his friends
having a hard time finding jobs and with a lack of prospects for
a pay increase at his part-time job.  “I’m cautious,” Yoshida said. “I hope Japan recovers in
a way that allows non-wealthy people to benefit.”  About 40 percent of Japanese said their life is tough
economically, according to a survey of 21,173 households by the
National Institute of Population and Social Security Research
released on July 24.  “We must have wage growth to make inflation sustainable
but it could be a slow process as business executives must have
forgotten how to increase pay after decades of deflation,” said
Akiyoshi Takumori, chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  Elsewhere in the world, a gauge of  consumer confidence  will
be released in the U.S. today after a similar measure in  South
Korea  stayed at a 13-month high. Data on  Mexico ’s trade balance
and lending in  Brazil  are due, while Mexico will also release
minutes from a monetary-policy meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  