-- Jeffrey Deitch Resigns as Los Angeles Museum Director
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-07-26T01:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/jeffrey-deitch-resigns-as-los-angeles-museum-director.html
Jeffrey Deitch, the director of the
Museum of Contemporary Art in  Los Angeles , will step down from
his job, the institution’s board of trustees said yesterday.  Deitch, a former gallery owner in New York, became MOCA
director in 2010, an unusual transition from the commercial to
the institutional side of the art world. He departs three years
into his five-year contract.  He informed the board during its meeting on July 24.  Deitch will stay on “to ensure a smooth transition and the
successful completion of MOCA’s $100 million endowment campaign,
expected to close this fall,” the museum said in a news
release.  An executive search committee to find Deitch’s replacement
will be led by the board’s co-chairs Maria Bell and  David
Johnson  as well as Joel Wachs, a former museum trustee and
president of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts.  During Deitch’s tenure, the museum was pummeled by
financial, curatorial and institutional woes. Last year, Paul Schimmel, MOCA’s longtime chief curator left the museum. In
protest of his departure, four prominent artists, including  John Baldessari  and  Ed Ruscha , quit the board of trustees.  Deitch’s first show at MOCA focused on the artistic career
of actor  Dennis Hopper ; another exhibition was curated by
Michael Diamond, a member of the rap group the Beastie Boys.  In 2011, a show of street art resulted in the highest
attendance in MOCA’s history, with 201,352 people, while total
visitors doubled to more than 400,000 for the year.  Trustee Cohen  During his tenure, 16 new trustees joined the board,
including hedge fund manager  Steven A. Cohen , jeweler Laurence Graff and Hollywood talent agent Ariel Emanuel.  Deitch earned $916,000 in pay and benefits in the fiscal
year that ended June 30, 2012, according to the museum’s most
recent  tax return .  Total revenue for that year, including contributions,
admissions and investment income, was $18.5 million, resulting
in a deficit of $18,822. Two years earlier, MOCA’s $21.3 million
in revenue exceeded expenses by $5.4 million. Deitch  assumed  his
position June 1, 2010.  The museum’s endowment stood at $19.9 million at June 30,
2012, up from $18.6 million two years earlier, according to its
tax returns.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  