-- Jewelry Exports From India to Jump on New Central Bank Rules
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-07-25T11:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/jewelry-exports-from-india-to-jump-on-new-central-bank-rules-2-.html
Gold jewelry exports from  India , the
world’s biggest consumer last year, are poised to surge as the
central bank seeks to curtail domestic bullion use and boost
shipments to defend a weakening currency, a trade group said.  Shipments may jump as much as 71 percent to 120 metric tons
in the year that began on April 1 from 70 tons a year earlier,
said Vipul Shah, chairman of the  Gem & Jewellery Export
Promotion Council . The  Reserve Bank of India ’s order this week
to set aside 20 percent of imported gold in any form for exports
will help reverse a drop in jewelry shipments, he said.  Exports slumped 59 percent to $1.66 billion in the April-June quarter from a year earlier after the government doubled a
tax on gold imports and curbed financing, fueling a shortage of
precious metal in the domestic market, Shah said. India is
seeking to tackle a record current-account deficit, which
weakened the rupee to an all-time low, by reducing bullion
imports. The deficit is the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion
economy, according to the central bank.  “With this new policy taking effect, we are now looking at
a positive growth,” Shah said. “The 20:80 ratio will curtail
imports for domestic use and at the same time exporters will
also get supply.”  Gold imports may tumble 63 percent to 175 tons in the six
months through December from a year earlier, according to
Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation. Assured supplies to exporters may help boost
sales of shippers including  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX) ,  Gitanjali Gems
Ltd. (GITG) , Shree Ganesh Jewellery House (I) Ltd. and  Tara Jewels Ltd. (TARAJ)   Import Curbs  The central bank said importers may supply gold only to the
jewelry business and dealers who sell to jewelers. Shippers have
to retain 20 percent of the gold in bonded warehouses and will
be allowed to make fresh purchases only after at least 75
percent of the quantity has been exported, the bank said. The
country exported gold jewelry, coins and medallions worth $18.3
billion in 2012-2013, according to data from the export
promotion council.  “The new measures would boost exports of jewelers, which
shall offset some of the import burden of gold,”  Kishore Narne ,
head of commodity and currency at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd.,
said in a report on July 23. “This is one more addition to the
plethora of measures announced recently on gold in order to
control the trade deficit numbers.”  Rupee Record  The  current-account deficit , the broadest measure of trade
tracking goods, services and investment income, widened to $87.8
billion in the year ended March 31 from $78.2 billion in
2011-2012, according to official data. The rupee touched a
record low of 61.2125 per dollar on July 8.  Gold consumption in India, which imports almost all the
bullion it uses, was 864.2 tons last year, according to data
from the World Gold Council. The country accounted for 20
percent of global demand in 2012, according to the council.
Imports in June shrank to about 38 tons from 162 tons in May,
according to the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation.  Gold is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value.
Prices rebounded 11 percent to $1,314.80 an ounce from an almost
three-year low last month as demand for jewelry and coins rose.  Exports of polished  diamonds, gold jewelry, coins and bars 
from India may climb 8 percent to 10 percent this year, export
council’s Shah said. Shipments fell 9 percent to $39 billion in
2012-2013, data from the council showed.  “Gradually, the U.S. market, which is our main export
destination, is picking up,” said Shah. “The Middle East and
the Far East markets are also looking up, while Europe remains
slow because of the recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  