-- Justice Department to Take Action on State Voting Laws
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-25T16:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/justice-department-to-seek-curbs-on-texas-voting-changes.html
The U.S. Justice Department,
deprived by the  Supreme Court  of the power to pre-emptively halt
state voting laws it finds discriminatory, will seek a federal
court ruling to force  Texas  to get approval before changing any
of its election laws.  “We believe the state of Texas should be required to go
through a preclearance process whenever it changes its voting
laws and practices,” Attorney General Eric Holder Holder said
in prepared remarks for the National Urban League Annual
Conference in Philadelphia.  The U.S. Supreme Court struck down a cornerstone of the
Voting Rights Act when it ruled invalid a rule that certain
states, including Texas, must get Justice Department approval
before changing their election rules.  In the wake of that decision, which came after the law was
challenged by Shelby County,  Alabama , Holder has pledged to
aggressively use the department’s other tools to block or halt
any new state laws it views as discriminatory.  “This is the department’s first action to protect  voting
rights  following the Shelby County decision, but it will not be
our last,” Holder said. The department plans to “fully utilize
the law’s remaining sections to subject states to preclearance
as necessary.”  New Front  The Justice Department’s action opens a new front on a
long-running Obama administration effort to block state voting
law changes and comes as states including  North Carolina  are
beginning to consider more restrictive election proposals for
the first time since the court’s June decision.  Holder’s announcement comes less than a month after long-running fight over Texas congressional maps came to an end.
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  signed into law the state’s interim
election maps used in the 2012 elections shortly after the
Supreme Court ruling.  Perry, in a statement today, said the move demonstrated
“utter contempt for our country’s checks and balances, not to
mention the U.S. Constitution.”  “This end-run around the Supreme Court undermines the will
of the people of Texas, and casts unfair aspersions on our
state’s common-sense efforts to preserve the integrity of our
elections process,” Perry said.  Texas Republican Senator  John Cornyn  said in a statement
that the decision “has nothing to do with protecting voting
rights and everything to do with advancing a partisan political
agenda.”  Texas Maps  Texas civil rights groups are seeking court intervention to
require changes in those election maps, which were revised after
the Justice Department successfully blocked the state’s 2011
redistricting effort. Federal judges struck down that plan,
finding that it intentionally discriminated against minorities.  Richard L. Hasen, a law and political science professor at
the University of California  Irvine , called Holder’s move
“something of a high stakes gamble” that might pay off.  “If it works, it will restore a piece, but not the
majority, of what Section 5 did before the Supreme Court gutted
it in its recent Shelby County case,” said Hasen, an election
law expert.  The Justice Department later today will file a statement of
support in support of the civil rights groups, putting the Obama
administration behind their effort to require a federal court in
Texas to subject the state to preclearance by a court or the
Justice Department.  Law Defended  Greg Abbott , Texas’s attorney general, defended the
election map signed into law by Perry last month in a filing in
the case against the state civil rights groups. He said that the
state made changes to the 2011 maps, making claims of
discrimination based on the original redistricting effort
invalid.  The Justice Department’s latest effort would allow courts
to add a state or local government to the preclearance
requirement if it is found to have enacted intentionally
discriminatory voting measures.  Holder said the state had “a history of pervasive voting-related discrimination against racial minorities,” giving the
Justice Department the option of requesting the state go through
a preclearance process before future changes to voting laws.  Federal Review  Under the Section 5 preclearance requirement, all or parts
of 15 states had to get federal approval before changing
election districts, amending voting rules or even moving a
polling place. The  Justice Department  used that provision, which
covered virtually the entire South, to object to more than 2,400
state and local voting changes from 1982 to 2006.  The Supreme Court majority faulted Congress for relying on
a decades-old formula for determining which states were covered
by the preclearance requirement, also known as Section 5. The
formula ties coverage to voter registration rates, turnout and
ballot-box rules in the 1960s and early 1970s.  House and Senate lawmakers have held hearings on potential
changes to the formula, with support coming from both sides of
the aisle. Holder has pushed lawmakers to introduce legislation
and move forward on changes as fast as possible.  “Let me be very clear: these tools are no substitute for
legislation that will fill the void left by the Supreme Court’s
decision,” Holder said in his remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  