-- Kao Drops on Consumer Complaints on Skin Products: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-07-25T06:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/kao-declines-on-skin-whitening-product-recall-tokyo-mover.html
Kao Corp. (4452) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker of
toiletries, had its biggest two-day drop in two years in Tokyo
trading after more than 2,000 consumers reported skin blotches
from using some of its whitening products.  Kao  fell  3.4 percent percent to 3,120 yen, extending
yesterday’s 6.2 percent decline for its biggest two-day loss
since March 2011.  Kao’s Kanebo Cosmetics unit began recalling products
containing a skin-whitening ingredient called “Rhododenol”
earlier this month after customers complained about a loss of
pigmentation. The stock has fallen for the past two days after
Kaneobo said that 2,250 people reported the “depigmentation”
and its consumer center had received more than 100,000 inquiries
about the recall.  “Their brand image was hurt, and that’s the biggest thing;
it’s not clear how big the damage will be,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,  executive director  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “The company is trying to expand overseas, but it would
turn off consumers where they really wanted to grow bigger.”  Employees have started to pay visits to every customer who
has either experienced symptoms or has expressed worries about
them, the company said in a July 23 statement, when it provided
an update on the recall.  Rhododenol in the products may have caused the symptoms,
while the company hasn’t identified what exactly caused the
damage, Shinji Yamada, a spokesman, said by phone today. The
company is paying cost of care to the people who have symptoms
and will set up standards for compensation, he said. The company
is still calculating the cost for the damage, he said.  The recall involves 54 types of products including face
lotions and creams, the spokesman said. They all have
Rhododenol, a component that was approved by the health ministry
in 2008, he said. Most of the goods were introduced in the last
two years, Yamada said.  Rhododenol is derived from a substance Kanebo found in
abundance in a search for natural chemical compounds in the bark
of the white birch tree, the company said on its website. It
 discovered  that one of these compounds confers strong
brightening effects by suppressing the production of melanin in
several stages, according to the website.  The visiting employees apologized and gave advice on
treatment, according to its statement.  Kao bought Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. for 279 billion yen, or
$2.4 billion at that time, from a government bailout agency in
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  