-- Kazakhstan’s Central Bank Sees No Grounds for Tenge Devaluation
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-07-25T13:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/kazakhstan-s-central-bank-sees-no-grounds-for-tenge-devaluation.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank said it
sees no grounds for a devaluation of the national currency, the
tenge, which has depreciated against the dollar for 21
consecutive trading sessions.  The National Bank of Kazakhstan will continue to “soften
sharp fluctuations of the tenge without influencing the general
trend” of the exchange rate as determined by market forces, the
regulator said in a statement distributed today in Almaty, the
nation’s commercial capital, where the bank is based.  The tenge’s 1 percent drop in July amounts to a “technical
correction,” central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko told
reporters today. The regulator’s net interventions on the
domestic  currency market  in the past three years and the first
half of 2013 were “practically equal to zero,” he said.  Kazakhstan, the biggest energy producer in central  Asia ,
devalued the tenge by 21 percent in February 2009, with the
global financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. forcing the government to seize control
of BTA Bank, its biggest lender at the time, and spend billions
of dollars to prop up the economy.  The central bank in December 2009 widened the trading band
used to control the  exchange rate  of the tenge against the
dollar and scrapped the corridor in March 2011. The tenge has
appreciated more than 5 percent since then to 153.32 per U.S.
currency today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Without a sharp devaluation of the ruble in neighboring
 Russia , Kazakhstan faces no risk of its currency collapsing,
according to Marchenko. The tenge will face little pressure
until the ruble depreciates to 36 against the dollar, he said.  The Russian currency retreated 0.4 percent to 32.5760 per
dollar at 5 p.m. in Moscow. It last traded weaker than 36 per
dollar in March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  