-- Kenya Debt Costs Soar as Shilling Drop Stokes Inflation
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-07-25T07:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/kenya-debt-costs-soar-as-shilling-drop-stokes-inflation.html
Kenya’s borrowing costs are set to
rise as the government of East  Africa ’s biggest economy boosts
spending to a record and the nation’s currency sinks to a five-month low against the dollar, threatening to spur inflation.  Yields on three-month Treasury bills climbed for the fourth
time at an auction last week, increasing 53 basis points to 6.29
percent, a seven-week high. The Nairobi-based central bank will
offer 3 billion shillings ($34 million) of the securities today
after accepting bids for 1.31 billion shillings at the previous
sale. The rate compares with 5.19 percent for South Africa,
Africa’s largest economy, and 12.6 percent for Kenya’s neighbor
Tanzania.  Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich plans to spend 1.6 trillion
shillings in the fiscal year through June 2014, pushing the
budget deficit to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product from 6.5
percent.  Kenya ’s economy is forecast to expand 6 percent this
year, the fastest pace in six years, compared with 4.6 percent
in 2012. Kenya created a new tier of government after March
elections that formed 47 county governments, while boosting
minimum wages by 14 percent from May. The shilling has weakened
1.8 percent this month against the dollar, Africa’s worst
performer after Malawi’s kwacha.  “Rising public wages, the expanded budget due to new
governance structures and a weakening shilling will create
inflationary pressures,” Angus Downie, the London-based head of
Ecobank Plc’s economic desk, said by phone July 19. Inflation
may reach 8.5 percent by year-end, he said, breaching the upper
end of government’s target range.  Rates Hold  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, retained the  benchmark  interest rate
at 8.5 percent at a meeting on July 9. The central bank has cut
the rate from 11 percent since the beginning of the year.
Inflation  accelerated  to 4.9 percent in June from 4.1 percent in
the previous month, staying below the government’s objective of
5 percent, plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.  Kenya’s shilling weakened 0.2 percent to 87.49 per dollar
as of 10:04 a.m. in Nairobi, for a decline of 1.6 percent this
year. The central bank has been selling repurchase agreements
and term auction deposits almost daily to drain liquidity from
the market and support the currency. Rates on 182-day securities
rose for a fourth auction yesterday, increasing 31 basis points
to 6.79 percent, the highest since June 5.  Yields on the sixth-month bills may increase to 7.5 percent
by the end of the year, John Kamunya, head of research at
StratLink Africa Ltd., a risk consultancy based in Nairobi, said
by phone on July 17. The shilling will end the year at 88
shillings per dollar, he said.  Upward Trajectory  “The yields will maintain an upward trajectory as the
government borrows to meet the large budget deficit,” Kamunya
said. Domestic borrowing will decline to 106.7 billion shillings
in fiscal 2014 from 165 billion shillings this year, which rose
from a target 96 billion shillings because of increased wages
for state workers and election spending, the government said.  The world’s largest exporter of black tea may delay the
sale of $1 billion of Eurobonds by more than a month to the
final quarter to appoint advisers, the National Treasury said
July 19. The issuance, which follows similar plans by other
African nations including Senegal and  Ghana , will be used to
fund the deficit and finance the construction of railway and
power-generation projects. Rwanda in April became the first East
African country to sell a Eurobond, raising $400 million.  The international bond will help ease some of the burden
off Treasury bill yields, allowing the government to spread its
local borrowing through the fiscal year, Irungu Nyakera, the
regional head of East & Southern Africa at London-based Frontier
Markets Fund Managers, a unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd., said
by phone on July 17. Still, rates on three-month bills will
increase to around 7 percent by year-end, he said.  Higher Compensation  Yields on dollar-denominated African  debt  have jumped 120
basis points to 5.46 percent yesterday, compared with a 107
basis-point increase in  emerging-market  bonds, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. data show. Kenya is rated B1 at Moody’s Investors Services,
four levels below investment grade, while South Africa has the
third-lowest investment grade.  Kenya’s central bank took all 1.9 billion shillings of bids
at sales of 91-, 182-, 364-day securities last week, having
offered 9 billion shillings for sale. Yields on 364-day bills
jumped 89 basis points at an auction yesterday to 9.95 percent,
the highest since May 22.  “Investors seeking higher compensation for their funds
will put pressure on the yields, which are likely to rise by up
to 200 basis points,” Duncan Kinuthia, the head of trading at
Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone on
July 17, referring to six-month bills. “The central bank will
have to offer higher yields to attract higher bids,” Kamunya
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  