-- Kering First-Half Profit Exceeds Estimates on Luxury Sales Surge
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-25T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/kering-first-half-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-luxury-sales-surge.html
Kering SA (KER) , owner of the Gucci brand,
reported first-half profit that beat estimates as accelerating
luxury-goods revenue compensated for lower sporting-goods sales.  So-called recurring operating income advanced 2.3 percent
to 843 million euros ($1.1 billion) in the six months ended June
30, the Paris-based company, formerly known as PPR, said today
in a statement. Analysts predicted 824 million euros, the median
of 16  estimates  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter luxury sales rose 9.4 percent on a
comparable basis, accelerating from the previous quarter’s 6.4
percent gain and beating the 7.5 percent median analyst
estimate.  Puma SE (PUM) , the sporting-goods maker owned by Kering,
yesterday reported reduced sales and profit and said it expects
a challenging second half.  “Trends recorded in the first six months of 2013 should
continue in the second half,” Kering said in the statement.
“In this context, the group maintains its goal of improving its
operating and financial performances in the full year.”  Comparable sales at Gucci gained 4.1 percent, accelerating
slightly from the first-quarter’s 4 percent increase.  Total quarterly sales rose 1.6 percent to 2.31 billion
euros, or 5.2 percent excluding currencies and acquisitions.  The restated figures exclude media and electronics retailer
 Groupe Fnac, (FNAC)  which the company spun off in June as part of a
plan to focus on luxury and sporting goods. Kering has started
talks with industrial buyers and private-equity funds over the
sale of online and mail-order fashion retailer La Redoute, which
it expects to finalize this year.  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  said last week that sales growth
may exceed 10 percent this year after selling more Kelly
handbags and other products in Asia and the Americas. Global
luxury sales will rise as much as 5 percent this year, Bain &
Co. estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  