-- KKR Group’s TXU Stake Hanging on $1.48 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2013-07-25T15:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/kkr-group-s-txu-stake-hangs-on-junior-bonds-corporate-finance.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital’s best
chance for salvaging their failing $48 billion purchase of
Energy Future Holdings Corp. in the biggest leveraged buyout
ever may hinge on $1.48 billion of junior bonds.  The odds are rising that the group of private-equity firms
will try to buy the 11.25 percent debt due December 2018 and
linked to the company’s regulated business, according to debt
research firm CreditSights Inc. That would give them increased
bargaining power to push secured lenders of the company’s
unregulated unit into a reorganization that leaves a portion of
the Dallas-based company in the hands of the buyout firms.  “They’re going to have to pony up cash -- there’s no ifs,
ands or buts about it,”  Andy DeVries , an analyst at
CreditSights, said in a telephone interview. Creditors of the
competitive business “would like to be a part” of the
regulated side, “and that’s why the sponsors can sort of wiggle
in here and make some moves,” he said.  The former TXU Corp. had proposed a pre-packaged bankruptcy
plan earlier this year amid nine straight quarters of losses
that made servicing its $40 billion of debt unsustainable.
Creditors including Apollo Global Management LLC rejected the
proposal, which would have kept the two businesses together, in
part because the holding company that controls the regulated
unit burns through cash.  $1.3 Billion  Purchasing the securities, whose interest can also be paid
with extra debt, may cost at least $1.3 billion, based on its
last trading price on June 6 of 88.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes yielded 14.6
percent last month.  Buying the bonds and converting them into equity would
“kill two birds with one stone” by putting owners of the
technically insolvent electricity provider in a position to
capture equity in a restructured company and “at least
partially resolve” projected  cash deficits  at the Energy Future
Intermediate Holding Co. unit that controls the regulated
business, DeVries wrote in a July 23 report.  Extinguishing the 2018 notes would save at least $166
million of interest a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Companywide Agreement  Allan Koenig , a spokesman at Energy Future, declined to
comment on the company’s finances. A message left for Kristi Huller at KKR wasn’t immediately returned.  Owen Blicksilver , a
spokesman for TPG at Owen Blicksilver Public Relations Inc., and
Andrea Raphael of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., whose Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners also owns an Energy Future stake, declined to
comment.  Junior bondholders at Energy Future Intermediate hired
Centerview Partners LLC and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
to advise on reducing the subsidiary’s obligations,  Bloomberg
News  reported on July 23, citing people with knowledge of the
matter. A resolution of the unit’s cash-flow deficit may help
smooth the way for a companywide bankruptcy agreement, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  The 11.25 percent unsecured notes account for about 19
percent of the unit’s $7.62 billion of debt, the rest of which
comprise first- and second-lien bonds, Bloomberg data show.  ‘New Equity’  Those obligations have helped worsen Energy Future
Intermediate’s financial position, with a combined  cash flow 
deficit of $1.4 billion forecast between 2013 and 2017 for both
the unit and parent Energy Future, according to an April 15
regulatory filing. That adds risk for unsecured bondholders, and
may make them more amenable to an equity swap than secured
lenders, according to Marc Gross of RS Investments in New York.  “They’re not covered because they’re free cash flow
negative,” said Gross, who oversees about $3.5 billion in
fixed-income funds and doesn’t own Energy Future debt. While
it’s unlikely the private-equity firms will put up additional
cash, “I suspect in the end you’ll probably have some new
equity coming in,” he said.  Injecting equity into the regulated side of Energy Future’s
business, which controls the profitable Oncor Electric Delivery
Co. utility, would help address one objection by lenders of the
competitive side, which include Apollo and Oaktree Capital Group
LLC. They don’t want cash flows from a restructured Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings Co. unit plugging deficits in
Energy Future Intermediate, according to the April 15 filing.  Gas Plunge  The lenders also demanded a greater ownership portion of
both debt and equity in exchange for restructuring $32 billion
of obligations. Energy Future owners had proposed retaining a 15
percent equity interest in the new company, an amount that
creditors rejected.  A transaction involving the 11.25 percent bonds would mark
the latest attempt by Energy Future’s owners to manage a balance
sheet that’s imperiled the company since a 2008 plunge in
natural gas pulled electricity prices lower, hampering
profitability and depleting the private-equity firms’ initial
$8.3 billion investment.  The leveraged buyout was a gamble that natural gas prices
would rise and give its coal-fired plants a competitive
advantage. Instead, U.S. prices fell to a 10-year low last year.  Since 2009, the company has captured at least $2.5 billion
of debt discount and extended the maturities of about $25.7
billion of obligations to between 2017 and 2021.  “They’re so far out of the money,” DeVries said. “It’s
just a matter of at what level of valuation they put that cash
in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  