-- New Zealand’s Z Energy to Seek as Much as NZ$900 Million in IPO
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-25T02:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/new-zealand-s-z-energy-to-seek-as-much-as-nz-900-million-in-ipo.html
Z Energy Ltd., a gas station owner
that supplies a third of  New Zealand ’s fuel., is seeking to
raise as much as NZ$900 million ($717 million) from an initial
public offering next month.  The IPO will reduce Infratil Ltd. and the New Zealand
Superannuation Fund’s combined stake to between 40 percent and
50 percent of the company, Wellington-based Z Energy said in an
e-mailed statement today. The IPO could raise as little as
NZ$650 million depending on how much the owners retain and the
price set at a bookbuild in mid August, the company said.  Z Energy has been briefing investors on its financial
performance after its owners in May appointed advisers on a
possible share sale. By seeking a stock exchange listing next
month, the company will tap demand ahead of the government’s
planned IPO of Meridian Energy Ltd. in the fourth quarter, which
may seek as much as NZ$3 billion.  “This listing is an opportunity for investors to take a
stake in a major infrastructure and retailing company,”
Infratil Chief Executive Officer Marko Bogoievski said in a
separate statement. He is standing down as Z Energy chairman and
will remain on the board.  Infratil and New Zealand Superannuation have agreed not to
reduce their stakes further until after Z Energy reports
earnings for the six months ending September 2014.  The bookbuild on Aug. 15-16 will set a price for Z Energy
shares within a range of NZ$3.25 to NZ$3.75, the company said.
The stock will be listed in New Zealand and  Australia .  First NZ Capital Group Ltd. and Goldman Sachs New Zealand
Ltd. were named in May as arrangers and joint lead managers of
the sale. Craigs Investment Partners Ltd./Deutsche Bank AG and
Forsyth Barr Ltd. are joint lead managers.  Infratil, which invests in power companies, airports and
energy businesses, joined with New Zealand Superannuation in
2010 to buy  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s local fuel retailing assets
for NZ$696.5 million. The assets included a 17 percent stake in
New Zealand’s only oil refinery, 220 gas stations and a
distribution network involving port infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  