-- NFL Giants Reach Practice Center Sponsorship Deal With Quest
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-25T13:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/nfl-giants-reach-practice-center-sponsorship-deal-with-quest.html
The  New York Giants  reached a
sponsorship agreement with  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  for their
practice center near MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,  New
Jersey .  Quest, the biggest provider of diagnostic information
services in the world with $7.4 billion in revenue last year, is
replacing Timex Group USA Inc. as the sponsor. The  National
Football League ’s Giants announced yesterday that the previous
deal had been mutually terminated.  The 20-acre facility, which sits along a major commuter
highway in the New Jersey suburbs, will become the Quest
Diagnostics Training Center under the agreement, Giants Chief
Marketing Officer  Mike Stevens  said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The company also will work with the team in an effort
to expand its new sports diagnostic business.  “We can develop new diagnostic capabilities that would be
helpful to the most advanced athletes like the New York Giants,
and also people who are mere mortals,” Quest Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Rusckowski  said in a telephone interview.  Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed. Stevens said
annual revenue from the contract was “in the realm” of the
team’s naming-rights agreement with Timex. Team President  John Mara  has said that 15-year deal, reached in 2009, was worth more
than $35 million. That works out to $2.33 million a year.  Five Fields  Opened in May 2009, the facility holds the team’s
headquarters, three full-length grass football fields and a pair
of 80-yard turf fields -- one indoors and one outdoors. Signs on
the center, which is about 800 yards from MetLife Stadium, are
visible from New Jersey Route 3.  The agreement also will give Quest the opportunity for
brand exposure within the 82,500-seat stadium and on the team’s
website.  In addition to the revenue from the deal, the Giants also
will work with Quest in developing tests related to sports. This
could lead to new information on how performance is affected by
variables such as diet and hydration, Ronnie Barnes, the team’s
senior vice president of medical services, said in a telephone
interview. The team already uses global positioning systems to
measure how far players run during games.  “Quest Diagnostics is a company with enormous resources
and capabilities,” Barnes said. “The partnership provides a
wonderful laboratory for them for ideas and applications.”  Stevens said terms of the agreement allow the team will
allow Quest to share its findings with the public.  Quest employs 42,000 people worldwide, Rusckowski said. It
is based in Madison, New Jersey, about 25 miles from MetLife
Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  