-- Nissan Gains on Weak Yen as Strong Won Drags Down Hyundai
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p ,   M a   J i e   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-07-26T03:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/nissan-gains-on-weak-yen-as-strong-won-drags-down-hyundai.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  led Japanese
automakers in reporting higher earnings as the weaker yen gave
them an edge over  South Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which posted
a drop in profit for a third straight quarter.  Net income at Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan climbed 14
percent last quarter, increased 13 percent at Daihatsu Motor Co.
and rose 49 percent at  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian unit, the
companies reported yesterday. In Seoul,  Kia Motor Corp. (000270)  reported
a 7.7 percent gain in quarterly profit. Hyundai Motor cut its
full-year forecast for global industry vehicle sales after
reporting a 1.9 percent profit decline.  The diverging fortunes illustrate how Japanese exporters
are benefiting from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic
policies, which have helped drive down the yen since late last
year, and assisted automakers in absorbing slowing sales in
 China . Analysts estimate the Japanese currency, which gave
Nissan room to cut car prices in the U.S., will probably weaken
further this year.  “Hyundai is struggling in the global market due to the
recent depreciation in the Japanese yen,” Masatoshi Nishimoto,
a Tokyo-based analyst with IHS, said by phone today. The benefit
of the cheaper yen may yet be curbed by lackluster sales in
China and other key markets, he said.  The yen has weakened 13 percent against the dollar this
year and recently traded at 100 versus the greenback. The
Japanese currency may weaken to 105 in the fourth quarter,
according to the median of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Korean won has gained more than 9 percent against the
yen this year.  U.S. Deliveries  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker, saw deliveries in
the U.S. climb 20 percent last quarter after cutting prices on
seven models, including its top-selling Altima sedan.  The automaker has projected that a weaker yen will add 225
billion yen ($2.28 billion) to its operating income. Nissan
based its forecasts for the current fiscal year on 95 yen to the
dollar, while the yen traded at an average of 99 in the April-to-June quarter. Every one-yen decline boosts operating income
by about 15 billion yen ($152 million), the company said in May.  The price cuts from Nissan were the first signs that a
Japanese automaker was taking advantage of the weakening yen.  The discounting has put the rest of the industry on watch
as a test for pricing discipline,  John Krafcik , chief executive
officer of Hyundai Motor’s U.S. unit, told reporters last month
at an awards ceremony in  Detroit .  Hyundai Motor yesterday said it expects competition with
Japanese automakers to intensify as they step up incentives and
discounts given the weaker yen. Its deliveries in the U.S. rose
1.9 percent, trailing the industry average of 8.5 percent, and
sales slumped 7.2 percent in  Europe .  Detroit Renaissance  Competition isn’t just coming from Japan.  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
this week raised its full-year profit forecast as the Focus
compact and Fusion sedan led a stable of more competitive
products from resurgent U.S. automakers.  Hyundai cut its forecast for global industry vehicle sales
this year by about 450,000 units to 79.4 million, led by
shrinking demand in Europe amid the regional recession, Chief
Financial Officer Lee Won Hee said yesterday.  The Korean automaker and Kia’s incentives surged 42 percent
and 19 percent, respectively, in the U.S. last quarter on the
weaker yen and lack of new models. This compares with a 5
percent decline in  Toyota (7203) ’s incentives and the market average of
a 5 percent increase, according to Autodata.  Maruti Suzuki  At New Delhi-based  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which is
majority owned by Suzuki, profit rose to 6.32 billion rupees
($107 million) last quarter, exceeding analysts’ estimates.
Maruti Suzuki, which sells the most number of cars in  India ,
benefits from a weaker yen because it cheapens component
purchases and royalty payments to its parent.  Japan’s three biggest automakers, Toyota Motor Corp.,
Nissan and Honda Motor Co., saw their combined sales in China
fall for fourth consecutive quarter, as sales declined 4.9
percent from a year earlier last quarter, according to monthly
figures released July 2. Individually, Nissan and Honda saw
lower deliveries, although their drops narrowed, while Toyota
posted a 0.6 percent gain.  The results illustrate how Japanese automakers continue to
struggle to win back customers after a territorial dispute last
year between China and Japan led to demonstrations at major
cities across China. Toyota last year reported its first sales
decline since at least 2002 and pushed back a plan to make the
country its third million-unit market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  