-- Nissan Net Income Advances 14% as Forecast Is Maintained
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-07-25T08:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/nissan-net-income-advances-14-as-forecast-is-maintained.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-biggest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as a weaker yen boosted earnings in the U.S.
and its home country.  Net income rose 14 percent to 82 billion yen ($820 million)
in the three months ended June 30, from a revised 72 billion yen
a year earlier, the Yokohama, Japan-based company said in a
statement today. That beat the 74.9 billion yen average of six
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Nissan’s deliveries in the U.S. surged 25 percent in May,
triple the industrywide increase, after the company cut prices
on seven models, including its top-selling Altima sedan. The
Japanese automaker has fixed a shortage of supply that hampered
sales of five new models in the U.S. last year, the company said
last month.  “Nissan’s sales performance in the U.S. has been robust,”
said Issei Takahashi, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “They have cut the retail price of models and
the production problem has been solved. These should be the two
reasons for the increase in volume.”  Nissan shares fell 0.5 percent to close at 1,112 yen in
 Tokyo  before the earnings announcement. The stock has risen 37
percent this year, compared with the 40 percent gain in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The price cuts and pent-up demand pushed up sales of the
new Pathfinder SUV and Altima sedan, the two models Nissan
revamped in the U.S. last year. Deliveries of the Pathfinder
more than tripled from a year earlier and Altima sales rose 23
percent in June.  Nissan Leaf  Nissan’s operating income in  North America  rose 34 percent
to 41.8 billion yen last quarter, helped by a 20 percent gain in
deliveries in the U.S.  The price cuts from Nissan were among the first signs that
a Japanese automaker was taking advantage of the weakening yen.
The discounting has put the rest of the industry on watch as a
test for pricing discipline,  John Krafcik , chief executive
officer of Hyundai Motor Co.’s U.S. unit, told reporters last
month at an awards ceremony in  Detroit .  “Nissan has boosted sales through very aggressive price
cuts and incentives,” said  Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing
director of Intelligence Automotive  Asia . “The weak yen plays a
big role in enabling more competitive pricing, especially on
models imported from Japan such as the Rogue. Even models built
in the U.S. benefit as they have some import content.”  Weaker Yen  The automaker has projected that a weaker yen will add 225
billion yen to its operating income. Nissan based its forecasts
for the current fiscal year on 95 yen to the dollar, while the
yen traded at an average of 99 in the April-to-June quarter.
Every one-yen decline will boost operating income by about 15
billion yen, the company said in May.  The yen remains “somewhat overvalued,” Joji Tagawa,
Nissan corporate vice president, said in a briefing today.  In Japan, operating income more than doubled to 74.8
billion yen in the quarter. Domestic deliveries fell 4.4 percent
as Nissan lacked minicar offerings with its own design to
compete in Japan, where such sales account for about 40 percent
of the new car sales.  To address the gap, Nissan introduced on June 6 its first
minicar jointly developed with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  Nissan
sold 12,231 units of the car -- called DAYZ -- last month,
making it the fourth bestselling minicar in the month, according
to Japan Mini Vehicles Association.  China Slump  Operating income for Asia excluding Japan slumped 52
percent to 7.1 billion yen in the last quarter.  Nissan sales in  China  fell 15 percent in the January-to-March quarter -- which count toward the fiscal first-quarter
tally -- underscoring the lingering consumer backlash toward
Japanese products over the disputed islets known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  Nissan, which trails only  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  in sales among global automakers in China, is counting on the
revamped Teana sedan -- introduced in late February -- to revive
sales in the country. It’s the most profitable of the dozen-plus
models the automaker sells in the country, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has said that the
automaker won’t recoup its market share in China before the last
quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  