-- North Las Vegas Yields Surge on Budget Utility Grab
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/north-las-vegas-yields-surge-on-budget-utility-grab.html
North  Las Vegas , once among the
nation’s fastest-growing cities, papered over collapsing
property taxes by subsidizing its general fund with revenue from
higher utility rates -- a practice Nevada is working to stop.  The city council of Nevada’s fourth-most populous city
declared a fiscal emergency in June for the second straight year
as it adopted a $121 million  budget  that counts on $32 million
from municipal water and wastewater funds.  The fiscal strains cost North Las Vegas, situated about 8
miles (13 kilometers) from the casinos of the  Las Vegas Strip ,
its investment-grade rating from Moody’s Investors Service. The
company cut the city to junk this month, citing the emergency
status and reliance on utility money. Investors drove  interest
rates  on some city bonds to record highs, as the extra yield
buyers demand swelled by 20 percent in the past month.  “It certainly would affect municipal G.O.’s if they lose a
key pledged revenue source such as water and wastewater funds,”
said Josh Gonze, portfolio manager in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , at
Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees $9 billion in
municipal bonds. “It’s not normal to see utility revenues
pledged to G.O.’s.”  Most Growth  The city’s economic path has tracked the nation’s housing
boom and bust. North Las Vegas, incorporated almost seven
decades ago, has seen its population more than double since
1999, to about 223,000. From 2000 to 2008, it was the nation’s
third-fastest growing city, Census Bureau data show.  Revenue was then hard-hit by the national foreclosure
crisis and decline in real-estate prices. Total assessed
property value this year was $4 billion, down 56 percent from a
peak in 2009, according to a 2013 Community  Report . The city
borders Las Vegas, home to about 596,000 people.  The budget for the current fiscal year assumes $88.6
million in tax and fee revenue minus the utility transfers,
barely more than half of the  $167 million  the city took in five
years earlier.  Nevada  lawmakers in 2011 approved a  measure  to
wean municipalities from such funds.  Other cities across Nevada and the Sunbelt experienced
similar, if less severe, fiscal crises, said Marilyn Kirkpatrick
of North Las Vegas, the Democratic speaker of the state
assembly.  Boom Years  During the boom period, North Las Vegas expanded its
workforce by 453 employees, or 27 percent, in two years. It
built a $320 million water reclamation facility and a $127
million city hall. When property taxes contracted, the city
boosted utility rates 22 percent in four years, Kirkpatrick said
by telephone, using the money to patch day-to-day operating
deficits.  The practice was legal, said Kirkpatrick, whose 2011 bill
was intended to wean cities off utility funds in five years.
Municipalities across Nevada, including Reno and Ely, also were
increasing utility rates to augment general funds, though none
did so to the degree of North Las Vegas, Kirkpatrick said.
Nevada has no provisions for the city to declare bankruptcy or
disincorporate, she said.  In 2012 and again this year, the city council declared a
fiscal emergency, giving the city manager authority to suspend
provisions of union contracts, including pay raises.  Emergency Savings  This year’s decision is expected to save $11.7 million
toward closing an $18.8 million budget gap. The declaration
notes that because of the city’s precarious finances, banks
declined to refinance $7.25 million in bonds used to build a
public safety and judicial complex.  Utility collections “were becoming a consistent source of
revenues for them, at the consumers’ expense,” Kirkpatrick
said. “North Las Vegas residents already pay the highest
property taxes and the highest utility fees in the state. This
was never meant to be a revenue source.”  With revenue from property taxes and other sources
stagnating, Kirkpatrick this year introduced a  bill  to allow
cities such as North Las Vegas whose fund balances dip below 9
percent of expenditures to continue using water and sewer funds
with permission from a state Taxation Department committee.  The bill, which Republican Governor Brian Sandoval signed
into law, affects only North Las Vegas, Kirkpatrick said. North
Las Vegas bond covenants require the city to have a 25 percent
fund balance, said Gerald Zochowski, city finance director.  Moody’s Move  In downgrading $439 million in city debt, Moody’s said that
more of North Las Vegas’s water and sewer revenue would have to
support utility operations and capital needs.  On July 11, when Moody’s cut North Las Vegas’s rating two
levels, some of its tax-exempt obligations traded the most in 21
months. That day, investors demanded an average yield of 5.45
percent on general obligations maturing in June 2036, then a
record high since the bonds were issued in October 2011. It kept
climbing, reaching 5.9 percent this week, as the yield spread
rose by 22 percent from a month ago to as wide as 1.82
percentage points.  “This is fairly unique to North Las Vegas,” said Matthew Jones, a senior vice president at New York-based Moody’s.
“There are a number of cities in Nevada that have experienced a
drop in property-tax revenues. It’s been much more dramatic in
North Las Vegas than other cities we track. They were at the top
end of the housing boom.”  Funds Needed  North Las Vegas leaders agree that down the road, water and
sewer money should go back into those utilities rather than
subsidizing police and other city functions, said Tim Bedwell,
the city’s chief lobbyist. For now, they don’t have a choice.  “The legislature this year acknowledged that this is
something that should still be allowed to address a crisis that
is still very much with us in this city,” Bedwell said in an
interview.  “At this time, we’re still in a position where we need to
make these transfers to support our budget goals and have ending
fund balances,” he said.  Meanwhile in the municipal market, borrowers are planning
to offer $5.4 billion in debt next week, compared with $6.6
billion this week, as the pace of sales slows following
 Detroit ’s bankruptcy filing.  Munis are trailing federal debt this month, losing about
1.2 percent in July, compared with a gain of less than 0.1
percent for Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  At  2.85 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest since June, and compare with  2.59 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the interest rates, a measure of relative
value, is about 110 percent. The figure has averaged about 93
percent since 2001. The higher it is, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  