-- North Carolina Lawmakers Pass Abortion Clinic Legislation
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-07-25T23:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/north-carolina-lawmakers-pass-abortion-clinic-legislation-1-.html
North Carolina  lawmakers joined
other states in passing new restrictions on abortion providers,
over the objection of reproductive-rights groups, and sent the
measure to Republican Governor Pat McCrory, who supports it.  The Republican-led Senate passed the bill 32-13 today in
Raleigh, the capital, after the  House of Representatives 
approved it July 11. The measure lets the state make abortion
clinics meet structural requirements similar to those for
outpatient surgical centers -- a step opponents say may lead
most to close.  With McCrory’s signature, North Carolina would follow a
similar path as  Texas , which this month mandated surgical-center
standards that may be too costly or logistically difficult for
most providers to meet. In recent years, similar rules have been
blamed for clinic closings in  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania .  “The only thing this bill does is to try in every legal
way that’s conceivably possible to deny a woman the right to
choose,” said Senator Floyd McKissick, a Democrat from Durham.
“We’re trouncing upon the rights and the options on women in
this state and in my mind, it’s unconstitutional.”  Backers said the measure is needed to protect women’s
health by updating clinic standards that haven’t changed since
1995. Opponents said backers of the bill want to shut down
abortion providers by imposing rules that aren’t medically
justified.  The North Carolina bill also mandates the physical presence
of a doctor during abortions, including those induced by drugs,
bans the procedure based on gender and bars coverage by
insurance plans provided by local governments and under
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Improper Interference  The North Carolina Section of the American Congress of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the North Carolina
Obstetrical and Gynecological Society urged lawmakers to reject
the bill, saying in a joint  statement  that it would interfere
with the practice of medicine.  During a campaign debate, McCrory, 56, said he wouldn’t
support new restrictions on abortion.  McCrory said July 10 he would veto a bill passed by the
Senate July 3 unless “significant changes” were made. That
measure, which included the abortion limits, blocked judges from
applying foreign laws such as Islam’s Sharia code in ways that
would be unconstitutional.  Modified abortion provisions were then added to a bill
dealing with motorcycle safety. The Republican-led House passed
it 74-41, and McCrory said July 12 he would sign that measure,
if it reached his desk.  Shutting Clinics  “The recent House version allows the medical professionals
at the  Department of Health  and Human Services to write the
rules which will ensure women’s safety,” the governor, first
elected last year, said in a statement on his website.  The bill that McCrory threatened to veto said new rules for
abortion clinics “shall ensure” that the standards are similar
to those for surgical centers. The measure passed today gives
the state more discretion, saying it “is authorized to apply
any requirement” for surgical centers to the clinics.  The goal of the legislation is to shut down clinics and
make the procedure harder to obtain, said Suzanne Buckley,
executive director of NARAL Pro Choice North Carolina, which
supports reproductive rights.  Only one of North Carolina’s abortion providers meets the
outpatient surgical-center standards in the bill, putting all
the others at risk of closing, said Representative Rick Glazier,
a Fayetteville Democrat. Glazier, a lawyer, said he expects a
quick legal challenge.  “There’s a pretty strong fear that it’s going to shut down
most access to abortion services in the state,” Glazier said in
an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  