-- North Carolina First to Tighten Voting Laws After Ruling
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-26T02:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/north-carolina-first-to-weight-voting-laws-after-ruling.html
North Carolina  became the first
state to pass a more restrictive voting law following the U.S.
Supreme Court decision that struck down a core provision of the
1965 Voting Rights Act.  The state Senate voted 33-14 today to require photo
identification for voters and to limit the time-frame for early
voting. The state House then approved the measure 73-41, marking
the first of several state actions on voting laws predicted in
the aftermath of the court’s June ruling.  Myrna Perez, deputy director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York  University School of Law, has been among
those anticipating states to respond to the court action.  The ruling “was an enormous decision with very serious
consequences,” she said.  North Carolina -- because of past evidence of
discrimination against African Americans -- was among the states
previously required by Section 5 of the federal law to get U.S.
approval before voting changes took effect statewide.  “I don’t know what’s in hearts and minds, but one of the
things that was very nice about Section 5 was that it didn’t
require a showing of what was in hearts and minds,” Perez said,
referring to the act’s empirical requirements for proving
discrimination.  “The right to vote is at stake” following the court
ruling, she said. “Persons’ ability to have a say in our
ability in the country to have free and fair elections is at
stake.”  Justice Action  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced today that the
Justice Department will petition a federal court in  Texas  to
force that state to be subject to “a preclearance regime
similar to the one required by Section 5 of the  Voting Rights 
Act.” Texas would have to obtain pre-approval from either the
department or a federal court before making voting changes when
intentional voting discrimination is found, he said.  The federal government presented evidence of intentional
racial discrimination in a redistricting case in Texas last
year, he said, “as well as the history of pervasive voting-related discrimination against racial minorities.”  “This is the department’s first action to protect voting
rights” following the court ruling, Holder said at a meeting of
the National Urban League in Philadelphia today, “but it will
not be our last.”  Holder said: “Even as Congress considers updates to the
Voting Rights Act in light of the court’s ruling, we plan, in
the meantime, to fully utilize the law’s remaining sections to
ensure that the voting rights of all American citizens are
protected.”  ‘Flawed’ Decision  Holder called the Supreme Court decision “deeply
disappointing - and flawed.”  The focus on voting laws comes as the U.S. is undergoing a
demographic transformation affecting its politics, with states
such as North Carolina moving from being reliably Republican to
competitive on the presidential level as a result of the
changing makeup of their residents.  North Carolina’s Hispanic population has grown from 4.7
percent in 2000 to 8.4 percent in 2010, the nation’s sixth-fastest gain, according to the University of North Carolina
 Charlotte  Urban Institute. President  Barack Obama  won the state
in 2008, and then lost it to Republican  Mitt Romney , 50 percent
to 48 percent, in 2012 even though the incumbent didn’t actively
campaign there.  The voting issue may spread to Texas, Mississippi and
Alabama legislatures, said Rafael Collazo, director of political
campaigns for the National Council of La Raza, the largest
Hispanic civil rights advocacy organization in the U.S.  Carolina Changes  The bill approved by the Republican-controlled North
Carolina legislature requires that voters present a government-issued photo identification at the polls rather than the current
system that also allows for use of student ID cards issued by
the state’s public universities and community colleges.  The measure also shortens the early-voting period before
Election Day, ends same-day registration and prohibits high
school students from registering before their 18th birthdays.  Governor Pat McCrory, a Republican elected in November, is
expected to sign the bill into law.  The legislation’s chief supporter, Republican state Senator
Tom Apodaca, told the News & Observer of Raleigh on July 18:
“We want a state-issued ID or a federal issued ID” because
college IDs “could be manipulated.”  Restoring ‘Confidence’  Another Republican supporter of the bill, state Senator Bob Rucho, said in an interview today that the measure was needed to
“re-establish a level of confidence in the system.”  Photo identification is required to “go into  Bank of
America  to cash a check, to take care of welfare papers or to go
on an airplane,” he said.  Shortening the time window for early voting is designed to
achieve consistency in all the state’s polling places, he said.
say the bill would limit turnout by newer voters who are younger
and newly registered minorities.  “In my opinion, it is the most radical voter suppression
bill in America,” said state Representative Duane Hall, a
Democrat. “They have taken parts of bills from all over the
country and combined them into one.”  “We firmly understand now and somewhat expected this will
take place, where many states will in some ways make it more
difficult to vote,” Collazo said.  The impact of the  Supreme Court  decision may fall most
harshly on Hispanics who seek to vote for the first time,
Collazo said. “A third of Latino voters are in areas previously
covered by Section Five of the Voting Rights Act,” he said.  Hispanic Community  “The fact that it was  overturned  is very concerning to us
because of the growing of the Hispanic community and more
minority voters potentially.” Collazo said: “We felt we needed
more protection, not less.”  In a report for the Brennan Center, a non-partisan law and
public policy institute, Perez said voting rights “could be
threatened on a number of fronts.”  She wrote that states may re-enact discriminatory voting
changes that had been stopped by Section 5, noting that the
 Justice Department  blocked 31 proposals since 2006, when the act
was reauthorized by Congress. States also could adopt
discriminatory changes that were withdrawn after the Justice
Department raised questions, she said, or implement changes that
had been in abeyance pending Section 5 review.  If a state adopts changes close to an election, she said,
“there may be little or no practical recourse for voters”
because court challenges can be costly and lengthy.  Split Ruling  The Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision struck down the Voting
Rights Act formula for determining which states must get federal
approval before changing election rules, leaving the
preclearance provision without force unless Congress approves a
new method for determining which jurisdictions are covered.  “Our country has changed, and while any racial
discrimination in voting is too much, Congress must ensure that
the legislation it passes to remedy that problem speaks to
current conditions,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote for the
court.  Democratic leaders in Congress have criticized the ruling,
and one House Republican, Representative James Sensenbrenner of
 Wisconsin , has said the decision “severely weakened” ballot
protections. He is urging his colleagues to rewrite the
provision before the 2014 elections.  “Voter discrimination still exists, and our progress
toward equality should not be mistaken for a final victory,”
Sensenbrenner said July 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  