-- NSA Spying Row in Congress Ushers in Debate Over Big Data
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/nsa-spying-row-in-congress-ushers-in-debate-over-big-data.html
The clash in Congress over limiting
U.S. surveillance powers is spurring a broader public debate
over managing the billions of e-mails, telephone calls and texts
generated globally every day.  Lawmaker efforts yesterday to curb the National Security
Agency’s collection of telephone records from companies such as
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  marked a step in that larger
discussion over the gathering, use and storage of vast amounts
of data, say current and former U.S. officials, company
representatives and privacy advocates.  “Big data, in all of its dimensions, is something that we
have to come to grips with,” said  Michael Hayden , a former NSA
and Central Intelligence Agency director.  “This is a debate that was necessary and inevitable,”
Hayden, a principal at the Chertoff Group, a Washington-based
security consulting firm, said by telephone.  The ability of government agencies and businesses to obtain
large sets of data on the activities and habits of Americans
raises important questions for policy makers, ranging from how
to deal with unwanted marketing e-mail to potential violations
of constitutional rights, said  Rhode Island ’s  Sheldon Whitehouse , the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism.  Vast Data  “When you can gather enormous amount of information all at
once and then store it, it creates a new set of capabilities and
that creates a potential new intrusion,” Whitehouse said
yesterday in a speech at a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  event in Washington,
D.C. “It’s going to be a continuing issue and a big one.”  By some estimates, 114 billion e-mails and 24 billion  text
messages  are sent globally each day, as well as more than 12
billion phone calls made, according to Trey Hodgkins, a senior
vice president for TechAmerica, a Washington-based trade group
whose members include Verizon,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)   Decisions about how to manage data also will affect
telecommunications and Internet companies, especially if they
are compelled by the government to retain data, Hodgkins said by
telephone.  “You’re talking about potentially extremely huge data
sets,” he said. “It’s unrealistic to think that we can keep
that kind of volume and store it in a long-term way.”  Snowden Fallout  Lawmakers in the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday
rejected by a 205-217 vote an amendment to the annual Defense
Department spending bill that would have prevented the NSA from
collecting telephone records in bulk.  Representative Justin Amash, a Michigan Republican,
proposed the amendment in response to agency programs exposed by
Edward Snowden, a former security contractor for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , who faces U.S. espionage charges. In
addition to the Verizon data, Snowden revealed the NSA operated
a program called Prism that targeted Internet data from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other companies.  Limiting the agency’s ability to store telephone records
would probably mean service providers would have to retain the
data instead, Harvey Rishikof, who teaches law at  Drexel
University  in Philadelphia said by telephone.  Those companies could be subjected to new litigation
because consumers, businesses or organizations would know they
are retaining the information, Rishikof said. There also could
be confusion about whether the companies or government would be
required to search the data under court orders, he said.  National Debate  “Someone has to hold the data,” Rishikof said. “There
may be a problem as we sort this out.”  Edward McFadden, a spokesman for New York-based Verizon,
declined to comment.  Both Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , and
Cupertino, California-based Apple have said they comply with
legal requests to give the government data, and have asked
President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders for permission
to publish the number and types of requests they receive.  A rare coalition of Democratic and Republican lawmakers
joined forces backing the Amash amendment, showing that views on
the issue don’t follow traditional party lines.  “The fact that the House leadership allowed debate and
vote on this amendment reflects the deep concern in the Congress
about both the secrecy and the breadth of these authorities,”
said Kate Martin, director of the Center for National Security
Studies, a civil liberties and privacy watchdog group in
Washington.  Secret Expansion  The administrations of President Barack Obama and his
predecessor,  George W. Bush , expanded government spying powers
with the help of the secret U.S. Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court beyond what Congress intended, Martin said.  Congress should require agencies to use the powers as
originally intended, she said. Once that happens, lawmakers
could debate whether to expand authorized actions, she said.  In one sense, Snowden is getting what he wanted by sparking
a debate about data collection and use, said Hayden, the former
NSA and CIA chief.  “Now that this issue has been pushed out into the public
domain, there’s only one choice for the government,” Hayden
said. “We need to develop a national consensus because the use
of big data can be really great but there’s also a concern that
big data in and of itself is scary and can be misused.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 