-- NTSB Chief Hersman Unsure She’ll Keep Job as Term Ends
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ntsb-chief-hersman-unsure-she-ll-keep-job-as-term-ends.html
Deborah Hersman ’s term as chairman
of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board ends Aug. 3,
with no word on whether she’ll be retained, during the accident
investigation agency’s busiest stretch since the 1990s.  Hersman, 43, will conclude her second term as chairman as
Congress leaves  Washington  for a five-week recess. Asked when or
whether she’ll be renominated, Hersman said it’s out of her
control.  “I don’t know the answer to that question,” she said in a
telephone interview. “That is a decision that the White House
will make. Right now I’m focused on the work that’s in front of
us from this past week.”  Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman, said the
administration won’t “speculate on possible future personnel
announcements.” Hersman’s term as a board member extends
through Dec. 31.  The safety board chairman, who must be confirmed by the
Senate, is the top U.S. transportation accident investigator.
The position provides a platform to lead probes, hold hearings
and recommend safety improvements without authority to implement
them.  Hersman has been the public face of the board’s two
highest-profile investigations this year -- its probe into what
caused battery fires on the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner that
prompted the plane’s grounding, and the July 6 crash in  San
Francisco  of Asiana Airlines Inc. Flight 214, the first fatal
commercial plane accident in the U.S. in four years.  Rockefeller Endorsement  She was passed over to succeed Ray LaHood as U.S.
transportation secretary despite an endorsement in a Twitter
messsage by her former boss, West Virginia Senator  Jay Rockefeller , one of Congress’s most senior Democrats. President
 Barack Obama  instead chose  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , Mayor
Anthony Foxx.  Rockefeller leads the Senate Commerce Committee, where
Hersman was the senior Democratic staff member before being
appointed to the safety board in 2004 by Republican President
 George W. Bush . Obama named her chairman in 2009 and reappointed
her two years later.  Nominations for the board and, separately, its chairman
require Senate confirmation.  There is a scenario that could effectively keep Hersman in
charge if Obama doesn’t act before her chairman’s appointment
expires.  Board rules dictate that if there’s no designated chairman,
the vice chairman serves as acting chairman. The vice chairman
position, held now by  Christopher Hart , doesn’t require Senate
confirmation.  Vice Chairman  Hart’s term ends Aug. 24. Because that is so soon after
Hersman’s term ends, Obama could name her vice chairman, said
Ted Lopatkiewicz, who retired in 2011 as the board’s top
spokesman. Vice chairmen have served as acting chairman on other
occasions after a term expired, he said.  While Hersman has inspired fan blogs for her expertise and
calm demeanor before television cameras, pilot unions in the
U.S. and South Korea have criticized her handling of the Asiana
investigation, saying she’s disclosed too much information and
put excessive focus on pilot errors.  Hersman has said she’s been careful to stick to facts.  “We are the advocate for the traveling public,” Hersman
said at a briefing earlier this month. “We think it’s important
to show our work.”  Mobile Phones  Hersman’s call to ban the use of mobile phone in cars, even
with hands-free devices, went beyond the position of LaHood, who
made distracted driving his signature cause as transportation
secretary. She failed to gain Transportation Department support
to lower the blood-alcohol content limit for drunken driving to
0.05.  The board is working on at least 16 major-accident
investigations opened this year including the Asiana probe. It’s
also looking into the failure of landing-gear on a  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane in  New York , a train crash involving hundreds
of commuters in  Connecticut , two highway-bridge collapses, and
an auto accident that sent a car over the side of Maryland’s
Chesapeake Bay Bridge.  Yesterday the board announced a two-day  forum  in September
on whether transportation operators have a “safety culture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  