-- Obama Says Republicans Risk Making U.S. Debt ‘Deadbeat’
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-07-25T20:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/obama-says-republicans-risk-making-u-s-debt-deadbeat-.html
 President  Barack Obama  criticized
House Republicans for demanding conditions on raising the U.S.
debt ceiling as he tries to shape the coming congressional
debate over the nation’s budget priorities.  Speaking at the Jacksonville Port Authority in Florida
today, Obama accused Republicans of skirting responsibility to
“pay the country’s bills” and refusing to spend for needed
investments in education, energy and research.  “That’s not an economic plan,” he told several hundred
people in a humid warehouse. “That’s just being a deadbeat.”  The Florida speech was the third of what White House aides
say will be a series of addresses designed to highlight the
fragile economic recovery. With Congress set to take up spending
bills as soon as next month, the speeches aim to ratchet up the
pressure on Republicans as they return home to their districts
for the August recess.  Following up on visits yesterday in the Midwest and today
in Florida, Obama plans to travel to Chattanooga,  Tennessee ,
next week to promote his proposals to boost domestic
manufacturing at an  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  distribution center.  “With an endless parade of distractions, political
posturing and phony scandals,  Washington  has taken its eye off
the ball,” Obama said in Galesburg,  Illinois , yesterday. “I am
here to say this needs to stop.”  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said today
that Obama is rehashing old proposals and taking the same failed
approach to negotiating with lawmakers.  Republicans React  “His speech turned out to be all sizzle and no steak,”
Boehner said at a news conference in Washington. “That’s
assuming that there is any sizzle left after you’ve reheated the
thing so many times.”  Asked if he’d meet with Obama on raising the $16.7 trillion
federal debt limit, Boehner said that “it’s time for Congress
to do it’s work.”  “Moving this through the regular order is the right way to
do it,” he said. Boehner earlier this week said Republicans
won’t agree to raise the  debt ceiling  without spending cuts,
threatening a showdown with Obama, who said the limit must be
raised without conditions to prevent a default. The current
limit will be reached sometime between October and December.  In the debt ceiling debate two years ago, lawmakers and the
White House battled for months before Obama signed an increase
into law on Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury Department warned
that U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Debt Debate  While Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its AAA top
credit rating as a result, investors indicated they weren’t
concerned about the government’s debt or its ability to pay its
bills. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes on Aug. 5, 2011, when
S&P announced the downgrade, was 2.56 percent. The yield fell to
as low as 1.39 percent on July 24, 2012.  The yield on the benchmark  10-year (USGG10YR)  note fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.57 percent at 3:41 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices.  The debt limit is just one of a host of fiscal decisions
facing Congress and the White House when members of Congress
return to Washington in September. The two sides also are at
odds over passing a budget for the fiscal year that starts Oct.
1 and replacing the automatic across-the-board spending cuts
known as sequestration.  In Jacksonville, Obama reiterated a message he delivered
four months ago at the Port of Miami, calling on Congress to
fund upgrades of the country’s bridges, roads, and ports.  “We know strong infrastructure is a key ingredient to a
thriving economy,” he told several hundred people gathered in a
passenger hangar. “The world can’t wait for Congress to get its
act together.”  Economic Growth  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent during the first three
months of the year, lower than its 2.5 percent average pace
during the last two decades. The  unemployment rate , at 7.6
percent in June, remains above its 6 percent average during the
period.  While the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is up more
than 18 percent this year and has almost doubled since Obama
took office in 2009, the median household income of $51,500 in
May remains 5 percent lower than in June 2009, the official end
of the recession, according to estimates by Sentier Research.  Obama toured the Jacksonville Port Authority with
Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in an effort to highlight
the need to speed up projects by expediting permitting and
cutting red tape. In 2011, Obama signed an executive order
expediting environmental reviews and permit decisions for a
selection of high priority infrastructure projects.  “The businesses of tomorrow will not locate near old roads
and outdated ports,” he said.  In  Florida , Obama was greeted by a full-page newspaper ad
from the state Republican Party saying the state’s Republican
governor, not the president, is responsible for the local
economic growth.  “It is flattering you want to take credit for Gov. Rick Scott’s success,” the ad said. “But it would be better if you
learned some lessons from Rick Scott on job growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  