-- Obama Meets Vietnam Leader as Human Rights Weigh on Trade
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-07-25T16:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/obama-meets-vietnam-leader-as-human-rights-weigh-on-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Vietnamese President Truong Tan Sang met as their nations
intensify trade talks opposed by U.S. labor leaders and human
rights advocates who say the Southeast Asian nation must do more
to protect workers and political dissidents.  While the U.S. and Vietnam are among a dozen working toward
an agreement by year-end on a free-trade accord to link an area
with about $26 trillion in annual economic output, the agenda
for Obama and Sang included human rights,  climate change  and
working with other countries to put pressure on  China , protect
maritime security and ease South China Sea disputes.  “We had a very candid conversation about both the progress
that Vietnam is making and the challenges that remain” on human
rights, Obama said as the two concluded their meeting in the
Oval Office. Sang said the two countries “still have
differences” on human rights.  A coalition that includes the Teamsters union and  Human
Rights Watch , an advocacy group, called yesterday for a
suspension of the talks until Vietnam can show sufficient
improvement in worker protections, the environment and
individual rights.  “President Obama must hold Vietnam accountable for its
record on worker and human rights before America rewards the
country with greater trading privileges,” Teamsters President
Jim Hoffa said in a statement.  Specific Steps  U.S. Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican and
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, has pressed
Obama to use Sang’s White House visit to urge Vietnam’s
government to take specific steps. These include halting hacker
attacks on bloggers, easing blocks on social media access and
ending the detention of religious and political dissidents.  “Over 50 Vietnamese human-rights advocates have been held
in arbitrary detention this year alone,” Royce said in a July
18  letter  to Obama, calling it a troubling statistic that
reflects the “intolerable state of human rights in  Vietnam .”  “This further backslide in the Vietnamese government’s
respect for human rights comes as the country is increasing its
international engagement,” Royce said. “If our two countries
are to build a strong relationship, Vietnam must honor its
citizens’ basic rights, including freedom of association and
assembly, freedom of opinion, and freedom of religion.”  The rights of people in Vietnam will be “an important
part” of Obama’s discussions with Sang, said Jonathan Lalley, a
spokesman for the White House National Security Council. “We’ve
consistently expressed our concerns with respect to Vietnam’s
human rights record.”  Vietnam’s Efforts  Sang acknowledged the tensions. “Vietnam has been making
sustained efforts to protect and promote human rights so that
the people can benefit,” he said at a lunch yesterday with
Secretary of State  John Kerry . Vietnam has “made every effort
to ensure the right of freedom of religion,” Sang said.  Ernest Bower, president of Fairfax, Virginia-based Bower
Group  Asia , which advises businesses on operating in Southeast
Asia, said while there are legitimate concerns about human
rights, U.S. labor unions also are “threatened by the garment
and textile industries” in Vietnam. Bower said in the long run,
the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal being negotiated is
more likely to boost total U.S. manufacturing.  The Obama administration, Bower said, is seeking to balance
human-rights concerns against signs of improvement and Vietnam’s
role in the region.  Strategic Thinking  “The U.S. government thinks the Vietnamese are among the
most strategic-thinking of all the Southeast Asian countries,”
said Bower, who also is a senior adviser on  Southeast Asia  at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy
research organization in  Washington .  Sang said he invited Obama to visit Vietnam and that U.S.
president promised to “try his best” to make a trip.  The U.S. and Vietnam have a shared interest in
strengthening the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation and East
Asia Summit forums to persuade China to “play by the rules of
the neighborhood instead of coercing” smaller nearby nations,
Bower said.  Vietnam’s government is planning a revamping of state
enterprises by 2015, trying to revive an  economy  that expanded
by 5.25 percent last year, the slowest annual rate since at
least 2005.  Delaying structural reforms may curb investor confidence
and expansion, the  World Bank  said this month in a report.  Economic growth slowed to a 4.9 percent annual rate in the
2013 second quarter, after one of the highest bad-debt levels in
Southeast Asia crimped business credit. The  International
Monetary Fund  has lowered its projection for the nation’s growth
this year to 5.2 percent from 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  