-- Oi’s Dividend Cut Only Dents Looming $12 Billion Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-25T20:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/oi-dividend-cut-only-dents-12-billion-debt-corporate-brazil.html
Oi SA, the most indebted Brazilian
telecommunications company, is still starved for cash to pay its
long-term debt and improve its network, even after scrapping a
$444 million dividend and selling $1.5 billion in assets.  The carrier failed to cut net  debt  to a self-imposed
maximum of three times earnings, a condition of paying the
dividend, Oi said yesterday in a filing. The stock gained 5.2
percent yesterday, bringing its eight-day rally to 39 percent.  While recent moves will bolster results this year, a
capital injection is still needed to match the network quality
of competitors and pay off debt, said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Shareholder Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA, which already dispatched its top executive to
run Oi, is unlikely to fork over cash because of its own debt
load, which may force partners Andrade Gutierrez SA and La Fonte
Participacoes SA to shoulder the burden, she said.  “The most likely thing is a change of control, and the
question is how does Portugal Telecom find the money to do that
because they are also seriously indebted,” Bienenstock said in
a telephone interview from  London . Andrade Gutierrez and La
Fonte may already have agreed to put capital into the company
since “their stake is pretty massively underwater.”  The three companies, along with state-owned pension funds
and Brazilian state development bank BNDES, control Oi’s parent,
Telemar Participacoes SA, known as TmarPart. Oi rose 6.5 percent
to 4.93 reais at the close in Sao Paulo.  Showing Discipline  Rio de Janeiro-based Oi had net debt of 27.5 billion reais
($12.1 billion) at the end of March and is investing 6 billion
reais this year, the most among peers, to compensate for a
network that gets the most consumer complaints.  “Oi has shown discipline in respecting the self-imposed
leverage limits established in its dividend policy,” Susana Salaru and Gregorio Tomassi, analysts at Itau BBA, wrote in a
note yesterday. “Nevertheless, we maintain our cautious view of
Oi, as the operator’s current shareholder structure does not
seem to be sustainable in the long run.”  Oi’s controlling shareholder group is highly leveraged and
needed the Oi dividend payment to pay its debt, they wrote.  “There are several restructuring formats that could be
applied to address this problem, but each of them includes the
inevitable need for a capital increase,” they said.  An outside press official for TmarPart, Andrade Gutierrez
and La Fonte declined to comment on behalf of the companies. A
press official for Oi declined to comment, and a Portugal
Telecom official didn’t return an e-mail request for comment.  Too Soon?  It’s too early to assume that Oi will need to raise
capital, said Alex Pardellas, a Rio de Janeiro-based analyst at
CGD Securities. Infrastructure investments will be maintained,
and asset sales are contributing to reduce debt, he said. Oi has
announced the sale and rights transfer of undersea cables and
towers this year totaling about 3.4 billion reais.  “I don’t see any reason for a capital increase,” he said.  Oi’s recent moves are a sign of a change in focus to cash-flow generation and cost cuts, said Andres Medina-Mora, an
analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB, who said he’s upgrading the
stock to the equivalent of a buy from a hold.  Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  joined the company last
month, leaving the same post at Portugal Telecom to replace CEO
Francisco Valim, who was ousted in January.  “What we are seeing right now is the beginning of a shift
in strategy which I would say is very positive,” Medina-Mora
said. “It’s a shift in strategy toward long-term value
generation for all shareholders and a deleveraging approach from
the new management.”  Oi’s need for cash will “depend very much on the next few
quarters,” he said. “What they have gained right now is a
little bit of room in order to maneuver and operate their
business and to assess the next steps going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  