-- Homebuilders Fall as Pulte, Horton Orders Miss Estimates
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-07-25T20:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/homebuilders-fall-as-pulte-horton-orders-miss-estimates.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  D.R. Horton
Inc. (DHI) , the largest U.S. homebuilders, tumbled after reporting
lower-than-expected orders, adding to concerns that higher
mortgage rates will hamper the nation’s housing recovery.  PulteGroup, based in Bloomfield Hills,  Michigan , said
second-quarter orders fell 12 percent on a lower community
count. D.R. Horton said orders increased 12 percent, which was
below analysts’ forecast for 28 percent growth, according to
Adam Rudiger, an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in Boston.  Rising mortgage rates contributed to increased
cancellations and a dropoff in traffic in June, according to
Fort Worth, Texas-based D.R. Horton. Borrowing costs have surged
in the past two months on expectations that the Federal Reserve
will scale back bond purchases. The 30-year average fixed
mortgage rate was 4.31 percent in the week ended today, up from
a near-record low of 3.35 percent in May, Freddie Mac said.  “We got our first indication today that consumers are
feeling the effect of rising rates on their purchasing power,”
Peter Martin, a San Francisco-based analyst with JMP Securities
LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Share Slide  D.R. Horton  fell  8.6 percent to $19.38, its lowest close
since Dec. 28. PulteGroup sank 10 percent to $16.55, the biggest
drop in 13 months and lowest close since Dec. 11. The 11-company
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index slid 4.8
percent. It has tumbled 23 percent from an almost six-year high
on May 14.  There’s “no question” rising rates affected sales, D.R.
Horton Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said today.  “A lot of buyers were counting on trying to pick the low
in the pricing and the low in the interest rates,” Tomnitz said
on a conference call with analysts. “They are a little bit
shocked and disturbed by the fact that rates have moved up from
where they were.”  PulteGroup’s second-quarter orders fell to 4,885 homes from
5,578, with 16 percent fewer communities. Analysts estimated
orders of 5,801 homes, Jack Micenko, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group, wrote in a note to clients.  Bigger Drop  “We had recognized that there was a risk that order growth
could go negative in the quarter, but a 12 percent drop was a
bit more than we thought could happen,” Megan McGrath, an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
e-mail.  Richard Dugas, PulteGroup’s CEO, said on a conference call
today that mortgage rates haven’t hurt demand and buyer traffic
remained consistent throughout the quarter and into July.  “We’re in the camp that if higher rates reflect improving
economic conditions we’d expect a housing recovery to remain on
track,” Dugas said. “As an industry, we can sell more houses
if more people have jobs, even with modestly higher rates.”  The pullback by buyers amid sharply higher interest rates,
which are still low by historical standards, came as an
overreaction to a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke, according to Tomnitz.  “It seems like one speech had a major impact on the
industry and our sales, which was a really ridiculous reaction
by the marketplace,” he said during the conference call.  Tomnitz expects buyers to return as rates moderate and said
the company is in a “great position” to raise prices.  Both builders have been increasing prices in response to
competition among buyers for a tight inventories of new and
existing homes. Sales of  new U.S. homes  jumped 8.3 percent in
June to the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce
Department said yesterday.  PulteGroup sold 4,152 homes for an average price of
$294,000, a 9 percent jump from a year earlier. D.R. Horton’s
average price climbed to $268,000 from $225,000 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  Boston  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  