-- Hong Kong Stocks in First Drop in Five Days as U.S. Data Awaited
-- B y   E m m a   B i
-- 2013-07-25T01:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hong-kong-stocks-in-first-drop-in-five-days-as-u-s-data-awaited.html
Most  Hong Kong   stocks  retreated as
investors await U.S. economic data that may shed light on the
timing of any reduction in  Federal Reserve  stimulus. Rail shares
jumped after Premier Li Keqiang and the State Council agreed to
speed up railway construction and reduce tax on small business.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slipped 0.1 percent to 21,941.12 at
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong. About six stocks fell for every five
that gained on the Hang Seng Composite Index. The Hang Seng
 China  Enterprises Index of mainland shares was little changed at
9,790.55.  The  Hang Seng Index  is down 3 percent this year through
yesterday, the second-worst performance among 24 developed
markets tracked by Bloomberg, as shares slid on signs China’s
growth is slowing and amid concern the Federal Reserve will
taper its stimulus.  Premier Li said China will speed up railway construction in
central and western parts of the country. China will set up a
railway development fund, the State Council said after a meeting
led by Li. Local governments and private investors will be
allowed to own some city and regional railways.  Resolutions passed at yesterday’s cabinet meeting included
the exemption of companies with monthly sales of less than
20,000  yuan  from value-added and business taxes starting Aug. 1,
according to the statement. China will also reduce
administrative fees on export inspections and encourage
financing and tax-rebate services for small firms to promote
trade, according to yesterday’s statement.  Yesterday’s Move  The city’s benchmark  gauge  rose 0.2 percent yesterday as
railway companies and banks increased, tempering a worse-than-expected preliminary manufacturing survey from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics. The Hang Seng Index traded at 10.5 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.3 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s “bottom line” for gross domestic product growth
is 7 percent and the nation can’t let growth go below that,
Premier  Li Keqiang  said in a meeting with economists and
businesspeople, according to a July 23 Beijing News report.  Materials and energy companies led  declines  this year on
the Hang Seng Composite on concern demand will weaken amid
slower growth in  China’s economy . Gauges of  information
technology , utilities and services were the only measures that
rose among the index’s 11 industry groups.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, fell as much as 27 percent from a Feb. 1 high,
meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market . The
 measure , which has since rebounded 10 percent, traded at 1.18
times the value of net assets yesterday, 34 percent lower than
it five-year average of 1.78.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed today. The U.S.
equity benchmark yesterday capped its first two-day decline in a
month after the Chinese manufacturing report. The gauge earlier
climbed within 3 points of 1,700 for a third straight day.  Hang Seng Index futures retreated 0.1 percent to 21,936.
The HSI Volatility Index increased 0.6 percent to 17.62,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5.1 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Bi in Hong Kong at 
 ebi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  