-- Moody’s Critic Kolchinsky Hired by State Regulator Group
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-25T21:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/moody-s-critic-kolchinsky-hired-by-state-regulator-group.html
Eric Kolchinsky, the former Moody’s
Investors Service analyst who told Congress the ratings company
cared more about money than accuracy, was hired by the  National
Association of Insurance Commissioners .  Kolchinsky will be director of the NAIC’s new structured
securities group in  New York , the organization said in an e-mailed  statement . He had been a consultant for the NAIC since
2009, helping end its reliance on credit ratings to evaluate
home-mortgage bonds, according to the statement.  Regulators are looking for new ways to judge risks of the
investments held by the companies they oversee, instead of
relying on credit ratings generated by Moody’s and  Standard &
Poor’s . Kolchinsky told a House panel in 2009 his old employer
favored “revenue generation over ratings quality,” and the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called Moody’s work on
mortgage bonds in 2006 “disastrous.”  Moody’s disputed his allegations at the time, and  Michael
Adler , a spokesman for Moody’s, declined to comment today. The
ex-analyst dropped a defamation lawsuit in January amid mounting
legal costs, his lawyer told  Reuters  at the time.  The NAIC also said it hired Charles A. Therriault from Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. to head its securities valuation
office, which assesses the risk of insurance firm holdings. The
organization includes chief insurance regulators from the U.S.
states and territories, who cooperate to set standards and
coordinate oversight, according to the NAIC  website .  The group has turned to money managers Pacific Investment
Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to assess securities instead
of the ratings companies. The new system is “more accountable,
it’s more transparent, it’s better geared toward a regulatory
need,” Kolchinsky said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  