-- OPEC to Reduce Exports as Demand Passes Peak, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/opec-to-reduce-exports-as-demand-passes-peak-oil-movements-says.html
Crude shipments from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will decline from
near their highest in a year as summer demand passes its peak,
tanker-tracker Oil Movements said.  The group, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s
oil, will cut exports by 410,000 barrels a day, or 1.7 percent,
to 23.95 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Aug. 10, the
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The figures exclude
two of OPEC’s 12 members,  Angola  and  Ecuador .  “We’re already over the peak,” Roy Mason, the company’s
founder, said today by phone from Halifax,  England . “There was
a late summer surge but that’s it. From here to September the
direction of shipments will be down.”  Refiners typically trim imports at the start of the third
quarter while performing maintenance as summer demand for
gasoline and diesel ebb. Brent crude traded for about $107 a
barrel today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London ,
having slipped almost 4 percent this year.  Middle Eastern shipments will drop by 2.2 percent to 17.6
million barrels a day to Aug. 10, compared with 18 million in
the month to July 13, according to Oil Movements. That figure
includes non-OPEC nations Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will increase by 1.7 percent to
495.6 million barrels versus 487.4 million, data from Oil
Movements show. The researcher calculates the volumes by
tallying tanker bookings. Its figures exclude crude held on
vessels for storage.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It will next meet in Vienna on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  