-- Hopper, Electronic Arts, Monsanto: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-07-25T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hopper-electronic-arts-monsanto-intellectual-property.html
Fox Broadcasting Co. lost a second
bid to halt  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s AutoHop ad-skipping feature, as
a California federal appeals court refused to overturn a lower-court ruling that allowed the service to continue.  U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles rejected Fox’s
motion last year for a preliminary injunction against Dish and
Fox appealed. Fox argued that its contract with Dish, a pay-TV
provider, doesn’t allow services that skip commercials. Fox also
claimed that its copyrights for TV programming are infringed by
the feature.  “The district court did not abuse its discretion in
holding that the broadcaster failed to demonstrate a likelihood
of success on its copyright infringement and breach of contract
claims,” the appeals court said in its opinion yesterday.  Fox Broadcasting,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued
Dish last year in California, claiming that the ad-skipping
feature would diminish their revenue from advertising. Dish sued
the broadcast networks in New York seeking a declaration that
its ad-skipping service doesn’t infringe copyrights.  “We are disappointed in the court’s ruling, even though
the bar to secure a preliminary injunction is very high,”  Scott Grogin , a spokesman for Fox, said in an e-mail. “This is not
about consumer choice or advances in technology. It is about a
company devising an unlicensed, unauthorized service that
clearly infringes our copyrights and violates our contract.”  The decision “is a victory for American consumers, and we
are proud to have stood by their side in this important fight
over the fundamental rights of consumer choice and control,”
Stanton Dodge, Dish’s general counsel, said in a statement.  Fox Broadcasting is a unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   The appeal is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network, 12-57048,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (Pasadena). The
lower-court case is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network, 12-cv-04529, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  Electronic Arts Must Pay $11 Million After ‘Madden NFL’ Verdict  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  must pay more than $11 million to a
former programmer who wrote code for the earliest versions of
the company’s “Madden NFL” video game, according to the
plaintiff’s lawyer.  A federal court jury in  San Francisco  on July 23 found that
the company broke a 1986 contract by failing to pay Robin
Antonick royalties on works derived from his code, Rob Carey, a
lawyer for Antonick, said in an e-mailed statement.  Carey said the verdict is a “good omen” for another phase
of the litigation to determine whether EA must pay Antonick for
games published from 1997 to now, and for which revenue exceeds
$3 billion. The verdict, not the damages, was confirmed by a
court filing.  A jury found June 21 that Antonick proved he didn’t know
before 2005 that EA allegedly used his work on later Madden
games. That allowed the trial to proceed to a second phase over
breach of contract and  damage claims .  EA has sold more than 85 million copies of the software,
resulting in revenue of more than $4 billion. The company, the
second-largest video-game publisher, has denied using Antonick’s
code and has said other company programmers developed later
Madden NFL games independent of Antonick’s work.  “While we’re disappointed with the jury’s verdict and will
appeal, this has always been a case about games from the early
1990s, and it has no impact on today’s Madden NFL franchise,”
John Reseburg, a spokesman for Redwood City, California-based
EA, said in an e-mail.  The case is Antonick v. Electronic Arts Inc., 11-cv-01543,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Monsanto Offers Soybean Discount to End Brazilian Patent Dispute  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, is offering
Brazilian farmers a 16 percent discount on its newest
genetically modified soybeans if they drop claims that patents
on older beans expired years ago.  Monsanto’s insect-fighting Intacta soy went on sale
yesterday in Brazil, the St. Louis-based company said in a
 statement . Farmers who agree to release Monsanto from patent
claims will pay a reduced amount for the next four years, it
said.  Grower groups have argued that the patent on Monsanto’s
older Roundup Ready soybean seeds expired in 2010 and the
company should repay royalties collected since then. Monsanto
says Brazilian law extends the patent to late 2014.  The Mato Grosso State Growers Federation, which represents
farmers in the Brazilian state, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement they agreed to drop their patent claims.  Introduced in the 1990s, Roundup technology lets crops
survive applications of Roundup herbicide. Monsanto has excluded
Brazilian royalties on Roundup Ready soybeans from its 2013
earnings forecast because of the dispute.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Use of Competitor’s Mark in Google Doesn’t Create Confusion  The use of a competitor’s service mark as a trigger for
Google’s AdWords program won’t by itself cause trademark
infringement, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
ruled last week.  In a case involving contact lens retailers Lens.com and
1-800 Contacts, the Tenth Circuit in large part affirmed an
award in favor of Lens.com, whose affiliates purchased the
service mark of 1-800 Contacts as a Google ad trigger.  “Traditional analysis and actual marketplace data reveal
that the keyword use by Lens.com and its affiliates was highly
unlikely to divert consumers,” the court held in its July 16
opinion.  The court affirmed the denial of liability under agency
law, but held there could be “contributory infringement because
the evidence could support a reasonable finding that Lens.com
did not take reasonable steps to halt the display of 1-800’s
marks in affiliate ads once it learned of such display.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which operates the popular Internet search
engine, permits advertisers to pay to have their advertisements
triggered by certain keywords.  1-800 Contacts was represented by Mark A. Miller of Holland
& Hart LLP, Salt Lake City. Lens.com was represented by Scott R.
Ryther of Phillips Ryther & Winchester, Salt Lake City.  The case is 1-800 Contacts Inc. v. Lens.com Inc., 11-4114,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit (Denver)  For more trademark news, click here.  In the News  California Seeks to Enforce Bridgepoint Subpoena on Sales Info  The state of California asked a court yesterday to compel
 Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI) , the college company majority-owned
by Warburg Pincus LLC, to produce information about its sales
efforts.  Bridgepoint, based in San Diego, has refused to produce
data from a computer system that collects information about its
telemarketing, state Attorney General  Kamala Harris ’s office
said yesterday in a petition filed in state court in Sacramento.  Harris subpoenaed the information in January, according to
a court filing.  “This information is critical to evaluating whether
Bridgepoint has violated California law by making false or
misleading statements during telephone calls, including
telemarketing calls and in other marketing and sales
communications,” Deputy Attorney General Angela Munoz said in
the petition, a copy of which was supplied by her office.  For-profit colleges have faced scrutiny by Congress and
state and federal prosecutors who allege that the schools use
high-pressure sales tactics to mislead applicants about costs
and job-placement, leaving them with loans they can’t repay.  Bridgepoint digitally records its telemarketing calls and
has stored more than 400,000 recordings of calls to
Californians, Munoz said in the petition. Company lawyers argued
it would be unduly burdensome to comply with the subpoena for
those records because students would have to notified, she said.  The company “has been cooperating with the California
Attorney General’s Office regarding the investigation,”
Marianne Perez, a Bridgepoint spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“However, during this process, there have been requests by the
California Attorney General’s Office that are overly broad and
unduly burdensome, and Bridgepoint’s legal team is in
communication with the Attorney General’s Office to narrow the
request as best as possible while meeting our obligations to
federal regulations.”  The case is People of the State of California v.
Bridgepoint Education Inc., 34-2012-00147260, California
Superior Court, Sacramento County (Sacramento).  Time Warner Cable Threatening to Drop CBS From Channel 2 Spot  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc. is threatening to drop CBS from its
position as the first broadcast station on its TV menu if the
entertainment company demands higher licensing fees to carry its
programming.  The second-largest U.S. cable provider is talking to
several competitors about taking CBS’s place,  Maureen Huff , a
Time Warner Cable spokeswoman, said in an interview. CBS, the
highest-rated broadcast network, said it won’t give up the real
estate. The slot is one of the first viewers see when they turn
on a cable box and search the menu.  “CBS obviously won’t make any deals that require us to
change our channel position,”  Dana McClintock , a spokesman for
CBS in New York, said in a phone interview.  The threat by New York-based Time Warner Cable is an
attempt to put pressure on CBS to lower the amount of money it
wants for giving access to its owned-and-operated affiliate
networks in New York, Los Angeles and Dallas. Time Warner Cable
claims New York-based CBS asked for prices 600 percent higher
than the network’s affiliates in other markets receive for the
same programming.  Penguin Settlement in E-Books Antitrust Probe Approved by EU  Bertelsmann SE’s Penguin Random House settled a European
Union antitrust case into e-books after regulators accepted its
offer to overhaul its pricing system.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company, and
four publishers previously offered similar remedies to allay
European concerns.  “After our decision of December 2012, the commitments are
now legally binding on Apple and all five publishers including
Penguin, restoring a competitive environment in the market for
e-books,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Facing EU pressure, Apple last year promised to terminate
so-called agency agreements with the four companies, CBS Corp.’s
Simon & Schuster, News Corp.’s HarperCollins, Verlagsgruppe
Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Livre, and  Pearson Plc. (PSON)   Penguin offered earlier this year to stop restricting or
impeding e-book retailers from offering discounts or to allow
them to “set, alter or reduce retail prices for e-books” for
two years.  Bertelsmann’s Random House publishing unit agreed in
October to merge with Pearson’s Penguin to create the largest
book publisher in the U.K. and the U.S.  If a company breaks EU settlement commitments, the
commission can impose a fine of as much as 10 percent of its
annual  global sales .  On July 10, a federal judge in New York ruled that Apple
“played a central role” in conspiring with five publishers to
fix the prices of electronic books. Apple now faces a trial in
the U.S. to set damages.  Books Taken by Suicide Librarian Return to Sweden From U.S.  Two precious books stolen by an employee from Sweden’s
 Royal Library  were returned yesterday at a ceremony in New York
after the antique book seller in Baltimore who purchased them
agreed to hand them over to the FBI.  The chief of the Royal Library’s Manuscript Department,
Anders Burius, stole at least 56 rare or one-of-a-kind volumes
in his 10 years of employment, the U.S. Attorney for the
Southern District of New York said in a statement.  The two books recovered were a 1683 description of
Louisiana in French written by Louis Hennepin, including maps
and produced on the orders of the king; and a 19th-century
illustrated volume about the Mississippi valley in German. Their
combined value is about $255,000, according to  Herrick,
Feinstein LLP  in New York, a  law firm  acting for the library.  The books “offered the world some of the first glimpses of
the extraordinary American landscape and people,” Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in yesterday’s statement. “We
hope this recovery will prompt others to return antique books in
their possession that were stolen from the Library.”  Loewentheil cooperated fully with the U.S. authorities once
he discovered the volumes were stolen, the office said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  