-- Increase in Goods Orders Points to Factory Rebound: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-07-25T20:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-rose-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
American factories received more
orders for automobiles and machinery in June, pointing to a
pickup in manufacturing that will help propel the world’s
largest economy in the second half of 2013.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years rose
4.2 percent, three times the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, according to data from the Commerce
Department issued today in Washington. Other reports showed
 consumer confidence  last week matched a five-year high and
jobless claims climbed as carmakers retooled plants.  Rising demand for  vehicles  and equipment contributed to a
fourth consecutive increase in orders for capital goods that
signals business investment will rebound following a second-quarter slump. Gains in housing, household sentiment and
employment are benefiting companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , brightening the prospects for a more durable
economic expansion.  “What you’re going to see is a stronger second half, a
stronger third quarter,” said  Eric Green , global head of rates,
foreign exchange, and commodities research at TD Securities Inc.
in  New York . “It’s looking very positive.” TD Securities is
the second-best forecaster of capital goods orders over the past
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks rose, halting two days of losses for the Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (COMFCOMF) , as investors weighed corporate earnings and
the economic data. The  S&P 500  gained 0.3 percent to 1,690.25 at
the close in New York.  U.K. Pickup  Economies abroad also showed signs of improving. Growth in
the U.K. accelerated in the second quarter as all main
industries showed expansion for the first time in three years,
figures from the  Office for National Statistics  showed today in
London.  Consumer confidence rose last week as an improving job
market helped make Americans the least pessimistic about the
economy in more than five years, other figures showed today.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 27.3
in the seven days ended July 21, matching its highest level
since January 2008, from minus 28.4 the prior period. The
measure tracking perceptions about the economy posted its
biggest advance since September 2008.  “What we’re seeing here is consumer sentiment continuing
to move in a tight range likely based on Americans’ perceptions
of growing job security,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York.  Jobless Claims  Another report showed  claims  for jobless benefits rose by
7,000 to 343,000 in the period ended July 20, according to data
from the Labor Department. The retooling at carmakers and school
closings typical during this time of year continued to influence
the figures last week, a government spokesman said as the data
were released.  “The trend in claims is fairly stable,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York, who
projected an increase in claims. “We’re sustaining the
improvement we saw from late last year.”  The  median  forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected orders for durable goods would advance 1.4 percent in
June. Forecasts ranged from a drop of 4 percent to a 4 percent
gain. The Commerce Department also revised the May gain to 5.2
percent from the previously reported 3.7 percent increase.  Orders for automobiles and parts rose 1.3 percent in June
after dropping 0.8 percent the prior month, today’s report
showed. Bookings for machinery such as construction and metal-working equipment climbed 2.4 percent after a 0.5 percent gain
in May.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.9 million annualized
rate in June, the strongest since November 2007. Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, this
week reported second-quarter per-share profit excluding some
items that beat the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  General Motors Co. (GM)  today reported second-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ projections. Demand for pickups in the
U.S. as well as Cadillacs and Buicks in China boosted revenue
3.9 percent.  Ford said it will hire 3,000 salaried employees this year,
800 more than originally planned, as it moves to fill positions
in engineering and other technical area.  “Engineers and technical professionals are in as much
demand as our cars, trucks and SUVs,” Felicia Fields, group
vice president for human resources, said in a statement
announcing the plan. About half the positions have already been
filled, according to June 23 statement.  Business Investment  The Commerce Department figures showed orders for  non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft , a proxy for future
business investment in computers, electronics and other
equipment, climbed 0.7 percent in June after rising 2.2 percent
the prior month. They were up 8.3 percent at an annualized rate
in the second quarter following a 21.4 percent gain in the first
three months of the year.  Macroeconomic Advisers  in  St. Louis , which updates its
estimates for gross domestic product with each new piece of
data, raised its third-quarter growth forecast to 2.5 percent
following the report from 2.4 percent.  The news for the second quarter wasn’t as positive.
 Shipments (CGSHXAI%)  of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
measure used in calculating GDP, fell 0.9 percent after rising
1.9 percent in May, prompting Macroeconomic Advisers to lower
its second-quarter projection to 0.5 percent from 0.7 percent.
Those data will be released July 31.  Growing Backlogs  In a sign industrial production will be sustained, the
backlog of orders to factories jumped 2.1 percent in June, the
most since the end of 2007, today’s report showed. Unfilled
orders for non-military capital goods excluding transportation
equipment climbed 1.7 percent last month after a 1.2 percent
increase.  The housing and automobile industries are bolstering the
recovery, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee.  “Housing prices going up are not only beneficial in terms
of stimulating more construction,” Bernanke said. The gains in
property values also improve household balance sheets and
encourage  consumer spending , he said.  Progress in residential real estate is boosting demand for
companies such as  Benton Harbor , Michigan-based Whirlpool.  ‘Positive Trends’  “We are seeing, we think, sustainable, profound demand
recovery in the U.S. marketplace,” Chief Executive Officer Jeff
Fettig said on a July 19 earnings call. “In  North America ,
we’re increasing our industry demand assumption to be up 6
percent to 8 percent for the year as we continue to see very
positive trends in U.S. housing as well as pickup in really all
segments of the market from a demand perspective.”  The pickup in manufacturing hasn’t been universal.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest manufacturer of mining and
construction equipment, cut its earnings forecast yesterday for
a third straight quarter on slower commodity demand from
 emerging markets . With economic growth slowing in China, some of
Caterpillar’s commodity-producing customers are cutting billions
of dollars from their budgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  