-- Moroccan Marijuana Fix Sought to Cultivate Exports
-- B y   S o u h a i l   K a r a m
-- 2013-07-26T12:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/moroccan-marijuana-fix-sought-to-cultivate-exports-economy.html
Mustapha Tahiri, a cannabis farmer
in northern  Morocco , looks forward to the day he can sell his
crop without worrying about being jailed. If lawmakers in the
Islamist-led government have their way, that isn’t too far off.  “I’d be a lot happier if the state leaves us alone, stops
the arrests and lets us grow the herb,” said Tahiri, a father
of seven whose house in the village of Beni Gmil was raided by
anti-drug security forces last year. He said he’d be willing to
sell his cannabis resin for 7,500 dirhams ($886) per kilo, about
half of what he is now getting from middlemen.  At least 800,000 Moroccans live off illegal marijuana
cultivation, generating annual sales estimated at $10 billion,
or 10 percent of the economy, according to the  Moroccan Network
for the Industrial and Medicinal use of Marijuana , a local
charity. Morocco, with a population of 32 million, is  Africa ’s
sixth-largest economy, according to data from the  International
Monetary Fund .  Legalization would allow farmers to sell to the government
for medicinal and industrial purposes rather than to drug
traffickers. That could boost exports and help reduce a trade
deficit that widened to a record 197 billion dirhams last year,
about 23 percent of gross domestic product. It could also help
pacify inhabitants of a historically-restive region after Arab
Spring uprisings toppled regimes in  Egypt , Libya and  Tunisia .  Drug Legislation  Lawmakers in Prime Minister  Abdelilah Benkirane ’s Islamist
PJD, or Justice and Development party, as well as the opposition
Authenticity and Modernity, are considering draft legislation
proposed by the Morocco Network. Mohamed Boudra, a member of
Authenticity and Modernity and governor of Hoceima-Taounate, the
country’s biggest cannabis-producing region, said his party is
seeking to enact the bill within three years.  “We have to ensure that any legalization is done in an
optimal fashion,” said PJD lawmaker Abdelahim Allaoui. “We
need to establish what the medicinal virtues of the plant are,
and then think of exports, pharmaceutical industry developments,
and how to draw foreign investment. This is a promising sector
for the economy.”  Morocco risks losing its investment grade sovereign rating
at  Standard & Poor’s  after an increase in public wages and
subsidy spending aimed at maintaining social peace weakened the
government’s finances. Debt as a percentage of GDP rose to more
than 60 percent in 2012 from 47 percent in 2009 and the current
account deficit is the widest in more than three decades,
Finance Ministry data shows.  S&P ranks Morocco one step above junk status and put it on
a negative outlook in October 2012. Ahmed Lahlimi, head of the
country’s planning agency, said last month that debt is nearing
the “danger zone.”  Slash and Burn  Before the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings, authorities in
Morocco waged a slash-and-burn campaign against cannabis farming
that reduced planted areas to 47,000 hectares from 137,000
hectares in 2003, according to date from  the United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime . They encouraged farmers to instead
plant orchards and grow olives and almonds, which sell for
between 70 and 100 dirhams a kilo.  Khadija Rouissi, a lawmaker from Authenticity and
Modernity, has called for a national debate about the
legalization of marijuana.  “We can’t carry on ignoring this big elephant in the
room,” she said.  Rif Mountains  Cannabis farming is largely centered in the north of the
country in the Rif mountains, where it started centuries ago.
Hamlets and villages like Tahiri’s nestle on the slopes, and
most farmers in the region have modest marijuana patches of a
few square meters. A hectare can yield between 5 and 6 kilos of
cannabis resin per year, Tahiri said.  “What we want is to provide a viable alternative for the
small farmer and take him out of the drug trafficking
equation,” said Chakib Khayari, who heads the Nador-based
Moroccan Network. “Then  law enforcement  will only have drug
traffickers to worry about.”  The Rif area has the highest national rates of poverty,
maternal deaths and illiteracy rates among girls, according to
Boudra, the local governor. GDP per capita in the region is 50
percent of the national average.  King Mohammed VI is seeking to reverse that trend and
repair the legacy of his father King Hassan, who neglected the
north during his 38-year rule, a period marked by political
unrest and violence against opponents, according to the
 International Center for Transitional Justice .  ‘Illicit Trade’  “We are considered as an unruly bunch living on contraband
and illicit trade,” said Mohamed Lagmili, a farmer in Beni
Gmil. “That may be true but we have also been marginalized.”  Lagmili grows barley, tomatoes, watermelons to sell in the
local market on a plot near his brick house. Just behind it is a
strip of terraced land, planted with cannabis. “You don’t want
to put all your eggs in one basket,” he said.  The nationalist Istiqlal, the second-largest party in the
government, says it still backs the change in the law after five
of its six ministers said on July 9 they were resigning to join
the opposition.  “There are villages in the Rif where men are nowhere to be
found because they are either in jail or wanted by the police,”
said Istiqlal spokesmen Adil Benhemza. “We grow barley and
grapes and we make beer and wine. Where is the problem? We
should have actually moved on this a lot earlier.”  For Tahiri, who is caring for an ailing mother and
struggling with rising food prices, legalization can’t happen
soon enough. “We are not giving up the cannabis trade,” he
said. “That’s the only thing that works here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Souhail Karam in Rabat at 
 skaram5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  