-- Toronto Bankers Feel Pain From Mining Slowdown: Corporate Canada
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-25T17:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/toronto-bankers-feel-pain-from-mining-slowdown-corporate-canada.html
The downturn in the  mining industry 
is beginning to ripple through brokerage firms and investment
banks in Canada.  One small brokerage firm, Fraser Mackenzie Ltd., closed
earlier this year. Casimir Capital Ltd., a closely held
investment bank, has cut jobs on its mining team and is shifting
its focus to energy companies.  Bill Vlaad, a financial services recruiter, says requests
to find bankers to work with mining and natural resources
companies are drying up. Those searches now represent less than
10 percent of his business, down from half of his work three
years ago. Mark Morabito, chairman of Canadian mining company
 Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV) , says he’s getting a steady stream of e-mails from bankers who are getting fired.  “I’m now dealing with the top guys, the global heads of
mining, because the guys in between are all gone,” Morabito
said in an interview. “Toronto is just a dead zone.”  Though the job cuts have been relatively small so far, many
in the finance industry expect a bigger wave of reductions as
well as consolidation, especially among boutique financial
firms. If the number of such firms shrinks, mining companies
could find it even harder down the road to finance exploration
drilling and mine development.  Metals Slump  During the multiyear boom in commodity prices that followed
the global financial crisis, these securities firms grew as
mining companies easily tapped the Canadian stock markets for
financing. About half the world’s mining companies have their
headquarters in  Canada  -- producers of copper, gold, iron ore
and zinc -- and  most  of the industry’s stock sales go through
Toronto.  Equity financing, one of the few options for speculative
companies searching for the next big mine, is now shrinking amid
a slump in metals prices. Gold futures in  New York  have dropped
21 percent this year while copper is down 13 percent.  The total value of mining equity sales in Canada declined
in 2012 and fell more sharply in the first part of this year,
particularly among the small and midsize explorers and
developers.  Financial firms that serve these companies are under
pressure. The picture will “probably get uglier before it gets
better,” for securities firms, said Michael Graham, who worked
in institutional equity sales at Stonecap Securities Inc., in a
June 13 phone interview.  Fewer Deals  “Everybody is talking to everyone in terms of do we get
together, do we fold?” he said. “I think the reality is that
everybody is going to cut people.”  Graham left Stonecap, a Toronto-based investment dealer, in
early June to help with an initial public offering for a small
energy company and plans to reassess his options at the end of
the summer.  The number of employees at securities firms in Canada fell
in the first quarter to its lowest level since 2006, according
to the Investment Industry Association of Canada, which
represents the nation’s securities firms. Ian Russell, the
association’s chief executive officer, said in April that more
than a third of Canada’s 185 boutique firms had lost money in
the last two years.  Their revenue from financing of natural resources companies
is dwindling. The number of equity offerings by mining companies
in Canada peaked in 2011 at 858 and fell to 451 in 2012. There
have been just 119 deals this year, raising $856.6 million,
compared with $6.5 billion in the whole of 2012 and an annual
peak of $13.5 billion in 2009, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg News .  Distressed Situations  Valuations in the industry have suffered at the same time.
The S&P/TSX Global Mining Index of 112 companies has dropped 25
percent this year.  “You’ve just seen a complete collapse in expansion,
project development, capital raising,” Russell said in a July 4
telephone interview.  Fraser Mackenzie, which employed as many as 80 people,
probably won’t be the last firm to close, said Vlaad, the
recruiter.  “For the smaller firms, the ones that have been focused in
mining and oil and gas, the word on the street is it’s even more
draconian than just cutting a body,” he said.  Fraser Mackenzie considered merging with another firm
before announcing it would fold on April 29. Mark Polubiec, its
CEO, said most of his competitors were in distressed situations
and he didn’t want to be the “sugar daddy” to prop up
another’s balance sheet.  ‘Absolutely Decimated’  “We were losing money like everybody else on the street as
it relates to the small-cap resource market,” Polubiec said in
a telephone interview after the announcement. “This is the
first time in a long time, in my 33 years in the business, that
I’ve essentially been unable to feel any certainty whatsoever
when things will change.”  Casimir cut 18 jobs, or about half the workforce, including
a “significant chunk” of its mining group, said acting CEO
Adam Thomas. He’s part of an employee group that agreed to buy
75 percent of the investment bank in Canada.  “The mining sector has just been absolutely decimated,”
Thomas said by phone yesterday. “I’m an oil and gas guy, I’ve
never touched mining and I’m kind of grateful to be in this
space right now.”  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second largest lender by
assets, has moved bankers from resources into areas such as real
estate investment trusts and utilities, Patrick Meneley, head of
global  investment banking  at the lender’s TD Securities Inc.
unit, said in a June 5 interview.  Mining Stocks  Securities firms, banks and law firms may be reluctant to
cut jobs rapidly from their natural resources groups because of
what happened during the global financial crisis. Commodities
 prices  plunged and pulled down mining stocks, but the rebound in
share prices and financings was swift and strong, said Andrew
Pollard, president of the Mining Recruitment Group in  Vancouver .  “I think 2008 is still really in the minds of
executives,” he said in a June 11 phone interview, “and they
are doing what they can to just sort of hunker down and get
through it without having to make the same sorts of cuts,”  Signs of strain extend well beyond the lawyers, accountants
and bankers that help with financings, said  Michael White , CEO
of IBK Capital Corp., a closely held investment bank.  “It’s also the drillers and geophysical companies,
consulting companies, the engineering companies,” he said.
“Everybody’s feeling it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  