-- OTP Bank Climbs for Fourth Day on FX-Loan Report: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-25T09:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/otp-bank-climbs-for-fourth-day-on-fx-loan-report-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank,  Hungary ’s largest lender,
rose for a fourth day after Nepszabadsag newspaper reported that
the government has rejected “radical” plans to phase out
foreign-currency mortgage loans.  OTP advanced as much as 2.7 percent and traded 0.6 percent
higher at 4,472 forint at 11:16 a.m. in Budapest. The stock has
jumped 6.9 in the past four days and is heading for its largest
weekly gain in six months. The BUX  index  increased 0.3 percent.  The cabinet has dropped “radical” plans to reduce the
stock of such loans, and will limit the cost of measures, daily
Nepszabadsag reported today, citing an unidentified source close
to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban . The government is seeking to
phase out foreign currency household mortgage loans and will
consider the burden that can be imposed on banks, Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  told state news agency MTI yesterday.  “The fact that the government rejected the most drastic
solutions is definitely very positive for OTP, based on the
information of the newspaper,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at
Concorde Securities, Hungary’s largest brokerage, said in an e-mail today.  The Hungarian government is preparing a second round of
help for households with foreign-currency mortgages after
measures introduced since 2011, such as fixing exchange rates at
below-market levels and allowing early repayments of loans. The
depreciation of the forint against the euro and the Swiss franc
has increased mortgage installments for more than $16 billion in
loans.  ‘Investor Angst’  OTP shares plunged 17 percent in the four days through July
19 after the Justice Ministry said the cabinet is looking at the
possibility of modifying the conditions of foreign-currency
loans. The stock extended losses last week as Chief Executive
Officer Sandor Csanyi sold shares.  “The mood music over recent days has been more
encouraging, as officials appear to aim to smooth investor
angst,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-market economist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail today.  OTP jumped 4.7 percent yesterday, the most in a year, as
Csanyi said the bank “can survive” any sort of government
program to help foreign-currency borrowers. A solution similar
to the early repayment of such loans in 2011 would put planned
domestic acquisitions on hold, he told reporters.  Csanyi also denied media reports that he was planning to
leave the job he has carried out since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  