-- Tourre Evidence Includes Love Notes, Song Parody, a Wink
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-25T23:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/tourre-says-e-mail-to-girlfriend-was-silly-and-romantic.html
Love notes, a French song parody and
a winking  emoticon  were used by a government lawyer trying to
show that  Fabrice Tourre , the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
vice president facing civil fraud claims over a failed
$1 billion investment, lied to participants in the deal.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is using e-mails Tourre sent to a former girlfriend in 2007 as proof that
he intentionally committed fraud in putting together the
transaction, a mortgage-bond backed investment known as Abacus.
The deal, which closed in April 2007, turned worthless when the
housing market crashed.  Under questioning by SEC lawyer Matthew Martens, Tourre was
compelled to read to jurors the Jan. 23, 2007, e-mail in which
he quoted a friend’s nickname for him: Fabulous Fab. Tourre
referred to the “complex, highly levered, exotic trades” he
created as “monstruosities” in the message.  “This is a silly, romantic e-mail I sent late at night at
a moment of market stress,” Tourre said today.  Asked by Martens what “monstrosities” he was talking
about, Tourre said “I didn’t create any monstrosities.”  Tourre is testifying near the end of two weeks of evidence
against him presented by the SEC. The agency’s lawyers are
trying to show that Tourre misled investors about the role of
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by  John Paulson , in helping
select the assets behind the investment, which the fund then bet
against.  Song Parody  Martens asked Tourre about a parody of a French song he’d
created, which featured credit-linked notes and empty profit-and-loss statements.  Another e-mail, containing an embarrassing “quasi-sexual
reference,” was admitted as evidence. U.S. District Judge
Katherine Forrest, who is overseeing the trial, didn’t describe
it.  Martens alternated between Tourre’s personal e-mails and
messages he sent at the same time related to his work on the
transaction.  On a day when Tourre said he was working on marketing
materials for Abacus, a deal backed by subprime residential
mortgage bonds, he sent the former girlfriend a link to the
website www.mortgageimplode.com, and wrote, “I love this
website ;)”  In opening statements at the start of the trial, lawyers
for the SEC and Tourre addressed the “Fabulous Fab” e-mail,
which Tourre sent late at night to his then-girlfriend, Marine
Serre, a Goldman Sachs saleswoman in  London .  ‘Love Letter’  SEC lawyer Martens said the e-mail shows Tourre knew what
he was doing in the deal was wrong. Tourre’s lead counsel,
 Pamela Chepiga , called it “an old-fashioned love letter” that
has nothing to do with the issues in the case. She said the e-mails made him “an easy mark, a scapegoat” for the SEC.  In the e-mail, Tourre alternated between English and
French, writing: “More and more leverage in the system, the
whole building is about to collapse anytime now ... Only
potential survivor, the fabulous Fab ... standing in the middle
of all these complex, highly levered, exotic trades he created
without necessarily understanding all the implications of those
monstruosities!!!”  ‘Ethical Reason’  Later in the e-mail, Tourre said: “Anyway, not feeling too
guilty about this, the real purpose of my job is to make  capital
markets  more efficient and ultimately provide the U.S. consumer
with more efficient ways to leverage and finance himself, so
there is a humble, noble and ethical reason for my job ;)”  After Tourre read the full e-mail and translated the French
passages for jurors, Martens asked him if he’d left out
something.  “A smiley face,” Tourre said.  “Is that a smiley face or a wink?” Martens asked.  “I guess it’s a wink,” Tourre replied.  “After you say there’s an ethical reason for your job, you
include a wink, is that correct?” Martens asked.  “Yes,” Tourre said.  A day after he sent an e-mail about a “surreal” meeting
with executives from Paulson and ACA Management LLC on Feb. 2,
2007, Tourre sent Serre a parody he wrote of a popular French
song, “ La Boheme ,” made famous by singer Charles Aznavour.
Translated into English, Tourre’s version ends: “And when a few
clients/Took a credit-linked note/In exchange for a good fresh
P&L/We narrated verses/Gathered around the stove/Forgetting
about the crisis.”  ‘Silly’ Poem  Tourre called the e-mail “a silly late-night poem.”  Yesterday, in Tourre’s first day on the stand, he said that
a draft term sheet for the Abacus deal showing that the equity
tranche was “pre-committed” to Paulson “wasn’t accurate.”  The term sheet helped convince ACA, the company that was
hired to select mortgage bonds for Abacus, that Paulson was
going to invest in it, rather than sell it short, according to
testimony by Laura Schwartz, an ACA executive involved in the
deal. Paulson made $1 billion betting Abacus would fail.  Martens also questioned Tourre about e-mails in which he
sent Abacus marketing materials to clients and members of
Goldman Sachs’s sales staff. The SEC claims he broke the law by
offering investments in Abacus without disclosing Paulson’s role
in selecting the portfolio.  Six Hours  Tourre spent about six hours, today and yesterday, being
questioned by Martens. Chepiga questioned him for about an hour
and a half this afternoon. He’ll continue his testimony
tomorrow.  Tourre gave a preview of his defense case, testifying that
he was one of “thousands of vice presidents” at Goldman Sachs,
only 28 years old, supervising no one. Tourre was one of many
people at Goldman Sachs who reviewed the Abacus transaction, he
said.  Answering Chepiga’s questions, Tourre denied misleading
anyone about Paulson’s role in Abacus and said he thought ACA
knew the hedge fund was shorting the deal.  “Was that reference portfolio designed to fail?” Chepiga
asked Tourre.  “Of course not,” he replied.  Tourre has kept a low profile since enduring the questions
of a U.S. Senate subcommittee in April 2010 alongside other
Goldman Sachs executives. The firm, which is paying Tourre’s
legal fees, settled SEC allegations for $550 million, a record
at the time. Tourre has spent part of the time since then
volunteering in  Rwanda  and working on a doctorate in economics
at the  University of Chicago .  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 