-- House Panel Seeks More Oversight of Littoral Combat Ship
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-25T16:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/house-panel-seeks-more-oversight-of-littoral-combat-ship.html
Lawmakers said today they have
“serious questions” about the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship
after a Government Accountability Office report recommended
slowing construction for further testing.  While there was no indication that the Navy’s newest
warship was in immediate jeopardy, members of the House Armed
Services seapower subcommittee said the small, speedy and
adaptable ship needs increased scrutiny in light of warnings
about its unproven technology.  “Nine years into the program, many of us on this
subcommittee and many of our colleagues in the House have
serious questions regarding the LCS’s concept of operations, its
maintenance and sustainment concept and its survivability in a
combat environment,” said Representative Joe Courtney, a
Connecticut Democrat.  After having agreed to fund ship construction without
completion of testing, “we find a program facing cost growth,
schedule delays and problems meeting intended capabilities,”
Courtney said.  A  report  by the GAO, Congress’s nonpartisan investigative
arm, found the Navy is risking as much as $40 billion by
purchasing the ships faster than it can demonstrate their
“militarily useful capability.”  The LCS program has generated a growing list of questions
about the ships’ designs, firepower, defenses and survivability
at a time when the Pentagon faces as much as $500 billion in
additional  budget  cuts over the next nine years.  Buy, Fly  “The strategy has been ‘Buy before fly,’” said Paul Francis, the GAO’s managing director of acquisition and sourcing
management, who testified at today’s hearing. “It is a ship in
full-rate production, but its operational effectiveness will not
be demonstrated for years to come. That’s where we are today.”  Most of the planned 52 ships will already be under contract
or built by the time operational testing is completed in 2019,
he said.  “I am troubled by the fact that we are purchasing first
and testing second,” said Representative Jackie Speier, a
California Democrat. “I feel that there’s this rush to
construction and we’ll worry about the details later.”  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. One, with a
traditional steel hull, is being made in Marinette,  Wisconsin ,
by a group led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The second version is an aluminum trimaran, or three-hulled vessel, built by a group led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , based in
Henderson,  Australia .  ‘Minimum Quantities’  Francis said the Navy should consider buying the ship only
in “minimum quantities” until enough testing is completed to
prove its effectiveness.  Sean Stackley, the Navy’s assistant secretary for research,
development and acquisition, rejected the GAO’s advice, saying
any pause in construction would increase costs and delay needed
testing.  “Now is not the time to slow the program,” Stackley told
the panel. “This is our most affordable warship program.”  Construction costs have doubled to an average of $440
million per ship from an original goal of $220 million, the Navy
has said.  A confidential 2012 Navy study found the ships are too
lightly armed, that plans to swap equipment for different
missions are impractical, and the decision to build two
different versions of the ship simultaneously complicates
logistics and maintenance.  ‘Critical Flaws’  “The LCS program was initiated with critical flaws,”
Stackley said. “We are all well aware of that.”  Now that the program has been revamped, he said, “our
costs are under control and greatly improved and contained in
fixed-price contracts.”  Even as they raise questions, lawmakers voted yesterday to
let construction proceed on schedule. The House passed a  defense
spending  bill that includes the Navy’s requested funding for
four more Littoral Combat Ships in the fiscal year that begins
Oct. 1.  “Criticism of the LCS program is warranted,” said
Representative Randy Forbes, a Virginia Republican who is
chairman of the seapower panel. “But let me emphasize that none
of these reports disputes the necessity to rapidly field the
capabilities proposed by the Littoral Combat Ship.”  The GAO’s report represents the latest red flag that’s been
raised inside and outside the Navy about the small and speedy
ship designed for shallow waters close to shore, such as in the
 Persian Gulf .  A confidential Navy report completed last year warned the
ships may not be able to perform their missions because they’re
too lightly manned and armed.  Lost Propulsion  The first Littoral Combat Ship to deploy overseas, the USS
Freedom, lost propulsion on July 20 while heading to a military
exercise and had to return to port in  Singapore  for repairs. The
Navy determined the ship’s diesel generators overheated and shut
down, said Lieutenant Caroline Hutcheson, a Navy spokeswoman.  After repairs that included the replacement of
turbochargers in the generators and clogged fuel injectors, the
Freedom got under way yesterday, she said.  The ship is designed to be adaptable by using
interchangeable modules for various missions, such as clearing
mines, hunting submarines and waging surface warfare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  