-- House Rejects Bid to Curb Spy-Agency Access to Phone Data
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/house-rejects-bid-to-curb-spy-agency-access-to-phone-data.html
U.S. lawmakers angry about domestic
telephone record-collection lost an effort to curtail funding
for the intelligence-gathering tools revealed by fugitive U.S.
security contractor Edward Snowden.  On a 205-217 vote, the House yesterday rejected an
amendment by Representative Justin Amash, a  Michigan  Republican,
that would have limited the National Security Agency’s ability
to collect phone records.  The amendment’s implementation could have created a new
burden on telephone companies to retain bulk data, in addition
to ending the NSA’s blanket collection of phone records. Those
possibilities led the White House, Republican leaders and many
congressional Democrats to oppose the proposal, pitting them
against lawmakers from both parties who champion civil liberties
and privacy.  After the vote, Amash said he plans to pursue efforts to
curb the NSA’s authority to collect phone records. He said the
White House intervened strongly to urge Democrats to keep the
program intact.  “How embarrassing for a president who claims to be a
defender of civil liberties to be pushing for the collection of
the phone records of every American in the U.S,” he said in an
interview.  Amash, first elected to the House in 2010, said he will now
seek to rein in the surveillance program through the Judiciary
Committee. Along with Representative  John Conyers , a Michigan
Democrat who is the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee,
Amash’s allies in the effort include Republican Representative
Jim Sensenbrenner of  Wisconsin , the panel’s former chairman.  Alexander’s Briefing  The head of the NSA, General Keith Alexander, gave
lawmakers a hastily scheduled briefing on July 23 to make the
case for leaving the program as it is.  NSA and White House lobbying was key to the amendment’s
failure, Amash and Conyers said in separate interviews.  The close vote on Amash’s amendment ensures that the debate
will continue, Conyers said.  The proposed change to the Defense appropriations bill
would have prohibited intelligence agencies from collecting
phone records unless a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
order stipulates that the records pertain to an individual under
investigation.  Along with putting an end to the NSA’s blanket collection
of metadata on calls, such as telephone numbers and duration,
the provision would have caused potential headaches for
information technology companies.  ‘Significant Burden’  “It could be a significant burden depending on how the
government wants us to keep this data and store it,” Trey Hodgkins, a senior vice president for TechAmerica, a Washington-based trade group that represents  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , said in a phone interview.
“You’re talking about potentially extremely huge data sets.”  The House adopted an amendment by Republican Representative
Richard Nugent of  Florida  that sought to prohibit the NSA from
using funds in the almost $600 billion Pentagon spending measure
to “acquire, monitor or store the content” of electronic
communications by “a United States person.”  The Nugent amendment was viewed by some lawmakers as
providing political cover for those who didn’t want to vote for
Amash’s proposal.  Representative  Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican, said in an
interview that the Nugent amendment offered lawmakers a chance
to tell the NSA they’re “uncomfortable with what we’re doing,”
without killing the program entirely.  ‘Bridge Too Far’  “What we’re basically saying with this amendment is we
don’t trust you so we’re being very, very clear where the lines
are,” he said, adding that the Amash amendment was “a bridge
too far.”  Representative Zoe Lofgren, a  California  Democrat who
supported Amash’s measure, said the Nugent amendment simply
restates current law and is “a fig leaf” that wouldn’t change
the program’s operation.  Privacy advocates such as Kate Martin, director of the
Center for National Security Studies in Washington, supported
both amendments.  The Amash amendment would have made the government use its
authority as originally intended by the Patriot Act, under which
records only can be sought for particular investigations, Martin
said in a phone interview.  “The fact that the House leadership allowed debate and
vote on this amendment reflects the deep concern in the Congress
about both the secrecy and the breadth of these authorities,”
she said.  Atypical Coalitions  The debate in Washington produced unusual alliances, with
the White House and Republican House -- typically at odds --
allied against Amash’s proposal. On the other were the
libertarian wing of the Republican Party and Democrats concerned
about the government’s intrusion on  privacy rights . Supporting
the amendment were 94 Republicans and 111 Democrats. Voting
against it 134 Republicans and 83 Democrats. The House’s two top
Republicans, Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , and the chamber’s top Democrats,
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California and Minority Whip
 Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , all opposed the amendment.  “It’s a funny issue because it’s not partisan; it’s just
that eternal debate between liberty and security,” said
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican who also voted
against Amash’s proposal.  NSA Opposition  The NSA has said that while it gathers information on all
U.S. phone calls to have it at hand, agency officials access the
data only when needed for terrorism investigations. Current law
states that the NSA cannot target a U.S. person without an
individual warrant.  While Alexander’s remarks in his briefing weren’t made
public, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
yesterday issued a statement in opposition to the Amash
amendment.  “I join others who caution that acting in haste to defund
the FISA Business Records program risks dismantling an important
intelligence tool,” Clapper said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  issued a written
statement on July 23 saying the administration opposed “the
current effort in the House to hastily dismantle one of our
intelligence community’s counterterrorism tools.”  “This blunt approach is not the product of an informed,
open, or deliberative process,” Carney said.  ‘Regular’ Process  The chairman of the House Intelligence Committee,
Republican Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, and the head
of the Armed Services Committee, Republican Representative Buck McKeon of California, said before the vote that though concerns
about the spy programs are worthy of debate, the matter
shouldn’t be handled as part of the Pentagon spending bill.  “Any such changes ought to proceed through a regular
legislative process so the effects can be understood and debated
fully,” the chairmen said in a statement.  Rogers said he’d revisit the issue later this year in a
larger intelligence bill.  After the defeat of the Amash amendment, the House passed
the overall Defense Department spending bill, H.R. 2397, by a
vote of 315-109.  Snowden, a former security contractor for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , faces U.S. espionage charges for
disclosing secret phone and Internet surveillance programs. He
fled to  Hong Kong  and then Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  