-- House Votes to Let States Regulate Power-Plant Coal Residue
-- B y   M e g a n   O ’ N e i l
-- 2013-07-25T15:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/house-votes-to-let-states-regulate-power-plant-coal-residue.html
States would be allowed to regulate
the byproducts of coal-fired  power plants  under a bill the U.S.
House passed 265-155.  The legislation would halt the Environmental Protection
Agency’s effort to regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste -- a
category that comes with stringent storage requirements.  The legislation, H.R. 2218, is part of two Republican
initiatives -- to ease federal regulations on businesses and to
end what they call a war on coal.  “There are some states in this union that coal is their
only job and that’s why they fight and they stand up for coal,”
Illinois Republican  John Shimkus  said during the floor debate.
“Coal is not just a commodity product, it’s a lifestyle if you
live in coal country.”  Shimkus, who said his grandfather first worked in the coal
fields at age 10, quoted from a song written by “America’s Got
Talent” contestant Jimmy Rose. The chorus: “Coal keeps the
lights on.”  Representative  Henry Waxman , Democrat of  California , said
the bill’s backers “are suggesting is that we remove public
health protections in order to allow polluting disposal sites to
continue with business as usual.”  “That is a little tough to justify,” said Waxman, the top
Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Minimum Standards  The bill, sponsored by West Virginia Republican David McKinley, would set minimum federal standards for the management
and disposal of the byproduct. The EPA would be responsible for
certifying state programs. States could implement standards more
stringent than those set at the federal level.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , and Georgia
Power maintain coal ash storage facilities.  The rulemaking targeted by the bill was set in motion
following a 2008 spill in Kingston,  Tennessee , that sent more
than 5 million cubic yards of coal-ash slurry into the Emory and
Clinch rivers.  Representatives adopted by voice vote an amendment by
Virginia Democrat Gerry Connolly that would require states to
develop emergency response plans in case of spills.  The House has passed similar legislation before that died
in the Senate.  In its official statement of administration policy, The
White House stopped short of opposing the bill, writing instead
that officials would like to work with Congress on “appropriate
standards for facilities managing coal combustion residuals,
while encouraging the beneficial use of this economically
important material.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan O’Neil in Washington D.C. at 
 moneil14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  