-- House Panel Approves Postal Bill Ending Saturday, Doorside Mail
-- B y   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-07-25T01:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/house-panel-approves-postal-bill-ending-saturday-doorside-mail.html
Saturday mail service and most
doorside deliveries would be phased out under U.S. Postal
Service overhaul legislation approved today by a U.S. House
panel.  The bill is the latest effort by the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Representative
Darrell Issa. to address the financial bleeding at the Postal
Service, which reported losing $1.8 billion in the first quarter
of 2013.  “This is an institution that not only should be saved and
is a goal to be saved, it must be saved,” Issa, a California
Republican, said today during his committee’s consideration of
the bill.  The 22-17 vote showed the partisan divide over the
proposal, with the committee’s Democrats opposing it.  “Unfortunately, the bill before us today still includes a
number of extreme provisions that would degrade existing Postal
services, unduly burden the Postal Service with additional debt,
and harm postal employees,” Representative Elijah Cummings of
 Maryland , the top Democrat on the committee, said in his opening
statement.  The bill, H.R. 2748, would end mail service on Saturdays,
while allowing deliveries of packages to continue six days a
week. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe told the oversight
panel in April that eliminating Saturday service would save $2
billion a year.  Earlier this year, the Postal Service’s proposal to halt
Saturday service provoked criticism from lawmakers and the
public. The Postal Service Board of Governors in April directed
postal officials to delay implementation of the Saturday service
termination until the enactment of legislation giving it the
authority to do so.  Issa’s legislation would also change delivery for about 28
percent of U.S. addresses that currently receive mail at the
door or in a mail slot, according to a summary of the bill
prepared by the committee’s Republican staff. Under the bill,
most door delivery would end by 2022 unless a customer pays an
additional fee.  Union Opposition  The National Association of Letter Carriers labor union
said ending Saturday mail delivery would eliminate the postal
service’s biggest advantage over competitors such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   The union, which represents letter carriers in urban areas,
said in a  statement  opposing the bill that ending doorside
delivery would be “unfair and deeply unpopular burden on
customers.”  Issa scaled back provisions from previous legislation that
would have targeted existing postal worker contracts. Union
officials say the new measure is still a threat to collective
bargaining because it would prohibit future contracts from
barring layoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caitlin Webber in Washington at 
 cwebber4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  