-- Lloyds Said to Study Sale of Unprofitable Business in Australia
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-07-25T04:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/lloyds-said-to-study-sale-of-unprofitable-business-in-australia.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, is studying a sale of its unprofitable
Australian business, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Lloyds is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on the
possible sale of Lloyds International Pty, which includes the
Capital Finance and BOS International units, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the details are private.  The bank, part-owned by the U.K. government, is divesting
assets it no longer considers essential as it shrinks its
balance sheet after a bailout in 2008. Lloyds said on  June 20  it
was making “significant progress” in strengthening its capital
position by doing that. European banks are bolstering their
finances through asset sales as they try to meet stricter
capital rules.  In  Australia , the Lloyds International unit reported a loss
of A$148.3 million ($135.6 million) in 2012, narrowing from a
shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous year, according to
filings with the Australian Securities & Investments Commission.
The division reduced assets by 24 percent to A$12.2 billion last
year, according to the documents.  London-based Lloyds was already studying the sale of the
Capital Finance unit in Australia, which provides retail,
equipment and commercial financing services, a person familiar
with the matter said July 5. The unit has more than A$6 billion
in assets and equity of more than A$2 billion, the person said.  Lynne Machin, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Lloyds,
declined to comment on the planned sale, which was reported by
the Wall Street Journal yesterday. Goldman Sachs’s Sydney-based
spokeswoman Hayley Morris was not immediately available to
comment.  The U.K. government is considering selling as much as 5
billion pounds ($7.7 billion) of Lloyds shares to money managers
as soon as in September as a first step to reducing its holding
in the lender, two people with knowledge of the plan said July
19.  The government owns about  39 percent  of Lloyds, a stake
valued at 19.3 billion pounds as of yesterday’s closing price of
69.14 pounds a share, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  