-- Paulson Thriving as Radian Proves Second Chances Work
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-25T20:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/paulson-thriving-as-radian-proves-second-chances-work.html
When  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  sold shares
in 2010 to bolster capital, the buyers lost more than a third of
their investment in just two months. The mortgage insurer’s
offering in February, backed by money managers including  John Paulson , is proving second chances can work.  Radian has rallied 76 percent to $14.07 since selling
shares for $8 apiece as well as debt in February. Rival  MGIC
Investment Corp. (MTG)  has followed a similar pattern, slumping after
a 2010 offering and surging 47 percent since this year’s $1.15
billion capital raise.  Mortgage insurers that were considered on the verge of
default just a year ago by debt traders are rebounding as
investors bet a resurgent U.S. real estate market can cushion
losses on policies sold before the housing crash. Milwaukee-based MGIC reported its first  profit  since 2010 this week as
claims and delinquent loans declined, and Radian said yesterday
its  mortgage insurance  operations were profitable as well.
That’s putting Paulson’s prediction that Radian can reach $20 by
2015 within reach.  “They believe that there is opportunity to ride the
housing recovery up,” S.A. Ibrahim, chief executive officer of
Philadelphia-based Radian, said in an interview. “The bigger
issue this time, in terms of our capital raise, was of not being
able to make many of our investors happy in terms of the size of
the allocations.”  Property Crash  Radian raised $689 million selling shares and debt this
year, almost three years after it sold shares for $11 each as
U.S. home prices were mired in the worst real-estate crash since
the Great Depression. The shares, which fell as low as $1.95 in
December 2011, rose 1.4 percent today at the close of New York
trading.  MGIC dropped to 84 cents in August 2012 after selling
shares for $10.75 apiece in April 2010. It issued stock at $5.15
in March when it also raised $500 million in debt. It added 1.1
percent today to $7.57.  “Things didn’t improve at the pace that people thought
they would improve, not just mortgage insurers, but economically
in general,” Michael Zimmerman, senior vice president of
 investor relations  at MGIC, said yesterday by phone. “Can this
company return to being a very profitable organization in the
mortgage insurance business? Absolutely.”  Paulson, the hedge fund manager who made $15 billion
betting against real estate as the financial crisis hit, became
among the largest holders of both Radian and MGIC this year.  Paulson Purchases  New York-based Paulson & Co. held 17 million shares of MGIC
and about $150 million of the company’s notes at the end of the
first quarter, according to a regulatory filing. Dawn Dover, a
spokeswoman for Paulson at Kekst & Co., declined to comment.  The fund owned 11.55 million  Radian shares , and notes that
were then worth $101.8 million, the filing showed. Radian can
reach $20 by 2015, Paulson said in a first-quarter letter to
investors in his Recovery Fund. He said he purchased Radian
shares at an average of $6 in late 2012 and for $8 in this
year’s offering.  “We believe the housing market has bottomed so we wanted
to go long real estate opportunities,” Paulson told CNBC on
July 17. “There’s still a lot of upside and it’s not too late
to get involved.”  The property rebound that began last year has accelerated.
Sales of new homes climbed 8.3 percent in June to an annualized
pace of 497,000, the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce
Department said yesterday.  Home prices  increased 12.1 percent in
April from a year earlier, the biggest year-over-year gain since
March 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Index.  Improved Value  Mortgage insurers cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Radian and MGIC still trade
for less than a third of their value at the  end of 2006 , before
losses tied to the housing collapse drained capital. Rivals PMI
Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc. were pushed from the market
by losses.  “There’s no question, people are going to hang in there
longer if they see improvement in the value of their homes,”
MGIC CEO Curt Culver said on a July 23 conference call with
analysts.  Coverage written beginning in 2009 accounts for 36 percent
of MGIC’s “risk in force,” Culver said on the conference call.
Returns on new business are expected to be about 20 percent,
driven by lower delinquency levels, he said. Coverage after 2008
is more than half of primary risk in force at Radian, Ibrahim
said, and the company projects new business returns in the
“mid-teens.”  ‘New Business’  “Early on, when we were hit by the downturn, we started
focusing on writing new business,” Ibrahim said. “The downturn
gave us the best opportunity to catapult to a No. 1 position in
market share.”  The companies are also benefiting as the U.S. government
reduces its role in the market for insuring home loans, in part
by raising prices for guaranties.  Radian expects to report a marginal profit in the mortgage
insurance operation this year, Ibrahim said. MGIC forecasts a
loss, Zimmerman said.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , which sells mortgage insurance in
addition to life policies and long-term care coverage, is
scheduled to report results next week.  Investors shouldn’t look to MGIC and Radian for a
prediction of how Genworth’s mortgage guaranty business will
fare, said  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC.  “There’s not the degree of overlap that would enable a
clean read-through,” he said.  Persistency Rates  The pace of home sales may decline as borrowing costs
increase after the  Federal Reserve  said it may taper a bond-buying program. That could also mean fewer borrowers refinancing
and terminating their coverage.  “While further increases in  interest rates  could reduce
purchase activity, they are also likely to increase our
persistency rates, which will help us grow our insurance in
force,” Ibrahim said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday.  Jack Micenko, an analyst at Susquehanna International Group
LLP., yesterday boosted his  price target  on MGIC to $12 from $5
and raised the rating to positive from neutral, citing the
company’s return to profitability. He raised his 12-month price
target for Radian to $20 from $15 in a note today  “The mortgage insurance sector is the preferred way to
play the U.S. housing recovery,” Micenko wrote. Mortgage
insurers will profit from new business on rising home sales, and
an increase in  house prices  has a “turbo effects on earnings,”
tied to improvements in older policies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  