-- Penguin Settlement in E-Books Antitrust Probe Approved by EU
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-25T10:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/penguin-settlement-in-e-books-antitrust-probe-approved-by-eu.html
Bertelsmann SE’s Penguin Random
House settled a European Union antitrust case into e-books after
regulators accepted its offer to overhaul its pricing system.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company, and
four publishers previously offered similar remedies to allay
European concerns.  “After our decision of December 2012, the commitments are
now legally binding on Apple and all five publishers including
Penguin, restoring a competitive environment in the market for
e-books,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Facing EU pressure, Apple last year promised to terminate
so-called agency agreements with the four companies,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Simon & Schuster, News Corp.’s HarperCollins, Verlagsgruppe
Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Livre, and  Pearson Plc. (PSON)   Penguin offered earlier this year to stop restricting or
impeding e-book retailers from offering discounts or to allow
them to “set, alter or reduce retail prices for e-books” for
two years. The European Commission in Brussels today accepted
the settlement offer.  Bertelsmann’s Random House publishing unit agreed in
October to merge with Pearson’s Penguin to create by far the
largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the U.S. The deal
received EU backing in April. The joint venture, named Penguin
 Random House  and based in  New York , is 53 percent-owned by
Bertelsmann, with Pearson holding the remainder, the companies
said in October. Bertelsmann and Pearson on July 1 said the deal
was  completed .  If a company breaks EU settlement commitments, the
commission can impose a fine of as much as 10 percent of its
annual  global sales .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  