-- Philippines Holds Rate to Shield Growth as Global Risks Rise
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-07-25T09:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/philippines-holds-rate-to-protect-growth-as-global-risks-rise.html
The Philippines held its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low even as it said a weakening peso
poses inflation risks, joining nations from South Korea to
 Thailand  in shielding growth.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the rate it pays lenders
for  overnight deposits  at 3.5 percent, according to a statement
in  Manila  today, as forecast by all 18 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . It also held the rate on special deposit
accounts at 2 percent, as predicted by 11 of 12 economists.  President  Benigno Aquino  this week asked lawmakers to pass
measures to boost business competitiveness and improve
governance to sustain the nation’s expansion. Exports have
slipped and a growth slowdown in China has dimmed the region’s
outlook, while a weakening peso led the central bank to raise
its inflation forecasts today.  “Among Asian countries, the Philippines has the most room
to keep rates unchanged,” said Eugene Leow, an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “The BSP has the space to
boost domestic demand to strengthen growth and counter any
external weakness.”  The Philippine benchmark stock index closed 0.1 percent
lower before the decision. The peso has depreciated more than 5
percent this year and is the worst performer after the yen and
the Indian rupee among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Greater Flexibility  “Global economic prospects are likely to stay subdued,”
the central bank said in a statement today. “Financial-market
volatility persists owing to the concerns over the timing of the
tapering of monetary stimulus in advanced economies, and this
suggests caution in assessing the policy stance.”  China’s economy  slowed for a second straight quarter, and
the  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its global growth
forecasts, adding pressure on policy makers in the region to aid
expansion while acting to stabilize financial markets.  Thailand held  borrowing costs  in July and India raised two
rates to support its currency, while  South Korea  has pledged to
increase state spending. Philippine Governor Amando Tetangco has
cut the SDA rate thrice this year, banned access for mutual
funds and individually managed accounts, and relaxed curbs on
dollar purchases as the BSP shifts toward an interest-rate
corridor approach.  Philippine inflation quickened to 2.8 percent in June from
a year earlier, and the central bank today raised its  price-gain  
forecast for this year to 3.3 percent from 3.1 percent and for
next year to 4 percent from 3.6 percent.  “Upside risks to the inflation outlook remain, including
pending utility-rate adjustments, as well as the recent
depreciation of the peso,” the central bank said.  Infrastructure Investment  The Philippines won its first investment-grade rankings
from  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this year, and
Moody’s Investors Service today said it has placed the nation’s
ratings on review for an upgrade.  Aquino is increasing spending to a record in 2013 and
seeking more than $17 billion of investments in highways and
airports. Fujifilm Corp. and Sonion A/S began production at new
factories this year.  Gross domestic product  rose 7.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest growth among 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  