-- Pope Warns of Drug Scourge as Latin America Moves to Legalize
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-25T00:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/pope-warns-of-drug-scourge-as-latin-america-moves-to-legalize.html
The first pope from Latin America
put governments on notice today when he cautioned that the
region’s move to legalize drugs won’t stop substance abuse.  Pope Francis during his week-long trip to Rio de Janeiro
visited his namesake hospital, St. Francis of Assisi of the
Providence of God, to inaugurate a new wing for chemically
dependent patients. Crowds stood in the rain to watch the pope
as he embraced onlookers, listened to stories of men who
overcame substance abuse and delivered an address that called on
people to give hope to addicts. He called traffickers
“merchants of death.”  “The scourge of drug trafficking, which favors violence
and sows pain and death, requires an act of courage from all of
society,” the Argentine-born pope said in Portuguese. “It is
not by allowing free use of drugs, as discussed in various parts
of Latin America, that there will be a reduction in the spread
and influence of chemical dependence.”  Leaders of countries including  Brazil , Colombia and Mexico
where more than 60,000 people have been killed in the past six
years in the fight against cartels have called for a new
approach in the war on drugs. Uruguay’s President Jose Mujica
last year began campaigning to legalize marijuana and make the
state its sole supplier.  “We need to confront the problems that are at the root of
drug use, promoting greater justice and educating young
people,” Pope Francis said.  Drug War  Former presidents of Brazil, Mexico and Colombia --Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Ernesto Zedillo and Cesar Gaviria -- published
a report in 2009 saying the U.S.-led drug war had failed and
urged President  Barack Obama  to consider new approaches.
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos in 2011 called for a
discussion on legalization, and before taking office last year
 Mexico ’s Enrique Pena Nieto said he favored debate.  Francis’ visit to the hospital comes at a time when
Brazil’s government is trying to meet the demands of protesters
to bolster its health care system. President Dilma Rousseff on
June 21 pledged to hire thousands of foreign doctors to support
the public health system. Pope Francis said the new hospital
wing brings to life the parable of the Good Samaritan.  “Thank you to all medical service and auxiliary personnel
who strive here,” Francis said. “Your service is precious.
Carry it out always with love.”  Rousseff’s “More Doctors” program would send physicians
to areas with a shortfall of medical professionals. Nearly
17,300 doctors have enrolled, including more than 15,000 from
Brazil, according to the Health Ministry’s press office.  Two Doctors  Brazil has two doctors for every 1,000 citizens, which is
less than Mexico, according to a study released in February by
Brazil’s federal health council, known as CFM, and data from the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. In
Brazil, 71 percent of the nation’s doctors are in the south and
southeast, and 16 of Brazil’s 27 states including Brasilia’s
federal district have less than 1.5 doctors per 1,000 residents,
according to CFM.  Earlier in the day, while visiting Brazil’s largest shrine
to the Virgin Mary, Francis said he will return to Brazil in
2017. This is his first trip abroad as pontiff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  