-- Pope ‘for the Poor’ Tells Rio Slum Not to Despair on Graft
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-25T23:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/pope-for-the-poor-tells-rio-slum-not-to-despair-on-corruption.html
Pope Francis visited a slum in Rio
de Janeiro today in the wake of  Brazil ’s biggest protests in two
decades that called for an end to corruption and proper use of
public funds to improve basic services.  As part of his week-long visit to Brazil for World Youth
Day, Francis visited the Varginha slum, known in Brazil as a
favela. He went to a small church, strolled along the main
street through the rain, and was received in a resident’s home.
In one of his first papal addresses in March, Francis said he
wished “for a church that is poor and for the poor” and he has
taken steps to make the Vatican bank more transparent in the
wake of financial scandals.  “You, dear young people, possess a special sensitivity to
injustices, but many times you become disillusioned with news
about corruption of people who instead of pursuing the common
good, seek personal gain,” Francis said today. “Never get
discouraged, don’t lose confidence, don’t let it extinguish your
hope. Reality can change.”  Francis later in the day rode along Copacabana beach in an
open-air popemobile, blessing babies and giving a thumbs up to
the crowd of thousands before addressing followers.  “Today we are here together, united to share faith and
joy,” the Argentine-born pope said during the speech given
mainly in Spanish. “This week Rio becomes the center of the
church, becomes its heart, alive and young, because you have
responded with generosity and enthusiasm to the invitation Jesus
has made.”  City Holiday  The city declared a holiday to ease pressure on transport.
This morning Francis received a key to the city and blessed
flags of the 2016  Olympic Games  that Rio will host.  Protests that began last month in response to bus fare
increases expanded to encompass a host of issues, many tied to
the improper use of public monies and corruption of government
officials. A protest in Rio last week turned violent as
demonstrators who had camped outside the governor’s house to
call for his removal from office clashed with police officers.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s Workers’ Party, or PT, lifted 40
million people from poverty under her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Even with recent strides, Brazil ranks 14th worst
in income equality, below Nigeria and  Russia , among 154
countries listed in the  World Bank ’s 2013  World Development
Indicators . In 2009, 21.4 percent of the population remained
below the poverty line, according to the World Bank.  Francis told attendees today that society must not abandon
those on the margins, nor view others as disposable.  ‘My Heart’  “The church is with you,” Francis told the crowd at the
favela to cheers. “The pope is with you. I carry each of you in
my heart.”  The primary concerns of Brazil’s 51 million young people
are quality education and improvement in  health services ,
according to a study this month by the federal government’s
Institute for Applied Economic Research, known as IPEA. Those
desires are followed by: an honest and active government,
protection from crime and violence, better work opportunities,
and improvements in transport and roads.  On July 23, the first day of the World Youth Day, crowds
amassed outside Rio’s subway stations after the metro lost
power, preventing participants from reaching events in
Copacabana.  “We have before us a religious leader who is sensitive to
the desires of our people for social justice, for opportunity
for all, and citizen dignity,” Rousseff said the night Francis
arrived in Rio. “We fight against a common enemy: inequality,
in all its forms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  