-- Potash Cuts Profit Forecast After Fertilizer Price Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-07-25T20:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/potash-cuts-profit-forecast-after-fertilizer-price-drop.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the largest fertilizer producer by market value, cut its
earnings forecast and reported profit that missed analysts’
estimates after a drop in prices for its namesake crop nutrient.  Profit will be $2.45 to $2.70 a share this year, the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said today in a statement.
That’s less than the $2.75 to $3.25 forecast in April and the
$2.84 average of 30 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The magnitude of the cut was a little bit worse than we
were thinking,”  Jeff Nelson , a St. Louis-based analyst at
Edward Jones & Co., who had estimated full-year profit of $3.20
a share, said today in a telephone interview. “Nutrient pricing
is under pressure and the company is getting hurt by production
curtailments.”  Second-quarter net income rose to $643 million, or 73 cents
a share, from $522 million, or 60 cents, a year earlier. That
missed the 80-cent average of 29  estimates .  Prices for potash, a crop nutrient that helps strengthen
plant roots and improve resistance to drought, are down because
of plentiful producer inventories and historically low import
volumes in  India . Potash Corp. is reducing output from mines in
 Canada  to help balance global supply and demand.  China Talks  Potash Corp.  fell  2.1 percent to C$38.35 at the close in
Toronto. The company plans to buy back as much as $2 billion of
stock over a one-year period, the company said yesterday in a
separate statement.  Second-quarter revenue dropped 11 percent to $2.14 billion,
less than the $2.17 billion average estimate.  The company said it sold potash for an average price of
$356 a metric ton in the period, compared with $433 a ton a year
earlier. Talks toward a new potash supply agreement with  China 
are continuing, though Potash Corp. said it expects shipments to
the country in the current quarter will be “minimal.”  Potash Corp. also produces phosphate- and nitrogen-based
fertilizers. Prices for those commodities dropped amid
heightened competition and late spring planting in the U.S., the
company said.  “Global phosphate markets continued to be impacted by the
lack of substantive engagement from buyers in India, the world’s
largest phosphate importer,” it said.  Potash Corp.  forecast  third-quarter profit of 45 cents to
60 cents a share. That compares an average estimate of 71 cents.  In April, the company scrapped a proposed bid for  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , the sixth-largest potash producer, after Israeli
workers and politicians opposed the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  