-- Pound Reaches One-Week Low Against Euro After U.K. GDP Report
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-25T15:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/pound-rises-versus-dollar-before-data-seen-showing-u-k-gdp-gain.html
The pound fell to a one-week low
versus the euro after a government report showed economic growth
matched analyst estimates last quarter, damping bets the  Bank of
England  is moving closer to ending its accommodative policy.  Sterling was little changed against the dollar as investors
turned their focus to the central bank’s next policy meeting on
Aug. 1 and its Inflation Report on Aug. 7. Pacific Investment
Management Co. recommended investors should bet Britain’s
 interest rates  will stay lower for longer. U.K. government bonds
were little changed after 10-year yields reached the highest
level in two weeks.  “The numbers were in line and there are no big
surprises,” said Kathleen Brooks, a research director in London
at Forex.com, a unit of online currency-trading company  Gain
Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP)  “The big news is going to be the Bank of
England. In our view they are going to keep rates very low for a
long time and they want to keep gilt yields subdued. That could
potentially cap the pound’s gains.”  The pound weakened 0.1 percent to 86.30 pence per euro at
4:32 p.m.  London  time after depreciating to 85.88 pence, the
least since July 18. The U.K. currency strengthened 0.1 percent
to $1.5333.  The U.K.  economy  expanded 0.6 percent in the second quarter
after growing 0.3 percent in the previous three months, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in London. That matched the
median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Forward Guidance  Central bank Governor  Mark Carney  will present analysis on
releasing forward guidance on the future path of interest rates
at next month’s central-bank meeting.  The Monetary Policy Committee will keep its bond-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds and leave interest rates at a
record-low 0.5 percent at the gathering, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists. Two officials ended calls for more
quantitative easing at this month’s meeting.  “Risks for the pound remain in place going into the BOE
meeting and Inflation Report,”  Valentin Marinov , head of
European Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a note to clients. “The rate guidance
parameters that the MPC chooses to use as part of its forward
guidance may signal more aggressive targets for unemployment and
greater tolerance for inflation than currently anticipated.”  The U.K. currency will decline to $1.48 by year-end,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. Sterling will appreciate to 85 pence per euro, a
separate survey showed.  Pound’s Decline  The pound has weakened 2 percent in 2013, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 4.9 percent and the dollar
climbed 4.6 percent.  The benchmark  10-year (GUKG10)  gilt yield was at 2.39 percent after
rising to 2.43 percent, the highest level since July 10. The
1.75 percent security due in September 2022 traded at 94.775.  Pimco believes the Bank of England won’t increase interest
rates as much as the market is pricing in and recommends
investors use short-sterling futures to bet they will stay low,
according to fund manager Myles Bradshaw.  “The U.K. economy is facing a lot of structural
headwinds,” Bradshaw said on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” in an interview with Francine Lacqua. “It needs to grow
faster than trend to eat away at that output gap.”  Short-sterling futures rose, showing investors are cutting
bets on higher interest rates. The implied yield on the contract
maturing in March 2015 fell five basis points to 0.75 percent.
The Official  Bank Rate  has been at 0.5 percent since March 2009.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 3.2 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bunds fell 1.3 percent and Treasuries fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  