-- Trading Halt Shows UN Carbon System in Jeopardy: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-07-25T08:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/trading-halt-shows-un-carbon-system-in-jeopardy-energy-markets.html
An unprecedented freeze in United
Nations carbon trading is fanning speculation the five-year-old
market designed to combat greenhouse-gas emissions in poor
countries is in danger of becoming superfluous.  Not a single UN Certified Emission Reduction, or CER,
changed hands on July 22 and July 23, according to data from ICE
Futures Europe, keeping the market on course for the lowest
monthly aggregate volume since March 2008. The 14.3 million tons
of offsets bought and sold this month compares with the record
211 million tons traded in October and an average 52 million
over the past 12 months.  The collapse shows factories, power stations and airlines
in the European Union have already bought most of the 1.7
billion tons of UN credits they can use to offset domestic
emissions through 2020. That threatens to undo a market formed
under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol as a way for richer nations to
help developing countries limit greenhouse-gas output.  “The CER market is walking on one leg” because supply
outstrips demand, said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst at NE Nomisma
Energia Srl in Bologna,  Italy , who correctly forecast in January
that carbon permits would fall as low as 4 euros in the EU
market, where UN offsets can be used for a portion of
compliance. “Offsets have fallen deep down on the list of
everyone’s priorities right now.”  The price for UN-overseen credits slumped 82 percent in the
past year, reducing the incentive for developed nations from
 Germany  to Australia to invest in less-polluting forms of energy
in developing nations from  Bangladesh  to  Brazil . CERs for
December rose 5.7 percent to 56 cents a metric ton on ICE
yesterday, when eight transactions totaling 66,000 tons traded.  $8.7 Billion  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism has supported more
than 6,900 projects in 87 countries and was worth $8.7 billion
last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The EU
allows offsets generated by the projects to comply with
obligations in its cap-and-trade program, the world’s biggest.  Emitters have used up or arranged to buy most of the UN
offsets allowed in the EU market through 2020, according to
Energy Aspects Ltd., a London-based research firm. One credit is
equivalent to a one-ton reduction of carbon dioxide.  CER demand may recover as countries step up climate-friendly policies, according to Daniel Rossetto, the London-based managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd., an emissions-markets adviser. Prices have already more than doubled since
sliding to a record low of 20 cents a ton on April 14.  “These offset credits are going to be essential tender for
rich nations” as they tighten emission-reduction targets,
Rossetto said by e-mail yesterday.  Government Demand  Governments may also buy CERs before 2015 to comply with
their own caps under the Kyoto Protocol. Under the treaty, 38
rich countries must surrender Kyoto permits, known as Assigned
Amount Units, or offsets to match their greenhouse-gas pollution
from 2008 through 2012. Most have signed up to a second
commitment period under Kyoto that will end in 2020.  Australia  may allow emitters to use credits from Kyoto
programs for 6.3 percent of their obligations under a carbon-trading program proposed to start in 2014, the government said
in a policy summary this month.  The European Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig, Germany, CME
Group Inc. in  Chicago  and New York-based Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
handled no CER futures or spot contracts on July 22 and 23,
according to data from the exchanges.  In Jeopardy  The role of the CDM is in jeopardy even as policy makers
around the world favor carbon markets as the tool of choice for
tackling global warming, the secretariat of the UN Framework
Convention for Climate Change said in a presentation to the
market’s executive board at a meeting in Bonn this week.  Trading in CERs has been further hampered after the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, clarified last
week how emitters can use a cheaper form of UN offsets called
Emission Reduction Units to meet the bloc’s emissions
obligations.  ERUs, created from carbon-reducing projects in developed
nations, gained 12 percent to 29 cents yesterday. The contracts
fell to a record 6 cents in May after the EU said it may
restrict the use of some ERUs.  “There’s not much to justify” spending almost twice as
much on a CER as an ERU,  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst
in  London  for Energy Aspects, said yesterday by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  