-- Ranhill IPO Probed by Regulator as Malaysia Listing Deferred
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-25T08:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ranhill-defers-listing-after-petronas-license-suspension-1-.html
Malaysia ’s Securities Commission is
reviewing  Ranhill Energy and Resources Bhd.’s  753 million
ringgit ($235 million) initial public offering and investors who
subscribed may be offered their money back.  The regulator ordered the Kuala Lumpur-based energy and
water group and its adviser Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. to
postpone the listing slated for next week after an affiliate got
a suspension notice from state-owned Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
Proceeds from the share sale are being safeguarded by two banks
and the Malaysian Issuing House Sdn., Ranhill Energy said in a
statement yesterday.  Petronas, as Petroliam Nasional is better known, manages
rights to Malaysia’s oil and gas reserves and appoints outside
contractors for specific projects. Without a license, companies
can’t bid for jobs, the Edge Financial Daily reported yesterday,
without citing its source. Ranhill Energy relies on such work
for a “significant” portion of its oil and gas revenue, the
company said in the statement.  The “deferment will continue until all necessary steps
have been taken to ensure that relevant disclosures are made to
enable informed decisions and, if necessary, that IPO applicants
are given the opportunity to decide whether or not to continue
investing in the company,” the Securities Commission said in a
separate e-mailed statement to  Bloomberg News  today.  Allotment Deferred  Petronas suspended Perunding Ranhill Worley Sdn., a company
90 percent-owned by Ranhill Energy’s Chief Executive Officer
Hamdan Mohamad, after a review of its construction work on a
project in Malaysia’s southern state of Malacca, according to a
stock exchange filing yesterday. This firm has an exclusive
arrangement to appoint Ranhill WorleyParsons Sdn. for projects
won in the nation, it said. Ranhill WorleyParsons is jointly
owned by Ranhill Energy and  WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR) ,  Australia ’s
biggest oil and gas engineering company.  The permit has since been restored after reaching a
resolution with Petronas, WorleyParsons said in a separate
statement today.  The temporary suspension came a week after Ranhill Energy
completed its  IPO.  The allotment of shares to successful
applicants has also been deferred, Ranhill Energy said. The
stock was due to debut July 31.  “Ranhill remains committed to ensuring that the interests
of all stakeholders of the Ranhill group of companies, including
investors in the IPO, remain safeguarded at all times,” the
company said. Ranhill has appealed the suspension and is
awaiting a response, it said.  WorleyParsons, which picked Malaysia as its second global
hub after Houston,  fell  to close 0.5 percent lower at A$21.87 in
Sydney today. The benchmark index was little changed.  Ranhill Energy, which also manages water concessions and
power plants, was betting on its decade-long partnership with
WorleyParsons to win more energy deals, Hamdan said in an
interview on July 8 ahead of the share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  