-- Raytheon Boosts Outlook as Profit Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-07-25T14:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/raytheon-boosts-outlook-as-profit-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest
missile maker, raised its full-year earnings outlook as
international defense sales helped it beat analysts’ second-quarter profit estimates.  Raytheon’s net income from continuing operations rose 3.4
percent to $488 million, or $1.50 a share, from $472 million, or
$1.41 a share, a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement. Analysts had  predicted  $1.30 a share, the average of
19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.1 percent to
$6.12 billion.  The contractor forecast full-year profit of $5.51 to $5.61
a share, up from $5.26 to $5.41 predicted in April, amid a
slowdown in U.S.  defense spending .  “We’re very prepared for the environment that we are now
in,” Dave Wajsgras, chief financial officer of Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon, said today in a phone interview.  Raytheon rose less than 1 percent to $69.77 at 10:02 a.m.
in  New York  trading.  International sales rose 10 percent in the quarter from a
year earlier, and overseas sales will account for 28 percent of
revenue this year, up from 26 percent in 2012, Wajsgras said.  In raising the profit forecast for the year, Wajsgras cited
“improved results” from a consolidation of the company’s
business units that was announced in March.  Overseas Sales  Raytheon followed industry peers such as  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , which
also reported second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates.  The companies have thrived, outperforming the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year even as automatic U.S. budget cuts
began hitting the Pentagon in March. Raytheon rose 21 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with the S&P’s 18 percent
gain.  International sales of air and missile defense offerings
helped the contractor boost profit by 21 percent at its
Integrated Defense Systems unit in the quarter from a year
earlier, according to the statement.  While the company’s profits and sales rose, order backlog
declined 4.4 percent to $32.4 billion in the quarter, compared
with $33.9 billion a year earlier.  The company continues to expect that automatic  federal
budget  cuts under a process known as sequestration will reduce
sales by $400 million this year and bookings by $500 million,
Wajsgras said.  “We did see some delays in the second quarter relative to
domestic awards that we now expect in the back half of the
year,” he said.  The across-the-board budget reductions were crafted by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans as a
penalty for failing to agree on a deficit reduction strategy.
They will strip $1.2 trillion from national security and
domestic programs over nine years unless a compromise is
reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Stoughton in Washington at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  