-- Trayvon Martin’s Dad Seeks Law to End Profiling of Minors
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/trayvon-martin-s-dad-seeks-law-to-end-profiling-of-minors.html
Congress should respond to the
shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin with a law that would
make it a crime to racially profile minors and kill them in
self-defense, the Florida youth’s father told lawmakers.  “What can we do as African-American men to instill in our
kids that you don’t have to be afraid to walk outside of the
house, go to the store and get a bag of Skittles and iced tea
and not make it home,” Tracy Martin said yesterday in
 Washington .  Martin said he wants to see legislation, named after his
son, passed within 50 years. It was acknowledgment that such a
proposal has little chance in a Congress split between the
Republican-controlled House and majority-Democratic Senate.  Martin, who received a standing ovation from a capacity
crowd inside the hearing room, opened the first meeting of the
Congressional Caucus on Black Men and Boys. The group of
lawmakers was created in March by District of Columbia Delegate
Eleanor Holmes Norton and Illinois Representative Danny Davis,
both Democrats, to address issues facing African-American males.  “The loss of 17-year-old Trayvon has focused attention on
black males as nothing else has in decades,” Norton said.  Martin’s son, Trayvon, was unarmed when he was shot in
February 2012 in Sanford,  Florida , by George Zimmerman, who
followed him and reported to police that the teenager was acting
suspiciously. Martin was walking home from a convenience store.  Self Defense  Zimmerman, who was legally carrying a firearm, told police
that when he got out of his truck he was confronted and punched
by Martin, and shot him in self defense. The shooting sparked
nationwide protests because it took 44 days for Zimmerman to be
arrested. Martin’s parents, and others, said Zimmerman racially
profiled the black teen.  Zimmerman, who identifies himself as Hispanic, was
acquitted of a second-degree murder charge July 13.  The protests and trial focused attention on Stand Your
Ground laws in Florida and other states that allow the use of
deadly force instead of retreat in public places by people who
fear for their life. In Florida, protesters have occupied
Governor  Rick Scott ’s office for two weeks asking the Republican
to call a special session to rewrite the law. Scott has refused.  In reaction to the case, President  Barack Obama  said last
week that “Trayvon Martin could have been me” and that the
nation needs to do some “soul searching” on race and violence.  Obama said the shooting death of Martin by Zimmerman
provoked “a lot of pain” among blacks because it reminded many
that they often are the targets of suspicion and are vulnerable
to violence.  ‘Includes Me’  “The African-American community is looking at this issue
through a set of experiences and a -- and a history that -- that
doesn’t go away,” the president said July 19 at the White
House. “There are very few African-American men in this country
who haven’t had the experience of being followed when they were
shopping in a department store. That includes me.”  About 200 people filled the hearing room in the Rayburn
House Office building where  Tracy Martin  spoke yesterday, with
another 100 watchers in an overflow room. About two dozen people
stood in the hallway outside the meeting room.  Martin said Obama’s statement was “so important” because
it probably sparked conversations about the issue at dinner
tables around the country.  “The most influential man on the planet is weighing in
from an African American perspective,” Martin said. “It really
touched home.”  Martin started the Trayvon Martin Foundation earlier this
year with Sybrina Fulton, the youth’s mother, to highlight the
effect of violent crimes on families of the victims.  “We want Congress to hear that we are the voice for
Trayvon,” he said. “If there’s something we can do as a
foundation to help other families going through this, we are
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  