-- RBC Cut From Dutch Government-Bond Dealer List Amid Market Exit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-07-25T13:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/rbc-cut-from-dutch-government-bond-dealer-list-amid-market-exit.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the lender
that said yesterday it’s closing its European government-bond
business, was cut from a list of dealers that are able to trade
directly with the Netherlands’ debt office.  The Toronto-based bank was absent from an updated list of
primary dealers received today from the Dutch State Treasury
Agency, which sells bonds on the government’s behalf. The
decision was made by RBC, according to Peter Nijsse, the head of
cash management, issuance and trading at the Dutch debt office.
He declined to comment further on the matter. Louisa Fairman, a
spokeswoman for RBC in London, declined to comment beyond what
the lender said yesterday.  Banks are scaling back in product areas in which they
aren’t leaders, Greenwich Associates said in an annual survey of
U.S. investors published yesterday. Banks including Morgan
Stanley and UBS AG are disposing of assets in fixed-income
trading and seeking to cut costs amid sluggish revenue growth.  “It’s a very competitive market, and unless you have a
large market share it’s a difficult market in which to make
money,” said Chris Wheeler, a bank analyst at Mediobanca SpA in
 London . “Some banks may have looked at this business in the
light of capital requirements and thin margins and taken a
sanguine view that it’s something they don’t have to do.”  RBC remains on the list of gilt-edged market makers in the
U.K. as of today, according to Sarah Ellis, a spokeswoman at the
Debt Management Office in London. It’s still part of  Germany ’s
auction group, according to data on the Bundesbank’s website.  By exiting European government-bond trading, RBC is making
a “tactical adjustment” in its product offering, Gillian
McArdle, a spokeswoman for RBC Capital Markets, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  