-- Redbox Owner Outerwall Falls Most in a Year After Sales Miss
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-26T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/redbox-owner-outerwall-posts-higher-profit-on-sale-of-kiosks.html
Outerwall Inc. (OUTR) , the owner of Redbox
DVD rental machines, tumbled the most in almost a year after
second-quarter revenue fell short of analysts’ estimates as
consumers took out fewer films from kiosks for shorter periods.  Outerwall  declined  13 percent to $56.69 at the close in  New
York , following the company’s earnings release yesterday. The
decline, the steepest since July 27, 2012, pared the stock’s
gain for the year to 9 percent.  Outerwall is developing new automated businesses to
maintain growth as demand slows for its $1-a-day DVD rentals.
The Bellevue, Washington-based company owns 35 percent of Redbox
Instant by Verizon, a streaming and DVD rental service, and is
introducing Rubi kiosks that offer fresh-brewed coffee. It also
will get a boost from Hollywood studios in the third and fourth
quarters as hit movies become available for rental.  “The release slate appears strong, with both box office
revenue and number of titles going to Redbox in the quarter up
year over year for the first time in many quarters,” said
 Michael Olson , an analyst at  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  in  Minneapolis ,
in a research note this week. He rates the shares overweight.  Sales rose 4.1 percent to $554.2 million, below the average
estimate of $564.3 million. Net income jumped 27 percent to
$46.9 million, or $1.64 a share, from $36.9 million, or $1.11 a
share, a year earlier, the company said in a statement. Profit
was boosted by a gain on the sale of some kiosks and a change in
accounting for DVD costs.  For the third quarter, Outerwall forecast adjusted profit
of $1.36 to $1.51 a share on revenue of $604 million to $630
million. Analysts were anticipating $1.63 a share, the average
of 11 estimates, on sales of $614.1 million.  EcoATM Acquisition  The company, which changed its name from Coinstar Inc. in
June, said in a July 24 filing that it completed the $350
million acquisition of EcoATM, a kiosk business that lets
consumers trade in smartphones, tablet computers and MP3 players
for cash. The electronics then are sold to other companies for
refurbishment or recycling.  “We’ve been able to increase our overall customer base
with Redbox, and I think that bodes well for the future,” J.
Scott Di Valerio, Outerwall’s chief executive officer, said
yesterday in an interview. “We’re looking at a solid back-half
of 2013.”  Redbox Instant probably was a beneficiary of  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s
declining mail-order DVD business, which lost 470,000
subscribers in the second quarter, said  Eric Wold , an analyst at
B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco , who has a buy rating on the
stock. The Redbox unit accounts for about 85 percent of the
company’s revenue, Piper Jaffray’s Olson said.  Subscription mail-order services captured 22 percent of the
DVD rental market in the first six months of the year, according
to data from NPD Group, a  Port Washington , New York-based
researcher. That was down from 26 percent a year ago. Kiosk
rentals gained 1 percent to 39 percent of the market, NPD found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  