-- Reed Elsevier Increases Share Buyback After Profit Rises 7%
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-07-25T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/reed-elsevier-profit-rises-7-on-sales-in-risk-solutions-unit.html
Reed Elsevier Plc (REL)  said it will spend
600 million pounds ($922 million) on share buybacks this year
after earnings rose on sales in its risk business, which
includes products for the  insurance industry  to detect fraud.  First-half operating profit, adjusted to exclude the
effects of acquisitions, disposals and one-time items, climbed 7
percent to 592 million pounds, the London-based owner of the
LexisNexis database said in a statement today. Reed spent 300
million pounds buying back shares in the first half.  “This is a good set of results with strong top-line growth
that’s reflective of our strategy as we continue to migrate from
print to electronic,” Chief Executive Officer Erik Engstrom
said in a phone interview.  Engstrom said that 83 percent of  Reed Elsevier ’s revenue
now comes from digital operations and its exhibitions business
and the company will continue to dispose of units that don’t fit
with its strategy for organic growth. The Anglo-Dutch publisher
has been selling trade magazines and other businesses to focus
on electronic data services and research offerings and reduce
dependency on ad revenue.  The shares rose 3.5 percent to 829 pence at 9:24 a.m. in
 London , giving the company a market value of 9.8 billion pounds.  First-half revenue fell 1 percent to 3.03 billion pounds.  Reed Elsevier last month sold its French media unit RBI
France to funds belonging to Edmond de Rothschild Group and BNP
Paribas Developpement. The company sold its Australian media
business in January and the Hollywood trade magazine Variety in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  