-- Repo Market Contracts as Dealers Face More Capital Requirements
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-25T23:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/repo-market-contracts-as-dealers-face-more-capital-requirements.html
The market for borrowing and lending
U.S. government debt, after shrinking 31 percent in the past
five years, risks contracting further as global regulators
consider raising capital and leverage standards for banks.  The 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve
averaged $2.71 trillion a day in repurchase agreements last
month, down from a peak of $4.28 trillion in the first quarter
of 2008, according to Fed data compiled by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets  Association . Combined with
reverse repurchase agreements, the average was $4.82 trillion,
down from $7.02 trillion in the first three months of 2008.  U.S. regulators on July 7 proposed ordering eight of the
largest lenders to hold capital equivalent to 5 percent of
assets at their parent companies and 6 percent at their banking
units, surpassing the 3 percent global minimum that the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision approved to help prevent
another financial crisis. In a repo, a dealer provides
securities as collateral to another in exchange for cash; in a
reverse repo, the opposite takes place.  “‘The proposals for higher capital and lower leverage
won’t eliminate repo, but are factors that will squeeze it,”
 Alex Roever , head of short-term fixed-income strategy at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Chicago , said in a July 23 telephone
interview. “If you are thinking about dealers providing
liquidity to the bond market, then anything that weighs on repo
market is another limiting factor. We already have dealers who
are constrained as far as using their balance sheet to provide
liquidity to the market.”  Leverage Ratios  The push for larger capital cushions and less leverage for
U.S. lenders was followed last week by a proposal from European
regulators for an enhanced leverage ratio to measure equity to
total assets, eschewing formulas that let banks hold less
capital for assets deemed less risky. If the proposals are
incorporated into U.S. regulations, it could cause derivatives,
securities financing transactions and other off-balance-sheet
items to be counted as assets in the leverage ratios, making
repo activity less appealing.  The Basel Committee proposals would disallow the current
practice of banks netting repos against reverse repos, causing
banks’ leverage exposure levels to rise and triggering needs to
cut repo activity. The Basel III requirements for securities
financing transaction would cause repos, reverse repos, margin
and securities lending and borrowing transaction to be reported
on a gross basis, with no provision to net exposure.  Average Rate  Reduced dealer activity in the repurchase-agreement market
has been a contributing factor in driving repo rates down over
the past year, according to Roever.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.046 percent yesterday and has
averaged 0.12 percent this year, according to a GCF repo index
provided on a one-day lag by the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. That compares with a 0.157 percent average over the past
three years. The overnight Treasury general collateral
repurchase agreement rate opened yesterday at 0.07 percent,
according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  In a general collateral repo transaction, the lender of
funds is willing to accept a variety of Treasury, mortgage-backed securities or agency collateral.  Market Volatility  “Liquidity in fixed-income markets could be impaired and
trading volumes would likely fall, particularly for Treasuries
and other low-return-on-asset businesses” if the stronger Basel
III rules are implemented in the U.S., wrote Brian Smedley, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Bank of America Corp.,
in a note published on July 19. “Market volatility would likely
be amplified by the new rules, if and when they take effect, as
the reduced elasticity of bank balance sheets will constrain
their ability to provide liquidity to clients during periods of
financial stress. We would also expect bid-ask spreads to widen
and hedging costs to rise,” he wrote.  In a repurchase agreement, one party provides cash to
another in exchange for a security, and vice versa. Repos are
typically used to finance holdings, meaning movements in the
rates affect the cost of holding the securities in inventory.
The Fed uses the agreements to meet its target interest rate for
overnight loans between banks.  Collateral Netting  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Move  index  surged to 117.89 on July 5, the
highest since December 2010. The gauge, which measures
volatility based on prices of over-the-counter options on
Treasuries maturing in two to 30 years, has averaged 64.8 over
the last year.  Banks have been focused on increasing their highest-quality
capital since 2007 to shore up balance sheets after the global
financial crisis and to meet tougher rules. The focus on
leverage is the latest effort by financial watchdogs to prevent
a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank rescues of 2008.  The most significant impact if the enhanced Basel III
regulations are implemented by U.S. regulators would to the repo
markets, according to JPMorgan, due to the provision disallow
the netting of collateral.  All of “these regulations will affect the repo market as
it essentially changes the entire perspective that you approach
your bank balance sheet,” Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a July 23
telephone interview. “With the new supplementary leverage ratio
is doing is forcing you to look at our balance sheet from the
perspective of return on total assets given it doesn’t apply any
risk weighting. So some of the assets that might have made sense
before, such as repo, might not make sense anymore.”  -With assistance from Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  and Elisa
Martinuzzi in Milan. Editors: Dave Liedtka, Paul Cox  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  