-- Repsol Seeks to Block Chevron Deal With YPF Through World Bank
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-07-25T16:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/repsol-seeks-to-block-chevron-deal-with-ypf-through-world-bank.html
Repsol SA (REP)  is asking a  World Bank 
panel to help prevent  Argentina ’s YPF SA from developing assets
seized from the Spanish oil producer after Chevron Corp. agreed
to invest $1.24 billion in a shale venture in the country.  The request was filed yesterday to the Washington-based
International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes,
asking the arbitrator to instruct Argentina to abstain from
developing strategic YPF assets such as the Vaca Muerta shale
formation, Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix said. The filing
couldn’t immediately be verified on the ICSID website and the
center didn’t respond to an e-mailed request to comment.  Chevron’s plan to tap Vaca Muerta in an accord with YPF
this month comes as Repsol disputes the seizure of its 51
percent stake in the Argentine company by President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government last year. Repsol has another
lawsuit at the ICSID demanding fair compensation for the seizure
of its YPF stake, which came shortly after the Argentine company
announced Vaca Muerta discoveries of at least 23 billion barrels
of oil equivalent.  “We need fair compensation, which is something that, after
15 months, we haven’t seen,” Repsol’s Chief Financial Officer
Miguel Martinez said today in a call with analysts. Chevron is
interfering with Repsol’s compensation by investing in what it
considers illegally confiscated assets, he said.  The claims lack any judicial basis because Repsol never
owned rights over Vaca Muerta, YPF said in an e-mailed response
to questions. Chevron didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  Other Suits  Repsol has separately filed unlawful competition suits
against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Bridas Group that are set to be judged
in  Spain .  Chevron’s investments in Vaca Muerta may reach as much as
$15 billion under the accord with YPF.  Argentina holds the world’s second-largest shale gas
reserves and the fourth-largest for shale oil, according to U.S.
Energy Information Administration data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  