-- Roche First-Half Profit Climbs 10% on Cancer Medicines
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-07-25T15:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/roche-first-half-profit-climbs-10-on-cancer-medicines.html
Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  first-half profit
climbed 10 percent as new breast-tumor drugs Kadcyla and Perjeta
showed signs of being able to fuel growth as the Swiss drugmaker
prepares for lower-priced copies of its main cancer medicines.  Earnings excluding some items, which the company calls core
net income, climbed to 6.65 billion Swiss francs ($7.1 billion),
Basel-based Roche said in a statement today. Earnings per share
on that basis were 7.58 francs, beating the 7.45-franc  average
 of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, is racing
to add new products before cheaper biosimilar copies of its
Rituxan leukemia medicine and the Herceptin breast-tumor
treatment reach the market. Today’s announcement shows the
magnitude of its success in  breast cancer , with second-quarter
sales for Kadcyla, which got U.S. approval in February, reaching
65 million francs, said Fabian Wenner, a Zurich-based analyst
for Kepler Cheuvreux.  “It was a blowout result” for Kadcyla, Wenner said.  First-half revenue climbed 4 percent to 23.3 billion
francs, matching the average estimate. Roche doesn’t report full
quarterly earnings.  Mixed Success  Roche’s success in cancer has been tempered by failures in
other research areas. The company abandoned its most-advanced
experimental diabetes drug over safety concerns this month.
Roche is seriously considering halting its research and
development program for heart and metabolic diseases, Daniel
O’Day, head of the company’s pharmaceutical unit, said in an
interview today.  “It’s still too premature to say what we will do,” O’Day
said. “We are still deciding.”  Practically speaking, Roche has already left the field,
because most development programs with patients have already
been halted, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in an
interview. The question now is whether there’s an opportunity to
get back into the field with drugs in earlier testing stages,
Schwan said.  Roche rose 0.6 percent to close at 234.80 francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 202.7 billion francs. The
stock has returned 32 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  compared with  a 19 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  No Satisfaction  Roche wouldn’t be satisfied to be only a cancer company, he
also said.  Both executives pointed toward programs in central nervous-system disorders such as Alzheimer’s and to an experimental
asthma medication as potential sources of growth outside
oncology. The asthma drug, lebrikizumab, has the potential for
more than $1 billion in peak annual sales, Schwan said.  Meanwhile, Roche will consider takeovers, with a “focus on
bolt-on acquisitions,” Schwan said on a conference call with
reporters.  The company has sought financing for a potential takeover
of  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) , people with knowledge of the
situation said earlier this month. Alexion makes orphan drugs,
medicines for small groups of patients with few options for
treatment. Buying the Cheshire, Connecticut-based company, which
had a market value of about $20 billion before a Bloomberg News
report of the financing talks, would give Roche control of its
drug Soliris, a therapy to treat two rare blood diseases which
can cost as much as $400,000 a year per patient.  Niche Drugs  Schwan declined to comment today on Alexion or on the field
of orphan drugs, of which Roche is the second-largest producer,
according to O’Day. That takes into account the small patient
groups that take Roche’s blood cancer drug Rituxan, O’Day said.  Orphan drugs fit with Roche’s focus on innovative medicines
designed to address the genetic basis of diseases, O’Day said,
speaking broadly about the field and not specifically about
Alexion.  “We’re not discouraged at all about smaller subsets of
patients,” the pharmaceutical director said.  Sales of Rituxan, the company’s top-selling drug, were
little changed at 1.7 billion francs at constant exchange rates
in the second quarter, while Herceptin sales were little changed
at 1.51 billion francs. Copies of the two products may begin to
reach the market in 2015, according to  Timothy Anderson , a New
York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Roche said today it believes Rituxan biosimilars won’t go
on sale until 2016.  The company today confirmed the 2013 forecasts it gave in
January, including an increase in sales at constant exchange
rates in line with last year’s pace. Sales climbed  4 percent 
last year on that basis. Roche also aims for core earnings per
share to grow faster than sales.  The drugmaker said yesterday that the experimental leukemia
drug GA101 beat Rituxan in a clinical trial, positioning it as a
successor to the older treatment. Roche has submitted GA101 for
regulatory approval in the U.S., and expects a decision by the
end of the year.  For Related News and Information:
Roche Said to Seek Financing for Possible Alexion Acquisition  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  