-- Roesler Seeks Market Systems to Curb Germany’s Clean Power Cost
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-07-25T07:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/roesler-seeks-market-systems-to-curb-germany-s-clean-power-cost.html
Germany  should introduce incentives
so owners of clean-energy plants sell power when it’s needed
instead of raking in aid and inflating consumer bills, Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said.  Owners of renewable generators may get a fixed payment on
top of what they make from having to sell power on the market,
Roesler said in an interview in Berlin. The payment would be a
first step to replace feed-in tariffs that guarantee state aid
for 20 years with fixed levels of renewable generation under a
plan by his Free Democratic Party, he said yesterday.  The proposed system would “act as an incentive to produce
differently or bank on storage systems,” he said. Developers
can make more money selling when other renewable plants don’t
produce and prices on power exchanges are higher.  Germany’s plan to triple the share of renewables in its
power mix and replace nuclear capacity helped drive up energy
costs ahead of the election Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is preparing for in September. The nation had the
third-highest consumer power prices in the European Union in
2012, behind only Denmark and Cyprus, according to Eurostat.  Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy have seen bills climb
this year after a fee they pay for renewables jumped 47 percent
to a record. The fee is inflated in part by an oversupply of
clean energy during the day, which depresses prices at power
exchanges.  While Roesler said he opposes retroactive changes to the
country’s subsidy payment system, Germany needs a “fundamental
reform,” of the EEG law that’s expected to generate costs of
about 20 billion euros ($26.4 billion) this year, he said.  The FDP’s proposal of fixed levels of generation “would
for the first time put individual generation sources in
competition with each other while taking into account their
production costs,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  