-- Roesler Says No Shortcuts to Easing Greece Debt Load
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-07-25T08:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/roesler-says-no-shortcuts-to-easing-greece-debt-load.html
Germany ’s Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler ruled out another debt cut for  Greece , saying that
 Europe ’s largest economy can better aid Greeks by helping to
modernize their country’s energy infrastructure.  Maintaining the pressure that comes from Greece’s
“enormous” debt load is needed to ensure the country
implements the economic policy changes required to render it
competitive, Roesler, who is also German economy minister, said
in an interview in Berlin yesterday.  “We do not need another haircut in Greece because I think
they are very successful in their budget consolidation, in
raising their export rates,” Roesler, 40, said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “The discussion about a haircut
is not good for Greece, is not good for the  euro zone .”  Greece, which in 2010 became the first euro-area country to
request outside aid, is struggling to return to growth even
after two bailout packages totaling 240 billion euros ($318
billion) and a cut in its debt load of about 100 billion euros.
Creditors see Greece’s public debt peaking at 175.6 percent of
gross domestic product this year and dropping below 120 percent
of GDP by 2021.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said during a
visit to  Athens  on July 18 that “other measures” will be
considered next year if Greece implements the steps required and
achieves a primary surplus. That echoed a Nov. 27 decision by
euro-region finance ministers to “consider further measures and
assistance.”  Solar Power  “The debt in Greece is still huge and shows that they
still have a long way to go,” Roesler said in a separate
Bloomberg News interview yesterday. “Nevertheless, a shortcut
wouldn’t be the solution, it would make the way only longer.”  Germany is willing to help as part of a three-stage process
in which beneficiary countries stop piling up new debt and
change their policies before receiving outside help, he said,
citing  Spain  as an example of the success of the approach.  He cited storable concentrated solar power as a field of
cooperation that would benefit Greece, where electricity is
often generated by diesel-powered plants to supply consumers on
the country’s more than 1,000 islands.  “A smart energy infrastructure helps the real economy,”
he said.  Roesler, the leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner, clashed with Merkel in
September 2011 when he said that an orderly Greek insolvency
shouldn’t be taboo. He subsequently defeated a rebel faction in
the FDP that wanted the party to vote against aid to Greece and
other troubled euro countries.  ‘Mixed Experiences’  Roesler led a business delegation to Athens in October 2011
that was criticized by the opposition and media for failing to
yield concrete results. “Mixed experiences” with his Greek
counterparts in the previous government are now a thing of the
past, he said, acknowledging progress made in cutting labor
costs and privatizing state-owned companies.  “Sound fiscal policy in Greece on the one hand and
structural reforms to strengthen competitiveness: that would be
the right way out,” Roesler said. “There is no shortcut like
bailout or haircuts,” nor printing money, which has failed to
bolster economies seeking to escape their malaise, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  