-- Rolls-Royce CEO Sharpens Cost Focus as Sales Help Profit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-25T09:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/rolls-royce-profit-rises-on-airliner-engine-sales-growth.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  Chief
Executive Officer John Rishton said he wants to halt a sustained
increase in costs to bring profit in line with competitors.  “It is quite clear that the controls around costs haven’t
been what they should be,” Rishton told reporters today.
Spending increases have outpaced revenue growth, he said.  Cash conservation also needs to improve after the aircraft-engine manufacturer, the world’s second biggest, recorded an
outflow of 461 million pounds ($705 million) in the first half,
as “if we don’t we will struggle to pay for the investments in
new facilities, new products, and people,” Rishton said on a
conference call.  Rolls-Royce has made boosting profitability one of its
focus areas as it tries to translate growth, particularly in
commercial aerospace, into earnings that match the performance
of companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) , the airliner-engine
industry leader. London-based Rolls-Royce is looking to double
revenue in the next decade.  “These are hard and difficult issues to address and will
take time,” Rishton said. “We have opportunities across the
entire company.”  Rolls-Royce  rose  as much as 5.1 percent, the most in a
year, to 1,240 pence in London trading after reporting first-half underlying pretax profit rose 34 percent. The stock was 3.6
percent higher as of 10:03 a.m., valuing the company at 23
billion pounds.  Limiting Hiring  The pace of  hiring  should be moderated, and more engineers
have been deployed to examine how products can be made more
cheaply while retaining quality, Rishton said. Supplier
relations also are being reviewed.  Inventory needs to be controlled more tightly after levels
increased by 261 million pounds in the first six months, which
Rishton said  “was disappointing.”  Rolls-Royce has focused its commercial-aircraft engine
business on powering long-range planes. Sales have gained as
Toulouse, France-based  Airbus SAS (EAD)  has brought output of A330
wide-body airliners to a record and  Boeing Co. (BA)  boosts production
of the 787 Dreamliner, a market the engine producer shares with
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric.  First-half pretax profit excluding currency effects and
some one-time items increased to 840 million pounds from 628
million pounds a year earlier, Rolls said today in a statement.
Earnings beat the 828.8 million-pound average  estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Underlying revenue advanced 27
percent to 7.3 billion pounds, matching analysts’ projections.  Margin Increases  The return on sales widened to 11.9 percent from 11.4
percent a year earlier, Rolls-Royce said. The order backlog
increased 15 percent to 69.2 billion pounds.  Rolls-Royce’s reorganization to boost profitability has
included ceasing some activities, such as a decision announced
in April to sell the company’s stake in its RTM322 helicopter-engine joint venture to partner  Safran SA (SAF)  for 293 million euros
($386 million).  Results in the first half reflected the inclusion of the
Tognum diesel-engine joint venture with  Daimler AG (DAI) , where
underlying revenue and profit are expected to remain flat,
Rolls-Royce said.  The company maintained its forecast for the year for
“modest” revenue growth, excluding the Tognum figures, and a
“good” increase in profit on an underlying basis, which
excludes currency effects and some one-time items including
pension costs and acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  