-- Ronaldinho Completes Trophy Sweep With Copa Libertadores
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-25T07:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/ronaldinho-completes-trophy-sweep-with-copa-libertadores.html
Ronaldinho,  Brazil ’s two-time former
world player of the year, yesterday added the Copa Libertadores
to his trophy haul after Atletico Mineiro claimed South
America’s top club soccer title for the first time with a 4-3
penalty shootout win over  Paraguay ’s Olimpia.  Atletico was trailing 2-0 from last week’s first game going
into last night’s match at Belo Horizonte’s Mineiro Stadium,
where it received fanatical support. The Brazilian team tied the
two-match series when Leonardo Silva scored with a header with
just two minutes of regulation time left. Extra time ended
without score and the hosts secured the title when Olimpia’s
Matias Gimenez struck the post with his penalty.  The title is the first for Ronaldinho since he returned to
play soccer in his home country in 2011. During 10 seasons in
 Europe  the 33-year-old, a World Cup winner in 2002, established
himself as one of soccer’s best-known players, winning league
titles with AC Milan and Barcelona, the Spanish team with whom
he also claimed the 2006 Champions League.  “I have no words to describe Ronaldinho,” Atletico
forward Bernard said in an interview after the game. “He
deserves everything that’s come his way.”  The South American championship title, Atletico’s first
major trophy since 1971, caps a turnaround for Ronaldinho, who
had endured a difficult return to Brazil with Flamengo. His stay
there ended after just 15 months following a wage dispute and in
May he was left off the national team roster for the
Confederations Cup, a  World Cup  warm-up event that Brazil won
last month.  Best Player  He’s proven a hit with fans and teammates at Atletico after
winning the award for the best player in the 2012 Brazilian
league. The Libertadores victory makes him only the fourth
player to claim the top continental titles in Europe and South
America as well as the World Cup.  “He’s always trying to help everyone, he’s always smiling
and happy, and God is blessing him with the things he
deserves,” said Bernard, who may have played his last game for
the team. The winger has been linked with a number of clubs,
including Arsenal and Tottenham of  England ’s Premier League.  Atletico’s comeback last night was in keeping with its
performances in the Copa Libertadores,  Latin America ’s
equivalent of the  Champions League . It fought back after losing
2-0 in the first game of the semifinal against  Argentina ’s
Newell’s Old Boys before winning the match on penalty kicks.
Before that goalkeeper Victor’s injury-time penalty-save
prevented elimination to  Mexico ’s Tijuana in the quarterfinals.
The stirring comebacks led fans and media to coin the slogan
“Yes we CAM,’ a play on the team’s initials.  Qualification for the final led to a frenzied demand for
tickets, with some fans camping outside ticket booths following
the victory over Newell’s on June 10. Fireworks were set off
throughout the day in anticipation of the game, and some
supporters even spent the night before the game making noise
outside the Olimpia team hotel. Tickets cost as much as 500
reais ($222.60), about five times the price of a regular league
game. The total take from the 58,620 spectators was 14.2 million
reais, a record for a club match in  South America .  Burning Feet  Olimpia, a three-time Libertadores winner, was rarely
troubled in cagey opening by Atletico and should have been in
front when Fredy Bareiro missed the best chance of the first
half when he shot straight at Victor.  ‘‘There were moments when the team played well and moments
when the ball seemed to be burning at the feet of the players,”
Atletico coach Cuca said. He said he spent most of the week
working on his team’s emotional state after it conceded an
injury-time goal in last week’s 2-0 loss.  His team got a break within two minutes of the restart when
Wilson Pittoni missed the ball at the far post to allow Jo to
score from close range. Firecrackers and flares greeted that
strike and  Atletico  pushed for a tying goal. It was almost
caught on the break when in the 82nd minute Juan Carlos Ferreyra
went around goalkeeper Victor before tripping with the goal at
his mercy. Defender Julio Cesar Manzur was sent off shortly
after and with time running out Silva looped in a header off
Bernard’s cross.  Rever headed against the bar, and Pittoni narrowly missed
with a freekick before Jo squandered the chance to win the match
in extra time. As the match reached penalties, several players
and fans knelt in prayer. Victor saved Olimpia’s opening penalty
from Herminio Miranda and every player scored until Gimenez’s
had his turn. His miss was the cue brought cheers and tears as
several spectators celebrated.  “Today was very tense,” said Cuca, who cut his post-match
press conference short after being drenched with bucket full of
ice cold water and champagne by his team. “The players are
human beings they felt this obligation to make all these fans
happy.”  Fans celebrated into the early morning, letting off more
fireworks, blaring music, chanting team songs and tooting car
horns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  