-- Tropical Storm Dorian Moves West Across the Atlantic Ocean
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-07-25T10:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/tropical-storm-dorian-moves-west-across-the-atlantic-ocean.html
Tropical Storm Dorian strengthened
as it moved across the Atlantic on a westward path that may take
it into the  Caribbean Sea , according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center.  Dorian, with maximum sustained winds of 60 miles (95
kilometers) per hour, was about 700 miles west of the Cape Verde
Island and moving west-northwest at 17 mph, according to a
 center advisory  before 5 a.m.  New York  time.  The center forecasts little change in Dorian’s strength for
the next 48 hours, the advisory shows. The storm may gradually
turn west through tomorrow, the center said.  Dorian is the fourth tropical storm of the Atlantic season,
which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. It’s ahead of schedule:
from 1966 to 2009, the fourth system typically formed by Aug.
23, according to the hurricane center.  Weather models are in good agreement that Dorian will
continue to move west, Stacy Stewart, a senior specialist at the
center in Miami, said yesterday. Forecast maps, which project
only five days ahead, show it tracking north of  Puerto Rico  or
over the island by July 29.  The storm may encounter wind shear, cooler ocean water and
dry air, which may rob it of strength or tear at its structure.  U.S. Threat  If Dorian can hold together as it crosses the Atlantic,
there’s a possibility it may bring wind and rain to the U.S.
South or the Bahamas early next week, Michael Schlacter, founder
and president of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York, said yesterday.  “It does have some hoops to fly through,” Schlacter said
by phone. “If we get past 96 hours and it’s still some sort of
system, then all of a sudden things will start to become clear
to people. There’s a built-in risk of an anticlimax here because
it is off of  Africa . We have a long, long time to watch this.”  Atlantic systems are followed by commodities traders
because they can affect oil and natural gas production as well
as orange crops.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output and 23 percent of oil production and more
than 40 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  