-- Russian Growth Forecasts Trimmed as Recession Risks Rise
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-07-25T16:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/russian-growth-forecasts-trimmed-as-recession-risks-rise.html
Russia’s economy will probably grow
less than previously forecast from April to September as risks
mount of a recession in the world’s largest energy exporter.  Gross domestic product will advance 3 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter compared with 2 percent in the
second, the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.
That’s down from 3.1 percent and 2.1 percent in June’s poll.
There’s a 30 percent chance of a recession next year, up from 20
percent a month ago, according to a survey of 13 economists.  Russia’s cabinet today approved measures to revive the
economy after growth slowed to half last year’s pace in the
first six months. The higher risk of a contraction stems from
the government’s lagging response to the slowdown and dangers in
the global economy, according to Otkritie Financial Corp.  “They needed to implement more active steps earlier,”
Vladimir Tikhomirov, Otkritie’s Moscow-based chief economist,
said by phone. “Anything they do will have a lag so we may see
a recession.”  Russian stocks have underperformed global peers in 2013,
with the dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  falling 11 percent
compared with an 8.9 percent decline in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index. The S&P 500 Index has advanced 18 percent.  Investment Declines  Investment contracted 3.7 percent from a year earlier in
June, the biggest decline since February 2010, according to the
Federal Statistics Service. GDP growth slowed to 1.7 percent in
the first half, down from 3.4 percent last year, according to
Economy Ministry estimates.  “June data were again disappointing, with investment and
construction negative and industrial production and transport
stagnant,” Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk, economists at
Morgan Stanley, said in a note to clients today.  Corporate profits have tumbled “catastrophically” this
year and are down by more than a quarter, Economy Minister
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said during the meeting today. That’s damaging
budget revenue as well as companies’ ability to finance
themselves, he said.  With unemployment rising for a third month in June and
signs that the economy is now growing below capacity, an
“opportunity has arisen” for fiscal and monetary stimulus,
according to Ulyukayev, a former central bank first deputy
chairman.  Stimulus Productive  “That has ceased to be counterproductive, and it is now
even becoming productive,” said Ulyukayev, who had argued
against short-term stimulus before leaving the monetary
authority last month. “But we need to understand that all of
these natural limitations continue to have their effect.”  The economy is growing too slowly to achieve the
government’s goals, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said at the
meeting. Making loans more readily available to small and
medium-sized businesses and stimulating investment are important
to a turnaround, he said.  The central bank left its main lending rates unchanged for
a 10th month in July, introducing a new type of loan that VTB
Capital said may have a greater effect on borrowing costs than a
quarter-point cut to existing rates.  While inflation remains above this year’s target range of 5
percent to 6 percent, central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina 
told President Vladimir Putin yesterday that policy makers
“hope” it will fall to within the goal by year-end. The bank
meets next on rates on Aug. 9.  Railroad Upgrade  Nabiullina helped draft the government plan to jumpstart
the economy before leaving as Putin’s economic aide to head the
central bank last month. Putin will lead a meeting tomorrow on
investment in infrastructure, including a planned reconstruction
of the Trans-Siberian Railroad, the Kremlin said today in an e-mailed statement.  The projects, which also include a high-speed rail link
between Moscow and Kazan, may be financed with as much as 450
billion rubles from the National Wellbeing Fund, Putin said in a
speech in June.  Today’s package includes measures to reduce the cost of
bank loans by cutting banks’ administrative expenses and
offering greater protection to creditors seeking to recover
collateral. If fully implemented, the steps may shave 2
percentage points off the cost of loans for low-risk borrowers,
according to Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev.  Bank Rossii is counting on Putin’s decision to contain
price increases at state-run natural monopolies as it seeks to
slow inflation next year to a range of 4 percent to 5 percent,
according to Nabiullina.  Consumer-price growth will probably fall into this year’s
target by September, prompting the central bank to make a first
quarter-point cut followed by one more reduction before year-end, according to Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  