-- Europe’s Safest Bank Shows S&P Fading Role in Funding Debate
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-07-26T05:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/s-p-loses-clout-as-investors-reward-risk-model-at-safest-eu-bank.html
Investors are ignoring criticism
from Standard & Poor’s that  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  is too
reliant on short-term funding as bonds sold by the European
Union’s best-capitalized bank rally.  Since S&P’s July 19 warning, the yield on Handelsbanken’s
4.194 percent perpetual bond eased to its lowest since the
middle of June. Five-year credit default swaps on its senior
unsecured debt were unchanged at 65 basis points, a few basis
points lower than contracts on the governments of Japan and
 France , suggesting a smaller risk of default. The bank’s shares
have gained 5.5 percent since the end of last week, beating a
2.5 percent gain in the 40-member Bloomberg index of European
banks.  “Handelsbanken’s model is essentially unchanged over 40
years and is tried and tested,”  Nick Anderson , an analyst at
Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG in  London , said by phone. “I
trust Handelsbanken, but can’t say the same about many European
banks. Handelsbanken manages for risk; most European banks
manage for regulation.”  Focus on short-term funding reliance has grown since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. crippled the wholesale
lending market almost five years ago. The ensuing panic helped
bring down the entire financial system in Iceland as banks
stopped lending to each other. In  Sweden , a lack of short-term
dollar funds in 2008 forced the Riksbank to provide as much as
$30 billion to support the nation’s biggest banks.  Deposit Funding  S&P said last week it may downgrade Handelsbanken’s AA-issuer rating unless the bank takes steps to wean itself off
short-term wholesale funding. Swedish banks in general rely too
much on short borrowing compared with their peers in the rest of
the world, the rating company said.  Yet  Europe ’s debt crisis has shown  bank deposits  can
disappear as quickly as wholesale funding, Anderson said.  Deposits “are only sticky until you need them to be,” he
said. Handelsbanken “instead favors wholesale funding with
known maturities. I think conventional deposit-funded banks are
more reliant on short-term funding than Handelsbanken.”  The bank, based in  Stockholm , said it plans to “sit down”
with S&P and explain its model.  “We’ll hopefully straighten out the question marks they
have about our short-term funding,” Henrik Westman, a spokesman
for Handelsbanken in Stockholm, said in an interview. “I don’t
want to speculate what that work will result in, but
Handelsbanken is one of the world’s strongest banks. The market
seems to take this calmly and our funding costs are still very
low.”  Lower Yield  The yield on Handelsbanken’s perpetual bond traded at 3.57
percent yesterday, according to composite Bloomberg bond trader
prices. The day before S&P’s downgrade warning, the yield was at
3.65 percent.  After the liquidity crisis that followed  Lehman Brothers ’s
failure, and Swedish bank losses in the Baltics in 2009, Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldtimposed some of the world’s strictest
capital rules on his nation’s banks.  Sweden’s biggest banks have spent the past few years
building bigger reserves than their competitors elsewhere.
Handelsbanken is now the best-capitalized major bank in the EU,
with a core Tier 1 capital ratio of risk-weighted assets of 17.8
percent at the end of June. It was also Europe’s strongest
lender and No. 11 globally on a Bloomberg Markets ranking in May
that looked at measures such as  capital ratios , non-performing
assets and deposit-to-funding ratios.  Hedging Risks  Yet Handelsbanken is more reliant on short-term funds than
its Swedish peers. At the end of June, 27 percent of its issued
securities were shorter than three months, while a further 23
percent had a maturity of between three and 12 months. At
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , 11 percent of securities were shorter than three
months and 19 percent were due in between three and 12 months.  Finance Minister Anders Borgand central bank Governor
Stefan Ingveshave repeatedly urged Handelsbanken,  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , Swedbank and SEB AB to curtail their short-term borrowing in
foreign currencies, even warning banks may have to help pay for
central bank reserves needed to hedge the risks they create.  In its report, S&P said it was “increasingly concerned
that government support would not fully mitigate the risks
associated” with Handelsbanken’s high share of short-term
funding. The rating company also said the bank’s efforts to
improve its funding balance were behind those of both
international and domestic peers.  Stress Test  Sweden’s banks have used short-term funds to help build
liquidity buffers to comply with national rules introduced in
January. The nation’s four biggest banks all passed a 2012
central bank stress test gauging their ability to handle
liquidity outflows during 30 days of turmoil.  Still, the Riksbank cautions against complacency. The bank,
whose Governor Ingves is also the head of the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , said in a May 27  report  that while Swedish
banks have had cheap access to liquidity, lenders should build
models that are sustainable during periods of market turmoil.  “Some of the investors that buy the banks’ certificates
have in periods been volatile and pulled away during times of
financial stress,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  