-- SABMiller Quarterly Beer Sales Fall on Wet European Weather
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-25T11:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sabmiller-quarterly-sales-miss-estimates-on-wet-european-weather.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-biggest brewer, reported quarterly sales unexpectedly declined
as cold, rainy weather caused customers in Europe and China to
drink less beer than anticipated.  The quantity of lager sold fell 1 percent, excluding
acquisitions and disposals, London-based SABMiller said today in
a  statement . Analysts had expected growth of 2 percent,
according to the median of 14  estimates  compiled by  Bloomberg
News . No analysts had expected a decline in sales. The shares
fell as much as 4 percent in London trading.  “Growth was held back by unseasonably cold and wet
conditions in many of our northern hemisphere markets, which
negatively impacted beer consumption,” Chief Executive Officer
Alan Clark said in the statement.  Brewers are seeking expansion in  developing countries  as
competition from wine and spirits as well as economic stagnation
in Europe and the U.S. hold back growth. SABMiller is the brewer
with the largest emerging-market footprint compared with main
competitors  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   The company’s shares  were down 3.7 percent at 3,120.50
pence at 12:19 p.m. in London, giving the company a market value
of 50 billion pounds ($76.4 billion).  Czech Flooding  Total so-called organic revenue increased 2 percent.  Lager sales plunged 7 percent in Europe because of bad
weather and “continuing weakness in  consumer confidence ” in
countries including the Czech Republic, where flooding shut bars
and restaurants. That was worse than the 3 percent drop
estimated by analysts.  Cold weather in China also weighed on sales, which edged up
2 percent. A 1 percent decline in Indian volumes and the
discontinuation of sales of some licensed brands in Australia
restrained overall growth at the Asia Pacific unit to 1 percent,
less than analysts’ estimate of 5 percent.  “The first-quarter update reveals worsening trends in a
number of SAB’s markets with no indication of an impending
rebound,” Eddy Hargreaves, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity,
wrote today in a note.  SABMiller is seeking to improve profitability this year as
it introduces new products and cuts costs through measures
including more efficient purchasing. It said in May it plans to
invest about $1.7 billion this year to expand capacity in  Latin
America , the company’s biggest region, and  Africa , where
economic growth is spurring a boom in beer demand.  Africa Advance  Revenue and volumes rose in Africa, aided by sales of
premium brand Castle Light in Tanzania. The amount of lager sold
in Latin America increased 2 percent while revenue rose 6
percent, aided by price increases in Colombia and Peru.  U.S. sales to retailers at the MillerCoors unit fell 4.4
percent and revenue fell 3 percent due to cool weather and
declines in sales of Coors Light and  Miller Lite .  The company said its underlying financial performance is in
line with its forecasts. It expects the depreciation of “key
currencies” against the  U.S. dollar , in which it reports
results, to adversely affect reported earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  