-- SAC Sued by Elan Investors Over Alleged Illegal Trading
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-25T06:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sac-sued-by-elan-investors-over-alleged-illegal-trading.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP and its
founder  Steven A. Cohen  were sued by another group of Elan Corp.
investors seeking to recoup money SAC allegedly made from
illegally trading the company’s securities.  SAC’s agreement in March to settle Securities and Exchange
Commission claims disgorged only a fraction of the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund’s gains from  insider trading  of
securities of companies including Elan, according to the
investors’ complaint filed in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday.  SAC, which may be charged by U.S. prosecutors as early as
today as part of an insider-trading probe according to a person
familiar with the matter, agreed to disgorge $275 million as
part of its settlement without admitting or denying the SEC’s
allegations. The new complaint is at least the third such
lawsuit since former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was
charged with insider trading in November.  SAC gained $549 million from the illegal trading in  Elan (ELN) 
securities, according to the investors’ complaint. The investors
are seeking to recoup those gains, as well as $396 million in
prejudgment interest, less $260 million SAC paid the SEC, for a
net amount of $686 million, according to the complaint.  A public pension fund holding Wyeth LLC shares sued in
April with similar claims and another group of Elan investors
filed a similar suit in December.  SAC spokesman Jonathan Gasthalter didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment after normal business
hours. He has previously said that the $14 billion hedge fund
and Cohen acted appropriately in connection with the Elan and
Wyeth trades.  The case is Adams v. S.A.C Capital Advisors LP. 13-CV-5181.
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  