-- SAC Capital Indicted For Unprecedent Insider Trading Scam
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-07-25T21:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sac-capital-indicted-in-six-year-u-s-insider-probe.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the
$14 billion hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen , was indicted
for perpetrating what prosecutors called an unprecedented
insider trading scheme that was revealed as part of the
government’s six-year crackdown on Wall Street crime.  The case against the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm is
the most significant to be brought by the U.S. since former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  was charged with
insider trading in October 2011. Gupta, convicted in  New York 
federal court last year, was sentenced to two years in prison.  SAC was charged with four counts of securities fraud and
one count of  wire fraud  in an indictment unsealed in  Manhattan 
federal court. The alleged scheme, which involved more than 20
companies and went back as far as 1999, helped reap hundreds of
millions of dollars in illicit profits, the U.S. said. The
charges and related regulatory action may result in the firm’s
dissolution.  “When so many people from a single hedge fund have engaged
in  insider trading , it is not a coincidence,” Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said. “Today’s indictment is not just a
narrative of names and numbers, it is more broadly an account of
a firm with zero tolerance for low returns but seemingly
tremendous tolerance for questionable conduct,” he said. “So
SAC, over time, became a veritable magnet for market cheaters.”  While he declined to comment on the possibility of charges
against Cohen, Bharara said the investigation was “ongoing.”
He also said the government isn’t “restraining” SAC assets.  “I’m not going to say what tomorrow may or may not
bring,” he said at a press conference today in lower Manhattan.  ’Institutional Practices’  In the indictment, the government said that SAC’s insider
trading was “made possible by institutional practices that
encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside
information. Unlawful conduct by individual employees and an
institutional indifference to that unlawful conduct resulted in
insider trading that was substantial, pervasive and on a scale
without known precedent in the hedge fund industry.”  “SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider
trading and takes its compliance and management obligations
seriously,” said Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the hedge
fund, in an e-mailed statement. He said the “handful of men”
implicated in wrongdoing at the firm doesn’t reflect on its
other employees. “SAC will continue to operate as we work
through these matters.”  Second E-Mail  In a second e-mail today, Gasthalter said the charges won’t
“affect the ongoing operations of SAC’s business, prevent
investor redemptions, or impact the interests of any of SAC’s
counterparties.”  An initial hearing in the case is scheduled for tomorrow
before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan.  There was no unusual price movement or volume in stocks
where SAC Capital holds the biggest percentage of shares
outstanding. Banks including Deutsche Bank AG and New York-based
Goldman Sachs were debating whether to suspend doing business
with the hedge fund, which has been one of Wall Street’s biggest
trading clients, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Spokespeople for the biggest Wall Street banks declined to
comment on whether they had come to a decision.  While Cohen, 57, wasn’t charged in the indictment,
prosecutors described him as “the fund owner” and said he
“encouraged” SAC employees to obtain trading information from
company insiders while ignoring indications that it was illegal.  The U.S. described separate insider trading schemes by at
least eight former SAC fund managers and analysts, including
Noah Freeman, Donald Longueuil, Jon Horvath, Wesley Wang, Mathew Martoma, Richard Choo-Beng Lee and Michael Steinberg.  Richard Lee  Prosecutors added an additional SAC fund manager to the
roster today, saying that Richard Lee, a former SAC portfolio
manager who worked at the firm until March 2013, pleaded guilty
to insider trading charges on July 23. His lawyer said he’s
cooperating with the U.S.  Prosecutors said Lee focused on “special situations”
including mergers and acquisitions, private equity buy-outs, and
corporate restructurings in publicly-traded companies.  Martoma and Steinberg, who are charged with engaging in
separate insider trading schemes in 2008, have both pleaded not
guilty and face trial in November.  Freeman, Horvath and Wang have pleaded guilty to federal
securities fraud charges and are cooperating with the U.S.
Longueuil pleaded guilty to insider-trading, but isn’t
cooperating.  Nonpublic Information  The U.S. today alleged SAC’s fund’s owner traded after
getting what prosecutors said was nonpublic information from an
analyst in late August 2008. Prosecutors said the fund owner
sold his entire position, about $12.5 million in  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
after receiving an advance tip from Horvath that the computer
maker was announce disappointing quarterly earnings.  SAC employed practices that encouraged its portfolio
managers and research analysts “to pursue industry contact
networks to obtain an information ‘edge’ unavailable to other
investors, without effective corresponding controls to prevent
that ‘edge’ from consisting of inside information,” the U.S.
said.  SAC’s owner “fostered a culture that focused on not
discussing inside information too openly, rather than not
seeking or trading on such information in the first place,” the
U.S. alleged.  Citadel  The fund hired Richard Lee, who had a reputation of working
at an “insider trading group” while working as a portfolio
manager at another hedge fund, the U.S. alleged. That fund was
Citadel LLC, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  Lee, who went on to manage a $1.25 billion portfolio at
SAC, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities fraud , the U.S.
said. Lee admitted that in 2009, he got advance information
about  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and 3Com Corp., generating more than $1.5
million in profits, according to a related Securities and
Exchange Commission complaint.  “Richard Lee has accepted responsibility for his prior
conduct and is cooperating with the government and looks forward
to moving past this episode in his life,” Lee’s lawyer, Richard
Owens, a partner at Latham & Watkins LLP, said in a telephone
interview.  Citadel said today in an e-mailed statement that Lee was
employed there between January 2006 and April 2008.  “Citadel does not have, and never has had, an ‘insider
trading group,’” the company said in its statement. “Citadel
has strict rules against, and oversight designed to prevent,
insider trading.”  Cited Example  Prosecutors cited an example of SAC’s alleged propensity
for ignoring the provenance of information from July 29, 2009,
when a newly hired fund manager sent an instant message to
“SAC’s owner” and relayed that after “recent research” he
planned to short Nokia Corp. when he started working at the firm
10 days.  The new hire later apologized for being cryptic, and added
that he’d just received training from SAC’s compliance
department, the government said.  Today’s charges aren’t the first time Bharara has sought
charges against a business. In February 2012, his office charged
Wegelin & Co., Switzerland’s oldest private bank, for helping
U.S. taxpayers hide assets from the  Internal Revenue Service .
Wegelin pleaded guilty and was ordered to pay almost $58
million.  The SAC indictment, and a related SEC administrative
action, may put the hedge fund out of business.  Forfeiture  SAC must forfeit “all property, real and personal, which
constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the
commission of those offenses,” the government said in a
parallel civil action filed today.  Bharara’s office alleged SAC engaged in money laundering of
illicit profits which were comingled with the firm’s capital and
used to pay bonuses. Prosecutors declined to specify how much
money they may seek.  Cohen is worth about $9 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . He is also one of the world’s biggest art
collectors, with works by  Van Gogh , Manet, de Kooning, Picasso,
Cezanne, Warhol, Johns and Richter.  Average Returns  Since he started his hedge fund, Cohen has achieved average
annual returns of 30 percent, with just one money-losing year:
2008, when his main fund tumbled 19 percent.  The SEC, in its administrative action on July 19, accused
Cohen of failing to supervise two portfolio managers who both
face insider trading charges.  While the agency stopped short of accusing Cohen of insider
trading himself, the SEC alleged he received “highly
suspicious” information and ignored “red flags” that should
have caused any reasonable hedge-fund manager to investigate the
basis for trades made by SAC employees Martoma and Steinberg.  Those trades helped the hedge fund earn profits and avoided
losses of more than $275 million in 2008, the SEC said.  Martoma, 39, was charged in November by Bharara as part of
the most lucrative insider trading scheme in history.
Prosecutors said Martoma helped SAC reap hundreds of millions of
dollars in illegal profits on tips provided by a doctor about a
clinical trial about an Alzheimer’s drug being developed by
Wyeth LLC and  Elan Corp. (ELN)   Not Guilty  Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty, is scheduled to go to
trial in Manhattan federal court on Nov. 4.  While Cohen wasn’t charged with Martoma, that case was the
first to link Cohen directly to alleged inside information.  According to the U.S., Martoma learned on July 17, 2008,
that test results of an experimental Alzheimer’s treatment from
Dublin-based Elan and Madison, New Jersey-based Wyeth were worse
than the market anticipated, and that those results would be
made public at the end of that month.  Prosecutors said that on July 20 of that year, Martoma e-mailed the “hedge fund owner,” otherwise unidentified in last
year’s indictment, stating it was “important” that they talk.
Martoma said he was no longer “comfortable” with the fund’s
long position on the two stocks.  The U.S. said that same day the two men had a 20-minute
telephone call. A person familiar with the case said Cohen is
the hedge fund owner referred to by the U.S.  Separate Scheme  In a separate scheme, Steinberg, 41, was indicted in March
for insider trading in Dell Inc. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in 2008 and
2009, based on illicit tips funneled to him by his analyst, Jon Horvath. Steinberg is accused of earning $1.4 million in illegal
profits for SAC.  Steinberg, who pleaded not guilty to securities fraud and
conspiracy, was the most senior SAC official to be charged by
the U.S. He is scheduled to go to trial in federal court in New
York on Nov. 18. Horvath has pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S.  The SEC alleged in its administrative action last week that
Cohen, who was at his vacation home on New York’s Long Island in
late August 2008, reversed his trading position and sold $11
million worth of Dell shares within minutes after receiving a
“highly suspicious” e-mail sent to him by Steinberg and
Horvath. Cohen avoided losses of more than $1.7 million, the SEC
alleged.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath wrote in the Aug. 26 e-mail, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Horvath’s Message  Federal prosecutors said Horvath’s message contained
nonpublic revenue and gross margin information days before the
 Round Rock , Texas-based computer maker was set to announce
quarterly earnings. Steinberg is charged with insider trading in
Dell based on Horvath’s tip.  Gasthalter said, in response to the regulator’s
administrative action, that it “has no merit,” and that Cohen
had acted appropriately.  In March, SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million to settle
an SEC complaint alleging insider trading by Martoma and
Steinberg without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  More than 80 fund managers, analysts, lawyers and insiders
at public companies have been convicted of insider trading in
cases brought by the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New York since August 2009.  Since the government’s crackdown on illegal trading at
 hedge funds  was begun, at least nine current or former SAC
employees were tied by U.S. authorities to insider trading. Of
the five former SAC employees who’ve pleaded guilty, three are
cooperating with the U.S.  Increasing Number  The U.S. today acknowledged the increasing number of SAC-related defendants as the sprawling insider probe progressed,
pointing to “systematic insider trading by the SAC entity
defendants resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars of
illegal profits and avoided losses at the expense of members of
the investing public.”  Freeman, the former SAC portfolio manager who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the U.S., told the FBI that it
was “understood” at SAC that “providing Cohen with your best
trading ideas involved providing Cohen with inside
information.”  At one point in his career at SAC, Freeman, who worked in
the firm’s Boston office, said he sat next to Cohen.  “Freeman pitched to Cohen many trading ideas over the 18
months he was at SAC and some of the trading ideas involved
dirty information,” according to a memo written by FBI Agent
B.J. Kang.  Eight Analysts  Horvath was one of eight analysts and portfolio managers
charged in January 2012 with being part of what Bharara
described as “a tight-knit circle of greed” whose members
trafficked in confidential information from 2007 to 2009. Six of
those charged in the case have pleaded guilty to insider trading
and have agreed to cooperate with the U.S.  “This is a case about corporate conduct and corporate
responsibility,”  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Assistant
Director George Venizelos said in a statement. “SAC Capital and
its management fostered a culture of permissiveness. SAC not
only tolerated cheating, it encouraged it. Our aim all along has
been to root out the wrongdoers, and send a message to anyone
else inclined to break the law. If your information ’edge’ is
inside information, you can’t trade on it.”  The case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-00541, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  