-- Sands Stalls Lawsuit to Keep Evidence Hidden, Jacobs Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-25T05:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sands-stalls-lawsuit-to-keep-evidence-hidden-jacobs-says.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. is stalling a
wrongful termination lawsuit by its former Macau casino chief
that could expose billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s company to
“serious legal and political problems,” the fired executive
said in court papers.  Steven Jacobs , who sued Sands in 2010 after he was fired as
chief executive officer of the casino operator’s  Sands China
Ltd. (1928)  unit, said in a filing this week in the  Nevada  Supreme
Court that he has three investigative reports commissioned by
the company “on foreign government officials, as well as
individuals with whom they were doing business that were
suspected of having ties to Chinese organized crime.”  Sands was sanctioned last year by the Las Vegas trial judge
presiding over the lawsuit for not disclosing that it was
sitting on a trove of documents in Nevada that Jacobs sought as
evidence and which the company had claimed couldn’t legally be
removed from Macau. The company, which is now appealing three
other rulings by the judge to Nevada’s highest court, last month
won a postponement of a hearing on whether the claims against
 Sands China  belong in Nevada.  “LVSC and Sands  China  believe they are above the law; too
big, too important, and too influential to play by the rules,”
Jacobs said in the filing. “It is with this attitude that they
ground this action to a standstill. It is a defendant’s dream.”  Sands China fell 2.1 percent to HK$41.90 at 1:47 p.m. in
trading on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  ‘Shrill Claims’  The company said Jacobs’s allegations that it’s trying to
stall the lawsuit are “baseless” and accused him and his
attorneys of making “increasingly shrill claims” about
concealment of documents and sabotage of evidence-sharing in the
case, according to a July 23 filing with the Nevada Supreme
Court.  As for Jacobs’s specific claim that Sands is trying to
delay the Nevada jurisdiction hearing, “the facts don’t support
that premise,”  Ron Reese , a company spokesman, said yesterday
in a phone interview.  Jacobs alleged he was fired after he had conflicts with
Adelson, who is Sands’s majority owner and chairman, including
fights over what he said were illegal demands that secret
investigations be performed of Macau government officials for
information that could be used as leverage to thwart adverse
regulation.  Following Jacobs’s allegations, the U.S. Justice Department
and Securities and Exchange Commission opened investigations
into whether Adelson’s company violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. That law prohibits companies with U.S. operations
and their intermediaries from making improper payments to
foreign officials to win or retain business.  FCPA Violations  While Sands has denied Jacobs’s allegations, it said in
March that it found likely violations of the books and records
and internal control provisions of the FCPA.  Nevada District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez ruled last month
that Jacobs could use documents that Sands claimed are
“privileged,” or exempt from disclosure, at a hearing on
whether Nevada courts have proper jurisdiction over Sands China
to continue the litigation in  Las Vegas . The six-day hearing was
scheduled to start July 16 and Gonzalez pulled it from her
calendar after the Nevada Supreme Court put it on hold.  40 Gigabytes  The documents are part of about 40 gigabytes of information
that Sands said Jacobs “surreptitiously” took when he was
fired in 2010.  Sands alleged Jacobs “stole” three reports prepared by
Steve Vickers of International Risk Ltd. The reports detail the
investigation of “certain Macau government officials” and
others, according to letters by Sands’ lawyers to Jacobs’s
lawyers seeking the return of the documents.  These are the “same tired and false accusations Mr. Jacobs
has been trotting out for months,” Reese said about Jacobs’s
claims the investigation of Macau government officials was
commissioned as part of a leverage strategy.  Adelson said in a March 8 declaration filed in Nevada state
court in Las Vegas that the investigation had been commissioned
by Jacobs, not by the company, and that he didn’t learn about
until after Jacobs had been fired.  “I never asked or authorized Jacobs to conduct a private
investigation of or ‘create a dossier’ on Macanese officials,”
Adelson said in his declaration. “We believe unequivocally that
Jacobs initiated the investigation on his own for his own
purposes.”  ‘Prostitution’ Report  Sands said other documents should be off-limits to Jacobs
because they are confidential communications with the company’s
lawyers, including a report on “prostitution activities at the
Macau Venetian Resort” and e-mails from an unidentified sender
about corruption investigations, according to court filings.  In an appeal to the Nevada  Supreme Court  to overrule
Gonzalez on documents she said are fair game, Sands said a fired
executive doesn’t have the right to possess corporate property.  The trial judge’s ruling gives Jacobs a free pass “to load
the corporation’s privileged documents into the digital
equivalent of several semi-trucks upon his departure, and then
haul those files away to use them against the company,” Sands
said in a June 21 filing. “The district court’s ruling turns
the concepts of fiduciary duty and loyalty upside down.”  The company also argued that Jacobs hasn’t shown that any
of the disputed documents are relevant to the question of
whether Sands China can be sued in Nevada.  Supreme Court  The Nevada Supreme Court has agreed to consider all three
of Sands’s petitions challenging rulings by Gonzalez over
disclosure of documents.  When Gonzalez ruled in September that the company had
“deceived” her about documents that it was refusing to provide
to Jacobs, she said she would no longer allow Sands to rely on
Macau privacy laws as grounds for withholding evidence. As an
additional sanction, she ordered Las Vegas Sands and Sands China
to contribute $25,000 to the Legal Aid Center of Southern Nevada
and pay some of Jacobs’s attorneys’ fees.  The  Nevada Supreme Court  two years ago said the Jacobs
lawsuit can’t proceed until Gonzalez decides the jurisdiction
issue. Hong Kong-listed Sands China, which is majority owned by
Las Vegas Sands, argues that it doesn’t do business in Nevada,
has no presence there, and can’t be sued by Jacobs in Las Vegas.  Sands said in a July 23 filing to the state’s high court
that the rulings by Gonzalez it’s challenging raise “serious
questions about efficient case management.”  “Nearly two years after this court directed the trial
judge to conduct a hearing on the singular issue of whether SCL
is subject to jurisdiction in  Clark County , Nevada, defendants
have incurred millions of dollars in discovery-related expenses
for a jurisdictional hearing that has yet to occur,” Sands said
in the filing.  The lower-court case is Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands, 10-A-627691, Clark County, Nevada, District Court (Las Vegas). The
state supreme court case is  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  v. Clark
County District Court, 63444, Nevada Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  