-- Sberbank Battles VTB for Home Loans Double Poland: Russia Credit
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-07-26T09:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sberbank-battles-vtb-for-home-loans-double-poland-russia-credit.html
Competition between  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,
Russia’s biggest provider of mortgages, and lenders including
VTB Group is helping drive down borrowing rates that are more
than twice that of nations including  Poland .  Average  mortgage rates  dropped 10 basis points this year to
12.7 percent, Andrei Tumanov, an analyst at the  Agency for
Housing Mortgage Lending , said from Moscow in a phone interview
last week. That compares with an average 3.45 percent for euro-region mortgages in May and 5.5 percent for new home loans in
Poland, according to central bank data.  Mortgage rates are higher in Russia as Bank Rossii has kept
the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for the past 10 months to
curb  inflation  above its target range. The slowest economic
expansion since 2009 crimped mortgage-lending growth to 21
percent in the first half from at least 40 percent for the past
three years, according to the agency.  “We expect average  interest rates  to decline by as much as
1 percentage point as demand for apartments slows and banks
compete for new customers,” Tumanov said.  State-run Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, has 43
percent of the market, more than double the holding of nearest
rival VTB, while Societe Generale SA’s OAO DeltaCredit and OAO
Rosbank have 2 percent each, acccording to the agency. The
market exceeded 1 trillion rubles ($31 billion) in 2012, Tumanov
said July 17.  Loan Varieties  Sberbank offers discounted rates for servicemen and young
families, its website shows. It’s also teaming up with
developers, the press service said in an e-mailed response to
questions on July 19. The Moscow-based lender said it has 48
percent of the market by its own estimates.  ZAO VTB24, the retail arm of  Russia ’s second-biggest bank,
introduced an “anti-bureaucracy” mortgage for customers to
complete applications within 24 hours, according to its website.
It also promotes loans with terms of as long as 50 years. The
bank increased market share by 0.5 percentage point to 16.1
percent in the first half, Senior Vice President Andrei Osipov
said by e-mail on July 19.  Rate Increase  While competition for more customers is increasing, this
may not lead to lower borrowing costs, according to Vladimir Savov, an analyst at Otkritie Capital in Moscow.  “Rates may increase as the quality of borrowers declines
and banks take on more risk,” he said by phone on July 24.  Sberbank shares the government’s Baa1 ranking, the third-lowest investment-grade category, at Moody’s Investors Service.
The yield on its dollar-denominated bonds due October 2022 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.80 percent by
1:27 p.m. in Moscow, taking the decline this month to 20 basis
points. The rate on debt maturing the same month from VTB,
ranked one step lower at Moody’s, fell five basis points to 6.67
percent.  The yield Russia’s bond due April 2022 has fallen 26 basis
points this month to 3.95 percent.  OAO Gazprombank, partly owned by state-run natural gas
exporter OAO Gazprom, increased mortgages by 35 percent in the
first half, Vice President Anna Goryacheva said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Goryacheva said rates will probably drop
“a little” by year-end.  DeltaCredit, which issued 14 billion rubles of mortgages in
the first half, is offering lower rates for some borrowers,
Yulia Yermilova, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail on July 19.
 Rosbank (ROSB)  is responding to “high competition” by easing terms
and reducing lending fees, interim Chief Executive Officer Igor Antonov said by e-mail on July 24.  “Sberbank has historically dominated the market, but now
it’s retreating as other major banks start to compete for
customers,” Mikhail Shlemov, chief banking analyst for VTB
Capital, the investment banking arm of VTB, said by phone from
Moscow on July 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  