-- SEC Asks Goldman to Break Down Trading Revenue by Product
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-25T17:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sec-asks-goldman-to-break-down-trading-revenue-by-product.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission asked  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to disclose how much
products such as mortgages and commodities contribute to its
trading revenue to give investors more clarity on how the firm
makes most of its money.  Goldman Sachs said it will give “additional qualitative
disclosure” of the revenue by product types, according to
correspondence with the regulators released today about the New
York-based firm’s 2012 annual filing. The SEC indicated it was
satisfied with that response.  Goldman Sachs’s institutional client services division,
which includes stock and fixed-income trading, generated 53
percent of the firm’s revenue last year. Like most of its
competitors, Goldman Sachs only provides a single revenue line
for fixed-income trading, which includes products ranging from
Treasuries to distress bonds and uranium.  The SEC noted that the firm produced a third of its revenue
from market-making and made the request “in light of its
significance.” Goldman Sachs said that its quarterly filings
includes a breakdown of some revenue by product.  The data include market-making and “other principal
transactions” revenue reported through the firm’s investing and
lending unit, which houses the company’s own investments. It
excludes trading commissions and net interest income.  Goldman Sachs generated $4.37 billion from interest rates,
$5.51 billion from credit and $5.8 billion from equities,
according to the data. It lost $1 billion from currencies, while
producing $575 million from commodities and $1.97 billion from
“other.” The breakdown doesn’t reflect how the firm runs its
business, Goldman Sachs said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  