-- Serb Parties May Shuffle Cabinet to Avoid Early Elections
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-07-25T15:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/serb-parties-may-agree-on-cabinet-shuffle-over-snap-elections.html
Serbia’s largest political parties
will probably reach an agreement on shuffling Prime Minister
 Ivica Dacic ’s one-year-old cabinet and avert snap elections,
parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic said.  The lawmakers’ approval is expected “within five or six
days,” Stefanovic told Serbian state TV broadcaster  RTS  today.
An agreement on a new cabinet is “more likely” than an early
vote, which remains an option, said Stefanovic, a member of the
dominant Serbian Progressive Party of former nationalists.  Stefanovic’s party chief, Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic,
Dacic and Finance and Economy Minister  Mladjan Dinkic , who leads
a party of technocrats, are scheduled to meet today to discuss
ministry changes after the cabinet took office on July 27, 2012.
Belgrade TV broadcaster B92 said the meeting started at around 4
p.m. Government spokesman Milivoje Mihajlovic could not confirm
the report.  The Progressive Party wants Dacic’s Socialists and Dinkic’s
party to replace their ministers, as well as swap, divide or
merge some portfolios.  Vucic’s party enjoys popular support of 40.9 percent,
according to an  opinion poll  released by pollster Faktor Plus in
Belgrade today. The opposition  Democratic Party  ranked second
with 11.8 percent support, followed by the Socialists with 10.6
percent. Dinkic’s party, with 4.6 percent, would not make it
past the threshold needed to make it into parliament in an
election. The July 18-23 opinion poll was conducted among 1,120
adult citizens with a margin of error of 3 percent.  Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said on July 22 “there
is not much trust” in Dinkic and his ministers and that “there
must be a staff change,” according to Tanjug state news agency.  The Progressives meet on July 27 for final decisions. Dacic
and Dinkic are expected to follow with their party meetings,
their press offices said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  