-- Shell, Vitol Bid for Forties; Urals Primorsk Oil Exports to Drop
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-07-25T16:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/shell-vitol-bid-for-forties-urals-primorsk-oil-exports-to-drop.html
Benchmark  North Sea  Forties crude
was bid higher with no trades done. Russia plans to ship less
than 1 million barrels a day of Urals from the port of Primorsk
for a third month, with shipments set to drop to the lowest in
more than five years, a preliminary loading program showed.  Libya ’s state-run National Oil Corp. reduced its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for August to 20 cents
less than Dated Brent, compared with a discount of 5 cents for
July, according to a price list obtained by Bloomberg News.  North Sea  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  failed to buy Forties for loading
from Aug. 15 to Aug. 19 at a premium of 65 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window. The company made
the same bid for the grade yesterday.  Vitol Group wasn’t able to buy Forties for loading from
Aug. 17 to Aug. 21 at 75 cents above Dated Brent, according to
the survey. That’s 5 cents a barrel higher than the last cargo
to trade in the window on July 23.  There were no bids or offers for Brent, Oseberg or Ekofisk.
Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.  Brent for September settlement traded at $107.32 cents
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the
window, compared with $107.42 in the previous session. The
October contract was at $106.46, a discount of 86 cents to
September.  Platts will keep the sulfur de-escalator unchanged for
Forties at 20 cents a barrel in August for the second month in a
row, the company said in a statement on its website.  Mediterranean/Urals  Socar Trading SA didn’t manage to sell 600,000 barrels of
Azeri Light for Aug. 10 to Aug. 14 loading at a premium of $3.25
to Dated Brent, according to the survey.  There were no bids or offers for Urals crude.  The Baltic Sea port Primorsk will handle 38 Urals cargoes
of 100,000 metric tons each in August, or 898,516 barrels a day,
according to a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News .
That’s 0.8 percent less than July. Prior to June, Primorsk had
loaded more than 1 million barrels a day every month since at
least March 2008, when Bloomberg began tracking the data.  Ust-Luga, also on the Baltic, will ship 18 cargoes of
100,000 tons each, or 425,613 barrels a day, according to the
program. That’s unchanged from July, after one cargo was dropped
this month, according to two people with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Exports from Novorossiysk on the  Black Sea  will fall to
3.01 million tons in August, or 711,719 barrels a day. The
August schedule includes three 80,000-ton cargoes of Siberian
Light grade and 26 consignments of Urals ranging from 80,000 to
145,000 tons.  Iraq plans to reduce exports of its Kirkuk crude in August
from the Turkish port of Ceyhan to 15 cargoes, two less than
this month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Shipments will total 7.57 million barrels, or 244,194
barrels a day, the plan showed. That compares with 309,677
barrels planned for July.  Iraq halted crude flows through the Turkish port of Ceyhan
today at 7 a.m. local time, according to port agent Boutros
Maritime & Transport SA.  West Africa  Equatorial Guinea  has cut September Zafiro crude exports to
three cargoes, one less than in August, according to a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News. The country will also ship
two lots of Ceiba blend in September, unchanged from August.  The Republic of Congo will reduce September shipments of
Djeno crude to five cargoes, down from six the previous month, a
loading program shows.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, will keep daily
crude exports for September little changed from August,
according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News
covering 17 grades excluding Bonny Light.  The nation will ship 63 cargoes totaling 1.94 million
barrels a day, the schedules showed. Exports will comprise 12
consignments of Qua Iboe grade, seven of Agbami, five each of
Brass, Akpo, Bonga and Forcados, four of Usan, three each of
Amenam, Erha, Escravos and Antan, two each of Yoho and Okono,
and one each of Abo, EA, Okwori and Pennington. The cargoes
range in size from 250,000 to 1 million barrels.  It remains unclear whether  Nigeria  will export Bonny Light
in September, four traders with knowledge of the loading program
said. No shipments for this grade were planned for August.  Taiwan’s CPC Corp. bought two cargoes of Nemba crude and
one of Cabinda for September-loading, three people with
knowledge of the matter said. The company bought 3 million
barrels of Angolan crude through a tender, the people said.  Indian Oil Co. bought two cargoes of Qua Iboe for September
loading, according to three traders. The lots are 1 million
barrels each, they said.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. is scheduled to award its tender for
September-loading crude tomorrow, according to a document.  Angola’s final loading program for September is expected to
be released tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  