-- Shots for Cancer-Causing Sex Virus Stall With U.S. Girls
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-07-25T17:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/shots-for-cancer-causing-sex-virus-stall-with-u-s-girls.html
     July 25 (Bloomberg) --The number of teenage girls in the
U.S. vaccinated against  human papillomavirus , a sexually
transmitted infection that can cause cervical cancer, hasn’t
increased though the shot can dramatically reduce the risk of
the virus.  Vaccinations among 13- to 17-year-old girls remained
unchanged last year from 2011, according to the 2012 National
Immunization Survey-Teen report by the Atlanta-based Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Fifty-four percent of the
teenagers received one dose of HPV vaccine and 33 percent
received all three doses that are the prescribed amount of the
treatment, the agency reported. The CDC called for increased
education on HPV and cervical cancer.  “Progress increasing HPV vaccination has stalled, risking
the health of the next generation,” CDC Director Thomas Frieden
said today in a statement. “Doctors need to step up their
efforts by talking to parents about the importance of HPV
vaccine.”  Since Merck & Co.’s HPV vaccine Gardasil was first
introduced in 2006, certain strains of HPV have plunged 56
percent, according to a study published last month in the
Journal of Infectious Diseases. The shot is 82 percent effective
against the virus if at least one of three doses is received.
Two HPV vaccines are currently available in the U.S and vaccine
coverage jumped 25 percent from 2007 to 2011.  If the HPV vaccine had been administered during regular
doctor visits, coverage with one or more doses could have
increased to 93 percent, according to the CDC.  Little Understood  Despite the availability of safe and effective HPV
vaccines, parents surveyed said they didn’t intend to vaccinate
their daughters in the next year, the CDC reported. Parents
listed the main reasons as “vaccine not needed”, or “not
recommended” as well as safety concerns. Parents also cited
lack of information about the vaccine and disease as reasons,
according the report.  Doctors say that parents often think the vaccine gives
children permission to have sex, especially since it targets
girls ages 11 and 12. The CDC said doctors should educate
parents that HPV, like most vaccines, needs to be administered
far before susceptibility to prevent cancer.  “HPV does not open the door to sex, it closes the door to
cancer,” Frieden said on a conference call. “We cannot let
this opportunity to go to waste.” HPV vaccinations should go on
the “back-to-school checklist” for all families, he said.  HPV is the main cause of  cervical cancer , with about 12,000
women in the U.S. getting the disease, and almost 4,000 dying
each year, according to the CDC.  The CDC recommends improving practice patterns so that
doctors and their staff use “every opportunity” to provide HPV
vaccines. Parents also need to be better informed about reducing
the risk of HPV-caused cancers, the CDC said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Cervarix was approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in  New York  at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  