-- Siemens Cuts Profitability Forecast Amid Market Slowdown
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-07-25T14:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/siemens-cuts-profitability-forecast-amid-market-slowdown.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, cut its profitability forecast, dealing a
new blow to Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher ’s attempts to
catch up with  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   The company, which makes products from power turbines to
high-speed trains, no longer predicts an operating profit margin
of at least 12 percent of sales in the 12 months through
September 2014, Munich-based Siemens said in a statement today,
citing “lower market expectations.” Spokesman Guenter Gaugler
declined to comment beyond the statement. The stock dropped as
much as 7.6 percent, the biggest slump in more than four years.  Loescher, an Austrian national who joined Siemens in 2007
from drugmaker Merck & Co. as the first CEO hired from outside
the company, started a savings program last year after
acknowledging he had been slow to react to the economic
downturn. Following rising charges for delayed train deliveries
and faulty  wind turbines , in May he said that 2013 profit will
approach the low end of a previous prediction of between 4.5
billion euros ($6 billion) and 5 billion euros.  “The operating profit is shrinking and the one-off effects
continue to grow,” said Kronberg, Germany-based Fairesearch
analyst Heinz Steffen, the only analyst surveyed by Bloomberg
who recommends selling Siemens stock. “Siemens wins these huge
projects, but then with deals such as the ICE trains for
 Deutsche Bahn , it doesn’t then manage them effectively and costs
increase.”  Faulty Turbines  Siemens fiscal third-quarter profit for the three months
through June has also been hurt by about 100 million euros in
costs for faulty wind turbines, according to people familiar
with the matter.  The German company, which is scheduled to report fiscal
third-quarter earnings on Aug. 1, said this month it’s replacing
the wind unit’s head Felix Ferlemann with Markus Tacke after the
company slowed and stopped 707 wind turbines. The move followed
blade breaks at a turbine in  California  and one in  Iowa .  The new charges add to provisions of 550 million euros for
offshore power transmission problems and delays in train
deliveries reported earlier this year. In June, Siemens said it
will close its solar power unit after struggling to find a buyer
following losses of at least 784 million euros since 2011. The
company paid $418 million to acquire Beit Shemesh, Israel-based
Solel Solar Systems in 2009.  Nokia Boost  At the same time, Siemens’ earnings this year will be
boosted by about 300 million euros from selling a stake in Nokia
Siemens Networks, the people said.  To cushion the impact of more charges and a decline in
demand, Loescher this year raised a savings target to 6.3
billion euros from 6 billion euros. Charges related to cost cuts
will reach as much as as 900 million euros this year, the
company has said.  Siemens said today that “measures for optimizing the
portfolio and reducing costs are largely on track.” Siemens had
a profit margin of 9.5 in 2012, when ABB and General Electric
had margins of 10.3 percent and 15 percent respectively.  Siemens dropped as much as 6.35 euros, the biggest decline
since March 2009, to 77.27 euros, valuing the company at 68
billion euros. Before today, Siemens had gained 5 percent this
year, while GE gained 18 percent.  Economic Slowdown  William Mackie, a London-based Berenberg analyst who
recommends buying Siemens shares, said that Siemens is suffering
as a result of the the economic slowdown.  “Following the developments in a number of their end
markets in power and industrial, it’s not a complete surprise
that the growth expectations into the next twelve months are
going to be lowered somewhat,” he said.  Electricity production levels at U.S. power plants have
shrunk in each of the past three months, while European
industrial capacity utilization for 2013 is 1.8 percent lower
than the previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loescher also has said that his job at Siemens isn’t made
easier by the economic headwind he’s facing.  “We are missing a growth engine around the world,”
Loescher, for whom this is the fifth forecast cut in his six-year tenure, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in May.  Shares of Swiss rival ABB today declined the most in more
than five weeks after the world’s largest maker of power
transformers said second-quarter orders fell 7 percent because
of lower power-utility investments in Europe.  U.S. rival General Electric last week reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as demand for  jet
engines  and oil-and-gas drilling equipment drove the order
backlog to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  