-- Singapore Air Profit Rises on Virgin Atlantic Stake Sale
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-26T09:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/singapore-airlines-profit-rises-on-virgin-atlantic-stake-sale.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Southeast
 Asia ’s biggest carrier, boosted first-quarter profit 56 percent,
helped by gains from the sale of its  stake  in Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. to Delta Air Lines Inc.  Net income  rose to S$121.8 million ($96 million) in the
three months ended in June, from S$78 million a year earlier,
Singapore Air said in a statement yesterday. Operating profit
rose 14 percent to S$82 million while revenue increased 1.7
percent to S$3.84 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong ordered aircraft
worth $17 billion from Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. in May as
discount carriers and Middle East airlines expand in the region.
Singapore Air, which revamped its first- and business-class
offerings and started a budget unit to lure travelers, faces
increasing competition as more low-cost operators enter the
market, said Andrew Orchard, a CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. analyst.  “It’s going to be a lot more challenging,” Orchard said
before the earnings announcement. “It doesn’t look like the
Middle East airlines are going to slow their growth.”  Singapore  Air fell 0.3 percent to close at S$10.22 in
Singapore. The stock has dropped 4.9 percent this year, compared
with a 2.2 percent gain for the benchmark Straits Times Index.  The carrier said it had a net gain of S$336 million from
the sale of its 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic. The deal,
announced in December, was completed last month. Part of that
gain was eroded by an impairment cost of S$293 million the
carrier booked for removing four freighters from its fleet. The
planes are marked for sale.  Forward Bookings  While the reduced exposure to the freight market is a
strategic win, the lack of exceptional profits makes it less
likely that Singapore Air could pay a special dividend at the
half year, Timothy Ross, head of Asia-Pacific transport research
at Credit Suisse AG, said in a note today.  “Forward passenger bookings for the next few months are
expected to be higher against the same period last year,”
Singapore Air said. “However, yields are expected to be weaker
as a result of the intense competitive environment.”  Passenger yield, the average price a traveler pays to fly
one kilometer, fell to 11.1 Singapore cents in the quarter from
11.4 cents a year earlier, Singapore Air said. The yield from
carrying cargo dropped to 32.7 cents from 34.6 cents.  The airline carried 4.57 million passengers during the
quarter, compared with 4.5 million a year earlier. Singapore Air
filled an average 78 percent of its seats in the period,
compared with 79.5 percent a year ago.  Plane Orders  The airline in May ordered 30 Boeing 787-10X variant planes
and 30 Airbus A350-900s to replace less fuel-efficient models.
The contract also included an option for 20 more A350-900s which
may be converted by the carrier for purchasing the larger
A350-1000 variant.  That was on top of the of the 25 Airbus aircraft worth $7.5
billion, including the superjumbo A380, ordered in October. The
carrier also would stop this year the world’s longest non-stop
flights, from Singapore to  Newark ,  New Jersey , and  Los Angeles .  Singapore Air faces increased competition as the alliance
between  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s biggest, and Emirates
started flights March 31. The agreement with the Dubai-based
airline cuts average journey times by more than two hours from
Melbourne and Sydney to the top 10 destinations in  Europe .  To compete, Singapore Air said in April it will increase
its stake in  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  to 19.9 percent for
A$122.6 million ($112 million). It raised its stake from 10
percent after Virgin Australia received regulatory approval to
buy 60 percent of the local unit of  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)   Tiger, Lion  Singapore Air is the largest  investor  in Tiger, a short-haul low-fare airline that competes with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Lion
Mentari Airlines PT and more than 10 other budget carriers that
fly in the Southeast Asian region.  Last year,  Scoot , a medium-haul budget airline fully owned
by Singapore Air, started flying with Boeing 777 aircraft.
Singapore Air transferred its orders for the Boeing 787
Dreamliners to Scoot.  Airlines are likely to generate a net income of $12.7
billion this year, 20 percent more than a March forecast, the
 International Air Transport Association  said in June. Carriers
in all regions should post a profit this year, led by airlines
in Asia with projected earnings of $4.6 billion and  North
America  with $4.4 billion, the group said.  “The group’s operating environment continues to be
impacted by the uncertain global economic climate and high fuel
prices,” Singapore Air said in the statement. The carrier will
“make appropriate adjustments to flight schedules and capacity,
alongside a continued focus on cost discipline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  