-- Sinopec Sued by Hong Kong Businessman for Imprisonment
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-25T02:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sinopec-sued-by-hong-kong-businessman-for-imprisonment.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  was
sued for $5.17 billion by a Hong Kong businessman who said
company executives were involved in a plot that had him
imprisoned for five years on trumped-up charges.  Tiangang Sun, the former chairman of GeoMaxima Energy
Holdings Ltd., accused Sinopec, as China Petroleum is more
commonly known, of violations of the Alien Tort Claims Act, the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, false
imprisonment and malicious prosecution, among other allegations,
in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Los Angeles.  Sun said in the complaint that officials of Sinopec and 
the Chinese government had him arrested in 2005 after he sued 
the oil company in Beijing for breaching a contract with his 
company related to a pipeline to the Tahe oilfield in Xinjiang.  Sinopec, based in Beijing, first took over his previous
partner in the pipeline venture, terminated its collaboration in
the project, and then built a competing pipeline, Sun said. 
Evidence that Sinopec publicly overstated production of the Tahe 
oilfield was presented in a lawsuit filed in Hong Kong, Sun said.  The Hong Kong lawsuit was dismissed in 2004 because the
judge said it should have been brought in Beijing, according to
Sun’s complaint.  2005 Arrest  Sun said he was arrested in August 2005 and not brought
before a judge until about three years later. While he was
imprisoned, his assets were seized and his wife and daughter had
to hide in the countryside, according to the complaint. He
wasn’t found guilty on bribery and embezzlement charges and was
released from detention in 2010, Sun said.  After an additional two years of house arrest, he was
allowed to leave for the U.S. in 2012, Sun said. He has
continued to receive threats, including to his wife and daughter
who are still in  China , warning him not to pursue legal steps
against Sinopec while living in the U.S., according to the
complaint.  Representatives of Sinopec with the Brunswick Group in Hong
Kong didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call and an e-mailed message seeking comment on the allegations.  The case is Tiangang Sun v. China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., 13-05355, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  