-- Southwest Plane Landed Nose First in LaGuardia Accident
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/southwest-plane-landed-nose-first-in-laguardia-accident.html
A  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane that
skidded on its belly at  New York ’s LaGuardia Airport July 22,
injuring nine people, hit the runway nose first before the front
landing gear broke, U.S. accident investigators said.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-700’s nose was pointed at an angle of 3
degrees downward when it struck the runway, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board said in an e-mailed release
yesterday. Jet-powered planes are designed to touch down on the
main landing gear beneath the wings, with the nose pointed
upward.  That finding may indicate the accident occurred because of
a hard landing rather than an equipment or maintenance failure.  “Evidence from video and other sources is consistent with
the nose gear making contact with the runway before the main
landing gear,” the NTSB said in the release.  The nose gear folded rearward and damaged an electronics
bay, according to a July 23 statement on the agency’s website.  “We continue to participate in the NTSB investigation and
are as invested as they in the final findings,”  Brad Hawkins , a
Southwest spokesman, said by phone. “These are not those.”  Four seconds before touchdown, as the plane neared the
runway at an altitude of 32 feet (10 meters) while flying at 154
miles (248 kilometers) an hour, the nose was pointed 2 degrees
upward, according to the NTSB. The investigation agency didn’t
say what may have caused the nose to then tip downward.  “The landing scenario the NTSB describes from video and
other sources is not in accordance with our operating
procedures,” Hawkins said.  Skidding Stop  Large aircraft such as a 737 aren’t supposed to be landed
on the front gear, Patrick Veillette, a corporate pilot who has
written on aviation safety, said in an interview.  “The aircraft is not designed to take that kind of impact
on the nose,” Veillette said.  Lifting the nose as the plane nears the ground, known as a
landing flare, ensures that the main gear hits first, he said. A
proper flare also slows a plane’s descent, ensuring a softer
touchdown, and helps reduce speed, he said.  Landing at LaGuardia requires a firmer touchdown than at
some other airports because it has relatively short runways, he
said. That allows pilots to begin braking sooner so they can
stop in a shorter distance.  Runway 4, where the Southwest plane touched down, is 7,000
feet long, according a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
airport chart.  Flight Delays  The 737, the most popular airliner, skidded on the runway
for about 19 seconds before stopping, according to the NTSB.  Boeing is “unable to comment on an active” inquiry,  Marc Birtel , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We continue to
provide support to Southwest Airlines and the NTSB
investigation.”  Investigators plan to interview the pilots, collect witness
accounts and videos of the collapse, and review maintenance
records, the NTSB said in the July 23 release.  The agency is scheduled today to begin transcribing a
recording of the cockpit sounds, including comments by the
pilots.  The crash forced the airport to shut down during the
evening of July 22, triggering flight delays and cancellations
across the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  