-- South Africa Sugar Industry Proposes $2.1 Billion Power Projects
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-07-25T14:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/south-africa-sugar-industry-proposes-2-1-billion-power-projects.html
South Africa ’s sugar industry has
proposed that 20.4 billion rand ($2.1 billion) be invested in 15
cane-fueled power projects to help address electricity shortages
in the continent’s largest economy.  The projects could create as many as 712 megawatts of
capacity and 37,786 jobs, the South African Sugar Association
said in a written presentation to Parliament’s energy committee
today. Implementation is contingent on the government agreeing
to power-purchase agreements that will cover fuel and operating
costs and provide for an appropriate return on capital, it said.  State-owned Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. currently supplies
about 95 percent of South Africa’s power. Electricity shortages
caused mines and factories to shut for five days in 2008 and
demand is currently close to outstripping supply. Today, peak
electricity usage is forecast to exceed capacity by 7 megawatts,
Eskom said. One megawatt is enough capacity to power 500 to
1,000 homes.  South Africa’s 26,600 sugar farmers produce about 2.2
million metric tons of the sweetener a year, earning revenue of
about 12 billion rand, the industry association’s data show. The
country has 14 sugar mills that produce sufficient power to meet
their own needs from bagasse, a byproduct from cane that remains
once the juice has been extracted.  The plants could invest in bigger and more efficient
boilers and sell excess electricity to other users, according to
the association.  Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV) , is South Africa’s biggest sugar producer
by output and market value.  The country will face a capacity shortfall of at least 700
megawatts next year that will have to be met by encouraging co-generation by companies and economizing, according to the South
African National Energy Development Institute, a state research
body.  While waste from sugar, pulp and paper plants has the
potential to produce 1,500 megawatts of power, industries have
no incentive to increase generation because of a lack of off-take agreements and tax incentives, Kadri Nassiep, the
institute’s chief executive officer, told the energy committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  