-- South Sudan Cuts Back Oil Output, Braces for Shutdown
-- B y   M a d i n g   N g o r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-07-25T14:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/south-sudan-cuts-back-oil-output-braces-for-shutdown.html
South  Sudan  made further reductions
in oil output as it prepares to halt pipeline exports through
neighboring Sudan amid conspiracy recriminations between the
former foes.  Oil production from  Africa ’s newest country fell to 97,000
barrels a day from 200,000 barrels a day a week ago, Mawien
Makol Arik, a foreign affairs ministry spokesman, said today by
telephone from South Sudan’s capital Juba.  Sudan’s Oil Minister Ahmed al-Jaz told Ethiopian newspaper
Walta in a report published today that his government intends on
Aug. 7 to shut down the pipeline that carries South Sudanese oil
to the Red Sea loading terminal of Port Sudan. He renewed
accusations that the government in Juba supports rebels seeking
to overthrow Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir, Walta reported.  South Sudan’s declining supply is contributing to tightness
in the global oil market as it coincides with the maintenance
season at North Sea oil fields and compounds disruptions from
Libya, Soozhana Choi, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a
note today. Front-month Brent crude, a benchmark for more than
half the world’s traded oil, have gained 4.2 percent this month
and were trading at $107.31 a barrel at 2:21 p.m in  London .  Landlocked South Sudan denies supporting the rebellion in
Sudan, accusing its neighbor in turn of deploying troops in its
oil-producing Upper Nile region. Oil in South Sudan is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd., known also as Petronas, and India’s  Oil & Natural
Gas (ONGC)  Corp.  Investigating Claims  The African Union on July 23 asked for a six-week period to
complete a probe into the claims of the former adversaries and
urged the Sudanese government in Khartoum to back down from a
threat to close the 1,600-kilometer (about 990 miles) pipeline.  “It is for our benefit to start reducing the volume
because if we don’t, it’s going to be very hard for us to redo
it in a very short period of time,” South Sudanese spokesman
Arik said on July 18. Petroleum Minister Stephen Dhieu on July
23 said the flow of oil into the pipeline should halt by the end
of the month.  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July 2011 and took three-quarters of the formerly united country’s output of 490,000
barrels a day, producing about 350,000 barrels daily. It has
been producing 200,000 barrels a day since May, when it resumed
operations after ordering a halt in January 2012, accusing its
northern neighbor of stealing $815 million worth of crude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Mading Ngor in Juba at 
 mngor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  