-- Soybean Oil Poised for ‘Bounce’ on Fibonacci: Technical Analysis
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-07-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/soybean-oil-poised-for-bounce-on-fibonacci-technical-analysis.html
Soybean-oil futures that touched a
33-month low yesterday may be poised to rebound, according to a
 technical analysis  by Jacquie Voeks, a senior commodity market
analyst at Stewart-Peterson Group.  The attached chart shows prices fell as low as 43.51 cents
a pound on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, below 45.17 cents, the
38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of a low in December 2008 and
a key indicator of technical support. The contract for December
delivery may rise 5.9 percent to 46.44 cents by Dec. 13, Voeks
said. An additional bullish signal is that the relative-strength
index for soybean oil slid to 23.5, below the level of 30 that
indicates a commodity is oversold, she said.  “Being oversold and at that retracement level means we
could see a rebound,” Voeks said in a telephone interview from
West Bend,  Wisconsin . “When you look at that retracement level,
this is a really key point on a chart. We could be due for a
bounce.”  Soybean-oil  futures fell to the lowest since October 2010
yesterday on the CBOT and are down 17 percent from a year
earlier, matching declines for competing oilseeds, mostly on
signs of record crops in Brazil and the U.S., the world’s
largest growers and exporters.  Palm oil , a competing oilseed, has tumbled 26 percent in
the past year and yesterday touched the lowest since October
2009 in  Kuala Lumpur . Canola, which is crushed to make vegetable
oil, touched a 33-month low yesterday on ICE Futures Canada in
Winnipeg.  The decline in soybean oil has made the commodity more
competitive with palm oil, Oil World said in a report this week.
Global exports of soybean oil from April through June were up 7
percent from a year earlier, with demand in Asia up 14 percent,
the researcher said.  Increased use of the domestic soy crop to make biodiesel in
Argentina, the world’s biggest exporter of soybean oil, may
reduce supplies available for shipment to foreign buyers,
according to Oil World. Low soybean-oil prices may be a “buying
opportunity” if biodiesel output increases,  Terry Reilly , a
senior commodity analyst at Futures International LLC in
Chicago, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  