-- Spanish Unemployment Falls as Rajoy Sees Growth Return
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-25T10:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/spanish-unemployment-falls-as-rajoy-sees-growth-return.html
Spain ’s  unemployment  fell for the
first time in two years in the second quarter, bolstering Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s forecast of an economic recovery.  The number of jobless fell as the rate declined to 26.3
percent of the workforce in the three months through June,
compared with a record 27.2 percent in the previous quarter, the
National Statistics Institute in Madrid said today. Economists
expected the rate to remain unchanged, according to the median
of seven forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey . Unemployment is
three times higher than before the economic slump started in
2008.  Economists predict that the  highest  jobless rate in Spain’s
democratic history will resume climbing as the euro region’s
fourth-largest  economy  struggles to exit a two-year recession.
Still, the Bank of Spain estimates the  contraction  eased in the
second quarter, underscoring Rajoy’s bet that tourism and
exports will reboot growth starting July 1.  “ Job creation  isn’t recovering in a durable manner yet,”
Jose Antonio Herce, a partner at Madrid-based consulting firm
Analistas Financieros Internacionales, said in a telephone
interview. “It improves every year in the run-up to the peak
tourism season and it drops after August.”  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  The total number of jobs in Spain increased by 149,000 to
16.8 million, while the number of unemployed declined by 225,200
as some jobless gave up looking for work. The  unemployment rate 
among immigrants fell to 35.7 percent.  Today’s unemployment figures are “good news,” Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said in Madrid, adding that reforms
must continue as recovery remains “fragile.”  “The Spanish economy is leaving the recession behind,”
Guindos told lawmakers in the Spanish capital. “We are close to
a period of recovery in which it’ll be key to deepen reforms in
order to avoid a false recovery as happened in 2010,” he said.
“Difficult challenges remain ahead, the biggest of all is
unemployment”  The government is reluctant to respond to calls by the
country’s central bank and the  International Monetary Fund  to
deepen a labor-rules overhaul implemented last year to improve
companies’ competitiveness. The Labor Ministry said it’ll
present a report on the changes this month after which it may
seek a review from an independent body.  Budget Deficit  Volkswagen (VOW) ’s Seat unit said this week it reached an
agreement with unions in Spain to cut working hours in order to
adjust output to market conditions without firing staff. The
automobile maker said workers may avoid pay cuts if they opt for
training entitling them to  unemployment benefits .  The yield on Spain’s  10-year bonds  fell to 4.654 percent as
of 12:40 p.m. Madrid time. That compares with a euro-era high of
7.75 percent in July, before European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  pledged to “do what it takes” to hold the euro
together. Draghi has since repeated that EU countries need
“growth-friendly” policies that don’t “unravel” the
austerity steps that’ve been taken.  Spain’s  budget deficit  was the largest in the European
Union last year as it received EU aid to bail out a banking
industry burdened with bad loans. The nation has been  granted 
until 2016 to bring overspending back within the EU limit of 3
percent of output, compared with 10.6 percent last year.  Eurostat data this week showed its public debt load surged
above the EU average -- excluding  Croatia  -- in the first
quarter for the first time in the single currency’s history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  