-- Spirit Surges on Speculation GKN Will Buy for $5 Billion
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-25T20:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/spirit-surges-on-speculation-gkn-will-buy-for-5-billion.html
Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) ,
the aerospace supplier that makes parts for Boeing Co. and
Airbus SAS, jumped to an 11-month high after the  Daily Mail  said
 GKN Plc (GKN)  is readying a takeover bid for about $35 a share.  The shares  rose  5.7 percent to $25.45 at the close in  New
York , the highest price since Aug. 21, extending its annual gain
to 50 percent. Redditch, England-based GKN fell 4.2 percent to
326.80 pence in  London .  GKN is preparing a cash-and-stock offer valued at $5
billion, according to the Daily Mail report, which cited
unidentified dealers. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch is
advising GKN, according to the report. A buyout would be a boost
for investors as Wichita, Kansas-based Spirit struggles to meet
financial forecasts, said Robert Stallard, a New York-based
analyst at Royal Bank of  Canada .  “Given the lack of profitability on its current
development programs and a lack of cash generation, a bid at the
reported level would seem extremely generous,” Stallard, who
has a sector perform rating on the stock, wrote in a note.  GKN isn’t commenting on the report, a spokesman, Chris Fox,
said by phone. Chief Executive Officer Nigel Stein said in
February the company was ready to do deals after last year’s
purchase of  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s aerospace unit for 633 million pounds
($972 million).  Spirit also declined to comment on the GKN speculation,  Ken
Evans , a spokesman, said by phone.  ‘Fresh Equity’  “GKN may need to raise fresh equity to fund any deal,”
 Andrew Carter , another RBC analyst, said in a separate note.
This is the most “logical strategy,” given its defined benefit
pension net liabilities, he said.  U.K. takeover rules generally require a company to make an
announcement when the share price moves on an accurate rumor.  Spirit manufacturers aerostructures for all of Boeing’s
commercial planes currently in production, including the 787
Dreamliner, according to its  website . Spirit was previously a
unit of Boeing before Canadian buyout firm Onex Corp. purchased
it in 2005. It’s been publicly traded since November 2006.
Boeing still makes up about 84 percent of  sales  at Spirit, which
supplies a majority of the airframe in the 737 model.  Airbus, its second-largest customer, is considering buying
one of Spirit’s factories to limit production risks on its A350
program by monitoring its suppliers and step in early when
issues arise, an executive said last month.  Spirit Layoffs  Spirit struggled recently with its own suppliers on
capacity and costs as planemakers around the world boost output
similtaneously. About 360 salaried support and management
employees in Kansas and Oklahoma facilities are receiving layoff
notices as Spirit works to cut expenses, according to a
 statement  today.  GKN also makes parts for Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and is a
supplier to the A350, producing composite parts for wings on the
long-range jet, which had its first flight last month. GKN has
been expanding its aerostructure activities since the purchase
in 2008 of Airbus’s Filton production facilities for 136 million
pounds.  “I’m sure GKN has more than a passing interest in Spirit,
but I’m sure it is entirely platonic,”  Sandy Morris , a London-based analyst at Jefferies LLC, said by phone. GKN is still
digesting Volvo Aero and investors wouldn’t react well if it
sought to raise equity to buy the U.S. company, he said.  Acquiring only a part of Spirit, specifically wing
activities, would make more sense, Morris said, whereas taking
over fuselage structure work the company does for Boeing would
hold little value for GKN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  