-- Springer Will Sell Publications to Funke for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-07-25T09:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/springer-will-sell-publications-to-funke-for-1-2-billion.html
Axel Springer AG (SPR) ,  Europe ’s biggest
newspaper publisher, agreed to sell regional newspapers and
women’s and television magazines to Funke Mediengruppe GmbH for
920 million euros ($1.2 billion) to focus on digital media.  The transaction, which will become effective Jan. 1,
comprises titles including Berliner Morgenpost,  Hamburger
Abendblatt  and TV Digital, Berlin-based  Axel Springer  said in a
statement today. Privately held Funke will pay 660 million euros
by June 30, 2014, at the latest, while Axel Springer will lend
the remainder of the price to Funke for several years.  Chief Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner, 11 years into his
job, has vowed to speed up a transition from the declining
newspaper industry to digital publications and classified
advertising, a move that’s set to depress profit this year. The
non-print business was the biggest contributor to earnings in
the first quarter.  “The price looks really good for Springer,” Stefan Wimmer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler who
recommends  buying  Springer shares, said by telephone. “In
future, the company will have a stronger focus on digital
content and digital classifieds.”  Springer rose as much as 12 percent to 38.71 euros, the
highest intraday price since April 2012, and was trading at
38.60 euros as of 11:37 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained
20 percent in 2013, valuing the publisher at 3.82 billion euros.  Division’s Profitability  The units in the Funke transaction generated earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year
of 94.8 million euros, while revenue totaled 512.4 million
euros. That 18.5 percent Ebitda margin on sales compares with
the 19 percent group  margin  on revenue of 3.3 billion euros.  Springer started a program last year of sending executives,
including Kai Diekmann, the editor-in-chief of Germany’s biggest
tabloid Bild, to Silicon Valley on months-long boot camps. Four
managers share an apartment in  Palo Alto ,  California , and spend
their days meeting with startup founders and Stanford University
professors.  CEO Doepfner has pursued a strategy of returning to basics
to restore earnings at the newspaper business, in particular
with classified ads. The big three classified categories --
jobs, homes, and cars -- had been newspapers’ main source of
cash for decades, until free alternatives such as Craigslist and
Trulia pushed the market almost entirely online.  Website Acquisitions  Doepfner has tried to grab some of that business back,
spending more than $1 billion since 2009 to  buy  classified-ad
hubs like  France ’s Seloger.com and Norway’s StepStone, a job-seeker site. Doepfner has said he’s looking at  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s Scout24 unit,  Germany ’s biggest online site for
classifieds.  Axel Springer’s digital revenue rose 22 percent to 1.17
billion euros last year, overtaking the sales of its German
newspapers for the first time. Digital profit jumped more than
50 percent to 243 million euros.  Springer and Funke Mediengruppe will set up joint ventures
to distribute and market print and digital media. Funke is
already Germany’s biggest regional-newspaper publisher through
its Essen-based Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung.  Funke Mediengruppe is owned by the family of the same name
after the acquisition of a 50 percent stake held by the Brost
family in January 2012. Jakob Funke and Erich Brost founded the
newspaper in 1948. Before today’s deal, the group owned more
than 30 newspapers, 170 special-interest and trade magazines,
100 advertising papers and 400 customer magazines, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  