-- Starbucks Profit Gains 25% as U.S. Sales Improve
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-26T13:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/starbucks-profit-gains-25-as-u-s-sales-improve.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Schultz ’s push into food is starting to pay off,
driving traffic into U.S. stores and lifting sales and profit.  In recent months, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator
has introduced a range of menu items, including salad bowls with
such flavors as zesty chicken and black bean. Earlier this week,
the company announced a partnership with  Danone SA (BN)  to develop
and sell Greek yogurt in cafes and in supermarkets. It also is
adding La Boulange baked goods in locations in the U.S.  Starbucks’s fiscal third-quarter  net income  advanced 25
percent to $417.8 million, or 55 cents a share, from $333.1
million, or 43 cents, a year earlier, the Seattle-based company
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts projected 53 cents a
share, the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foods have been phenomenal for us,” Chief Financial
Officer Troy Alstead said during an interview. Refreshers energy
drinks and macchiato espresso coffees also helped U.S. sales
during the quarter, he said.  Revenue advanced 13 percent to $3.74 billion in the three
months ended June 30, and analysts estimate it will  increase  12
percent to $14.8 billion in the company’s fiscal 2013.  The  shares  rose 5.9 percent to $72.21 at 9:34 a.m. in  New
York , after jumping as much as 6.7 percent for the biggest
intraday gain since Nov. 2. Starbucks had climbed 27 percent
this year through the close of regular trading yesterday,
compared with a 15 percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Restaurants Index.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months gained 9 percent in
the Americas, topping the 6.1 percent average of 22 analysts’
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix.  Affordable Luxury  Starbucks raised prices for some of its drinks at U.S.
company-operated cafes last month. In some areas, it was the
first price increase on Starbucks items in as long as two years.  “They’re positioned like an affordable luxury,” Peter Saleh, a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said
in an interview. “Even if they take a couple percentage points
in price, I don’t think that people notice.”  Starbucks increased its  forecast  for fiscal 2013 profit
excluding certain items to as much as $2.23 a share from a
previous estimate of as much as $2.18. Analysts project $2.18 a
share, on average.  Profit in the company’s fourth quarter will be as much as
60 cents a share, which includes a 3-cent gain from the sale of
its equity in some operations in Argentina and  Chile , Starbucks
said. That compares with analysts’ average estimate of 57 cents.  Coffee Prices  Lower coffee bean prices are boosting profit at Starbucks
and may help fourth-quarter earnings by 2 cents a share, Alstead
said. The company has about 80 percent of its coffee needs
locked for fiscal 2014, he said.  Starbucks has also been trying to boost sales by adding
more items in grocery stores. It’s selling Evolution Fresh
juice, which it bought in 2011, in supermarkets, and has plans
to sell Teavana brand teas there, too.  The company in May lowered prices by 10 percent for its
Starbucks bagged coffees sold in grocery and retail stores. It
also cut prices for its  Seattle ’s Best brand of packaged beans.
Starbucks also sells Tazo tea and cold-bottled beverages in
supermarkets.  Global same-store sales increased 8 percent, topping
analysts’ average estimate for growth of 5.8 percent, according
to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group. Same-store sales advanced 2 percent
in the company’s  Europe , the Middle East and Africa division and
rose 9 percent in  China  and Asia Pacific.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of a
retailer’s growth and performance because they exclude recent
store openings and closings.  Starbucks has more than 19,200 locations worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  