-- Statement of the IMF Consultation to Euro Area Policies (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-07-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/statement-of-the-imf-consultation-to-euro-area-policies-text-.html
Following is the text of the
consultation on Euro Area policies from the International
Monetary Fund:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2013 Article IV Consultation on  Euro Area Policies  On July 23, 2013, the Executive Board of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with
the Euro Area.(1)  Substantial collective actions have addressed important tail
risks, and extreme market stresses have subsided. The  European
Central Bank ’s Outright Monetary Transactions (OMTs) framework
has helped address severe market distortions and improved the
effectiveness of monetary policy. Initial progress on banking
union--the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) agreement, the
European Stability Mechanism (ESM) framework for direct bank
recapitalization, and the Bank Recovery and Resolution directive
(BRRD)--has demonstrated the commitment to improving European
Monetary Union (EMU) architecture. Other critical steps to
address the crisis have included: the completion of the European
Stability Mechansim (ESM) firewall; the extension of official
loan maturities to program countries, and the agreements on
Greece and Cyprus. These actions--along with reductions in
external imbalances and progress by national governments in
restoring the health of public finances--have boosted confidence
in the long-term viability of the monetary union.  But the recovery remains elusive. Financial markets are still
fragmented along national borders, and the cost of borrowing for
the private sector is high in the periphery, particularly for
smaller enterprises. Ailing banks continue to hold back the flow
of credit. In the face of high private debt and continued
uncertainty, households and firms are postponing spending.
Needed fiscal consolidation is also weighing on growth. As a
consequence, Euro Area GDP is expected to contract by 0.6
percent for a second consecutive year in 2013, before expanding
modestly by 0.9 percent in 2014. Headline inflation is expected
to remain subdued, highlighting risks of underlying deflationary
pressures. And with unemployment, especially among the youth--at
record levels, there is a risk of long-term damage to potential
growth and to political support for reforms, including for
further progress on EMU architecture. In turn, lack of reforms
would undermine growth and job prospects.  Risks to growth remain tilted to the downside. Because policy
space is limited, public debt ratios are very high (and still
rising), and economic slack is already substantial, further
negative shocks--domestic or external shocks--could severely
impact growth. The recent turbulence in global markets has
tightened financial conditions in the euro area, although the
recent introduction of forward guidance by the ECB has had a
mitigating effect. Continued turbulence--related, for example,
to expectations of earlier-than-anticipated exit from
unconventional monetary policy in the U.S.--could aggravate
fragmentation and complicate the conduct of monetary policy.
Incomplete or stalled policy commitments at the national or Euro
Area level could also reignite financial market stresses. Over
the medium-term, there is a high risk of stagnation, especially
in the periphery.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors commended Euro Area authorities for the
actions taken at both the regional and national levels, which
have stabilized financial markets and reduced tail risks related
to a euro break up. They acknowledged, in particular, progress
toward building a banking union, enhancing the firewall, and
strengthening fiscal governance. Directors noted that these
efforts have reinforced the authorities’ commitment to preserve
the integrity of monetary union.  Directors observed, however, that despite the policy actions on
many fronts, growth remains elusive and high unemployment
persists, especially among youth. At the same time, household
and corporate indebtedness remains elevated in a number of
countries, holding back domestic demand. Given narrowing policy
space and still fragile and fragmented banking sectors, these
developments have increased the risks of stagnation, social and
political tensions, and spillovers to the global economy.  Against this backdrop, Directors considered it imperative to
revive growth and create jobs through a comprehensive strategy
aimed at repairing bank balance sheets, making further progress
on banking union, and supporting demand, while advancing
structural reforms. They stressed that unwavering political
backing for institutional reforms remains critical and in the
interests of all EMU members. Directors recognized that the
first priority is to restore sound bank balance sheets to revive
credit. Immediate steps include full recognition of losses,
recapitalization of weak but viable banks, and closure or
restructuring of non-viable banks. In this context, Directors
supported plans to conduct a comprehensive balance sheet
assessment followed by stress tests to assess the potential
capital needs of the banking sector, complemented with a clear
strategy for addressing capital shortfalls. They pointed to the
benefits of involving an independent third party in ensuring the
transparency and credibility of the exercise. Directors also
emphasized the importance of a credible backstop, including
through direct recapitalization by the ESM, and looked forward
to early agreement on this matter.  Directors urged further progress toward a fuller banking union
to help reduce fragmentation. Stepped-up efforts are needed to
adopt the enabling legislation for the Single Supervisory
Mechanism, agree on the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive,
and make progress on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive.
Directors stressed the importance of establishing a strong,
centralized Single Resolution Mechanism, with the independent
power to trigger resolution and make decisions on burden
sharing.  Directors generally considered that, given weak growth and
subdued inflation, further monetary support, including through
policy rate cuts by the ECB, would likely be necessary,
especially if conditions worsen substantially. Directors also
saw a role for explicit forward guidance in anchoring
expectations, while additional unconventional support from the
ECB, including that targeted at lending to small- and medium-size enterprises, could help repair monetary transmission,
preventing a further credit contraction as measures to restore
banking system health are being implemented. Directors agreed on
the need for a flexible, differentiated pace of fiscal
adjustment within a credible medium-term framework. In this
regard, they welcomed the recent extension for some countries to
meet fiscal deficit targets. Directors noted nevertheless that
additional flexibility may still be needed in some cases,
especially if that available fiscal space is used to implement
deeper structural reforms or recapitalize viable banks. In the
longer run, it would be desirable to facilitate greater fiscal
risk sharing.  Directors urged further structural reforms at all levels, with a
view to enhancing the growth potential and further rebalancing
demand within the euro area. In particular, a targeted
implementation of the Services Directive would remove barriers
to protected professions, promote cross-border competition, and
raise productivity. Within countries, labor market reforms
should continue to remove rigidities, raise participation, and,
where necessary, promote more flexible bargaining arrangements.  1 Under Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, the IMF
holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. A
staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial
information, and discusses with officials the country’s economic
developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff
prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the
Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the
Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the
views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to
the country’s authorities. An explanation of any qualifiers used
in summings up can be found here:
 http://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/misc/qualifiers.htm .  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  