-- Stevens Cornered as Aussie Risk May Drive Rates Lower
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-25T01:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/stevens-cornered-as-aussie-risk-may-drive-rates-lower-economy.html
Glenn Stevens was confounded for 1
1/2 years as the Australian dollar’s strength defied his
interest rate cuts, prompting him to reduce borrowing costs to a
record low. The threat of a rebound means he can’t relax yet.  The Aussie dollar stabilized between 90 U.S. cents and 93
cents for the past month after a two-month, 10 percent tumble,
as traders awaited Stevens’s next move. Swaps contracts show a
76 percent chance he’ll lower the  benchmark rate  by a quarter
percentage point to 2.5 percent on Aug. 6.  “There is a risk that if the RBA doesn’t cut interest
rates again, or stresses the fact that the Aussie dollar has
come down so there is upward pressure on inflation, that it
might actually cause the Aussie to start going up again,” said
Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd.  With the Reserve Bank of Australia’s preferred inflation
gauge below the midpoint of its 2 percent to 3 percent target
for six straight quarters, the Australian dollar is taking over
as the key determinant of rates policy. A change in emphasis
from Stevens on the currency reflects its growing importance.  The Aussie “has been little changed at a historically high
level over the past 18 months, which is unusual given the
decline in export prices and interest rates during that time,”
Stevens said in a  statement  accompanying the most recent
interest rate cut on May 7, when the currency was trading at
around $1.02. In  minutes  of that meeting released May 21, he
said the higher currency may be weighing on business conditions.  Language Tweak  In statements explaining the RBA’s decisions in June and
July to keep rates unchanged, Stevens reiterated the inflation
outlook “may provide some scope for further easing.” The
minutes of the July 2 meeting, released two weeks later,
deviated from that, acknowledging that the Aussie’s decline was
raising the outlook for prices, which “could still provide some
scope for further easing.”  “They’ve really only changed one word but it does suggest
that they’re not quite so certain about the inflation outlook as
they were a few months ago,” said Michael Blythe, chief
economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
nation’s largest lender.  While the local dollar dropped after the May rate cut,
Stevens began to see genuine currency relief when U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled for the first time on
May 22 that a tapering of bond purchases may be on the cards as
the world’s largest economy strengthens. The Aussie fell about 6
percent since to 91.49 cents in Sydney at 10:29 a.m.  Market Swings  Illustrating the foreign-exchange market’s recent
sensitivity to the RBA’s commentary, the local dollar posted its
biggest back-to-back gains since November 2011 after this
month’s minutes were released July 16. Thirteen days earlier,
Stevens saw the bearish side of sentiment, when an unscripted
remark that the board “deliberated for a very long time” at
the meeting sent the Australian dollar to a 2 1/2-year low.  Under Stevens’s tenure as governor since September 2006,
the Aussie has experienced its widest fluctuations since it
started trading freely in 1983, swinging from 60.09 cents in
October 2008 to a record $1.1081 in July 2011. With credit
growth unresponsive to his latest series of rate cuts, the
currency’s failure to adjust was further stymieing efforts to
rebalance the economy as a mining-investment boom peaks.  Australia ’s  terms of trade , or export prices relative to
import prices, climbed to a record in September 2011 before
dropping 15 percent till March 31. The local dollar didn’t track
the decline, forcing the RBA to begin an easing cycle in
November 2011 to offset the currency’s strength. The RBA cut
 rates  2 percentage points since then.  ‘Swing Factor’  “The currency has been a key swing factor for the RBA,”
said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney, who predicts a reduction in borrowing
costs in August as inflation remains contained. “It drove the
cut in May and allowed the pause in June and July. The stagnant
domestic economy and weakening external environment will also
weigh heavily going forward.”  Australia’s  trimmed mean  gauge of core inflation rose 2.2
percent from a year earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney yesterday, the sixth straight reading of 2.3 percent or
below. In its  Statement on Monetary Policy  in May, the RBA’s
inflation and growth forecasts assumed the Aussie dollar trading
at $1.02. The next statement is due Aug. 9.  ‘Quite Substantially’  “The exchange rate has now depreciated quite substantially
so consistency would suggest that the RBA should be saying,
given the fall in the currency there’s no longer the need to
offset that through still lower interest rates,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of currency strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd. “The RBA is not saying that. It’s
being a little bit clever and doesn’t want to signal that the
exchange rate weakness is now doing some of the job of lower
interest rates.”  In New Zealand, central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said
the pace of future rate increases will depend on the booming
housing market’s impact on prices and reiterated he will keep
borrowing costs at a record low 2.5 percent this year.  The kiwi gained 0.5 percent and the yen held declines. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional equities fell 0.6 percent,
extending its drop from an almost two-month high.  South Korea’s economy grew the most in nine quarters,
central bank data showed, on stronger government spending and
private consumption.  Consecutive Quarters  In the U.K., economic growth probably accelerated in the
three months through June as Britain posted its first
consecutive quarters of expansion in almost two years,
economists predicted. In  Germany , business confidence probably
rose for a third month in July, indicating that Europe’s largest
economy is recovering.  U.S. jobless claims likely rose by 6,000 to 340,000 in the
week ending July 20, economists predicted before figures set to
be released by the Labor Department in  Washington .  Bill Evans, chief economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said
today the Federal Reserve is likely to have to continue with its
stimulus program and “the big fall we saw in the Aussie dollar
will start to unravel over the course of the rest of this
year.”  He said Australia’s economy hasn’t responded to the RBA’s
cuts as it did in the past, and predicts the government will
lower its growth forecast to 2.5 percent.  “That’s why the case for more interest-rate cuts is very,
very strong for Aug. 6,” Evans said at a breakfast forum in
 Melbourne  today. “Inflation is not a constraint.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  