-- Suburban Pioneer Levittown Thrives as Imitators Falter
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/suburban-pioneer-levittown-thrives-as-imitators-falter.html
Levittown,  New York , America’s first
mass-produced suburb, spawned postwar imitators throughout the
nation. These days, it’s more like an outlier.  While new research shows that U.S. suburbs are getting
older, poorer and more ethnically diverse, Levittown’s home
prices have risen, incomes have grown, and poverty levels are
far below the national average. And the once officially
segregated town, about 35 miles east of New York City, remains
more than 80 percent white, compared with 63 percent nationwide.  Levittown, which soon turns 65, stands apart from many
suburbs where foreclosures,  gas prices  and falling incomes have
damped enthusiasm for the sprawl outside cities. The town of
about 52,000 shows how location and local comforts can overcome
the obstacles curbing the nation’s love affair with suburbs,
which began when Levittown  started selling  800-square-foot,
ranch-style homes by the thousands in 1949.  “Levittown, for all its schlock characteristics, was
designed with more internal amenity than most later-automobile
suburbs,” said James Howard Kunstler, author of “The Geography
of Nowhere” who spent part of his childhood in the Long Island
suburbs. “Schools, playing fields and even some shops were
incorporated within the subdivision. So I’m sure this is a
sell,” along with the town’s proximity to  New York City , he
said in an e-mail.  Losing Luster  While suburbs remain home to the largest share of the U.S.
population, they have lost their appeal for millions of
Americans. In the wake of the 2008 housing-market collapse that
erased about $7 trillion worth of equity, people are returning
to cities in record numbers.  The slowdown in suburban growth was illustrated in  a 2009
study  by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which found
that 15 percent of residential building permits in the New York
area were in the city limits in the early 1990s. By 2007, the
EPA said, 55 percent of new building permits were in New York.  The plunge in housing prices has led to about 1 in 5
Americans holding “underwater” mortgages, those with balances
 higher  than the market value of their homes. Poverty has risen
twice as quickly in suburbs as cities during the last decade,
according to a  May report  from the  Brookings Institution . There
are now more poor people living in suburbs than cities, the
Washington-based research group found.  Defying Trend  In Levittown, the  median price  of a home climbed to
$386,600, as of 2011, up from $252,964 in 2000. The average
household in the hamlet makes $94,889, compared with the
inflation-adjusted $93,242 in 1999. While that’s an increase of
only 1.8 percent, it defied a national trend, where median
incomes across the country fell 12.1 percent during the same
period, to $52,762.  About 2.2 percent of Levittown’s population lives below the
poverty line, roughly one-seventh the national rate.  The suburb was built as a New York answer to the postwar
shortage of housing for veterans. In the wake of World War II,
more than 6 million U.S. families were living with relatives or
friends, and another 500,000 had to take shelter in temporary
residences such as garages or barns, according to “Crabgrass
Frontier” a 1985 book by Kenneth Jackson, a Columbia University
historian.  William Levitt, a veteran who had sold homes on  Long Island 
before the war for his father’s business, used Navy-pioneered
assembly-line and inventory techniques to begin building 2,000
Cape Cod-style rental homes around the area’s potato fields.  Postwar Boom  The subdivision, started as a rental community in May 1947,
was an immediate success, with as many as 30 homes being built
per day. When the Levitts began selling ranch-style homes in the
subdivision two years later, more than 1,400 contracts were
signed in a single March day.  Levittown, which would ultimately include more than 17,000
homes, became the model for the rapid suburbanization of the
U.S., fueled by easy home financing from the 1944 GI Bill and
the Interstate Highway System begun in the 1950s. By 2010, about
half of Americans lived in suburbs, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.  Levittown has remained considerably less diverse than most
suburbs. Federal Housing Administration policies in the 1940s
prevented minorities from getting home loans in integrated
neighborhoods, so Levittown was completely white through the
1950s.  Even now, 81 percent of the town’s population is white,
with another 12 percent Hispanic and 5 percent Asian. Blacks,
who make up 13 percent of the  U.S. population  and 10.5 percent
of Nassau County, account for 0.4 percent of the town’s total.  No Buses  Vestiges of the legal-segregation era remain in Nassau.
Robert Moses, New York’s dominant urban planner for decades and
a Long Island resident, instructed that overpasses on county
parkways be designed so they’d be too low for buses to use.
Since many minorities didn’t have cars in the 1940s and 1950s,
the unique design reinforced segregation.  While Levittown’s household income is higher because whites
are generally paid more than minorities, recent studies show
that diverse suburbs tend to do better in harder-to-quantify
economic categories. A July 2012  University of Minnesota Law
School study  found diverse suburbs are more walkable, have
higher graduation rates for minority students, better chances at
landing a middle-income job, and greater civic engagement.  More than 90 percent of Levittown’s 17,407 homes were built
before 1960. Polly Dwyer, president of the  local historical
society , said there’s no such thing as an original Levittown
house any more, since they’ve been remodeled or expanded.  Modest Deterrent  The size of the homes has proven only a modest deterrent to
buyers. Aileen Manton, 86, who moved there in 1969, said raising
six children in a tiny residence was challenging. She agreed
with Kunstler that Levittown’s closeness to New York and its
parks and schools made the trade-off manageable.  Manton volunteers at the Levittown Historical Museum, a
collection of town memorabilia ranging from vintage Bendix
washing machines and sections of white picket fences to toys
that would draw howls of protest from child-safety advocates
today. While praising the quality of life, she said the area has
undergone profound changes since her family moved there.  “The traffic!” she said. “All the cars. And the taxes!”  A drive through Levittown’s neighborhoods confirms there’s
no shortage of traffic or cars, parked headlight-to-taillight
along suburban thoroughfares. Almost one-third of all U.S.
households have three or more vehicles; in Levittown, the
percentage climbs to almost 45 percent.  Car Enclaves  The days of such car-dependent enclaves may be numbered as
a younger generation looks for more energy-friendly alternatives
to distant suburbs, said Lawrence Levy, director of the  National
Center for Suburban Studies  at Hofstra University.  Levittown, he said, “will probably continue to limp along
with the old-fashioned model of suburbia where you can’t walk
anywhere, where the streets are choked with cars, and where
there are extra garbage cans along the sidewalk on trash day
because of all the renting that’s going on under the table.
Eventually, a new generation is going to realize this isn’t a
sustainable model.”  Dwyer, who moved to Levittown in 1954 and raised three
children there, said families will likely continue to buy homes
in the area for many of the same reasons her family did.  “We loved it,” she said. “It was ours. And the best
part? It had a washing machine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  