-- Sugar Jumps Most in Four Weeks on Brazil Rain Concerns
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-07-25T16:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/sugar-jumps-most-in-four-weeks-on-brazil-rain-concerns.html
Sugar futures gained the most in
four weeks on speculation that rain may reduce output in  Brazil ,
the world’s largest grower. Coffee, orange juice and cotton
advanced, while cocoa fell.  Heavy precipitation across the Brazilian states of Sao
Paulo, Minas Gerais and Parana may impede cane fieldwork, and
rain will continue this week, Steve Silver, a meteorologist at
MDA Information Systems in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in a
telephone interview. Sugar output in the Center South, the top
growing region, dropped 8.8 percent to 2.4 million metric tons
in the first half of July from a year earlier, Unica, an
industry group, said yesterday.  “Every rain delay is adding up to the possible reduction
in the crop and allows less leeway for more problems later in
the season,” Michael McDougall, the head of the Brazil desk at
Newedge in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The bears
have less ammunition because the anticipated recovery in the
crush is not happening. They got some rain last night and some
mills had to shut down, so it takes more time for the fields to
dry out.”  Raw sugar for October delivery rose 1.4 percent to 16.36
cents a pound at 12:01 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. A
close at that price would mark the biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 21. Through yesterday, the price
dropped 17 percent this year amid a global surplus.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery climbed 1.4
percent to $1.229 a pound on ICE. Yesterday, the price tumbled
3.8 percent, the most since June 12.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery rose 0.2
percent to $1.4635 a pound. Through yesterday, the price jumped
24 percent this year on concerns that output will drop in
 Florida , the biggest U.S. grower.  Cotton futures for December delivery rose 0.7 percent to
86.34 cents a pound.  Cocoa futures for September delivery fell 0.6 percent at
$2,347 a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  