-- Super Plans Deal to Rival Nestle Among Asia Coffee Drinkers
-- B y   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-07-25T10:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/super-plans-deal-to-rival-nestle-among-asia-coffee-drinkers-2-.html
Super Group Ltd. (SUPER) , Singapore’s
largest instant-coffee maker, is seeking its first acquisition
in a decade as it battles  Nestle SA (NESN)  for a bigger share of the
market in Southeast Asia and  China .  “We are building our war chest for acquisitions,” Darren Teo, Super’s head of corporate strategy and business
development, said in an interview on July 23. “Organically, the
company is doing well, but we are looking at ways we can expand
faster. We are at the right time of the growth story.”  The seller of the Owl and Super Coffeemix brands wants to
add “fast-growing” coffee producers with established labels,
Teo said. The Singapore-based company also wants to buy beverage
makers to expand its repertoire of non-coffee brands, he said.  Coffee consumption  in countries such as  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines  surged by at least 55 percent from 2008 to 2011,
more than 10 times quicker than the world average, according to
the International Coffee Organization. A total of $4.2 billion
of food and beverage purchases in Southeast Asia were completed
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock was unchanged at S$4.75 at the close in
Singapore, while the city’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  dropped 1.2
percent. Super has jumped 47 percent this year, compared with a
2.2 percent decline in the benchmark measure.  Nescafe Competition  Super, whose coffee mix sachets compete with Nestle’s
Nescafe, a key product for the world’s biggest foodmaker, is
interested in companies with production facilities with ready-made ingredients and a distribution network, said Teo, who makes
key strategic decisions at the company on behalf of his father
David Teo Kee Bock, the company’s chairman.  Super made its last purchase in 2003 when it bought Owl
International Pte, a closely held instant-coffee maker, for
about S$20 million ($15.8 million), said Teo, 30. Along with
Owl, the company’s Super Coffeemix brand competes with Nestle in
eight Asian countries including  Singapore , Malaysia and
 Thailand , said Teo, whose family has the biggest stake with
about a third of Super.  “Consumers have their own preferences and freedom to
choose many products in the markets, and we are confident on our
competitiveness in the market,” Brata Hardjosubroto, Nestle
 Indonesia ’s head of public relations, said in an e-mailed
response to queries yesterday.  Super may seek an acquisition of a closely held coffee
producer in Indonesia, the Philippines or China that’s worth as
much as S$100 million, said James Koh, an analyst at Maybank Kim
Eng Holdings.  New Markets  “Super might be keen to acquire brands that would help
them expand their market presence in these places where it is
not so strong, or in new markets,” he said.  Super had S$96.1 million in  cash and securities investments 
as of March 31, according to its statement in May.  Most of the region’s 650 million people will be middle
class by 2020, and spending on food and beverages may climb at
least 75 percent from 2000 levels, according to  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   Successful consumer retail deals often require a known
brand name to sell products through its distribution channels,
said Tan Han Meng, an analyst at RHB Research. That gives Super
the “pan-Asian branding with the potential to be a Nestle in
Asia,” and expand market share, he said.  Super may struggle to find a suitable company as valuations
aren’t cheap, with the average price-earnings ratio of potential
targets exceeding 10 times, RHB’s Tan said.  Myanmar Drinks  Shares of Super trade at 31.7 times earnings, compared with
the 20 times average of its 12 closest peers in Singapore,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company also plans to introduce new products such as
cereal and malt drinks in Myanmar, where it said it’s the market
leader. This will help push its annual sales growth to as much
as 15 percent over the next five years, Teo said.  For coffee, the focus will still be on Nestle, which
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report last year controls half of the
global market for the instant beverage.  “When it comes to coffee, you’ll think of Nescafe, but
we’re probably the second name that comes to mind” in Asia, Teo
said. “We are not afraid of competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  