-- U.K. Treasury Failures May Hit Equitable Life Holders
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/u-k-treasury-failures-may-hit-equitable-life-holders.html
More than 200,000  Equitable Life
Assurance Society  policyholders risk not receiving compensation
they’re entitled to, lawmakers said.  By setting arbitrary dates for the beginning and end of
payments to reimburse more than 1 million people who lost their
savings when Equitable Life failed in 2000, the Treasury failed
to properly plan its operation, the House of Commons Public
Accounts Committee said in a report published today. Savers who
cannot be located in time for the end of payments in March 2014
may therefore not get any money, the cross-party panel said.  “Hundreds of thousands of conscientious savers are losing
out because of the Treasury’s failure to get a grip,” the
committee chairwoman, opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker  Margaret Hodge , said in an e-mailed statement. “It focused on an
arbitrary target for making the first payments at the expense of
proper planning and this has led to unacceptable delays and
spiraling costs.”  Equitable Life struggled to stave off collapse after the
House of Lords ruled in 2000 it couldn’t abandon promises to
policyholders to pay bonuses it could no longer afford. The
ruling left the company with a 1.5 billion-pound hole in its
accounts, forcing it to cut policy payouts.  Payment Breakdown  The compensation fund still has 370 million pounds ($570
million) to pay out to 664,200 policyholders, having paid out
577 million pounds to 407,000 people by March this year. Those
receiving compensation from the 1.5 billion-pound fund have also
not been given sufficient information on how their claims have
been calculated, the committee said.  “Only 35 percent of policyholders have received payments
despite 72 percent of the budget being spent,” Hodge said.
“Twenty percent of policyholders ­- between 200,000 and 236,000
people -­ might never receive any money at all because the
Treasury believes it may be unable to trace them.”  Previous compensation programs should have led the Treasury
to invest more in getting the governance and systems right, the
panel said. Poor planning meant only 168 million pounds of the
500 million pounds expected to be paid out between June 2011 and
March 2012 was delivered.  Paul Weir, communications director of the Equitable Life
Action Group representing policyholders, told the committee the
political need to be “seen to be taking action” overrode the
importance of building systems to deliver payments effectively.  The Treasury should bring forward its advertising of the
closure of the program in March next year to allow as many
policyholders as possible to lodge claims, the committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  