-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall as Homebuying Gains
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-25T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/u-s-mortgage-rates-fall-as-homebuying-gains.html
U.S. 30-year mortgage rates fell to
the lowest in three weeks, reducing borrowing costs for
homebuyers as the residential-property market strengthens.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.31 percent in the week ended today from 4.37 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The average 15-year rate slipped to 3.39 percent from 3.41 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is expected to
begin trimming monthly bond-buying in September, according to
half of the economists in a July 18-22 survey by  Bloomberg News .
Mortgage rates for 30-year loans have decreased after jumping to
the highest level in two years earlier this month on speculation
the Fed will begin to pare its purchases. Higher rates have
pushed up borrowing costs for homebuyers who are competing for a
tighter inventory of properties.  “Markets have become more accustomed to the idea that the
Fed is going to remove the extraordinary supports that have been
in place sometime soon,”  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of
HSH.com, a Riverdale, New Jersey-based mortgage website, said in
a telephone interview.  The 30-year rate is below the average of about 5.3 percent
for the past 10 years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of new U.S. homes rose more than forecast in June to
a five-year high, the Commerce Department said yesterday. The
increase is a sign that higher rates may do little to hurt the
housing recovery, according to  Paul Diggle , property economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.  “The strong rise in new-home sales in June means that the
housing market has come through its first major test of higher
mortgage rates unscathed,” Diggle said in a research note after
the figures were announced.  Prices Rise  U.S. house prices rose 7.3 percent in the year through May,
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said on July 23.  At the same time, higher loan costs may be continuing to
slow refinancing. The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of
 refinancing  applications dropped 0.7 percent last week to the
lowest level since July 2011. The  purchases  gauge fell 2.1
percent, the Washington-based trade group said yesterday.  Sales (NHSLTOT)  of previously owned homes fell unexpectedly in June,
the National Association of Realtors said on July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  