-- Hungary Seeks to Limit Mortgage Plan to Guard Stability
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-26T12:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hungary-sees-foreign-currency-mortgage-phase-out-in-years.html
Hungary  wants to limit the scope of
its plan to convert foreign-currency mortgages to forint and
implement the program over several years to blunt its effect on
banks, Economy Ministry State Secretary Gabor Orban said.  The government wants to shorten the average maturity of 11
years on foreign-currency mortgages, Orban said yesterday. Those
amounted to about 1.9 trillion forint ($8.4 billion) at the end
of March, central bank data show. Home-equity loans, which Orban
said the plan wouldn’t cover, totaled 1.8 trillion forint.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , facing elections next year,
wants to help borrowers of mostly Swiss-franc home loans whose
payments soared as the forint dropped during the global credit
crisis. Bank stocks plunged last week on concern the government
would force lenders to swallow losses in a potential repeat of a
2011 plan that allowed the repayment of loans in a lump sum at
below-market rates. The premier ruled that out today.  “There’s no need to expect something similar to the early
repayment plan, the comparison is a big stretch,” the
ministry’s Orban, who isn’t related to the prime minister, said
in an interview in Budapest. “Forint conversion is the main
aim. I see a process of several years as being realistic and if
we succeed in halving the average maturity, we will already have
achieved something.”  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest bank, rose 0.4 percent to
4,556 forint by 2 p.m. in Budapest, extending its gain to 8.5
percent over the past week as officials refined their message
about the mortgage plan. The forint strengthened 0.5 percent to
296.36 per euro, snapping a three-day slump.  No ‘Blitzkrieg’  The government wants to avoid a repeat of its 2011
“Blitzkrieg” on banks and has given the  Economy Ministry  a
broad mandate to find a solution, premier Orban said on MR1-Kossuth state radio today.  “Weakening the forint’s  exchange rate  isn’t part, or
wouldn’t be a welcome consequence of, this program,” State
Secretary Orban said. More than 40 percent of Hungary’s
government debt is denominated in foreign currencies, according
to Debt Management Agency data. “The negative consequences of
the exchange rate weakening beyond a certain point continue to
exist.”  The government doesn’t want to “wreck” the banking
industry with the mortgage plan, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga 
said, the news website Portfolio  reported  today.  Orban, 34, a former portfolio manager at Aegon Fund
Management, said officials were given “several months” to find
a “solution that’s good for everyone.” The plan needs to be
implemented at some point this year, he said.  OTP, Rivals  OTP competes with mostly foreign banks, including  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische Landesbank ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa SanPaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  The
first negotiations between government and banks took place
yesterday, Orban said.  The government is under constant pressure to find a
solution. Jobbik, a radical nationalist party, yesterday
criticized it for negotiating with banks.  The cabinet effectively banned foreign-currency mortgage
lending after assuming power in 2010 and introduced the early-repayment plan in 2011. It also created an “exchange-rate
barrier” mechanism to keep installments fixed, which is used by
about 40 percent of eligible borrowers.  The measures, along with  Europe ’s highest bank levy, turned
the industry unprofitable, contributed to a plunge in lending
and were among the reasons Hungary lost its investment-grade
 credit rating .  Government ‘Openness’  Hungarian households still hold more than 510,000 foreign-currency mortgage contracts, including 284,000 home-equity
loans, according to central bank data.  There is an “openness” in the government to share the
costs of a new “sensible plan” to help mortgage borrowers,
Orban said. That can’t threaten Hungary’s goal of keeping its
 budget deficit  within 3 percent of economic output to remain
outside the European Union’s excessive-deficit procedure for
fiscal offenders, he said.  Hungary exited the monitoring this year for the first time
since joining the trading bloc in 2004.  The government will consult with the central bank because
it’s “possible” that the regulator may also have a role in
converting foreign-currency loans into forint, Orban said.  “Whatever plan is decided on, it should have a ‘‘different
logic’’ for performing and non-performing loans and must avoid
creating a moral hazard, Orban said.  The government also has to ‘‘support and help’’ those who
borrowed in forint, Varga said, according to Portfolio. There
were 596 billion forint of these loans outstanding by the end of
March, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  