-- Unilever Sales Growth Hurt as Emerging Markets Slow
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-07-25T09:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/unilever-sales-growth-hurt-as-emerging-markets-slow.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods maker, reported quarterly sales that missed
estimates and said growth is slowing in  emerging markets  while
conditions remain difficult in the U.S. and  Europe .  So-called underlying revenue rose 5 percent in the second
quarter, the Anglo-Dutch maker of Lipton tea said today in a
statement. That fell short of the average estimate of 14
 analysts  polled by Bloomberg for a 5.3 percent increase.  Sales in developing markets rose 10.3 percent in the second
quarter, the company said, little changed from the pace of the
first three months. Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said on
a conference call that it’s not “realistic” for growth to
remain at those levels after nine straight quarter of double-digit gains, given the tougher economic conditions.  “Slowing does not mean crashing,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note today. “Despite slowing
emerging markets, Unilever still delivered double-digit growth,
which was basically in-line with the first quarter.”  Unilever  fell  1.8 percent to 30.42 euros at 11 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, trimming this year’s gain to 5.5 percent.  “Growth is slowing in emerging markets, as macroeconomic
headwinds influence consumer behavior,” the company said today
in a statement. “Within this overall trend we see a mixed
picture across the major countries.”  Slackening Growth  Slackening economic growth in nations such as  India  and
China is a concern to Unilever, which gets about 57 percent of
sales from developing regions. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
a barometer of developing economies, has fallen 6.2 percent over
the past three months, with the likes of  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  citing weakness in newer markets.  While Unilever’s sales growth was strong in  Latin America ,
 Africa  and Southeast Asia, south Asia was “a little less so,”
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said by phone.  In India, Unilever sees “an overall slowdown of the
market, as well as the consumer, and in our business to a
certain extent,” Huet said.  Earlier this month, Unilever spent 2.45 billion euros ($3.2
billion) to boost its stake in its Indian subsidiary to 67
percent from 52 percent.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  is due to
report first-quarter earnings tomorrow. India is Unilever’s
second-biggest emerging market based on sales, following  Brazil .  U.S. ‘Flat’  Coca-Cola, the world’s biggest beverage company, said this
month that profit declined for a second straight quarter as
sales were sapped by economic weakness in China, unseasonable
weather in places such as India, and depressed  consumer spending 
in Brazil.  Consumer spending “is still flat” in the U.S., Polman
said on a conference call, reflected in a 2 percent decline in
North American underlying sales in the quarter. That compares
with a 3.3 percent gain in the same period last year.  “Developed markets remain sluggish with little sign of any
recovery in  North America  or Europe,” the company said. Revenue
declined 1.3 percent in developed markets and 0.8 percent in
Europe, with ice-cream products hurt by cool weather and sales
of spreads such as Flora margarine continuing to decline.  Polman told analysts that he’s “as frustrated as you are”
with the performance in spreads, saying “I have not
delivered.” Unilever has changed the taste of Flora and
recently named a new executive, Sean Gogarty, to run the
business, which makes up about 7 percent of sales.  Shampoo Prices  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital , has pushed for
a sale of the spreads unit to focus more on faster-growing
personal-care items like TRESemme hair care and Axe body sprays,
sales of which increased 7.7 in the quarter.  Unilever said the volume of goods sold rose 3 percent in
the second quarter, meeting estimates. Higher prices for
shampoos and teas also contributed to sales growth, yet Huet
said he doesn’t expect to raise prices further in developed
markets in the second half.  Total revenue in the quarter rose 0.6 percent to 13.3
billion euros. Underlying sales growth excludes the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.  The core operating margin, a measure of profitability,
widened by 40 basis points to 14 percent in the first half,
helped by tighter controls on costs in the laundry business and
the introduction of more profitable innovations such as Dove
Repair Expertise shampoo and Magnum 5 Kisses ice cream.  Net income in the first half rose 14 percent to 2.43
billion euros, beating the 2.33 billion-euro average estimate of
six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was scope for Unilever to disappoint, but its
first-half results and confident outlook statement remind us of
the progress made by Unilever in recent years,” Deutsche Bank
AG analyst  Harold Thompson  said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  