-- Tunisia Party Leader Brahmi Shot Dead Outside His Home
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-07-25T16:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/tunisia-party-leader-brahmi-shot-dead-outside-his-home.html
Tunisian police fired tear gas to
control clashes triggered by the killing of a senior opposition
leader, the second assassination in a year in the North African
country as it struggles to achieve stability after the 2011
uprising.  Mohamed Brahmi, secretary-general of the nationalist
People’s Movement party, was shot outside his home in Tunis at
about 11 a.m, according to medical officials at the Mahmoud Al
Matri hospital where his body was taken. He suffered 11 gunshot
wounds, they said. There was no immediate claim of
responsibility.  The February shooting of Chukri Beleid, who headed the
Democratic Patriots party, sent thousands of Tunisians into the
streets in protest, causing a political crisis that brought down
Islamist Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali. The government blamed
Beleid’s assassination on Islamic extremists while the
opposition said the authorities were responsible.  Brahmi’s killing could further polarize the country between
secularists and Islamists, said Anna Boyd, Senior Middle East
Analyst at London-based IHS Country Risk, in an e-mailed note.
“We are likely to see mass protests and counter-protests
between secularists and Islamists, involving fighting in the
center of Tunis and other urban centers.”  The Tunisian General Labor Union called for a general
strike tomorrow in protest at the killing.  New Constitution  Standard Bank Plc advised investors to sell Tunisian bonds
and buy credit default swaps. “The political and economic
situation in  Tunisia  is likely to deteriorate further in coming
months,” London-based emerging-market strategist  Samir Gadio 
said in an e-mailed note today.  Tunisia’s parliament announced a day of mourning tomorrow.  Brahmi founded the People’s Movement party in 2011 and was
one of those appointed to write the North African country’s new
constitution. Ahmed Najib Chebbi, head of the  Republican Party ,
said a panel of experts should finish the draft and submit it to
a popular referendum, in an interview.  The ruling moderate Islamist Ennahda party posted a
statement on  its Facebook page , condemning “this heinous crime
which targeted opposition politician M Brahmi and the democratic
transition in Tunisia.”  Tunisia is struggling with political and economic
instability after demonstrations led to the overthrow of
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011, sparking
uprisings across the Arab world and the fall of longtime leaders
in  Egypt , Libya and Yemen.  The office of President Moncef Marzouki condemned the
killing of Brahmi, and on the day that the country was
celebrating its idependance from  France . He called on Tunisians
to unite and to avoid violence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  