-- United Trimming Seats to Cut Costs Bucks Rivals’ Additions
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-07-25T20:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/united-profit-meets-estimates-as-fuel-bill-mutes-fares-slump.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
will trim available seats by as much as 1.4 percent this
quarter, bucking increases by other U.S. airlines during the
peak summer period.  Most of the capacity cuts will be on domestic routes,
Chicago-based United said today in a  regulatory filing . The
world’s largest carrier also posted an adjusted second-quarter
profit of $1.35 a share, matching analysts’  estimates , as it
nears completion of integrating operations with Continental
Airlines, which it bought in 2010.  United is hunting for ways to reduce expenses in response
to sluggish demand for travel that limited its second-quarter
revenue gain to less than 1 percent, to $10 billion. United
trimming flying contrasts with increases by  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ,  American Airlines  and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , which say
their gains are driven by the addition of larger planes or
longer routes being flown.  “United is doing a better job with its merger integration
and these capacity cuts should help right-size the networks so
that they can continue to improve unit revenues,” James Corridore, an analyst with S&P Capital IQ in  New York , said in
an interview. He recommends holding United.  United’s  shares  dropped 1.9 percent to $34.30 at the close
in New York, while Southwest rose 0.4 percent to $13.81 and
Alaska Air declined 1.3 percent to $60.37.  Southwest, Alaska  Southwest’s adjusted profit of $274 million, or 38 cents a
share, also met analysts’ projections.  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) 
reported profit of $1.47 a share, excluding certain items, which
trailed the $1.51 average of analysts’ estimates.  Including expenses related to merger integration, United
said its net income rose 38 percent to $469 million, or $1.21 a
share, from $339 million, or 89 cents, a year earlier.  United’s fuel bill dropped 10 percent in the second
quarter, to $3.1 billion, which helped offset a 5 percent
decline in the number of passengers carried on its main jet
operations.  The carrier reduced total capacity by 2.1 percent, which
kept planes an average of 84.7 percent full, the highest ever
for the second quarter, according to the statement.  Capacity Cuts  It also helped United post a 1 percent gain in passenger
unit revenue for the quarter, a benchmark gauge of revenue for
each seat flown a mile, while Delta’s was unchanged and
American’s fell 0.9 percent.  “The reason that they did beat peers on unit revenue
growth in the quarter is because of their capacity cuts,”
Corridore said of United.  United is taking out even more capacity in the current
quarter to further lower costs. Airlines often cut available
seats after the peak summer travel season ends following the
U.S. Labor Day holiday, which is on Sept. 2, because demand
often slows.  That contrasts with peers including American, which is
boosting capacity by 2.7 percent this quarter as it adds longer
flights to  South Korea  and  South America , and Delta’s 2 percent
increase in the second half of the year as it adds more seats by
replacing 50-seat jets with larger aircraft.  ‘Pretty Cautious’  Dallas-based Southwest’s capacity will rise 1.7 percent
this quarter as it adds larger Boeing 737-800 planes to its
fleet and installs six more seats to most of its existing planes
as it refurbishes interiors, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly 
said today in a telephone interview.  “We have more seat-miles being offered than I would
wish,” Kelly said. “There are some things like that that are
going to happen.”  Despite the growth, Southwest is still “pretty cautious in
our outlook, and we don’t plan to grow” capacity next year,
Kelly said.  Delta’s CEO  Richard Anderson  said yesterday on a conference
call with analysts that the Atlanta-based carrier’s near-term
capacity growth as it makes changes to its fleet “shouldn’t be
mistaken for any change in philosophy about how we manage
capacity here.”  “You can always expect that we will be conservative,”
Anderson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net . 