-- Tupras Slumps to 9-Month Low as Tax Probe Starts: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-25T15:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/tupras-slumps-to-9-month-low-as-tax-probe-starts-istanbul-mover.html
Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri
AS (TUPRS)  slumped to the lowest level in more than nine months after
tax authorities started an investigation into Turkey’s sole oil
refiner. Parent company  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL)  and its units also fell.  The  shares  of Kocaeli-based Tupras dropped 3.1 percent to
41.30 liras, their lowest since Oct. 15, at the close in
Istanbul. Almost 1.6 million shares traded, 1.8 times the three-month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  gauge slipped 0.2 percent to the
lowest level since July 11 as Koc Holding, the biggest decliner
by index points, lost 3.9 percent.  Turkey’s  Finance Ministry  started a probe into Tupras’
taxes, as well as an audit of its raw materials, products and
lubricants’ inventory, the company said in a statement after
markets closed yesterday. Koc Holding affiliate  Aygaz AS, (AYGAZ)  which
sells liquefied petroleum gas, also said a tax probe was under
way, triggering a 2.6 percent retreat in the stock.  “All group companies and the holding itself are falling,
as nobody knows what will come out of this,” Hasan Sener, an
analyst at Oyak Securities in Istanbul, said by phone. “ We may
see pressure on the shares for some time.”  Aygaz retreated to 8.88 liras, the lowest since July 12,
while Koc Holding, Turkey’s biggest group of companies, tumbled
to 8.94 liras. Koc companies accounted for five of the top-10
decliners on the benchmark index.  Tax Probes  Otokar Otomotiv ve Savunma Sanayi AS , which manufactures
civilian and military vehicles and is  45 percent owned  by Koc,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, slumped 1.5 percent.
 Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS (FROTO) , the carmaker co-owned by Koc and Ford
Motor Co., retreated 2.1 percent.  Today’s declines took Koc’s loss to 16 percent since May
31, the start of anti-government demonstrations at Gezi Park in
Istanbul that spread to other Turkish cities. That compares with
a 14 percent decline in the benchmark index.  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in a Twitter message
late yesterday there was “absolutely no linkage between Gezi
protests and current tax probes.” Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told his party’s lawmakers on June 25 the Koc-owned
Divan Hotel in central Istanbul will be investigated for
“providing shelter” to protesters fleeing the police.  Other shares linked to Koc Holding also fell.  Tofas Turk
Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO) , the car manufacturer Koc co-owns with
Fiat SpA, dropped 4.6 percent, the most in more than a month.  Turkey’s central bank raised interest rates for the first
time since October 2011 after the lira slumped to a record low
of 1.9740 per dollar earlier this month. It increased its
overnight lending rate by 75 basis points to 7.25 percent on
July 23 and said “additional monetary tightening will be
implemented when necessary.”  “Uncertainty in such situations is priced in an extreme
manner, especially if other issues hover in the background,”
such as rising  interest rates , Serhan Gok, head of research at
UBS Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The
market should stave off the worst of this in a few days and
return to normalcy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  