-- Turkish Yields Rise to 2-Week High as Central Bank Tightens
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-25T10:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/turkish-yields-rise-to-2-week-high-as-central-bank-tightens.html
Turkish benchmark bond yields rose
to their highest level in two weeks after the central bank
tightened monetary policy by refraining from lending at the
benchmark  interest rate . The lira weakened.  Yields on  two-year  bond yields advanced 26 basis points to
9.17 percent at 12:42 p.m. in Istanbul in a third day of
increases that was the highest since July 11. The lira slipped
for a second day, weakening 0.3 percent against the dollar
to 1.9255.  The central bank held back lending today as an
“exceptional day,” the first such move since July 10. On those
days, the bank does not lend at the policy rate of 4.5 percent.
The bank raised interest rates for the first time since October
2011 after the lira slumped to a record low this month. It
increased its overnight lending rate by 75 basis points to 7.25
percent on July 23 and said “additional monetary tightening
will be implemented when necessary.”  “The exceptional day policy is disturbing both the rates
and shares, spurring stop-loss sales,” Tufan Comert, a
strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed
comments yesterday. “For that reason, we are seeing the lira
depreciation as well.”  The lira advanced to its five-week high against the dollar
and closed at 1.8998 July 23 after the central bank raised
interest rates. Turkey’s currency has depreciated 7.4 percent
this year, making it the weakest among emerging market
currencies in  Africa ,  Europe  and the  Middle East  after the South
African rand.  “The lira is underperforming after the nice run ahead of
the central bank meeting,”  Murat Toprak , a currency strategist
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
said in e-mailed comments. “It might be interpreted as some
kind of profit taking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  