-- Usain Bolt Says Gay, Powell Doping Cases Are ‘Setback’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-25T12:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/usain-bolt-says-gay-powell-doping-cases-are-setback-.html
Six-time Olympic champion Usain Bolt
said he’s a “clean” athlete, while adding that recent drug
cases including some of his Jamaican national teammates are a
setback for the sport.  On July 14, U.S. sprinter Tyson Gay and  Jamaica ’s Asafa Powell, respectively the fastest and third-fastest men in the
world this season, said they wouldn’t compete at next month’s
 IAAF World Championships  in Moscow after testing positive for
banned substances.  Last month, Jamaica’s Veronica Campbell-Brown, a two-time
Olympic 200-meter champion, accepted a provisional suspension
from competition following a positive test for a banned
diuretic.  “It is going to set us back a little bit,” Bolt told
reporters at a press conference today in east London ahead of
tomorrow’s IAAF Diamond League meet, also known as the
Anniversary Games, at the Olympic Stadium.  Bolt, world record-holder at 100 meters and 200 meters,
went on to say that he didn’t want to focus on doping issues
with the world championships only 16 days away.  “I am clean,” he said. “I’m just trying to work hard,
run fast and hopefully help people trying to forget what’s
happening and move on and look forward to the world
championships.”  During a 20-minute press conference, Bolt -- the only man
to successfully defend both the 100- and 200-meter titles at an
Olympics -- was mostly asked about doping issues.  Increase Ban?  He didn’t want to be drawn on whether the current two-year
ban for serious doping violations should be extended to four
years, or whether certain food supplements should be taken off
the banned substances list.  “You have to be careful as an athlete about what you do,
and what you ingest and the food you eat and stuff like that,”
Bolt said. “But I am not worried because I have a great team
around me to make sure everything goes smoothly. As a person, I
make sure I am careful also. That’s all I can do.”  Gay, who has the fastest 100-meter time of 2013 at  9.75
seconds , said July 14 that one of his samples from an out-of-competition test in May came back positive for an undisclosed
substance.  Powell, the former 100-meter world record-holder, said the
same day that he’d tested positive for the banned stimulant
oxilofrine at the Jamaican national trials in June. Fellow
Jamaican Sherone Simpson, a silver medalist in the women’s 400-meter relay at London 2012, also tested positive for the same
substance at the trials. All the athletes said they’d never
knowingly taken banned drugs.  ‘Stay Strong’  Bolt said he’d been in touch with Powell once since his
positive test.  “I told him sorry to hear what has been going on, and he
said ‘Yes, it’s kind of rough, it’s hard.’ And I told him to
stay strong and focused and hopefully everything will work
out.”  Bolt added that there were “a lot of details left to be
discussed,” regarding Powell’s case.  Bolt, the reigning 100-meter, 200-meter and 400-meter relay
Olympic champion, is one of 29  London  medal winners who will be
competing at the Anniversary Games. Bolt will start in the 100
meters tomorrow, followed by the 400-meter relay on July 27,
exactly a year after he carried the Jamaican flag in the London
2012 opening ceremony.  Other Olympic champions competing include Britain’s Mo Farah, winner of the 5,000- and 10,000-meter events, and 400-meter winner Kirani James of Grenada.  All 80,000 tickets for the three-day event were sold out
within 75 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  