-- Husky Energy Quarterly Profit Rises on Higher Output and Prices
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-25T11:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/husky-energy-quarterly-profit-rises-on-higher-output-and-prices.html
Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , the Canadian
energy producer controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ,
said second-quarter profit rose as the company produced more oil
amid higher crude prices.  Net income advanced to C$605 million ($587 million) or 59
cents a share, from C$431 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement on Marketwired
today. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit exceeded the
58-cent average of  10 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Husky is among integrated energy companies that can lessen
the effects of higher costs to supply its refineries with
increased returns on oil output. Husky is seeking to boost
equivalent  oil production  5 to 8 percent in each of the next
four years, including with the Sunrise oil-sands project and
Liwan offshore gas development in the  South China Sea .  “For the integrated oils, we expect total corporate
earnings to be up 28 percent versus the same period last year as
stronger crude prices and higher production levels outweigh
narrower North American refining margins,”  Randy Ollenberger ,
an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Calgary, said in a July 21
note to clients about Canadian energy earnings.  Total upstream production climbed to 310,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day from 282,000 barrels a day in the year-earlier
quarter.  Spot prices for Western Canada Select, the heavy-oil
benchmark that includes oil-sands crude, rose 5.4 percent to
average $77.48 a barrel in the quarter from a year earlier,
according to figures compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. per-barrel
refining margins narrowed 15 percent during the quarter, while
the Canadian so-called crack spreads dropped 17 percent,
Ollenberger said.  Husky, which is 70 percent  controlled  by Li, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, released results before the start of
regular trading on North American markets. The shares fell 1.1
percent to C$29.58 at the close in Toronto yesterday. The
company has four buy, 12 hold and 1 sell  recommendations  from
analysts. Husky is little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  