-- Hutchison Is Buyer of Phone Assets in Italy, Novari Says
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-07-26T07:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hutchison-whampoa-is-buyer-of-phone-assets-in-italy-novari-says.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, may consider other
options to bolster its telecommunications assets in  Italy  after
talks to merge with  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s wireless business were
put on hold, the head of its local unit said.  The number of wireless carriers in Italy will eventually
drop to three from four, said Vincenzo Novari, chief executive
officer of Hutchison’s 3 Italia, the country’s smallest
operator. The executive said he wouldn’t rule out a potential
revival of a deal with Telecom Italia, or with Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA, a unit of  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   “In Italy Hutchison Whampoa will be a buyer not a
seller,” Novari said in an interview after a meeting with
regulators in Rome this week. “Discussions with Telecom Italia
have now stopped, but who knows what happens in the fall?”  3 Italia, valued at as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion), said this month it wouldn’t be in a position to win
approval from its parent to pursue a combination with Telecom
Italia, which would widen the Milan-based carrier’s lead over
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  in Italy. Hutchison was concerned about the
shareholder structure of a potential transaction and Telecom
Italia’s debt, which may weigh on its own  debt rating , Novari
said.  Hutchison gained 0.2 percent to HK$87.00 in Hong Kong
trading today. Vimpelcom Ltd declined 1.7 percent to close at
$10.37 in New York yesterday. Telecom Italia shares rose 0.9
percent to 53.3 cents at 9:48 a.m. in Milan.  ParknShop Sale?  Hutchison, with businesses ranging from retail, ports to
telecommunications, is conducting a strategic review of its
ParknShop supermarket chain. An exit would free up resources for
Hutchison to invest in faster-growing businesses. ParknShop
could fetch $3 billion to $4 billion in a sale, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The conglomerate, which sells wireless services in Europe
under the 3 brand, last month agreed to buy  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
Irish division for as much as 850 million euros.  3 Italia had about 10.2 percent of Italy’s more than 90
million wireless customers at the end of the first quarter,
according to  data  compiled by communications regulator Agcom.
That compares with 34.4 percent by Telecom Italia, 31.6 percent
for Vodafone and Wind’s 23.8 percent.  The Hutchison unit reported 2012 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 264 million euros on
revenue of 1.97 billion euros. Ebitda will probably exceed 250
million euros this year, Novari said.  European Deals  Earlier this week,  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  agreed
to acquire Royal KPN NV’s German wireless business in a $10.7
billion cash-and-stock transaction to leapfrog  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  as the country’s largest carrier by customers. The deal,
which would cut Germany’s number of operators to three, requires
antitrust approval.  “It doesn’t make sense to have so many players in
Europe,” Telefonica Chief Operating Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete said on a conference call with analysts yesterday. “If
Europe as a region wants to play scale it needs to consolidate.
That consolidation is going to be in the interest of European
consumers and therefore it needs to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  