-- Vertex Says U.S. Places Partial Hold on Hepatitis Study
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-26T20:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/vertex-says-u-s-places-partial-hold-on-hepatitis-study.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  said
U.S. regulators placed a partial clinical hold on its trial of a
drug for hepatitis C after three patients receiving a high dose
of the medicine showed signs of potential liver toxicity. The
shares sank the most in eight months.  The Food and Drug Administration hold is on a study in the
U.S. using a dose of 200 milligrams of the drug VX-135, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The trial, in the second of three phases generally
required for approval, is continuing in the 100-milligram dose.  Vertex is competing with drugmakers including  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  to
develop an oral hepatitis C treatment that doesn’t involve
injections of interferon, which can cause flu-like symptoms. The
hepatitis C virus, which attacks the liver and can lead to  liver
cancer , affects about 150 million people worldwide.  “Developing safe and effective medicines for patients is
our goal,”  Robert Kauffman , Vertex chief medical officer, said
in the statement. “We are committed to continuing to work
closely with the FDA to provide the data needed to support
evaluation of a 200 mg dose of VX-135 in the U.S.”  Vertex dropped 7.9 percent to $80.71 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time for its biggest decline since November. The shares are up
93 percent this year.  Three Patients  Three patients taking 400 milligrams of the drug in
combination with ribavirin in a separate European trial had
elevated liver enzymes, and their levels returned to normal
after they stopped treatment, Zach Barber, a spokesman for
Vertex, said in an e-mail. The company said it finished dosing a
12-week study in  Europe  that included a 200-milligram arm and no
serious adverse events or liver or heart safety issues arose.  The clinical hold may widen the edge Gilead has over Vertex
in developing its hepatitis C products,  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group, said in a note to clients.  “Clearly, the FDA’s risk tolerance in hepatitis C is now
extremely low, which puts a large moat around Gilead’s
franchise,” Schoenebaum said.  Gilead’s shares gained 2.8 percent to $62.57. The company
released second-quarter results yesterday that included revenue
higher than analysts had estimated.  U.S. regulators are expected to decide by Dec. 8 on
marketing approval for a hepatitis C combination therapy
including sofosbuvir, Gilead’s leading experimental medicine for
the disease. Sofosbuvir and Vertex’s VX-135 belong to a class of
drugs called nucleotide polymerase inhibitors, which have been
part of combination pill therapies being tested for hepatitis C.  Safety Issues  The FDA previously put clinical holds on experimental
hepatitis C compounds from  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) ,
 Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
because of potential adverse effects on the liver and heart.  No similar concerns have been raised during the development
of its hepatitis C drugs, Norbert Bischofberger, Gilead’s
executive vice president for research and development, said on a
conference call after the earnings were released.  “There’s no evidence right now we’re seeing any, anything
that’s related to either sofosbuvir or the sofosbuvir-ledipasvir
fixed-dose combination that could be ascribed to either an
adverse event or a laboratory anomaly,” he said in response to
a question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  