-- Violence Threatening Transition Aborts Egypt Rally: Arab Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-25T10:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/violence-threatening-transition-aborts-egypt-rally-arab-credit.html
The rally in  Egypt ’s dollar bonds
has come to a halt as deadly violence after the ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi threatens to derail a plan by his army-backed successors to revive the economy and hold elections.  The yield on the benchmark $1 billion notes due 2020, which
plunged more than 200 basis points in the weeks after Mursi’s
July 3 removal by the military, has climbed 10 basis points this
week to 8.55 percent at 12:57 p.m. in Cairo, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average yield on regional sovereign
securities increased by the same to 5.05 percent on July 24,
according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes.  Daily protests and clashes have killed dozens, mostly
Islamist supporters of Mursi, in the past three weeks. The
violence may undermine efforts by the interim administration to
lift the economy out of its worst slowdown in two decades, even
after Gulf Arab countries pledged to support Egypt with $12
billion in aid.  “As long as political clashes persist, nothing, really
nothing will happen on the economic front,” Sergey Dergachev,
who helps oversee about $10 billion at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed answer to
questions on July 23. “I am still very cautious and not
invested there.”  Interim Rulers  The cost of insuring Egypt’s dollar debt against default
for five years have soared 119 basis points, or 1.19 percentage
points, to 775 yesterday since reaching a seven-week low of 655
on July 12, according to CMA data. The contracts, known as
credit default swaps, are still down 125 basis points since the
army toppled Mursi on July 3. They fell to 763 today.  The military, supported by a coalition of youth groups and
secular-leaning political parties, removed Egypt’s first
democratically elected civilian president after days of mass
rallies against his one-year rule. The army suspended the
Islamist-backed constitution, and named constitutional court
chief Adly Mansour as interim president to prepare for
parliamentary and presidential elections.  Mansour and his premier, former Finance Minister Hazem El Beblawi, inherited record unemployment and a  budget deficit  that
may widen to 12 percent of economic output this year, according
to the estimates of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Economic
growth may slow to 2 percent, while inflation, at 9.8 percent in
June, is the highest in two years.  ‘Extremely Tense’  Egypt has a “mix of very poor credit fundamentals, that
are still on a deteriorating path, coupled with extremely tense
political infighting with no peace in sight,” said Dergachev.
“This combination is very worrisome.”  Investors in local-currency debt may be less concerned. The
average yield on one-year Treasury bills tumbled about 140 basis
points since the military intervention to 14 percent, fueled by
steps to amend the constitution and aid pledges.  Financial support pledged from the Gulf, of which $5
billion from  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  has
already been transferred, covers this year’s estimated current-account deficit and almost half of the budget shortfall,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Because the aid is unconditional, there is a danger that
the difficult reforms could be postponed until the elected
government” takes office, John Sfakianakis, chief investment
strategist at MASIC, a Riyadh-based  investment company , said by
phone. “If it was IMF money, it would have to be conditional on
reforms.”  ‘Significant Trigger’  Egypt has struggled to conclude a $4.8 billion loan accord
with the  International Monetary Fund  amid reluctance by Mursi’s
government to impose unpopular economic measures such as a
reduction in energy subsidies.  It’s the IMF money that will be a “significant trigger for
investors in Egypt, not Qatar or U.A.E. aid,” said Dergachev.
The IMF “will bring some discipline and more visibility of how
to tackle economic problems.”  The Gulf aid package, in addition to $8 billion that Qatar
had extended to Mursi’s government, also adds 7.5 percent to
Egypt’s ratio of public debt to economic output, taking it
closer to 90 percent, said Raza Agha, London-based chief Middle
East and Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc.  Brotherhood Support  While the funds will help stem the decline in Egypt’s
 foreign reserves , they are not “a substitute for Egypt doing
what Egypt needs,” Finance Minister Ahmed Galal said by phone
on July 20. “The situation is likely to stabilize. There is a
road map. There will be inclusion, at least there will be an
attempt to include everybody.”  There’s no guarantee the attempt will succeed. Mursi’s
Muslim Brotherhood has rejected offers for talks or to join the
government, instead vowing to continue protests until the
Islamist leader is released from military custody and
reinstated.  “If the Muslim Brotherhood were a small party, this would
not be a problem,” Agha said. “But even at their lows, before
the change in government, the former president was polling
around 30 percent to 40 percent support, which is significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  