-- LVMH Sales Growth Accelerates as Luxury-Goods Makers Rebound
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-26T10:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/lvmh-sales-growth-accelerates-as-luxury-goods-industry-rebounds.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy  Louis Vuitton  SA,
the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, and Gucci owner  Kering
SA (KER)  reported accelerating sales growth as the industry rebounded
from a weak start to the year.  LVMH, the owner of Louis Vuitton and  Christian Dior , said
second-quarter organic revenue advanced 9 percent, more than the
first-quarter’s 7 percent gain. Luxury sales at Kering rose 9.4
percent on a comparable basis, exceeding the previous quarter’s
6.4 percent increase, the Paris-based company said yesterday.  The stronger sales performances provided some relief for
luxury investors after a stuttering start to the year at both
companies. First-quarter revenue growth at Gucci and LVMH’s
fashion and leather-goods unit was the weakest in more than
three years, hurt partly by weaker Chinese consumption. Both
companies expressed confidence in the second-half outlook.  “I expect trading updates to continue to improve in the
second half” as the basis of comparison gets easier and
confidence among rich Chinese consumers strengthens,  Luca Solca ,
an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said by e-mail.  LVMH rose as much as 5.7 percent in Paris trading, the
steepest intraday gain since Jan. 10, 2012, and was up 4.5
percent at 136.30 euros as of 11:40 a.m. Kering climbed 4.2
percent to 178.10 euros.  Loro Piana  LVMH, which this month agreed to pay 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion) for 80 percent of Italian clothier Loro Piana SpA, said
first-half sales at its fashion and leather-goods unit rose 5
percent, excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts.
That was an improvement on the first-quarter’s 3 percent growth.  Second-quarter sales at Kering, formerly known as PPR, were
driven by  Bottega Veneta . The brand had growth of 17 percent on
a comparable basis, about double the pace of the previous three
months. That topped Gucci’s 4.1 percent advance, which was
little changed from the first-quarter’s 4 percent increase and
below the 4.9 percent median estimate of 16 analysts.  Gucci’s growth was “a touch below expectations,” while
the company’s other luxury brands exceeded estimates, Solca
said. Their performance is “yet another reminder of the smaller
brands’ importance to the big picture,” said Eva Quiroga, an
analyst at UBS AG, in a note to clients.  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , in which LVMH has a stake, this
month reported a 16 percent increase in quarterly revenue,
excluding currency swings, as sales of its Kelly handbags and
other goods surged in  Asia  and the Americas.  Sporting Goods  First-half profit at Kering beat estimates as the luxury
unit’s growth compensated for lower sales at  Puma SE (PUM) , the
sporting-goods company in which it owns a majority stake.  So-called recurring operating income advanced 2.3 percent
to 843 million euros in the six months ended June 30, the
company said. Analysts predicted 824 million euros, the median
of 16  estimates  surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Trends recorded in the first six months of 2013 should
continue in the second half,” Kering said in the statement.
“In this context, the group maintains its goal of improving its
operating and financial performances in the full year.”  LVMH’s first-half profit from recurring operations climbed
2 percent to 2.71 billion euros, the Paris-based company said
yesterday. Analysts predicted 2.76 billion euros, according to
the average  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  First-half sales advanced 5.6 percent to 13.7 billion
euros, or 8 percent excluding currency shifts and acquisitions.  “It is with confidence that we approach the second half of
the year,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault 
said in the statement.  Increased investment in smaller brands is helping support
growth at LVMH’s fashion and leather-goods unit, said Solca. The
“EBIT impact shows this transition is neither immediate nor
painless, though, as LVMH scrambles to support growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  