-- Wall Street Decathlon Draws Ex-NFL Players for Top Athlete Crown
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/wall-street-decathlon-draws-ex-nfl-players-for-top-athlete-crown.html
Jake Stoller was in training camp
with the Pittsburgh Steelers last summer, trying to win a job in
the  National Football League . The former Yale University
defensive lineman and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  debt capital markets analyst
is pursuing a new goal this year: the title of Wall Street’s
best athlete.  Stoller this weekend will be among 170 financial industry
workers competing in the  RBC Decathlon , a 10-event charity
competition that raised more than $1.3 million for  Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York last year.  Stoller, 23, is also among a handful of decathlon
participants with NFL experience who, instead of sweating
through training camp workouts, have been preparing to test
their speed, strength and agility in the 10-event competition
scheduled for July 28 at  Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium.  “Initially it was a good way for me to have an end goal,
something I could train for, but it’s quickly become very
competitive,” the 6-foot-4 Stoller, who’s down 60 pounds from
his training camp weight of 300 pounds, said in a telephone
interview. “I’m getting e-mails from buddies at competing firms
talking about where I’m going to be in certain events. The trash
talk has begun, and it’s exciting.”  Mark Rubin, Stoller’s colleague at Barclays, is the
defending decathlon champion and a former Pennsylvania State
University safety who went through training camp with the  St.
Louis Rams  in 2009 before being cut in Week 1 of the NFL season.
He also had unsuccessful tryouts with the  Buffalo Bills  and
 Minnesota Vikings  and is now in his third year at Barclays
selling fixed-income futures.  ‘Competitive Juices’  Tom McCarthy of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Stoller’s former teammate
on the Yale defensive line, is in the decathlon for the first
time after spending time in training camp with the NFL’s Atlanta
Falcons and  Jacksonville Jaguars . The 6-foot-6 McCarthy, Yale’s
football captain as a senior in 2011, works as a fixed income
strategist and said he’s looking forward to facing Stoller in
the event.  “We’re getting the competitive juices flowing,” McCarthy
said last week on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.” “For
three years we played together on the defensive line and we were
always working together. Now we finally get a chance to go head-to-head and see who the best athlete is.”  Collin Zych, a former Harvard University football captain
who in 2011 signed with the  Dallas Cowboys  as a free agent, is
also making his debut this year and said he’s hoping to follow
Rubin as the second straight ex-safety to win the decathlon.  Termination Letter  Zych, 24, is now a third-year investment banking analyst at
Cogent Partners, where a  termination letter  from the Cowboys is
the lone item that hangs on a wall of his cubicle at the
advisory firm’s Dallas office. In the notice, which is signed by
Cowboys chief operating officer  Stephen Jones , there’s an X next
to an item that says Zych’s skill was judged by the team to be
“unsatisfactory as compared with that of other players
competing for positions” on the roster.  “It’s just one of those little motivational things,” said
Zych, who flew into New York yesterday for the decathlon. “I
was looking for a challenge and this really fit the bill. I’m
expecting it to be pretty intense.”  There are three running events in the Wall Street Decathlon
-- at distances of 40 yards, 400 meters and 800 meters -- a
football throw and an agility drill that NFL scouts use to
compare players. Also in the one-day competition are pull-ups,
rowing, vertical jump, bench press and dips -- a triceps
exercise using one’s own weight.  Award Winners  The day before the decathlon is the inaugural Wall Street
Mile in which participants run, in a series of heats, around the
Wien Stadium track on the northern tip of  Manhattan  to
accumulate charity donations.  Awards will be presented to the top three finishers in the
men’s and women’s divisions at the decathlon, as well as the top
executive performer, the winners in three age groups (under 30,
30-39 and over 40), the most successful fundraiser and the top
three-person team. This will be the first year there’s an
official women’s champion.  All contributions go to pediatric  cancer research  at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering and participants are required to raise
a minimum of $3,000 in donations. Fundraising is also driven by
“charity bets,” with competitors generating donations by
surpassing pre-event goals.  Stoller and McCarthy are doing a head-to-head charity bet
in the agility drill and reached out to friends, colleagues,
family and Yale alumni groups for donations on who will have a
better time in the event. The drill tests lateral quickness and
acceleration, with competitors starting in the middle of a
marked 10-yard space, running five yards in one direction, 10
yards in the other direction to touch a line and then returning
the final five yards to the starting point.  “It’s been a good source of fun from our side,” said
Stoller. “I’ll still have some insight in terms of where I was
a year ago that will help me in terms of technique. It’s not
completely gone, but I’ve told family and people that have been
supporting me that I won’t be sharing the results with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  