-- Wells Fargo Quits 8 Mortgage Joint Ventures, Cuts 300 Jobs
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-25T22:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/wells-fargo-quits-eight-mortgage-joint-ventures-cuts-300-jobs.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, said it’s cutting 300 jobs after regulatory changes
caused the bank to withdraw from eight mortgage joint ventures.  New state and federal oversight “have increased the
complexity and difficulty of operating mortgage joint
ventures,” the San Francisco-based company said today in a
statement. That made the business model unworkable, Franklin
Codel, head of mortgage production at Wells Fargo, said in an
interview. The arrangement accounted for 3 percent of
originations in the second quarter, according to the bank.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act put the joint ventures under state
rules, ending the federal pre-emption that made the process more
uniform, Codel said. “We were exposed then to 50 states’ unique
regulations and requirements which ranged from everything from
licensing to documentation,” he said.  Wells Fargo is exiting as higher  interest rates  crimp
mortgage borrowing. The average fixed rate on a 30-year home
loan rose almost one percentage point to 4.31 percent in the
three months ended July 25, and Wells Fargo has forecast the
business will taper off the rest of this year.  The bank once operated more than 100 joint ventures run as
separate legal entities with their own sales forces and the
freedom to sell loans to Wells Fargo or other lenders, Codel
said. With the change, the bank’s partners may finance
homeowners directly, sign agreements to make Wells Fargo a
preferred lender, or leave the market, he said.  Lending Impact  The withdrawal will be completed over the next 12 to 18
months, Wells Fargo said, adding that the decision doesn’t
affect its own retail mortgage lending and relationships with
outside correspondent lenders.  Wells Fargo slipped 1.5 percent to $43.65 in New York
 trading , trimming its advance to 28 percent this year. The bank
is the biggest employer among U.S. lenders with about 274,300 on
staff at midyear. Wells Fargo said it will try to find other
jobs for those affected. The firm earned record profit in the
second quarter and ranked as the world’s most valuable bank.  The company originated $112 billion in home loans in the
second quarter and accounted for almost 1 in 3 U.S. home loans
last year, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade
publication.  Earlier today, HomeServices of America Inc., the real
estate brokerage unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , agreed to take over Wells Fargo’s stake in their joint
venture that was the largest of the eight. Berkshire, based in
Omaha,  Nebraska , is Wells Fargo’s  largest shareholder .  Staying In  The joint venture, known as HomeServices Lending LLC, has
annual production of between $3.5 billion and $4 billion,
President  Todd Johnson  said in an interview. Johnson said
HomeServices of America decided to take over the entire venture
so that it could provide “one-stop shopping” for its
customers. The company is still weighing what it will do with
mortgage risk once Wells Fargo exits the venture, he said.  “Getting a mortgage today is more challenging than it was
years ago, and given the level of financial reform and change,
we know that it’s going to be a robust process going forward,”
Johnson said. “We believe that we do it better in all of our
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  