-- Will Obamacare Kickstart Health-Care Revolution?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-07-25T14:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/will-obamacare-kickstart-health-care-revolution-.html
On Jan. 1, 2014, the federal
government will begin subsidizing millions of people’s health
insurance purchases through Obamacare. “At that point,” warned
Byron York, an influential conservative columnist with the
Washington Examiner, “the Republican mantra of total repeal
will become obsolete.”  Three years after the law passed, one year after the U.S.
Supreme Court upheld it, and nine months after Republicans lost
the election that might have allowed them to  repeal  it, the
Washington conversation is still about Republicans’ rear guard
actions to undermine the Affordable Care Act and profit
politically from the damage.  But in a cavernous room in  New York ’s SoHo district, a
group of entrepreneurs is working to render the entire
Washington conversation over Obamacare obsolete. There,
Obamacare is no longer a political controversy: It’s a business
opportunity. And a trio of young technologists have raised $40
million to take advantage of it.  For Joshua Kushner, the epiphany came when he opened his
insurance bill. “I realized I had absolutely no idea what it
meant,” he said. “I’m overeducated. I run a growing business,
but I don’t know what my benefits are, I don’t know what doctors
or hospitals I have, I don’t know how to file a claim. So I
picked up the phone and called 10 or 12 of my friends and asked
if they had any idea how to navigate this amazing expense. None
of them did.”  Transforming Industries  To Kushner, that signaled a business opportunity -- and a
social one. The 28-year-old Harvard graduate is the founder of
Thrive Capital, which invests in Internet and media companies,
including Kickstarter and Instagram. “We hope to transform
traditional industries,” he said.  But he was afflicted by the ennui that’s infected the
latest crop of young coders. He quotes Jeff Hammerbacher, one of
Facebook’s early employees, saying, “The best minds of my
generation are thinking about how to make people click ads, and
that sucks.”  So Kushner called his friend Kevin Nazemi, formerly of
Microsoft Corp., and Mario Schlosser, of the Latin American
social gaming giant Vostu Ltd., and they decided in January 2012
to take on one of the biggest, most hidebound industries of all:
health care. The way to do it, they decided, was by transforming
health insurance. “It’s just a beautiful vantage point for
addressing these issues,” Schlosser said.  Starting a new health insurer is a nice thought, but an
almost impossible task. At least, it used to be. That was before
Obamacare upended part of the industry.  Come Oct. 1, all 50 states and the  District of Columbia 
will open health insurance marketplaces (sometimes called
“exchanges”) to serve people who don’t get coverage from their
employer or a government program. The insurers in these online
marketplaces won’t be able to discriminate based on existing
conditions. They have to offer a core package of essential
benefits and clear pricing information. And they’re about to see
a flood of first-time customers.  In New York City, one of those insurers will be Oscar.
That’s the name Kushner and his co-founders chose, hoping it
would help humanize their company. “I don’t think we could do
this without Obamacare,” Schlosser said. “You’d have to break
into a market that’s been pretty ‘oligopolized’ with big
insurers catering to brokers, agency houses and big employers.
But now we have a direct connection to the consumer.”  Breeding Familiarity  The idea behind Oscar is that using your insurance should
be as easy and intuitive as using your Facebook account or your
Tumblr page. As Nazemi puts it, “We have a responsibility to
take the friction and pain of engagement out of the process.”
The experience is familiar to anyone who uses today’s leading
social networks (the former head of engineering at Tumblr now
works for Oscar). But for anyone who’s used the websites of
Aetna or Cigna or Blue Cross Blue Shield, it’s something of a
revelation.  Sign into your Oscar insurance account online and you’ll
see a few carefully chosen options on a page that’s otherwise
white and clean. At the top, you can type in your symptoms and
be taken immediately to a guided set of options, including a
button that lets you talk to a doctor. Click it, and a doctor
will call you, wherever you are, whatever time of day it is,
within 20 minutes. If you need to see someone, the site will
offer a list of nearby providers, tell you which ones are
recommended for your condition and tell you how much each is
likely to cost.  It’s an elegant interface, but elegance isn’t its sole
purpose. It’s built to funnel you toward the choices Oscar wants
you to make. The same big-data methods at work in every major
technology business are eagerly embraced at Oscar. Over time,
the insurer hopes to get much, much better at knowing what
people should do for a given set of symptoms and helping them
decide to do that thing.  Schlosser tells the story of an analysis his team ran on a
database of six years’ worth of anonymous medical claims. The
team looked only at episodes that began with a headache and
ended on the same day they started, which means no follow-up
care was needed.  “Five percent of those episodes accounted for 35 percent
of the costs,” Schlosser marveled. “The people in that 5
percent all ended up at the emergency room. That was probably
people who had a headache on Sunday night at 4 a.m. when the
doctor wasn’t there. If you could just take that issue and move
it to a different layer of care, a nurse coming to visit you or
going online with a televisit, that’s win-win-win. It’s a win
for the consumer. It’s a win for the providers. And it’s more
cost-efficient.”  Building Trust  That’s the larger ambition of the founders: to change
health care by building an insurance website that people trust
to guide them through their care decisions.  Will it work? Who knows? Plenty of starry-eyed optimists
have tried and failed to revolutionize health care. Perhaps
people won’t want to sign up with an insurer they’ve never heard
of. Or perhaps Oscar’s website will prove glitchy and its care
network unreliable. Or maybe Oscar will appeal only to the young
and the techy -- in which case it’ll end up skimming off the
people who need care least.  But the Oscar team is ready to try. They’ve attracted
serious talent from the health-care industry, including Charlie Baker, the former chief executive officer of Harvard Pilgrim
Health Care Inc., and Aran Ron, the former chief medical officer
of EmblemHealth Inc. They’ve been approved for the  New York City 
market, with premiums that are smack in the middle of the
competition.  Whether new entrants such as Oscar can compete in the
insurance marketplaces, and whether they will force incumbents
to up their game in response, is the big test for Obamacare. If
the marketplaces succeed, they could, over time, take over
American health care. States can begin adding large employers to
them in 2017, and already some Republicans are proposing plans
to move Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries into them in the
coming decades.  It’s this opportunity to change American health-care
forever -- an opportunity that carries the potential for both
huge profits and huge social benefits -- that’s dominating the
health-care industry and even parts of the venture-capital
industry. And Oscar isn’t alone in trying to take advantage of
it: Data released by the  Department of Health  and Human Services
shows that a quarter of the companies applying to offer coverage
in the federally run marketplaces are entering the individual
insurance market for the first time.  The competition begins Oct. 1. Perhaps Washington can stop
bickering over the politics long enough to pay attention?  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 