-- Inter-Korean Talks Break Down With ‘Pushing and Shoving’
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-26T03:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/two-koreas-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-aimed-at-reopening-gaeseong.html
Talks between the two Koreas aimed
at reopening the jointly-operated Gaeseong factory park broke
down yesterday, with negotiators from both sides “pushing and
shoving” and no agreement for dialogue to resume.  The scuffle broke out when  North Korea ’s chief negotiator
Pak Chol Su and about 20 officials entered a room of South
Korean journalists to explain their position, according to a
pool report distributed yesterday by the South’s Unification
Ministry. “There was some pushing and shoving” after about 10
South Korean officials tried to break up the briefing, according
to the report.  Negotiators at Gaeseong, 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of
the border, couldn’t agree on a system that would prevent the
North from unilaterally closing the factory park, the ministry
said in a separate statement. North Korea withdrew its workers
from the zone on April 8 to protest United Nations sanctions and
U.S.-South Korean military drills, during a period of heightened
tension that included threats of preemptive nuclear strikes by
Kim Jong Un’s regime.  South Korea  will be forced to take “grave action” if
North Korea doesn’t show “sincerity” on guarantees against
future closures, ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters
today, without giving details. While the talks may have
“virtually broken down,” neither side has officially called
them off, he said.  The hotline at the Panmunjom border village is working
normally and any future talks will be arranged through that
phone line, Kim said.  Accounting for Damages  Vice Unification Minister Kim Nam Sik and chief negotiator
Kim Kiwoong met with representatives of Gaeseong-based companies
today to assess damages incurred by their businesses, Kim said.
While the government in May rolled out a 300 billion won ($270
million) emergency fund and introduced low-interest rate loan
programs to address the companies’ losses, executives have said
the measures aren’t enough.  The businesses reported about 1.6 trillion won in losses as
of June 7, according to the results of a survey by the
Unification Ministry released on June 25.  Prime Minister Chung Hong Won’s office will convene an
inter-ministerial conference later today to find ways to address
continued damages being incurred by the South Korean companies
operating in Gaeseong, Kim said.  North’s Guarantee  Shares of companies operating in Gaeseong plunged after
yesterday’s talks fall-out. As of 11:25 a.m. local time, leather
goods producer  Emerson Pacific Inc. (025980)  and mobile phone parts maker
 Jaeyoung Solutec Co. (049630)  dropped by the daily limit 15 percent.  Good
People Co. (033340) , an underwear maker, declined 3.5 percent and battery
and computer network power source maker  Ehwa Technologies
Information Co. (024810)  fell 8.8 percent.  The benchmark Kospi index of stocks rose 0.2 percent while
the won gained 0.4 percent.  North Korea “guarantees that there won’t be a future
closure,” according to the statement given by the North’s head
negotiator Pak to the South Korean journalists. “We share the
same interest in preventing future closures,” the North said.
The statement was distributed by the Unification Ministry.  The North Korean military may re-occupy the zone if the
Gaeseong project fails, Pak said, adding that the North has the
ability to run Gaeseong without South Korea.  ’Unwilling to Compromise’  “The incident shows that the North isn’t willing to
compromise on the fundamental differences that it has with the
South because if they do, they think their social system and the
entire Kim dynasty is being defeated by the South,” Kim Kwang
Jin, a senior research fellow at the Institute For National
Security Strategy in  Seoul , said by phone.  Closing Gaeseong deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. North Korea earned $100 million each year from
the zone, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. More than 53,000
North Korean workers were employed by 123 South Korean companies
at the park.  Ahead of the negotiations, the North had toned down its
rhetoric after  China , its biggest backer, joined the U.S. and
South Korea in condemning its nuclear ambitions. Last month,
North Korea requested talks with the South on Gaeseong, then
scrapped the offer over a protocol dispute, and less than a week
later suggested high-level talks with the U.S. on a peace treaty
to formally end the  Korean War .  ’Commitment Problem’  “In general, they have a commitment problem,”  Daniel Pinkston , a senior analyst in Seoul at the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group , said by phone yesterday before the
talks. “A dictator can wake up tomorrow and change his mind.”  In addition to reopening the Gaeseong factory park, North
Korea has also sought an agreement on resuming visits by South
Korean tourists to the Mount Geumgang resort and a reunion for
families divided by the Korean War. The “Diamond Mountain”
resort, opened by the two Koreas in 1998, has been closed since
2008, when North Korean troops shot and killed a South Korean
guest walking on a restricted beach.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government has said
it won’t engage the North until it gives up its nuclear weapons,
aside from talks on joint economic projects and humanitarian
issues.  “It will take some time for the two countries to come to
an agreement,” Nam Sung Wook, a North Korea studies professor
at Korea University in Sejong, south of Seoul, said by phone
yesterday before the talks. “If the North doesn’t give the
answer that the South demands about a system to prevent future
closures, I don’t see the talks making progress any time soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  