-- Won Snaps Four-Day Rally as Importers Buy Dollars; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-25T01:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/won-snaps-four-day-rally-as-importers-buy-dollars-bonds-decline.html
South Korea ’s won fell for the first
time in five days on speculation importers were taking advantage
of recent gains to buy dollars and after U.S. housing data
fanned concern the  Federal Reserve  will rein in stimulus.  Government bonds  dropped after the central bank reported
today that South Korea’s gross domestic product increased 1.1
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
the most in more than two years. Sales of new U.S. homes rose in
June to a five-year high, data showed yesterday. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that any reduction in asset
purchases, which have spurred demand for emerging-market assets,
would depend on the U.S. economy’s performance.  “Importers are buying dollars to take advantage of the
won’s recent rally and the better-than-expected data from the
U.S. added to the Fed tapering concerns,” said Jude Noh, a
chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul. “Those factors
outweighed South Korea’s solid GDP news.”  The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,118.05 per dollar as of 9:51
a.m. in Seoul, the biggest decline since July 8, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,112.76 yesterday, the
strongest level since June 7. One-month implied volatility, a
gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, climbed 28 basis points to 7.48 percent. A reading of
7.11 percent yesterday was the lowest in two months.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due June 2016 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to a two-week high of 2.93 percent, according to Korea Exchange
Inc. prices. ING Groep NV forecasts the three-year yield will
rise to 3.2 percent by year-end, according to a research note.  From a year earlier,  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy grew 2.3
percent in the second quarter, today’s report showed. June
department store sales rose 4.1 percent, gaining for a second
month, the Trade Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  