-- Crude Rises on Signs U.S., European Growth to Accelerate
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-25T19:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/wti-oil-drops-for-second-day-on-u-s-crude-production.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
as signs that economic growth is accelerating in the U.S.,
 Germany  and the U.K. signaled that fuel demand will increase.  Futures climbed after the Commerce Department said bookings
for U.S.  durable goods  increased 4.2 percent in June. German
data showed  business confidence  increased for a third month in
July, while in the U.K,. all main industries showed expansion
for the first time in three years. A government report yesterday
showed that U.S. crude stockpiles dropped a fourth week while
production surged to a 22-year high.  “There’s market strength because of the better economic
outlook,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The durable
goods numbers were positive and there were indications that the
German and U.K. economies are doing better.”  WTI crude for September delivery gained 10 cents to settle
at $105.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
touched $104.08, the lowest intraday level since July 9. The
volume of all futures traded was 3.9 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:35 p.m.  Brent for September settlement rose 46 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $107.65 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of all futures
traded was 23 percent below the 100-day average. The European
benchmark traded at a $2.16 premium to WTI, up from $1.80
yesterday. Brent dropped below WTI on July 19 for the first time
since August 2010.  Durable Goods  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
in May by a revised 5.2 percent, which was bigger than initially
reported, the Commerce Department report showed. The  median 
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.4
percent advance for June.  Another report showed more people in the U.S. filed for
 unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims rose by 7,000 to
343,000 in the period ended July 20, the Labor Department said.  Munich-based Ifo’s Business Climate Index advanced to
106.2, up from 105.9 in June. The institute surveys 7,000
executives in Germany to forecast business confidence.  U.K. economic growth  accelerated in the second quarter.
 Gross domestic product  increased 0.6 percent from the first
quarter, when it rose 0.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London  today. Services, production,
construction and agriculture all grew, the first time that has
happened since the third quarter of 2010.  Production Disruptions  A spate of oil production and transportation disruptions is
also bolstering prices, said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York hedge fund that focuses on energy.
Reuters reported that Yemen’s main oil pipeline was blown up.
 Brazil ’s Petrobras Brasileiro SA is seeking to ensure supply
during a work action, the company said in e-mail. Shipments from
northern  Iraq  to  Turkey  were cut.  “There are new output issues pushing prices higher,”
Kilduff said. “There was a pipeline bombing in Yemen, a strike
in Brazil and new disruptions in Iraq. All of these elements
combined will make global supply tighter.”  Egypt ’s army signaled it’s losing patience with protests in
support of ousted President Mohamed Mursi. The military will
change tactics when dealing with violence and terrorism in 48
hours, according to statement on Facebook.  U.S. crude stockpiles decreased 29.9 million barrels in the
four weeks ended July 19, the largest four-week drop in data
dating to 1982, according to an Energy Information
Administration report yesterday.  U.S. Output  Crude  production  rose to 7.56 million barrels a day last
week, the most since December 1990, according to the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical unit. Output has surged as the
combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale formations in
the central part of the country.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.5 percent, down from 21.8 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 536,680
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. It totaled 604,753 contracts
yesterday, 8.6 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  