-- WTI Poised for Weekly Drop as China Cuts Manufacturing Capacity
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-26T12:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/wti-fluctuates-amid-speculation-u-s-growth-to-boost-oil-demand.html
West Texas Intermediate was poised
for the first weekly drop in more than a month amid rising crude
output in the U.S. and speculation that  China ’s plans to cut
excess manufacturing capacity will curb fuel demand.  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent, heading for a weekly
loss of 3.1 percent. China ordered more than 1,400 companies in
19 industries to cut excess production capacity this year, part
of efforts to shift toward slower, more-sustainable economic
growth. U.S. oil output surged to a 22-year high while refiners
cut processing, government data showed on July 24. Prices will
extend their decline next week, a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts predicted.  “In the short term there may be a small drop in demand for
raw materials,” said Guy Wolf, the global head of market
analytics at Marex Spectron Group in  London , who predicts Brent
will struggle to surpass $120 a barrel this year. “But taking
unproductive capacity out is a healthy process than in the
medium-term supports growth.”  WTI for September delivery fell as much as 98 cents to
$104.51 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and was at $104.46 as of 1:14 p.m. London
time. The volume traded was 29 percent below the 100-day
average.  Brent for September settlement slid 68 cents to $106.97 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $2.45 to WTI, compared
with $2.38 yesterday. Brent fell below the U.S. grade in
intraday trading July 19 for the first time since August 2010.  Excess Capacity  “China’s manufacturing cuts are like a cold splash of
water for the market, definitely rather bearish in the short-term,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “The immediate effect will
mean lower demand, but in the long run, higher and smarter
demand.”  Steel, ferroalloys, electrolytic aluminum, copper smelting,
cement and paper are among areas affected, China’s Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology said in a statement
yesterday, in which it announced the first-batch target of this
year to cut overcapacity.  WTI is set to snap the longest weekly rising streak since
March. U.S.  crude production  climbed to 7.56 million barrels a
day in the seven days ended July 19, the most since December
1990, according to the Energy Information Administration.
Refiners reduced processing by half a percentage point to 92.3
percent of capacity after five weeks of increases, the Energy
Department’s statistical unit said.  Losing Steam  “There’s a bit of steam coming out of the market,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin in Sydney who predicts investors may buy WTI contracts
if prices fall to about $104 a barrel. “The data out of the
U.S. is mixed but on the whole it’s supportive.”  Futures will probably drop next week on concern that U.S.
economic growth will slow and reduce fuel demand, a Bloomberg
survey showed. Twenty-four of 38 analysts and traders, or 63
percent, forecast WTI will decrease through Aug. 2. Nine
respondents, or 24 percent, predicted a gain and five projected
no change. Last week, 58 percent forecast a decline.  WTI may extend losses as a so-called bearish engulfing
pattern forms on the weekly candlestick chart, signaling the end
of an uptrend, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices
slid after a similar technical formation in early April.  Tropical Storm Dorian became less organized and may weaken
as it moves across open waters of the Atlantic, according to the
U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Dorian, with maximum sustained winds of 50 miles (80
kilometers) per hour, was about 1,425 miles east of the northern
Leeward Islands and moving west-northwest at 20 mph, according
to a  center advisory  before 5 a.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  