-- WTI Crude Declines for Second Day as U.S. Boosts Production
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-07-25T12:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/wti-fluctuates-after-biggest-drop-in-month-as-u-s-output-surges.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for a
second day, extending the biggest loss in more than a month as
U.S. crude output surged to a 22-year high.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent in  New York  after
dropping 1.7 percent yesterday. U.S.  production  increased to
7.56 million barrels a day last week, the most since December
1990, according to the Energy Information Administration. German
business confidence rose for a third month in July, indicating
that  Europe ’s largest economy is recovering. U.S. durable goods
orders climbed.  “The German Ifo index provides signs that euro countries
are starting to expand, although there is still a long way to go
before we see sustained growth,” said Thina Saltvedt, an
analyst at Nordea Bank AG in Oslo. “Although crude has been
falling as inventories are up, with the numbers out of Germany
and then from the U.S., I can’t see it continuing to fall and I
think we have hit the bottom.”  WTI for September delivery declined as much as $1.05 to
$104.34 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $104.64 as of 1:48 p.m. London
time. The contract decreased $1.84 to $105.39 yesterday, the
lowest closing price since July 11 and the biggest drop since
June 20.  Brent for September settlement fell as much as 65 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $106.54 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $2.40 to WTI. Brent slid below the U.S. grade in intraday
trading on July 19 for the first time since August 2010. The
Brent-WTI premium may widen to $6 “relatively soon,” Credit
Suisse Group AG said yesterday.  Business Confidence  The Ifo Business Climate Index in  Germany  advanced to 106.2
for July, up from 105.9 in June and 0.1 higher than forecast,
according to data from the IFO Institute. U.S. durable goods
orders gained 4.2 percent in June, more than a 1.4 percent
median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S.  crude inventories  decreased by 2.8 million barrels
last week, data yesterday from the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm, show. That matched the median estimate of 12
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Supplies were down for a
fourth week, the longest run of declines since August.  The U.S. was the largest oil consumer last year, accounting
for about 21 percent of global demand, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Gasoline Inventories  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded futures and the nation’s biggest oil-storage hub,
fell by 2.1 million barrels, the EIA report showed.  Gasoline inventories  slid by 1.4 million barrels, the EIA
said. Supplies were forecast to climb by 1.6 million, according
to the Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, dropped by 1.2 million,
compared with a projected 1.8 million gain.  “It seems that investors keep ignoring the oil
fundamentals, despite the recent U.S. oil inventories being
fairly optimistic,” said Myrto Sokou, an analyst at London-based Sucden Financial Ltd.  WTI is extending losses after a measure of technical
momentum declined. On the daily chart, the moving average
convergence-divergence indicator yesterday sank below its signal
line for the first time this month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Investors typically sell contracts on a MACD crossover.  Tropical Storm Dorian moved across the Atlantic on a
westward path that may take it to the  Caribbean Sea , the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said. The system, with top sustained
winds of 60 miles (95 kilometers) per hour, was about 700 miles
west of the Cape Verde Islands, an advisory issued at 5 a.m. New
York time showed. It was moving west-northwest at 17 mph.
Weather projection shows that the storm will pass north of
 Puerto Rico  on Monday or Tuesday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  