-- Yandex Stock Premium Over Google Swells After Earnings Surprise
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-07-26T09:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/yandex-profit-swells-stock-premium-over-google-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) ’s better-than-estimated
earnings will help the Russian search-engine operator extend
gains after a rally sent the stock to the highest valuation in
nine months versus  Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to OAO Sberbank.  The stock jumped 3.1 percent to a two-year high of $31.81
in New York yesterday, valuing the company at 30 times estimated
earnings, a 47 percent premium over Mountain View, California-based Google, and 23 percent above the ratio for  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ,
operator of China’s largest search engine. The Micex Index and
RTS both advanced 0.2 percent at 12:42 p.m. in Moscow.  Yandex increased its annual  sales forecast  and reported
second-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates
yesterday as it benefits from rising demand in Russia for
 Internet advertising , which is set to jump 26 percent a year
through 2015, according to ZenithOptimedia. Yandex boosted its
share of Russian searches to 61.7 percent in the second quarter,
from 60.4 percent a year ago, according to data compiled by
LiveInternet.ru. Google, the world’s largest search-engine
operator, has about 26 percent.  “Yandex keeps beating estimates and cheering the market
with its results,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, said by phone from Moscow. “Its
premium to Google and Baidu is justified because it has posted
high growth and has potential to grow further.”  Yandex, based in The Hague, Netherlands, said 2013 revenue
will grow faster than earlier expected, increasing as much as 38
percent this year, after net income in the second quarter jumped
48 percent to 2.92 billion rubles ($89 million), according to a
statement. It had previously projected sales growth of no more
than 35 percent.  Segalovich Legacy  Second-quarter revenue rose 35 percent to 9.2 billion
rubles, faster than a 33 percent average estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yandex said yesterday that co-founder and Chief Technology
Officer Ilya Segalovich, 48, is on life support after falling
into a coma, with no sign of brain activity. Segalovich owns
about 2.5 percent of the company, which he founded with his
classmate Arkady Volozh, chief executive officer at Yandex.  “Segalovich has built a strong technology team, which will
be able to continue doing what it was doing when he was at the
company,” Sberbank’s Lepetukhina said. Sberbank has a buy
recommendation for Yandex.  Revenue Source  Web advertising in  Russia  will increase 32 percent this
year after a 35 percent gain in 2012, as more people start using
the Internet, according to Barclays. Yandex makes most of its
revenue from online advertising.  “Yandex is all about generating money via web searches,”
Boris Vilidnitsky, an analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said by
phone yesterday. “Its business concept is aimed at making you
do all of your web searches without ever leaving the Yandex
website. Advertisers are willing to pay a lot for that.”  The number of  Internet users  in Russia is expected to
increase to about 65 percent of a population of  143 million 
people in the next five years, from about half now, Vilidnitsky
said. He has a target price of $35.35, implying an 11 percent
jump.  Yandex signed an agreement to operate paid search results
for  Mail.ru (MAIL) , Russia’s largest social-network operator, Gregory
Abovsky, the head of  investor relations  at Yandex, said on a
conference call yesterday.  ETF Drops  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the  stock futures , slid 1.7 percent to 22.09 today. The  Market
Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  was little changed at $26.93 yesterday. The
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index fell for a second day
yesterday, dropping 0.7 percent to 91.63.  The ruble weakened less than 0.1 percent to 32.6345 per
dollar, depreciating for a third day today. Non-deliverable
forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements, showed the ruble at 33.1094 per dollar in three
months. The currency depreciated less than 0.1 percent to
37.4576 against the dollar-euro basket used by the central bank
to manage swings that erode exporter competitiveness.  Crude for September delivery fell 0.7 percent to $104.75 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent oil for
September settlement slipped 0.6 percent to $107.00 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
fell for a third day, sliding 1.1 percent to HK$2.79 in Hong
Kong trading. Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer by
output, gained 3.2 percent in London trading. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index advanced 0.2 percent, increasing for the first
time in three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  