-- Hyundai Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on China to Brazil Demand
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-07-25T07:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-25/hyundai-motor-profit-beats-estimates-on-china-brazil-sales.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  profit and sales
beat analysts estimates on demand in China and Brazil, while
 South Korea ’s largest carmaker said competition with Japanese
rivals is increasing and global demand will slow.  Net income , excluding minority interests, fell to 2.4
trillion won ($2.15 billion) from 2.45 trillion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today,
exceeding the 2.37 trillion won average of 15 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit and revenue
also beat analyst estimates.  Demand for the Elantra Yuedong sedan helped Hyundai’s
deliveries rise 32 percent in China last quarter, outpacing
industry growth, while the HB20 hatchback led the tripling of
sales in Brazil.  Emerging markets  helped Hyundai counter a slump
in  Europe , labor disputes in Korea and a weaker yen that’s
giving Japanese carmakers an edge in the U.S.  “Today’s results were not bad, but seasonally the second-quarter has almost always been Hyundai’s strongest quarter,”
Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at Midas International
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $6.4 billion, said
by phone. “With a lack of new models and nothing significant
anticipated to drive growth, I don’t expect Hyundai’s shares to
show strong performance in the remainder of the year.”  Operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, fell 5.2 percent to 2.41 trillion won.
That exceeded the 2.35 trillion won average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 5.7 percent to 23.2
trillion won, beating the 22.9 trillion won estimate.  Hyundai rose 0.5 percent to 224,500 won in Seoul trading,
versus the 0.1 percent fall in the benchmark Kospi stock index.
The stock has gained 2.8 percent this year.  Sales Forecast  The automaker cut its forecast for global industry vehicle
sales this year by about 450,000 units to 79.4 million, led by
shrinking demand in Europe amid its regional recession,
according to Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee, who spoke in a
conference call today.  In the U.S., an exit from the  Federal Reserve ’s
quantitative easing program will have an adverse effect on
recovering auto demand, Lee said.  Hyundai expects to exceed its annual target in Europe with
the sale of the new i10 compact, and demand for its cars to rise
in the U.S. as industry demand for sedans grows, he said.
Competition with Japanese automakers will intensify as they step
up incentives and discounts given the weaker yen, Hyundai said
in its statement today.  The won has strengthened 5.7 percent against the yen in the
past six months, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pursued
monetary easing policies that helped the yen weaken from post-war highs.  U.S. Incentives  Hyundai’s incentives surged 42 percent in the U.S. last
quarter on the weaker yen and lack of new models. This compares
with a 5 percent decline in Toyota’s incentives and the market
average of a 5 percent increase, according to Autodata.  Hyundai’s sales rose 1.9 percent in the U.S. market last
quarter, trailing the industry average of 8.5 percent growth.
Its deliveries slumped 7.2 percent in Europe in the same period.  The HB20 hatchback, specifically designed for the Brazilian
market, has won seven awards in the country since it was
unveiled in September, including  Car of the Year  by auto
magazine Autoesporte and 10 other media, according to Hyundai.  Deliveries in  Brazil  surged more than threefold to 49,156
units last quarter.  Labor Talks  Hyundai union workers in South Korea, the company’s largest
manufacturing base, boycotted weekend overtime for 13 weeks,
costing the company an estimated 1.7 trillion won in lost
production, according to the company. Sales in the country fell
0.8 percent, partly also because of reduced working hours from a
new shift system.  Hyundai hasn’t made progress in wage talks with its union
as of the 17th round of talks yesterday, according to a
statement on the union’s website. The union has threatened to go
on strike after the official summer vacation ends next week if
the company doesn’t agree to the union’s terms, according to the
statement.  -- Editors: Chua Kong Ho, Dave McCombs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  