-- ‘Enron’ Author Mixes Sex With Drugs, Alagna Takes Love Potion
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/-enron-author-mixes-sex-with-drugs-alagna-takes-love-potion.html
Sex with drugs: it’s an audience
magnet as old as the hills. Donizetti knew it. “Enron” author
Lucy Prebble works it like a charm too.  “The Effect,” Prebble’s new play at  London ’s Cottesloe
Theatre, is set in a clinical center for drugs trials. Two young
healthy trialists, Connie and Tristan, sign up to take an
experimental anti-depressant, which soon appears to promote
euphoric palpitations, excitement and sweating in both of them.
Great. It’s just what the doctors were hoping for.  Or could it be that Tristan (Jonjo O’Neill) and Connie
(Billie Piper) are simply falling in love, and their brains are
producing the same effects naturally?  Or, more complicated yet, perhaps their love is an illusory
reaction to the drug’s physical side-effects?  When we learn that one of them may be taking a placebo, the
story takes yet another sharp turn.  Prebble is once again bang on the money in her choice of
topical subject matter, and she creates a terrifically smart
plot in which to explore neuroscience and neurobabble. What’s
the relationship between the gray jelly in our skulls, and our
deepest hopes and fears? Is there a ghost in the machine?  By calling her chief male protagonist Tristan, and linking
him to the most famous love-potion of all time, she slyly slots
her story into a grand tradition of romance, too.  For all the cleverness of the plot, the emotions are never
less than real. The scene in which the happy-go-lucky charmer
Tristan and the sharp, analytical Connie eventually declare
their love, is funny, meaty and moving.  Hollywood Stardust  There’s even a sprinkling of Hollywood stardust when Jonjo
O’Neill bursts into an exuberant tap routine to impress his
beloved. It’s a delightful touch from director Rupert Goold, and
both O’Neill and Piper are marvelous in their roles.  One of the plot twists in the second half -- I won’t give
it away -- sacrifices a slight percentage of plausibility, which
is a shame. Never mind. It gives the excellent Anastasia Hille,
as one of the trial doctors, the chance to deliver a powerful
monologue about the self-lacerating effects of depression.  In the form of a lecture to the audience, she holds up a
sloppy brain and describes its functions with medical precision.
It looks just like Hamlet holding Yorick’s skull.  The doctor is severely depressive, and she begins to
imagine that the brain is her own. It criticizes her: it even
seems to hate her. She tries to argue with it, and it taunts her
further. It’s as moving a representation of mental illness and
breakdown as I’ve seen.  The  set  creates the atmosphere of a clinic with the
simplest of means, just a few box-like seats and a carpet. In a
neat touch, the audience sits around the action among office-
like tables and cupboards too. It’s as if we’re medical
observers. Or perhaps participants, waiting for our turn in the
next trial. Rating: *****.  Royal Opera  The story of Tristan also pops up in Donizetti’s
masterpiece “L’elisir d’amore,” currently in repertoire at the
Royal Opera. The wealthy and coquettish heroine Adina
(Aleksandra Kurzak) recounts the tale of Isolde’s love potion in
her first number.  It inspires the lovelorn Nemorino to find a love-drug to
work the same magic on Adina. A travelling quack doctor
(Ambrogio Maestri) palms the gullible lad off with a bottle of
Bordeaux.  Tenor Roberto Alagna makes a delightful Nemorino. His
initial gaucheness and desperation are amusing, not irritating,
and his developing confidence as he begins to believe in the
elixir is handled with a real flair for comedy.  Heartfelt Aria  If his open, ringing voice shows a few signs of strain, he
still pulls out all the stops for a heartfelt account of his big
aria “Una furtiva lagrima.”  Kurzak and Maestri both have more consistent beauty of
tone, though neither acts as well as Alagna. It slows the flow
of comedy sometimes, as does Bruno Campanella’s unfocussed
conducting.  Laurent Pelly’s production, set in a poor Italian village
in the 1950s, allows plenty of scope for character-based comedy.
Alagna makes the most of it, and shows all the others how it
should be done. Rating: ***.  “The Effect” is in repertory at the National Theatre.
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  “L’elisir d’amore” is in repertory at the Royal Opera.
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 