-- T-Mobile USA Open to Deals to Increase Scale, Ray Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-16T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/t-mobile-usa-sees-three-national-networks-over-long-term.html
T-Mobile USA , the fourth-largest
U.S.  mobile-phone company , is prepared to look at more deals to
catch up with rivals once it completes a merger with  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)   “Are there opportunities for us to continue to grow scale
on our business through combinations or acquisitions?” Chief
Technology Officer Neville Ray said today at a conference
organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona. “Historically we’ve
always been open and looked at those opportunities and will
continue to do so.”  Even with the addition of MetroPCS, T-Mobile still trails
 Verizon Wireless , AT&T Inc. and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in customer
numbers. At the same time, the addition of wireless frequencies
and the departure of millions of contract customers have left T-
Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , with capacity for more
voice and data traffic.  T-Mobile is pursuing more agreements with virtual mobile
operators, which offer services on other operators’ networks.
The company has a pipeline of partners for the next year, Ray
said in an interview, adding that such operators are attractive
as they move from text messaging and voice calls to data offers.  This year, T-Mobile has signed deals with MVNOs including
Solavei and Ultra Mobile.  New CEO  “A major part of our strategy is to drive some shift in
share amongst the big four, and that’s going to be the richest
area we see with the greatest return,” he said.  T-Mobile, which named John Legere as chief executive
officer in September, has boosted its network investments and
plans to begin offering faster services based on long-term
evolution technology mid-next year.  “There is a near- and medium-term opportunity for us to
aggressively grow and take on share,” he said, naming AT&T and
Sprint as facing “challenges with a limited LTE capacity.”  At the same conference, T-Mobile Chief Operating Officer
Jim Alling said an industry deal to reduce the number of
nationwide wireless providers to three is likely “in the longer
term” following regulatory shifts.  “Is it possible that four major players could go down to
three?” Alling told investors in Barcelona. “I think that is
possible, and likely in the longer term. I don’t know how likely
that is, based on the current regulatory environment” of U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  Shareholder Meeting  Deutsche Telekom’s attempt to sell T-Mobile USA to  AT&T
Inc. (T)  for $39 billion was thwarted last year as regulators were
concerned that the combination would reduce competition.
 Germany ’s former phone monopoly reached an agreement last month
to merge T-Mobile with MetroPCS.  MetroPCS shareholders will probably meet in February or
March to discuss approval of the deal, said Braxton Carter, the
U.S. company’s chief financial officer who’s set to keep the
same position in the enlarged company. That timeframe compares
with a prediction by Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann in
October that investors in Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS would
agree to the deal as early as the end of 2012.  Under the agreement, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom would hold
a 74 percent stake in the combined U.S. operator. The partners
are targeting completion of the transaction by the end of June.  Deutsche Telekom fell 2.3 percent to close at 8.16 euros on
the Frankfurt exchange. MetroPCS added 1.3 percent to $10.59 at
11:44 a.m. in  New York  trading.  SEC Talks  The parties will probably go through multiple rounds with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that will include a
review of pro-forma financial data of the merged entity,
including purchase-price allocation adjustments, Carter said.  The joint company’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will probably be on the “upside”
of its Oct. 3 forecasts, Carter said. The partners predict the
venture will post average profit growth of 7 percent to 10
percent over five years and an Ebitda margin of 34 percent to 36
percent.  T-Mobile USA will take steps to halt departures of contract
subscribers next year and post “moderate growth” in this
higher-paying customer category in 2014, Alling said. T-Mobile
lost 492,000 subscribers in the third quarter.  The merged company, which will receive a $15 billion
shareholder loan from Deutsche Telekom, plans to refinance the
debt in the next several years, Carter said in an interview. T-
Mobile will be able to spread out the refinancing over five
years, he said.  Sprint last month was bolstered by Tokyo-based  Softbank
Corp. (9984) , which agreed to pay $20 billion for a 70 percent stake in
the carrier. Sprint will probably become more aggressive on
prices for the handset it sells to clients, Alling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  