-- ‘Simpsons’ Actor Azaria Sues Bierko Over Right to a Voice
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-16T18:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/-simpsons-actor-azaria-sues-bierko-over-right-to-a-voice.html
Hank Azaria, an actor on Fox
television’s “The Simpsons,” sued a fellow actor, Craig Bierko, over the rights to the voice of a fictional baseball
announcer in an Internet comedy program.  Azaria said his character, named Jim Brockmire, appeared in
a video for the Web show “Funny or Die.” He also said his
plans to develop a movie based on the announcer have been
“significantly impeded” by Bierko’s claim to rights, according
to a filing dated Nov. 14 in federal court in Los Angeles.  Bierko, who appeared in the 2012 movie  “The Three
Stooges,”  also created the voice of an announcer, Azaria said
in the complaint. After the “Funny or Die” video appeared,
Bierko demanded that Azaria stop using the announcer’s voice,
according to the complaint.  “Bierko’s claim has created a cloud over the rightful
ownership of the Azaria voice,” the complaint states. “Would-
be financiers and possible licensees of the asset would have
valid doubts as to who is the proper copyright holder of the Jim
Brockmire character.”  Jill Littman, Bierko’s manager, didn’t immediately respond
to messages seeking comment.  Phone Messages  Azaria seeks a judicial declaration that he has the
copyright to the Brockmire character, “which incorporates the
Azaria voice.” He also wants a declaration that no contract
between him and Bierko was ever made.  The complaint states that Azaria created the announcer
voice as early as 1983 and performed with it at his college.
Someone who knew that Bierko also did an announcer voice put the
two men in touch in 1990, according to the court filing. For
several years, each used his own announcer voice in phone
messages to the other, Azaria states.  After the “Funny or Die” video appeared, Bierko claimed
that he had created the voice, according to the complaint.  The Brockmire character in the video has “a penchant for
making obscure and off-the-wall cultural references when
commenting on a baseball game,” according to the complaint.  Azaria, whose movies include “The Birdcage” and
“Godzilla,” is also the voice of Moe the bartender on  “The
Simpsons.”   The case is Azaria v. Bierko, 12-09732, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California , Western Division (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 