-- A123 Got $1 Million U.S. Grant Day It Filed Bankruptcy
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-11-16T22:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/a123-got-1-million-u-s-grant-day-it-filed-bankruptcy.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , the electric-car
battery producer, received a U.S. Energy Department grant
payment of almost $1 million on the same day it filed for
bankruptcy last month.  The $946,830 payment was part of $115.8 million in grant
money the company, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, received
from U.S. economic-stimulus funding intended to spur development
of electric cars.  Republican Senators  Charles Grassley  of Iowa and  John Thune 
of South Dakota disclosed the timing of the payment today when
they released a Nov. 14 letter from Eric Pyenson, A123 vice
president and general counsel.  The payment was made after A123 in August announced it
planned to give Wanxiang Group Corp., China’s largest auto-parts
maker, a majority stake in exchange for financing. Grassley and
Thune had questioned the Chinese investment in the U.S. company.  “All of this paints a disturbing picture,” Grassley and
Thune said in an e-mailed statement. “The  Department of Energy 
is writing checks to a company literally as it is declaring
bankruptcy.”  The letter’s release today adds to Republican criticism of
President  Barack Obama ’s support of green-energy programs that
included loans and grants to produce more fuel-efficient cars
and support the development of solar and other alternative
energy sources. Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
said during a debate that Obama picked “losers” to receive
energy aid.  ‘Ultimate Goal’  “The Energy Department takes its responsibility to be good
stewards of the taxpayers’ money very seriously,” Bill Gibbons,
a department spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Funds are only
disbursed to a company for work already completed toward the
ultimate goal of the department’s grant.”  The total Energy Department grant to A123 was for $249.1
million, of which the company has received less than half.  A123 filed for  bankruptcy protection  after saying it would
have to spend $55 million to replace defective battery packs
that forced startup electric-car maker Fisker Automotive Inc.,
also a recipient of U.S. assistance, to recall its $103,000
Karma sedans.  A123 Chief Executive Officer  David Vieau  didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Bonuses Approved  The company yesterday in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  filing  said it got court approval for bonuses worth
as much as $4.2 million to 10 employees for staying on the
payroll as the company’s assets are sold. The payouts of at
least $2.4 million range from 70 percent to 100 percent of each
employee’s base salary, according to the filing.  Grassley, his party’s ranking member on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, criticized the company for awarding the
bonuses and the court for approving them, saying the 2005
bankruptcy reform law was aimed at limiting bonuses for
executives whose companies enter bankruptcy.  “Unfortunately, corporations have found ways to award
these bonuses anyway,” Grassley said in an e-mail. “This
situation is especially egregious when the company in question
has received $133 million from the U.S. taxpayers, as A123
Systems has. It appears taxpayers are getting the short end of
the stick in this deal.”  Grassley said he will investigate whether the company’s
grant agreement may allow for the U.S. government to recover its
money because of the bankruptcy filing.  A123, which plans to sell its automotive-business assets to
Milwaukee-based  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , had also supplied plug-in
 car batteries  to  General Motors Co. (GM) , Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, truckmaker  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  and SAIC Motor
Corp., China’s largest domestic carmaker.  The company won court approval to sell its assets at a Dec.
6 auction, where bidders will include Johnson Controls and
Wanxiang, which has said it wants to be the lead bidder for all
of A123’s assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  