-- Abe Hits Noda’s Economic Record as Japan Election Gets Under Way
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-16T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/abe-hits-noda-s-economic-record-as-japan-election-gets-under-way.html
The head of  Japan ’s biggest
opposition party said he will make Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s management of the world’s third-largest economy a key
issue in seeking to unseat him in next month’s election.  “This election will be a fight to win back Japan,” Shinzo Abe told reporters at Liberal  Democratic Party  headquarters
yesterday in Tokyo after parliament was dissolved for the Dec.
16 vote. “I will do all I can to end the political chaos and
stalled economy.”  Public support for Noda plummeted as he pushed through a
bill doubling the five percent sales tax in a bid to rein in the
world’s largest public debt and restarted some nuclear reactors
following last year’s Fukushima disaster. Opinion polls show his
Democratic Party of Japan is set to lose power, making way for
the country’s seventh leader in six years.  In a nationally televised press conference, Noda said he
decided to call the election after reaching deals to pass a
deficit financing bill and electoral revisions. Polls show four-
fifths of voters support neither main party, signaling that the
next prime minister may have to form a coalition government.  Abe advocates increased monetary easing to reverse more
than a decade of falling prices and said he would consider
revising a law guaranteeing the independence of the  Bank of
Japan. (8301)  In an economic policy plan issued yesterday, the LDP said
it would pursue policies to attain 3 percent nominal growth. The
party governed Japan for more than half a century until ousted
by the DPJ in 2009.  “We will take on deflation with policies in a different
dimension from those the LDP implemented in the past,” Abe
said.  Abe’s Return  Abe was re-elected as LDP leader in September. He resigned
after serving a year as prime minister in 2006-2007, blaming a
digestive complaint from which he says he has recovered.  Noda said the election “is about whether we can go forward
or return to the old politics of the past,” and called for
maintaining the central bank’s independence.  Abe has taken a harder line than Noda on ties with  China 
that have frayed over rival claims to an island chain in the
 East China Sea . Abe favors building on the islands, known as
Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, and this week sparked a
complaint from China when he met the  Dalai Lama  and called for
democracy in  Tibet .  “Healthy nationalism is necessary,” Noda said. “But if
we go to extremes, it becomes xenophobia. We need to pursue
diplomatic and security policy more calmly and realistically.”  While calling for rebuilding trust with the U.S., Abe says
he opposes promising to end all tariffs as a condition to
joining U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks.  Nuclear Pledge  Noda said he will pursue participation in the TPP and
favors reaching a trilateral free trade pact with  South Korea 
and China. He reiterated a pledge to end Japan’s dependency on
nuclear power.  “There’s a good chance that the gap between the LDP and
the DPJ actually narrows down as the polling day gets nearer,”
said  Koichi Nakano , professor of political science at  Sophia
University  in Tokyo. “Noda is far from popular, but a lot of
people still haven’t forgotten how Abe quit. The defeat may be
somewhat limited.”  Regardless of which party wins, legislative stagnation may
continue because no group has a majority in the upper house.  Support for Noda fell 6.1 percentage points to 17.3
percent, the lowest since he took office in Sept. 2011, in a
poll published by Jiji Press on Nov. 15. Support for his DPJ was
at 6.6 percent, the lowest since they swept to power in 2009,
while the LDP’s support was at 16.6 percent.  Asked to choose which of the two party leaders would be a
better prime minister, 32.5 percent of respondents to the Jiji
poll picked Abe, 17.2 percent picked Noda and 50.6 percent said
they didn’t know, or couldn’t answer.  Jiji interviewed 2,000 people between Nov. 8-11. There was
no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  