-- Machinery Stocks Gain as Global Slowdown Worries Abate
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/machinery-stocks-gain-as-global-slowdown-worries-abate.html
Machinery stocks are attracting
investors who are optimistic about economic-growth prospects
worldwide, even as the fiscal cliff looms in the U.S.  The Standard and Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index --
made up of 55 companies including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Illinois
Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  -- has risen 9.4 percent since July 17, compared
with a loss of 0.8 percent in the S&P 500 Index. This follows
about five months of underperformance when the machinery index
lagged behind the broader market by almost 20 percent as
economic weakness dragged down the shares, said Robert McCarthy,
a senior analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Chicago .  These stocks have “meaningful upside potential” as the
companies’ customers are showing signs of improvement since the
summer, McCarthy said. The shares appeal to a “growing portion
of the market that sees the glass half-full, not half-empty.”  Martin Leclerc is among investors who are putting machinery
stocks on a “shopping list” because of their long-term growth
prospects. The bullish view is that this industry will benefit
during the next decade from improving demand, said Leclerc, the
principal, chief investment officer and portfolio manager at
Barrack Yard Advisors in Bryn Mawr,  Pennsylvania , which oversees
$350 million in assets.  These machinery suppliers are exposed to end-markets --
including energy, manufacturing and agriculture -- that will
bolster revenue as the global economy also becomes more
supportive of expansion, Leclerc said. While this is a “very,
very cyclical” group, many of these businesses could be
considered growth companies on a three-year average earnings-
growth basis, he said.  Bull Case  The shares have been “stair-stepping up” since the summer
as more investors re-allocate money to them, according to Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at New York-based
research company Technical Alpha Inc. The reversal in the
index’s early 2012 underperformance strengthens the bull case
for these stocks, he said.  The bigger the rally, the more attention these shares will
warrant, said Stellakis, also a chartered market technician.
This in turn reinforces the likelihood that the increase could
continue and isn’t just emotionally driven.  The rebound in the machinery index also coincides with U.S.
and global growth that’s been better than forecasts. The
Bloomberg Economic Surprise Index, which compares 38 U.S.
indicators with analysts’ predictions, was at 0.087 yesterday,
up from an almost 11-month low of minus 0.422 on July 30.
Similarly, the Citigroup Economic Surprise indexes for both the
 euro zone  and Asia Pacific have improved from June lows.  Revenue Generators  While the U.S. still accounts for as much as 50 percent of
the industry’s revenue, the 17-nation euro area makes up about
20 percent to 25 percent, followed by Asia with about 15 percent
and Latin America and emerging markets at about 10 percent,
McCarthy estimated.  As a result of this diversified exposure, global business
confidence “matters a lot” for machinery suppliers, said Andy Kaplowitz, an analyst in New York at Barclays Plc. While
“calamity concerns” have lessened considerably since European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged July 26 to do
“whatever it takes to preserve the euro,” there still are
concerns about the U.S. fiscal cliff and regime change in  China ,
he said.  Chinese Leadership  The U.S. faces a combined $607 billion in higher taxes and
spending cuts that will take effect in January 2013 unless
Congress and President  Barack Obama  agree on how to reduce the
deficit. China’s new leadership, announced in a once-a-decade
transition of power this week, must decide on policy shifts the
World Bank says the country should embrace to become a high-
income economy, including breaking up state-owned monopolies and
deregulating lending rates.  Investors should buy machinery companies “when uncertainty
is very high and valuations are inexpensive,” said Kaplowitz,
who maintains “overweight” recommendations on Caterpillar and
engine maker  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  While these businesses are “very
global,” their U.S. operations remain strong and their stocks
are trading at about 10 to 12 times earnings. In a more typical
mid-cycle recovery, valuations would be about 13 to 15 times, he
estimated.  Amid “more muted earnings expectations, these stocks still
are at a 30 percent discount to where they should be,”
Kaplowitz said. Investors who are comfortable with the
associated risk could be well compensated because it won’t take
much improvement in the operating environment for the rally in
this group to re-energize, he said.  Cautious Companies  Even so, some of these companies are cautious about the
prospects for growth into next year. Caterpillar, the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment, anticipates
its U.S. revenue will be up “a little bit” in 2013, thanks
largely to an improving housing market, while Europe probably
will be “flat to down,” Michael DeWalt, director of investor
relations, said at a Nov. 13 conference hosted by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  While the Peoria, Illinois-based company isn’t planning on
a worldwide recession next year, it projects sales will be
“relatively flat” in 2013, DeWalt said.  Similarly, “a lot of cancellations and rescheduling”
resulted in a weaker-than-anticipated September, hurting fiscal
first-quarter results for  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Donald Washkewicz said on an Oct. 19
conference call. The Cleveland-based company manufactures
motion-control products, including pumps and valves.  Lagging Shares  Shares of  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , a supplier of cutting tools,
lagged behind the S&P 500 by 6.4 percent Oct. 24 on news that
first-quarter sales and earnings missed analyst forecasts and
the company was cutting its fiscal 2013 full-year earnings
guidance to between $3.40 and $3.70 a share from $4.10 to $4.40.  The stock has rebounded since then, outperforming the
broader market by 5.5 percent, even as monthly orders -- in
local currency, excluding acquisitions, divestitures and
workdays -- have been negative for the past four months,
according to data released Nov. 14 by the Latrobe, Pennsylvania-
based company.  The relative performance during the past three weeks shows
that investors have largely “shrugged off” Kennametal’s weak
results, as the stock has retraced most of that one-day loss,
Stellakis said.  Avoiding Recession  So long as the world’s major economies can avoid recession,
shares of these companies probably will benefit from the
sluggish expansion, Kaplowitz said. U.S. gross domestic product
will expand 2 percent next year, the euro area economy will grow
0.25 percent after contracting 0.5 percent this year and China’s
GDP will accelerate 8.1 percent, based on the median forecasts
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Though most machinery stocks “would get hammered” during
another slowdown, they are well-positioned to take advantage of
a manufacturing renaissance and energy-independence efforts in
the U.S., as well as infrastructure building in  emerging
markets , Leclerc said.  “This is a good industry for investors to be in because
it’s at the vortex of a few big investment themes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  