-- Agco Targets Africa’s Agriculture Boom With $100 Million Plan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-11-16T04:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/agco-targets-africa-s-agriculture-boom-with-100-million-plan.html
Agco Corp. (AGCO) , the world’s third-
largest farm-equipment maker, plans to invest $100 million in
Africa over the next three years to capitalize on an
agricultural boom and a shift to commercial farming.  The company, based in Duluth,  Georgia , opened a $35 million
parts warehouse in Johannesburg in May and on Aug. 17 signed a
deal with Algeria Tractors Co. to build a plant to produce
Massey Ferguson tractors, Nuradin Osman, Agco’s director for
Africa and the Middle East, said in an interview on Nov. 13.
Most of the future investment will come from existing funds, he
said in Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa.  “The only frontier left for arable land is in  Africa ,” he
said. “We are in for the long-term in Africa. We’re coming here
for 100 years and more.”  Africa has 60 percent of the world’s uncultivated land and
investment in agriculture has the potential to create millions
of jobs on the continent, according to the  World Bank . About 10
percent of cropped land in Africa is prepared by tractor, and
only 4 percent of land is irrigated, London-based Standard
Chartered Plc said on its website. The continent has the
potential to boost farm output to as much as $880 billion by
2030 from $280 billion in 2010, according to  McKinsey & Co.   Agco’s African strategy is to build factories, set up model
farms to demonstrate equipment and teach modern farming
techniques, while working with banks including Rabobank
International to boost credit to potential customers, he said.
“Our solution is a one-stop shop where farmers can get access
to everything they need to know in agriculture,” Osman said.  Land Leases  African governments are looking to increase productivity by
mechanization as farming becomes more commercial, Osman said.
 Ethiopia  for example has set aside 4 million hectares (10
million acres) for foreign agricultural investment while South
African farmers have been offered land in Angola and Uganda.  About 60 percent of Agco’s African sales come from South
Africa and  Morocco , while Nigeria, Zambia and  Mozambique  are
growth areas, Osman said. The company is planning to build
smaller parts distribution warehouses costing as much as $15
million each in East and West Africa after it identifies their
locations, he said.  Agco plans to produce 1,500 Massey Ferguson tractors at its
Algerian factory next year and is targeting 5,000 of the
machines annually by 2015, Philip de Leon, director of global
trade relations at Agco, said in an interview yesterday.  Returns from the continent probably won’t exceed 10 percent
in the next five years owing to the high cost of transport and
logistics, Osman said.  To contact the reporter on this story: William Davison in
Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  