-- Airwave Sale Flop Seen Ruining Deficit Plan: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-16T06:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/airwave-sale-flop-seen-ruining-deficit-plan-india-credit.html
India ’s plan to narrow its budget
 deficit  is seen failing by investors after the government
couldn’t raise even 25 percent of its target from an airwaves
auction, increasing the chances of a junk rating.  The shortfall will be 5.8 percent of gross domestic  product 
in the year through March, according to the median estimate of
six investors surveyed by Bloomberg, exceeding an official goal
of 5.3 percent and matching the level in the preceding 12
months. That will force India to expand its record borrowing
program by 500 billion rupees ($9.1 billion) to 6.19 trillion
rupees, the survey shows. The government raised 94.08 billion
rupees selling phone spectrum this week, missing its aim for 400
billion rupees.  “There’ll definitely be a shortage in government revenue
and there will be fiscal slippage,” Rajeev Radhakrishnan, who
helps manage the equivalent of $9.4 billion in local assets at
Mumbai-based SBI Funds Management Pvt., a unit of India’s
largest bank, said in an interview yesterday. “The fear now is,
if the government’s disinvestment plan also falls short, then
you have a problem.”  Any deterioration in public finances will slow gains in the
second best-performing Asian  bond market , where benchmark yields
are headed for the first annual decline since 2008, according to
SBI Funds and Nomura Holdings Inc. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings cited India’s budget gap and slowing growth as they
lowered their outlooks for the sovereign rating this year.  India’s deficit was 3.37 trillion rupees in the first six
months of this fiscal year, or almost 66 percent of the annual
target, according to a statement on the website of the
Controller General of Accounts.  Auction Failure  The airwaves auction fell short after the government set
prices that were almost nine times the levels in a 2008
offering, Rajan Mathews, director general of industry group
Cellular Operators Association of India, said in a telephone
interview at the end of the first day of the sale on Nov. 12.
India may still offer unsold spectrum before the fiscal year
ends March 31 and has yet to decide on lowering costs,
Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  told reporters in  New
Delhi  on Nov. 14.  The spectrum offer failed just two weeks after Chidambaram
unveiled a new plan to narrow the deficit to 3 percent by 2017
by raising funds from sales of wireless phone licenses and
shares in state-owned companies.  The government is sticking to its deficit target even after
the outcome of airwaves auction, Economic Affairs Secretary
Arvind Mayaram said in New Delhi yesterday.  Rating Risk  “The government will exceed its current borrowing plan in
the next quarter,” Arvind Chari, a senior  fund manager  at
Quantum Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in an interview
yesterday. “That will be crucial when the  ratings agencies 
review the country after the budget in March. If they don’t get
a comfortable sense of fiscal improvement, they may downgrade.”  India faces at least a one-in-three possibility of losing
its investment-grade  credit rating  within 24 months should the
economy and public finances weaken further, Takahira Ogawa and
Elena Okorochenko, analysts in  Singapore  at S&P, said in a
report last month. The nation is rated BBB- by S&P, one level
above junk and the lowest among the so-called BRIC economies,
which also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  “On the other hand, we may revise the outlook back to
stable if the government implements initiatives to reduce
structural fiscal deficits, improve its investment climate, and
increase growth prospects,” S&P said.  Default Swaps  Bond risk for government-controlled  State Bank  of India, a
proxy for the sovereign, has remained higher this year. The cost
of insuring the lender’s debt for five years against non-payment
using credit-default swaps has averaged 323 basis points so far
in 2012, compared with 219 a year earlier, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  The yield on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  has climbed
15 basis points from a 14-month low of 8.04 percent in June,
paring this year’s decline to 38 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  extra amount  investors seek to hold
the notes instead of U.S. Treasuries has widened 31 basis points
from a seven-month low of 630 touched last month.  “The drop in yields will be slow from here and will depend
on the pattern of extra  government borrowing  and monetary
easing,” Quantum Asset’s Chari said, without giving a forecast.  Nomura Holdings,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, predicts the
10-year yield will fall to 7.80 percent by mid-February, spurred
by an interest-rate reduction by the central bank amid slowing
inflation.  Inflation Slows  India’s benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.45 percent
last month from a year earlier after climbing 7.81 percent in
September, the Commerce Ministry said yesterday. That’s the
slowest pace since February. The  Reserve Bank  of India has kept
the  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8 percent in the last four
policy meetings. At the RBI’s last policy review on Oct. 30,
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said he sees a “reasonable
likelihood” of monetary easing in the first quarter of 2013.  Rupee-denominated debt returned 8.6 percent this year, the
most after the 11.2 percent earned by Indonesian notes among the
biggest Asian local-currency debt markets, according to indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The rupee fell 0.5 percent to 54.975 a dollar today. The
currency slid 3.9 percent this quarter, the biggest lost among
regional exchange rates.  With the government’s revenue already slowing amid an
economic slowdown, the failure of the airwaves auction is a
“disappointment,” said Upasna Bhardwaj, an economist in Mumbai
at ING Vysya Bank Ltd.  Expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy will decelerate
to 4.9 percent in 2012, the least in a decade, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9. Quarterly growth slowed to an average
of 5.4 percent in the first half of 2012, from 7.5 percent in
2011, according to the most recent government data.  “The  finance ministry  will have to look at different ways
to garner revenue,” said Bhardwaj. “Right now, there’s
uncertainty on the fiscal side. They will have to look at extra
borrowings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  