-- Malawi Changes Tobacco-Selling System to Move Away From Auctions
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-11-16T14:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/malawi-changes-tobacco-selling-system-to-move-away-from-auctions.html
Malawi, the world’s largest grower
of burley tobacco, is changing its system for selling the leaves
to move away from the auction method now used to dispose of the
entire crop.  The so-called Integrated Production System will enable
farmers in the southern African nation to agree to grow the
leaves for specific customers, according to a statement
yesterday from the country’s  Tobacco Control Commission . The
government aims to carry out 80 percent of sales through the new
system and the rest via auctions, the statement showed.  The change will control production and improve the quality
of tobacco, which generates 60 percent of Malawi’s foreign
exchange, according to the government. The shift may hurt the
local economy because some growers will be unable to take up
contract farming, said Auction Holdings Ltd., which has origins
going back to a local tobacco warehouse built in 1936.  “About 1.06 million Malawians were actively involved in
tobacco growing,” Evans Matabwa, chief executive officer of
Auction Holdings, said in a presentation given over the weekend
at the annual meeting of the Economics Association of Malawi and
e-mailed to Bloomberg. “In the new arrangement, not all these
will have the opportunity to earn revenue from tobacco, as not
all of them will be contracted.”  The new system will take effect when the next marketing
season begins in March, according to the commission. Buyers will
collect tobacco from growers via existing trading floors after
the change and use auctions to buy any leaves they may need in
excess of those produced by farmers, it said.  Malawi grows more than 101,000 metric tons of tobacco a
year, according to  Auction Holdings .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 