-- Hamas Shows Its True Colors
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-16T00:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/hamas-shows-its-true-colors-with-rocket-attacks-on-israel.html
There have been times when
apportioning blame for violence in the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict has been a matter of debate. When it comes to the Nov.
15  rocket attacks  on  Tel Aviv  by the militant Palestinian group
Hamas, however, there is no ambiguity. Hamas is the aggressor.  Tel Aviv is Israel’s largest city and its commercial
center. The city also hosts the  Defense Ministry , but the
rockets weren’t aimed there. In fact, they weren’t aimed at all.
They were flung toward Tel Aviv from the Hamas-controlled  Gaza
Strip , in the same way militants periodically shoot rockets into
southern Israeli towns near the Gaza border, often hitting
homes, schools and civilian vehicles.  The strike was retaliation for  Israeli air raids  on Gaza
that killed the Hamas security chief, Ahmed al-Jabari. Yet that
attack came in response to the more than 100 rocket and mortar
attacks on southern Israel that militants launched from Gaza
this month.  Hamas had recently begun to participate again in such
strikes. After taking over limited self-rule of Gaza in 2007,
Hamas largely refrained from attacking  Israel . The group focused
instead on local politics, leaving harassment of Israel to
smaller, more radical groups.  Hamas’s restraint raised cautious hopes that the group was
mellowing and might even come to accept peaceful coexistence
with Israel, just as the  Palestine Liberation Organization  did.
This hope proved illusory --  as did the hope  that regional
powers would serve to moderate Hamas. In October, the emir of
relatively peaceable Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani,
became the first head of state to  visit Gaza  since Hamas took
control. The emir pledged $400 million in support, which would
more than double the territory’s foreign aid. Two weeks after
his visit, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who has
significantly downgraded his country’s relations with Israel,
said he planned to visit Gaza.  It’s true that Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi has pledged
to honor his country’s 1979 peace treaty with Israel. It’s true,
too, that he has  tussled with Hamas  over the group’s Sinai
tunnels, which have been conduits to violence and instability.
Nevertheless,  after  Israel’s airstrikes, Mursi condemned what he
called “wanton aggression,” withdrew his ambassador to Israel,
and ordered his prime minister to Gaza on a solidarity mission.
He was silent on the rocket attacks on southern Israel that
triggered Israel’s action.  Now, with the revived rocket attacks, Hamas has opened a
new and deadly chapter in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. No
country could tolerate such a threat and fulfill its most basic
duty to protect its citizens.  Of course, Hamas and its supporters believe nothing Israel
does is legitimate because they believe Israel itself is
illegitimate. What they don’t understand is that this view is
woefully outdated and that the creation of a Palestinian state
will require Israel’s acquiescence, something that is unlikely
to happen under pressure of rocket fire.  If  Al Thani , Erdogan, Mursi and the region’s other leaders
wanted to help Hamas, they would get the group to see that
reality -- rather than flirting with poisonous militancy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Grover Norquist’s gift to
Republicans  and on why  simple banking regulations are better ;
Stephen L. Carter on what  Obama can learn from FDR  about
business;  Susan Crawford  on  why mobile phones went dead after
Hurricane Sandy ; William Pesek on  Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  Justice Department ’s  white-collar
prosecution numbers ; Michael Petrilli on what  education
reformers need to do differently ; Kori Schake on  adultery and
the U.S. military honor code .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 