-- Tanker Supply at Seven-Month Low Seen Lifting Rates on China
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-11-16T16:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/tanker-supply-at-seven-month-low-seen-boosting-rates-on-china.html
The glut of oil tankers competing to
load in the Persian Gulf dwindled to a seven-month low as  China 
draws shipments, setting the conditions for rates to extend the
year’s biggest rally.  Fifty-five very large crude carriers are available in the
world’s biggest exporting region in the next four weeks, the
fewest since March 27, according to Marex Spectron Group, which
handles freight derivatives. There have been 141 tankers booked
to load this month, the most since December, said Kevin Sy, a
broker at Marex Spectron in  Singapore .  Increased imports into China are drawing the vessels away
from their busiest loading region, enabling owners to negotiate
higher rates, according to Arctic Securities ASA, an Oslo-based
investment bank. Daily earnings for the ships will rise to
$40,000, from $24,000 now, according to DNB Markets.  “Fixtures have been high over the past week,” Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic, said in an e-mailed
report today. “We could see a slower pace next week. However,
the low vessel count should balance this, giving owners impetus
to ask for a higher rate.”  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, imported 23.68
million metric tons of crude last month, the most since May,
customs data show. A VLCC holds about 2 million barrels. About
13 percent of the global fleet is heading for China, ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rates Jumped  Rates jumped 38 percent since the start of the month to the
highest since May 30, according to the Baltic Exchange, the
London-based publisher of shipping costs. Charter costs for
VLCCs on the voyage added 0.1 percent to 49.84 industry-standard
Worldscale points, exchange data showed today. The VLCC fleet
will expand 6.8 percent this year, exceeding 4.8 percent demand
growth, estimates Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 49.84 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  Daily earnings for very large crude carriers on the Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan voyage slipped 2.8 percent to $19,456, figures
from the exchange showed. That snapped a series of nine straight
gains, the longest winning streak since a run that ended March
16, exchange data showed.  Faster Ships  The rally can last as much as three more weeks before ships
accelerate, effectively adding capacity, DNB analysts led by
Nicolay Dyvik in Oslo said in an e-mailed report today. Sailing
slower has lifted the fleet’s utilization to 87 percent,
compared with 73 percent at normal speeds, estimates the
investment-banking unit of  Norway ’s largest bank.  “A sudden pick-up in demand or supply shock or disruptions
will tighten the market balance short term from an already tight
level, before vessel speed will increase and redress the supply
side,” Dyvik said in the report. “The current pick-up in
activity relates to a flurry of fixing” from the Persian Gulf
to Asia, he added.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, was
unchanged at 715 points, according to the exchange today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  