-- AOL’s Temkin Exits Amid Mobile Technology Restructuring
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/aol-s-temkin-to-leave-as-mobile-technology-restructures.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  Senior Vice President David Temkin, who oversaw technology products including mobile
software and e-mail, is leaving the Internet portal amid a
restructuring of its technology group.  Temkin will depart after the end of the year, the company
said yesterday. The move comes as AOL shifts from having a
dedicated team of mobile engineers to a structure where
developers will work within the company’s various media brands,
such as Engadget and Moviefone, to build mobile software.  The resignation of Temkin -- the third consumer-technology
head to leave in a year -- underscores the challenge AOL, a
company focused on media, may be having in keeping technology-
oriented staff. Since separating from Time Warner Inc. in 2009,
AOL under Chief Executive Officer Tim Armstrong has worked to
transform the company from an Internet services provider into
ad-based content provider.  “It’s time for me to move on to the next thing and go
build,” Temkin said in an interview yesterday, without
specifying his plans.  Temkin was promoted to a top role in AOL’s Palo Alto,
California, office in March, following earlier departures by
Brad Garlinghouse and Eric van Miltenburg from similar
positions. Temkin joined the company in 2010 after stints as an
executive at Palm Inc. and as a software engineer at Apple Inc.  The move to decentralize AOL’s mobile team follows job cuts
announced earlier this year, when as many as 40 people were
fired from the consumer-applications group because of the
division’s underperformance, three people said at the time.  Sol Lipman, a former vice president in AOL’s mobile unit
who helped create its Editions news-reading app for Apple’s
iPads, left to join the startup Tomfoolery Inc. last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  