-- Apple, Google Consider Arbitration Over Standard Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/apple-google-consider-arbitration-over-standard-patents-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit are talking about a way to resolve part
of their dispute over patents related to critical smartphone
technology, according to a court filing.  The companies have been exchanging proposals on using
binding arbitration to reach a licensing agreement over patents
that are essential to comply with industry standards on how
phones operate. Such an agreement could lead to a global
settlement of all of their patent disputes, Apple said in a Nov.
15 filing.  “Apple is also interested in resolving its dispute with
Motorola completely and agrees that arbitration may be the best
vehicle to resolve the parties’ dispute,” Apple said in the
filing.  Motorola Mobility first raised the issue of arbitration on
Nov. 5, before a federal judge in Madison,  Wisconsin , threw out
a breach-of-contract case that Apple had filed. The Cupertino,
California-based maker of the iPhone claimed its mobile-phone
competitor was misusing standard-essential patents to demand
unreasonable royalties.  “We have long sought a path to resolving patent issues and
we welcome the chance to build on the constructive dialogue
between our companies,” Google General Counsel Kent Walker said
in a Nov. 13 letter to Apple that was filed with the court.
“While we prefer to seek a framework for a global (rather than
piecemeal) resolution that addresses all of our patent disputes,
we are committed to reaching agreement on a license for our
respective standard-essential patents.”  Globe-Spanning Litigation  An agreement that goes beyond the Motorola Mobility dispute
to cover other devices that run on Google’s Android operating
system could help calm litigation that has spanned the globe,
said Alex Spektor, an analyst with  Strategy Analytics  in  Boston .  “It’s in everyone’s best interest in the industry to pull
back and reach some sort of equilibrium,” Spektor said.
“Google could offer a certain level of protection to licensees
who comply with whatever standard it puts in place.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European
Commission are both investigating complaints by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is misusing its standard-
essential patents. The FTC staff has recommended filing a
lawsuit against Google, according to four people familiar with
the matter.  Unique Features  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, has argued that
competing handsets running on Google’s Android operating system
copy the look and unique features of its iPhones. A continuing
battle with Samsung Electronics Co., which has the biggest share
of the global market for smartphones, is being waged around the
world.  Even so, Apple has recently shown a willingness to settle
some of the disputes. It announced a 10-year licensing agreement
with  Taiwan ’s  HTC Corp. (2498)  on Nov. 10. The company earlier settled
a patent dispute with  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Companies like Motorola Mobility that help develop
specifications to let devices work together pledge to let
competitors license inventions incorporated into those standards
on fair and reasonable terms.  Not all of the Motorola Mobility patents in its dispute
against Apple involve technologies used in industry standards.
Motorola Mobility dropped its latest suit involving non-
essential patents at the U.S. International Trade Commission.
None of the Apple patents lodged against Motorola Mobility is
standard-essential.  Fair, Reasonable  “Apple’s goal has always been to find a mutual and
transparent process to resolve this dispute on terms that are
fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory without the threat or
taint of exclusionary remedies,” Apple General Counsel Bruce Sewell said in a Nov. 8 letter to Google that was included in
the filing.  Spokeswomen Kristin Huguet of Apple and Niki Fenwick of
Google declined to comment.  Microsoft has its own battles with Motorola Mobility over
standard-essential patents, and a non-jury trial is under way in
 Seattle . U.S. District Judge James Robart could issue a ruling
establishing a fair rate for the Motorola Mobility patents. That
could lead to an agreement between those two companies, said
Victor Siber, former chief intellectual property counsel for
International Business Machines Corp., and now with Baker
Hostetler in  New York .  The cases are: Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
11cv178, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison); and Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  