-- Apple, Samsung Allowed to Add Products to Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/apple-samsung-allowed-to-add-products-to-patent-lawsuit.html
Samsung Electronics Co. can add the
iPhone 5 to its patent-infringement claims against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
and Apple can add infringement claims against the Samsung Galaxy
Note, the U.S. version of the Galaxy S III and the Jelly Bean
operating system, a federal judge ruled.  The addition of the Jelly Bean operating system is limited
to the software for Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus, U.S. Magistrate
Judge Paul Grewal ruled yesterday.  The decision came in a second patent lawsuit between the
two mobile device giants pending in San Jose,  California . In an
earlier lawsuit that went to trial in July, a jury found that
Samsung infringed six of seven Apple patents at issue and
awarded $1.05 billion in damages.  “Apple should think twice before opposing similar
amendments reflecting other newly released products, e.g. the
iPad 4 and the iPad mini, that Samsung may propose in the
future,” Grewal said in the ruling.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market.  The second U.S. lawsuit, scheduled for trial in 2014,
targets iPhones, iPad and iPod Touch devices and 19 Samsung
devices, according to court filings. Both companies sought to
add additional devices that came to market after the lawsuit was
initially filed.  Android System  Samsung in August began U.S. sales of the Galaxy Note 10.1,
equipped with a stylus -- a feature Apple’s iPad doesn’t offer,
and which builds on Samsung’s Galaxy Note 5.3, a similarly
stylus-equipped smartphone that came out earlier this year.
Jelly Bean is Google Inc.’s latest version of the Android
operating system that runs on Samsung mobile devices as well as
Google’s Nexus 7 handheld computer, which was released in June.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose  on Oct. 1
rescinded a ban on U.S. sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 that
she imposed in June, deciding there were no grounds for keeping
the preliminary injunction in place after jurors concluded in
their Aug. 24 verdict that Samsung didn’t infringe the Apple
design patent that was the basis for the injunction.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, contended the ban
should remain in place because the jury found the Galaxy Tab
infringed other patents at issue in the case.  Koh has scheduled December hearings in that case to
consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight
Samsung smartphone models and the Tab 10.1. She will also
consider Samsung’s bid to get the August verdict thrown out
based on claims of juror misconduct.  The newer case is Apple v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd.,
12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  