-- Harper Says Plans Balanced Budget Before Canada Election
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-16T20:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/harper-says-he-plans-balanced-budget-before-next-canada-election.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he plans to eliminate the  federal budget  deficit
before the next election due in 2015, comments coming days after
his finance minister projected a deficit for that year.  “It remains the government’s plan, intention, to balance
the budget prior to the next federal election,” Harper said at
a press conference today in Quebec City. “The recent economic
and fiscal update by the minister indicates we are actually very
close to that objective.”  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty on Nov. 13 updated his
forecast to delay a balanced budget by one year and projected a
C$1.8 billion ($1.8 billion) deficit for the period starting
April 2015. In New York about an hour after Harper spoke,
Flaherty said he and Harper are on “the same page” about the
2015 deficit goal and “we are very close” to meeting it.  The budget projection for 2015 includes a C$3 billion
cushion to guard against the risk of a weaker economy, Flaherty
said. “Our intention is to balance the budget before the next
election, we are very close now, I hope we will get there,”
Flaherty told reporters on a conference call.  “These numbers aren’t written in stone, things change,”
he said.  Income Splitting  In last year’s elections, which returned Harper to power
with his first majority government, the Conservatives pledged to
eliminate the deficit by 2014 and introduce new measures such as
income splitting for families once the government began to run
surpluses.  Harper said earlier today that Flaherty’s reduced budget
projections reflect a drop in revenue on “the recent slowing of
the global economy,” and plans to curb spending are “on
track.”  The government has cut its payroll by 10,980 positions in
the six months since the last budget targeted a reduction of
19,200, Treasury Board President Tony Clement said in a
statement today. About 7,500 of the positions have been
eliminated through attrition, greater than an original target of
7,200.  “A leaner, more affordable government is good for
taxpayers and it’s important in terms of our ability to return
to balanced budgets,” Clement said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  