-- Asian Currencies Drop as U.S., Greece Budget Risks Spur Outflows
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-11-17T00:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/asian-currencies-drop-as-u-s-greece-budget-risks-spur-outflows.html
Asian currencies dropped this week
as concern budget deficits in the U.S. and Greece will delay a
global economic recovery prompted investors to pull money from
riskier assets.  The Philippine peso led declines with its biggest weekly
loss in three months after growth in  remittances  from citizens
living abroad slowed, while China’s  yuan  pared gains after
reaching a 19-year high. President  Barack Obama  began
negotiations with Democratic and Republican congressional
leaders yesterday to address the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff,
which involves $607 billion of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases. Euro-area finance ministers will hold a meeting to
discuss aid for Greece.  “Stock declines are hurting risk sentiment and investors
are selling Asian equities, putting downward pressure on
regional currencies,” said  Koji Fukaya , president of currency
research and consulting company Office Fukaya in Tokyo and a
former chief foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Money will continue to flow into  emerging markets  and
their currencies will recover in the medium to long term.”  The peso slid 0.7 percent this week to 41.335 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The  Thai baht  fell 0.4
percent to 30.76 and Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.3 percent to
3.0729. South Korea’s won weakened 0.4 percent to 1,093.23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Outflows  Global funds sold more local stocks than they bought in
Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand this week, exchange
data show. Inflows into emerging-market debt slowed to $665
million in the week to Nov. 14, compared with weekly intakes
exceeding $1 billion in the past two months, according to a
Morgan Stanley report citing data from U.S. research firm EPFR
Global.  The ringgit weakened as Malaysia’s economy grew 5.2 percent
from a year earlier in the three months through September,
official data showed. That compares with the median forecast of
a 4.8 percent increase and a 5.4 percent expansion in the
preceding period.  In Singapore, the economy in the third quarter shrank 5.9
percent from the preceding three months, compared with a 2.9
percent contraction forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The
government said yesterday gross domestic product will expand 1
percent to 3 percent in 2013, near the slowest pace in three
years.  ‘Remain Volatile’  “Risk appetite is tapering as the weak Singapore GDP
reflects Asian growth for the third quarter,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) 
in Singapore. “Asian currencies are likely to remain volatile
because of concern over global growth.”  China’s yuan climbed 0.15 percent to 6.2356 per dollar this
week, the most in a month. The currency reached a 19-year high
of 6.2252 on Nov. 14, having tested the 1 percent upper band of
the central bank’s fixing rate every day since Oct. 30.  China will expand the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor Program quota by 200 billion yuan ($32
billion) from 70 billion yuan,  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the
securities regulator, said Nov. 11. The Communist Party unveiled
its new leaders this week, with Xi Jinping replacing  Hu Jintao 
as party secretary.  “China is encouraging inflows of capital as a way to
stimulate its economy, which will keep the yuan at a strong
level,” said  Daniel Chan , executive vice president at Glory Sky
Global Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The key uncertainty now is
who will be in charge of economic policies in China’s new
leadership and how aggressive they are in terms of reforms.”  Elsewhere, India’s rupee fell 0.8 percent from a week ago
to 55.178 per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.14 percent
to 9,633. Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.42 percent to NT$29.272.
Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,858.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  