-- Astral Media in Renewed Talks With BCE to Revive Deal
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-16T21:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/astral-trading-halted-after-report-of-bce-reviving-deal.html
Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  said it is holding
talks with  BCE Inc. (BCE)  to revive a plan sell itself to  Canada ’s
largest telecommunications company after their proposal was
blocked by regulators.  Astral is in discussions with BCE to continue pursuing
regulatory approvals, including, among other options, the filing
of an application with the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission, according to a statement today.
“The timing and details of any such application have not yet
been determined,” the Montreal-based company said.  Canada’s broadcast regulator, known as the CRTC, rejected
BCE’s C$3 billion ($3 billion) bid to buy Astral on Oct. 18,
saying the deal would curb television and radio competition.  Astral, a broadcaster and owner of billboards,  rose  5.1
percent to C$44.40 at the close in Toronto, its biggest single-
day increase since the takeover was announced March 16. Trading
was halted until noon following a report by the Globe and Mail
on the renewed takeover plan. BCE rose 1.5 percent to C$41.99,
its largest advance since Aug. 8.  “Astral appears motivated to press on with Plan A, albeit
a likely materially modified version to appease a more prickly
group at the CRTC,” Adam Shine, an analyst at National Bank
Financial in Montreal, said in a note to clients published
yesterday.  Deal Premium  Both companies on Oct. 25 agreed to extend the so-called
outside date, the deadline for the takeover to be completed,
until Dec. 16. BCE and Astral each has the right to further
postpone the deadline until Jan. 15.  BCE on March 16 agreed to pay C$50 a share for Astral, a 38
percent premium over the previous day’s closing price. That
exceeded the 26 percent average premium paid by media companies
globally in the last five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Astral soared 34 percent on the day the transaction
was announced.  Mark Langton, a spokesman for BCE, said today the company
won’t be commenting on Astral’s statement.  BCE said last month it would request the federal government
provide policy direction to the CRTC on how it reviews
acquisitions. The regulator neglected to use its own policies
when it blocked the Astral deal, BCE said in an Oct. 18
statement.  BCE, the owner of the CTV television network, lacked French
content other than French sports channel RDS. Adding Astral
would bolster that content, Vice Chairman Martine Turcotte said
in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  