-- Aussie Near 3-Week Low as Stocks Fall on Global Slowdown Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-16T07:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/aussie-near-3-week-low-as-stocks-fall-gaza-attacks-continue.html
Australia’s dollar was 0.1 percent
from a three-week low as risk appetite waned after stocks fell
globally yesterday amid mounting geopolitical tension over the
 Gaza strip  and signs of economic slowdown worldwide.  The so-called Aussie held two days of losses after the
 International Monetary Fund   said  in a statement yesterday there
is scope for the  Reserve Bank  of Australia to ease more if
warranted by the economy. The RBA held its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 3.25 percent on Nov. 6. The Australian and New
Zealand dollars headed for weekly gains against the yen on
speculation Japanese elections next month will hand power to an
opposition party that advocates more monetary stimulus.  “The pressure is still on the downside for the Aussie,”
said Lee Wai Tuck, currency strategist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. “There are concerns about the global economy slowing
and euro zone risks. The RBA is likely to open the door for more
easing, if not in December, maybe next year in February.”  Australia’s dollar  declined 0.1 percent to $1.0320 as of
6:13 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched $1.0307, the
lowest since Oct. 26. The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 83.60 yen.
It was poised for a 1.3 percent advance against the Japanese
currency this week.  New Zealand’s currency was little changed at 80.97 U.S.
cents, headed for a 0.5 percent weekly slide. The so-called kiwi
slipped 0.1 percent to 65.60 yen, paring this week’s climb to
1.4 percent.  Stocks, Gaza  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index of stocks fell
0.3 percent. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  fell for a seventh day
yesterday, losing 0.3 percent.  Israel’s Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signaled yesterday
that the country is ready to escalate its military operations
against Gaza after at least one long-range missile was fired at
Tel Aviv by Palestinian militants.  The euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for a second
time in four years.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation bloc
slipped 0.1 percent in the third quarter, after a 0.2 percent
decline in the previous three months, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said yesterday.  “There was plenty of bearish news to depress markets,”
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp, wrote in a report today. “The skirmish between
Israel and Hamas in the Gaza strip escalated. The  euro zone 
officially entered recession.”  Japan, Singapore  In Asia, Japan and Singapore downgraded their economic
outlooks today. Japan’s government cut its assessment of
consumption, investment, corporate profits and the job market,
as the country faces the risk of entering its third technical
recession since 2008. Singapore’s Trade Ministry said in a
statement the economy will grow 1 percent to 3 percent in 2013
after expanding about 1.5 percent this year, lower than the
previous forecast of as much as 2.5 percent in 2012.  The RBA will release on Nov. 20 the minutes of its last
meeting when policy makers left  interest rates  unchanged.
 Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see
a 72 percent chance the central bank will lower its benchmark to
3 percent next month.  Forecast’s Lee said he expects the Australian currency to
drop to parity with the  U.S. dollar  by January.  Australian  government bonds  were little changed, with the
10-year debt yielding 3.03 percent.  Japan’s Election  The South Pacific nations’ currencies headed for weekly
gains against the yen after Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
dissolved parliament today for a general election on Dec. 16
that polls suggest he will lose.  Shinzo Abe, leader of Japan’s  Liberal Democratic Party ,
leader of the main opposition Liberal Democratic Party, said
yesterday the  Bank of Japan  should pursue unlimited monetary
stimulus to end deflation and revive the economy.  “We’re seeing the yen-crosses being bought in a knee-jerk
reaction to some comments calling for BOJ easing,” said
Forecast’s Lee. “But if stock markets continue to fall, I think
the yen will regain some of its losses.”  Australia’s dollar has lost 2.7 percent in the past three
months, the second-worst performance tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency indexes. The yen dropped 2.9
percent in the same period, while  New Zealand ’s currency fell
0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  