-- Australia Has Scope to Cut Rates, Delay Surplus Return, IMF Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-16T00:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/australia-has-scope-to-cut-rates-delay-surplus-return-imf-says.html
Australia  has scope to lower its
benchmark interest rate further and delay a return to budget
surpluses this year should the global outlook deteriorate, the
International Monetary Fund’s executive board said.  “In the event of a sharp deterioration in the economic
outlook, and hence revenue underperformance, delaying the return
to surpluses could be an option, given Australia’s modest debt-
to-GDP ratio,” IMF directors said in a  statement  in  Washington .
“Allowing automatic stabilizers to operate fully could also
help relieve pressure on monetary policy.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens kept the
key rate unchanged at 3.25 percent on Nov. 6 as inflation
accelerates and the global outlook stabilizes. The central bank
cut borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage points from November last
year to October to help cushion the economy against  Europe ’s
crisis and a slowdown in  China  that weakened commodity prices.  The Australian government has pressed the central bank to
loosen monetary policy as it bids for a A$44 billion ($45
billion) swing in the budget back to the black in time
for an election late next year.  “Directors agreed that the current accommodative monetary
stance is broadly appropriate,” the IMF said. “They also
concurred that there is scope for further easing if warranted by
economic circumstances.”  Traders are pricing in a 70 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by another quarter percentage point to 3
percent at next month’s policy meeting, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The IMF said the economy will grow 3.25 percent this year,
little changed from its forecast a year ago, according to the
statement, which was issued at the conclusion of a so-called
Article IV consultation. Directors said Australia’s floating
exchange rate remains a “critically important element” in the
nation’s policy framework.  Currency Pressure  “They observed, however, that the Australian dollar, which
remains moderately above its long-term average, has exerted
pressure on non-mining tradable sectors, widening the current
account deficit and net foreign liabilities,” the report said.  The local currency is up 1.3 percent this year and has
closed above parity with the U.S. dollar for all but 23 days
during the period.  The executive board praised a Financial Sector Assessment
Program update that showed the Australian financial system is
“sound, resilient, and well managed” and welcomed progress in
boosting the competitiveness of the banking system.  The report showed that while Australia’s outlook remains
positive, risks remain from a possible weakening in the
international outlook and “elevated stress” in the global
financial system.  “Directors underscored the need to preserve adequate
policy space to respond to adverse shocks and to persevere with
structural adjustments aimed at facilitating more balanced
growth,” the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  