-- Barclays Contingent Notes Fall on Short Selling Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-11-16T14:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/barclays-contingent-notes-fall-amid-short-selling-speculation.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s $3 billion of new
contingent capital notes, securities designed to ensure
taxpayers aren’t forced to pay for banks’ errors, fell for a
second day.  The 7.625 percent subordinated 10-year notes were priced at
face value and have dropped 2 cents on the dollar to 98 since
being priced two days ago, according to Jefferies International
Ltd. The notes will be written down to zero if the U.K.’s
second-largest lender has losses that reduce its core Tier 1
equity ratio to 7 percent or lower.  The securities were marketed globally and attracted orders
of more than $17 billion, with most coming from Asia, Mark Harmer, the head of developed markets credit research at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a client note. Its size and
relatively high price leaves it vulnerable to short sellers,
according to Paul Smillie, a Singapore-based bank credit analyst
for Threadneedle Asset Management.  “Barclays is a monster of a deal so it’s going to be the
most liquid thing out there for some time, and it’s easy to
short,” Smillie said. “When Asia closed the Asian retail bid
disappeared and U.S. fast money used it as a simple short.”  In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed securities in a
bet they can be repurchased at a lower price.  Pace Setting  The 7 percent trigger for a complete write-off, rather than
conversion to equity, makes Barclays’s bonds more vulnerable to
loss than previous issues of contingent capital instruments.  “The bond was priced and structured with an eye to the
Asian retail market,” said Harmer at ING. “That’s left little
room for maneuver now that U.S. and European institutions appear
to be setting the pace.”  Barclays issued its bonds a day before broader credit
markets sold off. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-
default swaps linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and 
insurers has risen two basis points to 184 since Nov. 14 
and the subordinated index is up five to 316.5.  The price set for the Barclays contingent note contrasts
with that of ABN Amro NV’s 1 billion euros ($1.27 billion) of
7.125 percent bonds due 2022. While both form part of the
issuer’s Tier 2 capital, ABN Amro’s are less risky than
Barclays’s, because they don’t have the writedown feature that
could cause buyers to lose their entire investment. That’s
reflected in a BBB+ rating at Standard & Poor’s, against BBB-,
two steps lower, for the Barclays bonds.  Going Concern  S&P called the Barclays notes “going-concern” capital,
designed to keep the lender in business as it seeks money to
recover. Bonds designed to absorb losses before a lender
collapses are a product of the 2008 financial-sector crisis,
when debt investors were made good while banks had to be propped
up by governments to prevent contagion to the wider economy.  “Barclays did itself no favors by marketing the deal over
the Presidential election and Veterans Day long weekend,” said
Robert Smalley, a strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , in a note to clients. “The differential between
the trigger and stated capital levels should have led to a
higher coupon.”  Barclays would have to lose about 10.25 billion pounds
($16.3 billion) to trigger the writedown, according to  Simon
Adamson , an analyst at independent debt research firm
CreditSights Inc. in London.  The ABN Amro bonds were priced at 99.589 cents on the euro
to yield 7.18 percent, compared with the 7.625 percent yield on
the Barclays deal. They are now quoted at 112.1 cents to yield
5.47 percent, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  UBS’s 7.625 percent contingent notes due 2022 were also
priced at 100 at issue in August. The notes are also less risky
because they have a 5 percent trigger, meaning losses have to
eat away more capital before they are triggered, giving the bank
more time to raise cash to prevent the writedown.  The UBS bonds, rated BBB- at S&P, fell 1.12 cents on the
euro and are quoted at 108.21 cents to yield 6.47 percent,
Bloomberg generic prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  