-- David Beckham’s Management Denies Link to Australia’s A-League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-16T11:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/beckham-interested-in-playing-in-australia-federation-says.html
David Beckham’s management says he
has “absolutely no plans” to play in  Australia ’s A-League
after the country’s soccer federation said it’s held talks with
the former England captain.  The 37-year-old signed a two-year contract extension with
the  Los Angeles Galaxy  of  Major League Soccer  in January. He’d
previously had two loan spells at AC Milan during the MLS
offseason.  Football Federation Australia said in a statement today it
had been approached by the midfielder’s representatives about a
short-term contract that may involve playing as many as 10 games
in the A-League.  “There is always enormous interest from clubs across the
world in signing David as a player,” Beckham’s management
company said in a statement. “There are absolutely no plans to
play in Australia. David is completely focused on the MLS
playoffs and winning another championship with the Galaxy.”  The FFA, which runs soccer in Australia, said that
discussions were at an early stage and it’s “exploring the
options available.”  “Beckham is a superstar on the world stage and he would be
another massive signing for the Hyundai A-League after the
arrivals of Alessandro Del Piero, Emile Heskey and Shinji Ono,”
the federation’s statement read.  For the 2012-13 season, A-League rules allow clubs to sign
an international player outside the team salary cap of $A2.48
million ($2.6 million). Perth Glory Chief Executive Paul Kelly
said on the club’s  website  he’d be interested in Beckham.  Del Piero  “We are always happy to speak to players of the caliber of
 David Beckham ,” Kelly said. “At the end of the day it’s the
coach, Ian Ferguson, who makes these decisions and we as a club
have a process that we follow when recruiting players. But we
would be mad not to seriously consider David Beckham.”  Del Piero, 38, became the A-League’s highest-profile import
when he joined Sydney FC in September after a record-breaking
19-year career with Italian champions Juventus. In September,
former England striker Heskey, 34, signed with the Newcastle
Jets, and ex-Japan World Cup midfielder Shinji Ono, 33, joined
the Western Sydney Wanderers.  Beckham helped  Los Angeles  win its third MLS Cup
championship last season. The Galaxy takes a 3-0 lead into the
second leg of its Western Conference playoff final tomorrow at
Seattle, with the winner advancing to the title game on Dec. 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  