-- Bible Publisher Won’t Have to Fund Birth Control Coverage
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-16T22:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/bible-publisher-won-t-have-to-fund-birth-control-coverage.html
A Bible publisher won a temporary
order blocking the health-care reform law’s requirement that
employers provide insurance coverage for contraceptives.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  today ruled
that the law’s coverage mandate “substantially burdens” the
religious exercise of Tyndale House Publishers Inc. by imposing
“considerable” financial penalties for failing to offer birth
control coverage to its 260 full-time employees.  The mandate “places the plaintiffs in the untenable
position of choosing either to violate their religious beliefs
by providing coverage of the contraceptives at issue or to
subject their business to the continual risk of the imposition
of enormous penalties for its noncompliance,” Walton wrote.  That “places substantial pressure on the plaintiffs to
violate their beliefs,” the judge wrote in issuing a
preliminary injunction  Tyndale, a publisher of Christian books based in Carol
Stream, Illinois, sued the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services on Oct. 2 -- one day after the company was required to
offer birth control coverage in its insurance plan.  Tyndale argues the law violates the religious freedoms of
the company and its owners, “who are committed to biblical
principles including the belief that all human beings are
created in the image and likeness of God from the moment of
their conception.”  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Tyndale House Publishers Inc. v. Sebelius, 12-
cv-01635, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 