-- BIS Sees Risk of Financial Friction at Delicate Juncture
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/bis-sees-risk-of-financial-friction-at-delicate-juncture.html
Bank for International Settlements
General Manager  Jaime Caruana  said he is concerned that
diverging monetary policies may stoke discord.  “We have reached a delicate global monetary policy
configuration,” Caruana said yesterday at a conference in Punta
del Este, Uruguay, according to an e-mailed copy of his speech.
“If this analysis is correct, there is a real risk that
frictions could multiply and intensify, especially if the
economic environment were to deteriorate further,” he said,
adding that conflicts may arise over currencies and bond-market
investments, without providing details.  Lackluster growth from the U.S. to Japan to  Europe  has
prompted their central banks to increase monetary stimulus,
raising concerns that such moves may end up hurting emerging
economies by bolstering those currencies. At the same time,
advanced nations have urged countries including  China  to allow
the markets to set their exchange rates.  While the  Federal Reserve  and the Bank of England’s bond-
buying programs and the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to buy
government debt have helped push down long-term borrowing costs,
Caruana highlighted the effects of this shift of ownership on
the  securities market .  “A world in which officials hold large portions of the
largest bond markets does not strike me as an ideal one,” he
said. “Uncoordinated efforts to preserve liquidity, to limit
reliance on short-term funding and to avoid risks of policy
shifts can further segment already fractured markets.”  Considering “very high levels of public and private-sector
debt, sooner or later such a world is likely to turn to
inflation,” he said, adding that while this scenario had yet to
emerge, “it is policy makers’ duty to prevent it from ever
materializing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  