-- Two Missing After Explosion on Black Elk Gulf Platform
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-16T18:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/black-elk-energy-offshore-says-it-had-fire-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Two people are missing after an
explosion and fire at a  Gulf of Mexico  platform owned by Black
Elk Energy Offshore Operations LLC. An oil sheen was reported
near the scene.  The explosion occurred just before 9 a.m. local time as
work was being done on the platform about 20 miles (32
kilometers) off the coast of  Grand Isle ,  Louisiana , Drake Foret,
a U.S. Coast Guard spokesman, said in a phone interview today.
The fire was extinguished, Leslie Hoffman, a spokeswoman for
Houston-based Black Elk, said in a phone interview.  Twenty-six people worked on the platform, which was not
producing oil or natural gas at the time. Eleven injured workers
were flown to area hospitals, the Coast Guard said. It corrected
an earlier statement that two were killed in the incident. Four
platform workers are in critical condition, said Taslin Alfonzo,
a spokeswoman for the West Jefferson Medical Center in Marrero,
Louisiana.  The explosion comes one day after London-based  BP Plc (BP/) 
agreed to pay $4.5 billion, the largest criminal fine in U.S.
history, for a 2010 explosion and oil spill at its Macondo well
in the Gulf. An oil sheen that measures one-half mile by 200
yards was reported near the Black Elk platform, the Coast Guard
said.  Black Elk holds stakes in more than 854 wells on 155
platforms off the coasts of Louisiana and  Texas  in the Gulf, in
water depths ranging from less than 10 feet (3 meters) to more
than 6,000 feet, according to the closely held company’s
 website .  Black Elk paid $307,500 on Sept. 11 after U.S. Interior
Department inspectors found the company fell behind on testing
some valves on an offshore oil facility for leakage, the agency
said on its website.  The Coast Guard is using two boats, two helicopters and a
plane in its search efforts for the two missing people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  