-- Boeing Picks 737 Upgrades While Eschewing Pentagon Frills
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-11-16T06:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/boeing-picks-737-upgrades-while-eschewing-pentagon-frills.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s defense unit will shun
the commercial division’s planned 737 Max aircraft and stick
with the current version of the narrow-body plane for its P-8A
submarine hunters in order to avoid production disruptions.  “There’s not a plan to offer a Max P-8A,” Egan
Greenstein, director of business development for the plane, said
in an interview yesterday near  Seattle . “But we’re not blind to
the fact that there will be opportunities that come out of it
and we want to be able to offer those to our customers.”  The P-8A is based on the existing 737 NG and built along
the same production lines, which churn out hundreds of the
narrow-body jets a year. The upgraded 737 Max, which is due to
enter service in 2017, will feature new engines and other
improvements that will help airlines cut fuel costs.  The company has reached the “firm concept” stage for the
Max with the “firm configuration” to follow next year, it said
yesterday. The planemaker also said it will use larger cockpit
displays, similar to those fitted in 787s, from  Rockwell Collins
Inc. (COL)  in the aircraft along with a new  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  air system.  While some minor changes to the  P-8  are possible, using Max
developments, the sub-hunter generally will be delivered as the
Navy ordered it in 2004, said Chuck Dabundo, the P-8 program
chief. For instance, while the Pentagon is getting 787-style
screens in the KC-46 aerial refueling tanker it ordered last
year, the P-8 will stick with older systems.  “We have a set of displays that the Navy is comfortable
with, and at this point there’s no plan to change the cockpit,”
Dabundo said.  Boeing unveiled the Max last year after Airbus SAS
announced similar changes to its competing narrow-body plane.
The Toulouse-based planemaker has won 1,515 orders for its
A320neo, compared with the 969 Boeing has secured for the Max.  Shared Lines  The P-8 is the first military derivative of a Boeing
commercial plane to be built on the same production lines. The
aircraft was designed to be as similar to a commercial 737 as
possible. That saves time and money from previous models that
were built and then torn apart to be militarized.  “When we sold the P-8 to the Navy, the winning element was
commonality and cost,” said Carl Lang, the P-8 program manager
on the Boeing Commercial Airplanes side.  Cost has become even more important as the Pentagon
prepares to pare $487 billion from its budget over the next
decade. The reductions could more than double if automatic
budget cuts, known as sequestration, come into effect next year.  Future Production  Boeing has orders for 117 P-8s from the U.S. Navy and sees
an international market for as many as 100, so it expects to be
building the plane until early next decade, Dabundo said. The
company also has more than 2,000  orders  for the 737 NG in hand.
It’s building a record 35 of the narrow-body planes a month, and
is lifting the rate to 42 by 2014.  To ensure that the Max doesn’t disrupt this increase, the
new plane will initially be built on a third line at the 737
plant near Seattle. Early production will be slowed by the need
to install extra instruments on the first four test planes.  Once the Max gets up to speed, the other two lines will
transition to that model, said Beverly Wyse, the 737 program
manager. The third line could then be used to boost production
even higher, and the company already is asking suppliers to get
ready for that possibility, she said.  “We’re pretty sure it’s coming,” Wyse said of the
possible additional increase in output. Then-Boeing Commercial
Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in May that the company
planned to decide by the end of this year or early 2013 whether
to lift the 737 rate beyond 42 a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  