-- Bovespa Index Drops as Eletrobras Plunges on Quarterly Earnings
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-11-16T13:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/bovespa-index-drops-as-eletrobras-plunges-on-quarterly-earnings.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index headed for a
second weekly decline as utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras
SA (ELET6)  plunged after quarterly earnings trailed analysts’ estimates
and as concern mounted that global growth is faltering.  Eletrobras, as the power company is known, tumbled to the
lowest in more than eight years. Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  headed to a four-month low after
canceling the release of new projects guidance for 2012.  The Bovespa slid 0.2 percent to 56,142.47 at 11:09 a.m. in
Sao Paulo, pushing its weekly decline to 2.2 percent. The real
weakened 0.2 percent to 2.0709 per  U.S. dollar . Brazilian
markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  Eletrobras was the latest Brazilian company to miss
earnings estimates. Fifty-eight percent of the 62 Bovespa
members that have reported since September trailed projections,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., President
 Barack Obama  is beginning negotiations today with Republicans in
Congress to try to avert $607 billion in automatic tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to take effect in January.  “Many Brazilian companies reported disappointing earnings,
so investors are discouraged to put more money into the
Bovespa,” Sandro Fernandes, a trader at  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-
based brokerage Corval, said in a phone interview. “And a big
concern for the markets all over the world today is the U.S.
fiscal cliff. Everybody is anxious about how Obama’s talks with
lawmakers will develop.”  Eletrobras declined 7.3 percent to 12.15 reais. PDG
retreated 1.6 percent to 3.09 reais.  Bovespa Rebound  The Bovespa has climbed 7 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as central banks around the globe injected cash into
their economies and Brazilian policy makers cut benchmark
borrowing costs to a record low 7.25 percent. The index trades
at 15.9 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, which compares with the ratio of 11.2 times for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 6.16 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  on Nov. 14, which compares with a daily average of 7.2
billion reais this year, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  