-- BP Seen Escaping U.S. Contracting Ban After Oil Spill Settlement
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-11-16T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/bp-seen-escaping-u-s-contracting-ban-after-oil-spill-settlement.html
BP Plc (BP) , which reached a settlement
with the U.S. government over the biggest oil spill in the
nation's history, may escape a federal contracting ban.  In an agreement with the  Justice Department  announced
yesterday, the London-based company will pay $4.5 billion,
including a record $1.26 billion criminal fine, to end all
criminal charges and resolve securities claims relating to the
April 2010 well blowout in the  Gulf of Mexico  that killed 11
people.  While a so-called contracting death sentence is still
possible, “it looks like there will be little if any suspension
or debarment for BP,” said Charles Tiefer, a law professor at
the University of Baltimore who specializes in contracting.  The company said in a statement that it hadn’t been
informed of any plans by federal agencies to ban it from future
contracts.  BP (BP/)  was the Pentagon’s biggest fuel supplier with
awards valued at about $1.35 billion in 2011. The  Department of
Defense  has stepped up its purchases from the company.  The magnitude of the disaster argues for a ban, said
Tiefer, who served on the U.S. Commission on Wartime
Contracting.  “For BP to get off without a suspension or debarment is
like going to a maximum security federal prison and handing out
a folder of pardons,” he said. “For what BP did to the Gulf of
Mexico, it should be getting shock treatment, not just
monitoring.”  Government agencies are allowed to suspend or disqualify
companies from bidding on or receiving new contracts if they
have committed or are suspected of committing wrongdoing.
Debarred companies are able to work on existing contracts.  Two Years Later  Scott Amey, general counsel at the Washington-based Project
on Government Oversight, said suspensions and debarments are
based on whether a company is presently acting responsibly, so
it may be difficult to pursue action against BP since the  oil
spill  happened more than two years ago. He said it raises the
question as to why the company wasn’t suspended in 2010.  “It seems that people don’t want to react until these
sorts of cases are finalized,” Amey said. “At that point,
after years have passed, it’s almost impossible to hold the
contractor accountable using the suspension and debarment
system.”  The government may be reluctant to pursue a ban because it
relies heavily on BP, Amey said.  “It gets into whether this company is untouchable in the
sense that they are such a relied-upon contractor by the
 Department of Defense ,” he said.  EPA Decision  The Environmental Protection Agency is the lead agency for
suspension and debarment matters regarding BP, Mimi Schirmacher,
a Defense Logistics Agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
logistics agency is a Pentagon unit that contracts with BP.  “All actions are being coordinated through EPA,”
Schirmacher said.  Stacy Kika, an EPA spokeswoman, declined to comment and
deferred questions to the  Department of Justice . The Department
of Justice didn’t immediately comment.  The company’s contracts with the military surged 33 percent
to $1.35 billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2011,
from $1.02 billion in the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BP received 49 percent more in defense
contracts than the No. 2 fuel supplier, San Antonio-based  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  BP won a $782 million Pentagon award for fuel in
May even as it continued to face legal challenges.  Full fiscal 2012 figures aren’t yet available.  Felony Counts  The settlement announced today calls for the record
criminal fine to be paid over five years. The company agreed to
five years’ probation and will pay $525 million to settle
charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
settlement also provided for the appointment of two monitors to
review safety and ethics.  BP said it has agreed to plead guilty to 11 felony counts
of misconduct or neglect of ships officers related to the 11
deaths, one misdemeanor count under the  Clean Water Act , one
misdemeanor count under the  Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and one
felony count of obstruction of justice.  The company said in the statement that it hadn’t been
advised of “the intention of any federal agency to suspend or
debar the company in connection with this plea agreement.”  Boeing Suspensions  Large companies or their divisions have been suspended or
debarred in the past. The  Air Force  in 2003 suspended three
units of  Boeing Co. (BA)  in response to allegations that several
former employees conspired to steal  trade secrets  from  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  during a competition. The suspension was lifted in
2005.  GTSI Corp., a technology company, was in 2010 temporarily
suspended from federal work after agency officials said they
found evidence that it had gone through other firms to receive
set-aside contracts meant for small businesses.  BP previously has been cited with violations of the federal
Clean Water Act, which allows the government to seek fines of
$1,100 a barrel of oil spilled, a figure that can rise to as
much as $4,300 a barrel if a judge finds the company was grossly
negligent in allowing the pollution to occur.  Violations of the Clean Water and Clean Air Acts typically
result in the barring of specific facilities where the problems
occurred, rather than punishing the company as a whole. The EPA
has indefinitely disqualified two BP facilities from doing
government work due to other violations.  The agency in 2009 barred the company’s refinery in  Texas
City ,  Texas , after an explosion that killed 15 workers and
injured 170 others, according to EPA data. In 2008, the EPA
disqualified BP’s Prudhoe Bay Unit on the North Slope in  Alaska 
after a leak spilled between 200,000 and 270,000 gallons of
crude oil into a nearby lake and tundra area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  