-- Brazilian Currency Extends Its Biggest Weekly Decline Since June
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-16T20:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/brazilian-currency-extends-its-biggest-weekly-decline-since-june.html
Brazil ’s real fell, extending its
biggest weekly drop since June, on speculation the central bank
will allow the currency to weaken as U.S. budget wrangling spurs
demand for a refuge in the dollar.  The currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 2.0851 per dollar
today in Sao Paulo, extending its weekly decline to 1.9 percent,
the biggest drop since the five days ended June 1. Swap rates on
the contract due in January 2014 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.38 percent.  The real is the worst performer in the past year among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, dropping 15
percent. It declined today on bets Brazil’s policy makers won’t
intervene to prevent its decline as President  Barack Obama  held
talks with lawmakers on averting $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts.  “The market seems to be pricing in that there won’t be an
accord between Obama and the U.S. Congress,” said Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda. in Sao Paulo.
“The dollar has been stronger for days now. The market is
testing the central bank.”  Brazil’s central bank has sold reverse currency swaps to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar to support exporters. It
sold $1.4 billion of contracts Oct. 25, $1.6 billion Oct. 23,
$1.3 billion Oct. 5, $5.7 billion Sept. 12 through Sept. 17 and
$350 million Aug. 21. The August reverse swaps were the first
since March.  ‘Disconnected’ Real  The real has become “disconnected from fundamentals” and
its drop this month has been exacerbated by investors shorting
the currency because they believe the government will let it
depreciate further to help exporters and boost the economy,  Tony
Volpon , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, wrote
in a Nov. 14 report.  Foreign investors betting against the real have increased
their positions to $5.25 billion from $4.5 billion a month ago,
HSBC Holdings Plc analysts  Clyde Wardle  and Marjorie Hernandez
wrote in a Nov. 14 report.  “There is strong risk aversion abroad and it seems that
the government wants the real at a weaker level, but this will
have implications for inflation,”  Newton Rosa , the chief
economist at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview.  Faster Inflation  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 5.45
percent in the 12 months through October, the fastest yearly
pace since February, the national statistics agency reported
Nov. 7. Monthly inflation quickened to 0.59 percent from 0.57
percent in September.  Brazil’s central bank stepped in to curb the real’s losses
by auctioning currency swaps in May and June as European
sovereign-debt turmoil drove the currency to a three-year low of
2.1062 per dollar. A strong U.S. currency hurts companies whose
expenses are mostly in dollars.  Swap rates dropped for the first time in eight sessions as
budget talks in the U.S. and European debt turmoil sparked
growth concern, prompting bets the central bank will leave rates
unchanged next year.  The central bank has reduced the target lending rate by
5.25 percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 7.25
percent. The government is extending a year-long effort to kick-
start economic growth, which analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast will slow to 1.5 percent this year, from 2.7 percent in
2011.  Policy makers will leave the target lending rate at its low
until at least May, trading in swap rates indicates. Central
bank President Alexandre Tombini reiterated earlier this month
plans to keep rates low for a “prolonged time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  