-- Brazil’s Anatel Orders Tim to Suspend Infinity Day Promotion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 2012-11-16T13:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/brazil-s-anatel-orders-tim-to-suspend-infinity-day-promotion-1-.html
Brazil’s telecommunication regulator
Anatel ordered  Tim Participacoes SA (TIT)  to suspend its Infinity Day
Promotion because of concerns over its quality of service.  The Infinity Day Promotion consists of unlimited calls at a
fixed price for 24 hours between telephones operated by Tim. The
company said it disagrees with Anatel decision as there is no
evidence of “any potential of network instability,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  Tim executives “are ready for a clarification meeting with
Anatel in Brasilia,” the company said in the statement. Shares
fell 3.7 percent to 7.72 reais in Sao Paulo, the second-worst
performer among members of the benchmark Bovespa index.  Brazilian regulators have increased pressure on
telecommunications providers to improve service and drive down
costs in the world’s second largest emerging market. In July,
Anatel banned Tim,  Oi SA (OIBR4)  and  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , owner of Claro,
from selling new mobile voice and data service because of
network failures. The three companies later resumed sales after
promising to reduce dropped calls and improve  customer service .  Regulators are considering proposals to reduce so-called
interconnection fees, lower taxes and make companies share
infrastructure to aid carriers with smaller stakes in the
market. Officials are also preparing regulations to require
land-line, wireless and cable companies to share infrastructure.  Phone operators in Brazil may cut fees to accept incoming
calls from rivals to as low as 10 centavos per minute from
current levels of 48 centavos per minute, Communications
Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  