-- Cablevision Said to Hire JPMorgan, Citigroup on Bresnan
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-16T22:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/cablevision-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-citigroup-on-bresnan-sale.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to seek buyers for its
Bresnan Broadband Holdings LLC unit acquired in 2010, said two
people familiar with the situation.  The process is at a very early stage and no deadline has
been set for the first round of bids, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the process is private.  Cablevision, the fifth-largest U.S. cable company by
subscribers, bought Bresnan from Providence Equity Partners Inc.
almost two years ago for $1.37 billion, gaining operations in
Colorado, Montana and Wyoming. The company is weighing a sale
after fellow cable operators such as Knology Inc. and
WaveDivision Holdings LLC, agreed to takeovers by buyout firms
this year.  Cablevision shares rose 2.9 percent to $14.02 at the close
in  New York , after earlier advancing as much as 18 percent on
the report. They have dropped 7.7 percent in the past 12 months.  Charles Schueler, a spokesman for Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision, declined to comment, as did representatives at
Citigroup and JPMorgan.  Possible suitors for Bresnan include  Charter Communications
Inc. (CHTR) , Suddenlink Communications and private-equity firms, said
the same people. Representatives at Suddenlink and Charter
declined to comment.  Bloomberg reported Bresnan, now known as Optimum West, was
for sale last month. Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  said
Cablevision had received “unsolicited interest in possibly
acquiring Optimum West” without going into further specifics in
a conference call earlier this month.  “While it has not been our intention to divest this
valuable asset, based on the approaches that we received we have
decided to explore a potential transaction,” Dolan said.  There is no assurance a transaction will take place, Chief
Financial Officer Gregg Seibert said on the same call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  