-- Canadian Dollar Trades in Narrowest Weekly Range Since March
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-16T22:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/canadian-dollar-trades-in-narrowest-weekly-range-in-16-years.html
The Canadian dollar is trading this
week in the narrowest range since March amid speculation whether
 U.S. budget deficit  talks will remove the risk of recession in
the nation’s biggest-trading partner.  The currency has traded between C$1.0057 and 99.85 cents
per U.S. dollar since Nov. 12. The loonie, as the dollar is
nicknamed for the image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, traded
below parity with the greenback for a fourth day and is at the
weakest level since August.  “There’s too much uncertainty to really know how things
are going to cut one way or the other,”  David Tulk , chief
Canada macro strategist in Toronto at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit, said in a phone interview. “There’s a natural
gravitational bias toward the intuitive appeal of parity.”  The Canadian currency was little changed at C$1.0012 at 5
p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 99.88 U.S. cents.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  met today with lawmakers in
Washington for talks to prevent tax increases and spending cuts
from automatically coming into force early next year. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said that the combination may
push the  U.S. economy  into recession, or over the so-called
fiscal cliff next year.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he offered a “framework”
including new revenue to reduce the U.S. budget deficit in his
first face-to-face talks with Obama and top Congress leaders
since the Nov. 6 election.  Foreign Demand  “The focus is on the bigger themes of the week, including
the fiscal cliff,”  Greg Moore , currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, said in a note to clients. “The Canadian dollar
and it’s commodity-currency peers have been immune to the forces
that have seen equities under pressure, and that could continue
to be the case until we see commodities make new lows as well.”  Canadian government bonds rose, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security falling three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.69 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
bond maturing in June 2022 rose 26 cents to C$109.27.  Foreign net purchases of Canadian securities almost doubled
in September from the month before on government bond sales, the
federal statistics agency said. Purchases totaled C$13.9 billion
($13.9 billion) in September and the estimated August purchase
was increased to C$7.56 billion from an initial C$6.90 billion,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.  Total purchases included C$8.94 billion of  government bonds 
and C$1.52 billion of money-market paper, the report said. Non-
Canadians purchased a net C$3.29 billion of the country’s
stocks, led by shares of financial companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  