-- Canada September International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-16T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/canada-september-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for September
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities advanced to $13.9
billion in September on the strength of purchases of government
bonds and corporate equities. Canadian investment in foreign
securities reached a six-month high of $6.0 billion, led by the
acquisition of US equities.  Foreign investment in Canadian debt securities focuses on
government bonds  Foreign investors acquired $10.6 billion of Canadian debt
securities in September, the largest such investment since May.
This activity reflected increased demand for Canadian bonds,
partly offset by lower purchases of money market instruments.
Foreign investors have acquired $55.8 billion of Canadian debt
securities so far in 2012, on par with the level of investment
observed for the same period in 2011. The investment focus,
however, has shifted from federal Treasury bills in 2011 to
federal bonds in 2012.  Non-residents’ investment of $9.1 billion in Canadian bonds
in September was led by purchases of  government bonds  on the
secondary market, mainly Canadian dollar-denominated instruments.
Non-residents added $5.9 billion of federal government bonds to
their holdings, mostly short-term bonds, as the total amount of
federal bonds outstanding declined over the month. This activity
led to a further increase in the proportion of these bonds held
by foreign investors by month-end, a share that has increased
steadily since the end of 2008. The remainder of the activity in
the Canadian  bond market  in September targeted provincial issues,
where non-residents made the largest acquisition in a year.  Non-residents invested $1.5 billion in the Canadian money
market in September, with three-quarters in paper issued by
public enterprises. Foreign acquisitions of federal Treasury
bills remained subdued despite a second month of increase in the
outstanding amount of this instrument.  Non-resident investors return to the Canadian stock market  Non-residents acquired $3.3 billion of Canadian equities in
September, largely shares of the banking sector. Secondary
market purchases accounted for nearly all of the activity in the
month and amounted to the largest such investment since November
2011. Canadian equity prices continued on an upward trend that
began in June, posting a 3.1% gain in September.  Canadian investment in foreign stock markets led by US equities  Canadian investors acquired $4.5 billion of foreign
equities in September, the largest such investment since March.
Purchases of US shares strengthened for a third month, to $3.6
billion, led by demand from Canadian pension funds. By month-end,
US stock prices were at their highest level since December 2007.
Canadian investment in non-US foreign stocks was mainly composed
of European and Asian stocks and followed a large divestment in
August.  Canadian investment in maple bonds highest in five-years  Canadian investors added $1.6 billion of foreign debt
securities to their portfolios in September, following a
divestment in August. This activity reflected a $2.0 billion
acquisition of foreign bonds, led by maple bonds.  Canadian investment in maple bonds (Canadian dollar-
denominated foreign bonds) was $1.7 billion, the largest such
outflow since October 2007, just after the emergence of global
credit concerns. The remainder of the activity in foreign debt
instruments in September amounted to a small divestment, led by
US government issues with short-term maturities.  The US dollar depreciated further against the Canadian
dollar in September, ending the month at the lowest value since
August 2011. In addition, yield differentials between  Canada  and
the  United States  for both long- and short-term government debt
instruments continued to favour investment in Canada.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  