-- Caterpillar, Exporters Seen Gaining on House Russia Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-16T19:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/caterpillar-exporters-seen-gaining-on-house-russia-vote.html
The House passed a bill to lift Cold
War-era trade restrictions on Russia, an effort companies
including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  have said is needed to
boost exports and assure them of lower tariffs.  The House voted 365-43 today for the bill that includes a
provision to punish human-rights violators in Russia, which that
country’s Foreign Ministry warned would damage bilateral ties.
The Senate plans to take up the measure in the coming weeks.  The U.S. last year sent about $8.3 billion in merchandise
to Russia, or about 0.6 percent of all American exports,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Major exports included
machinery, chemicals, aerospace goods, autos and electrical
equipment. With improved trade status, U.S. goods and services
exports to Russia, estimated by the U.S. be the world’s seventh-
largest economy, may reach $22 billion by 2017, according to an
April study by the Washington-based Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  “If you look at the flow of trade that will be enhanced by
this legislation, it’s clear that it will be beneficial to our
country,” Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top
Democrat on the House Ways & Means Committee, said during debate
before the vote.  WTO Entry  Russia joined the Geneva-based World Trade Organization in
August. Congressional repeal of the so-called Jackson-Vanik
provision of a 1974 trade law will let President Barack Obama
grant Russia “permanent normal trade relations,” a requirement
for each of the WTO’s 157 members. The Coalition for U.S.-Russia
Trade, a Washington-based alliance, has said the improved status
will ensure that Russia honors its WTO obligations, including
tariff reductions, when dealing with American businesses.  Members of the coalition include  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Cargill Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The legislation to lift trade restrictions includes
provisions to impose financial and travel sanctions on  Russia 
for human rights violations, such as those that allegedly led to
the death of Sergei Magnitsky in 2009. The 37-year-old lawyer
for London-based Hermitage Capital Management was arrested after
accusing officials of embezzlement and died after guards
allegedly beat him and denied him medical treatment.  “The Magnitsky Legislation was added here in part in
recognition that when you talk about trade, you have to look at
a fuller picture,” Levin said.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry said Congress had ignored
warnings that the legislation would harm bilateral relations and
promised a “harsh” response.  “There should be no illusions: a response from our side
will follow and the responsibility for this lies entirely with
the U.S.,” the Moscow-based ministry said in a statement.  The bill is H.R. 6156  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  