-- Cemex Latam Falls in Bogota After $1.14 Billion Initial Sale
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-16T21:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/cemex-latam-declines-in-first-day-of-trading-after-bogota-ipo.html
Cemex Latam Holdings SA (CLH) , the Central
and South America unit of the largest cement maker in the
Americas, fell in its first trading day after its 2.1 trillion
peso ($1.14 billion) initial public offering.  Shares dropped 2 percent to 12,000 pesos at the close of
trading in Bogota on volume of 304.9 billion pesos after the
company issued 170.4 million shares at 12,250 pesos each, within
the marketed range of 11,000 to 13,500 pesos. Demand for the
shares was three times the amount offered, Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Jacks said.  Cemex Latam, which is based in  Madrid  and listed on the
Colombian stock exchange under the ticker CLH CB, will use funds
from the initial public offering to pay down part of its debt
with Mexican parent Cemex SAB. The IPO is Colombia’s third this
year and the biggest since the government’s 2007 sale of a stake
in  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , the Andean nation’s largest oil company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Demand in the local market was significant,” Jacks said
today at an event in Bogota.  The offering raised $153 million in Colombia, the stock
exchange said in an e-mailed statement.  The stock sale included 148.2 million shares offered to
investors in Colombia and a concurrent private placement to
outside investors, as well as an additional 22.2 million shares
in a private placement that are subject to a put option granted
to the initial purchasers.  Colombia Sales  Cemex Latam’s sales in Colombia, its largest market, rose
24 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier to $230.3
million, or about 60 percent of its total, as economic growth
spurred residential and infrastructure spending, according to a
report on its website. Panama is the company’s second-biggest
market, with sales of $70.8 million in the quarter, according to
the report.  Colombia’s  economy  expanded 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, outpacing Brazil and  Mexico , the
region’s two largest economies. The growth was led by an 18
percent increase in construction and 8.5 percent rise in mining.  Shares in  Cementos Argos SA (CEMARGOS) , Colombia’s biggest cement
maker, have risen 46 percent this year after profits rose 23
percent in the first nine months of the year.  Cemex Latam’s parent company is seeking to pay down debt
after the U.S. housing slump prompted four ratings reductions
and led to 12 straight quarterly losses, Maher Al-Haffar,
Cemex’s investor relations chief, said in an interview this
month. Debt reduction will consume “most if not all” of the
expected proceeds from the unit’s IPO, Al-Haffar said.  The company’s proceeds from the sale could be reduced by as
much as $145.5 million if the put options on the share
overallotment are exercised, according to the prospectus.  The sale was led by BBVA Valores Colombia SA and
Citivalores SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  