-- LCH, ICE Join MF Global Suit Over $600 Million Collateral
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-16T18:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/lch-ice-join-mf-global-suit-over-600-million-collateral.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Ice
Clear  Europe  Ltd. today won permission to join a lawsuit between
liquidators of two  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  units over assets
worth about $600 million.  MF Global Inc.’s U.S. trustee and administrators of MF
Global UK Ltd. are fighting in London over ownership of U.S.
Treasury bills sent to the U.K. as collateral against purchases
of bonds issued by debt-laden European nations. The
clearinghouses said their rights to collateral held against the
broker’s proprietary trades were under threat.  LCH, Europe’s biggest clearinghouse, “is entitled to take
the monies that it needs in terms of the margin” where MF
Global’s U.K. business suffered losses, Gabriel Moss, the
company’s lawyer, said at a court hearing yesterday.  The U.S. brokerage’s trustee, James Giddens, hasn’t
recognized that right. A trial is scheduled for April.  The trustee’s claim “would in effect deprive the
clearinghouses of some or all of their title to the T-bills,”
Judge David Richards said. They “are entitled to be heard” as
long as the trial isn’t widened or delayed.  Giddens, who is liquidating New York-based MF Global Inc.,
claims ownership of the about $600 million sent to  London  for
collateral.  KPMG  LLP, which is winding up MF Global UK Ltd.,
argues Giddens should be treated as a creditor, which may mean
the trustee gets less money back.  Disputes between KPMG and MF Global’s U.S. trustees have
tied up about $1.1 billion of clients’ and creditors’ money and
hampered the return of those assets. MF Global Holdings filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011.  “Our priority remains the speedy return of assets to
customers and we are hoping that issues before the court can be
determined as quickly as possible,” James Acheson-Gray, a
spokesman for Giddens, said in an e-mailed statement.  Rachael Harper, an LCH spokeswoman, and  Claire Miller , a
spokeswoman for  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ’s ICE Clear,
declined to comment. KPMG spokeswoman Sorrelle Cooper didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  