-- Cheapest Stocks in 7 Weeks Buy Sign to Russell
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/chalco-gains-as-u-s-talks-buoy-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks trading in the U.S.
at their  cheapest level  in seven weeks are spurring Russell
Investments to increase holdings on prospects the nation’s new
leaders will be forced to bolster the economy to retain power.  “The market is at a heavy discount relative to history,”
Gustavo Galindo, whose $8 billion  Russell Emerging Markets Fund (REMSX) 
has beaten 50 percent of its peers in the past month, said by
phone in  New York  on Nov. 16. “China’s new party leaders have
the incentive to act because they can only stay in power so long
as the economy remains strong.”  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 3.3 percent last week as
disappointing company earnings damped prospects of an economic
recovery. Companies on the gauge traded at an average 13 times
estimated earnings on Nov. 16, the least since Oct. 1, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. New leaders named at the Communist
Party congress last week inherit an economy forecast by
economists to grow at the slowest pace in more than a decade.  The Russell fund has  returned  8.6 percent this year,
compared with a 0.5 percent decline in the China-US gauge and
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) ’s 8.4 percent slump. Galindo is
buying more Chinese equities after lifting holdings to 16
percent of investments in 2012, from 14.5 percent last year, he
said.  The average valuation for Chinese companies in the
Bloomberg gauge was 51 percent higher than the multiple for
stocks on the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , Bloomberg data show.
This compares with a 27 percent premium at the end of August and
a six-year average of 83 percent.  Power Transition  Xi Jinping, former Chinese vice president, was named
general secretary of the Communist Party on Nov. 15 in the
nation’s once-a-decade leadership change.  “The premium is getting large but I don’t think it’s back
to where it’s always been,” Galindo said. “People had worried
about the power transition and it is going pretty well. That
probably will give another bump to the share prices.”  The retreat in the Bloomberg  measure  for U.S.-traded
Chinese stocks last week exended its loss this month to 4.6
percent, after rising in the previous three months.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service and the
third-most popular website in  China , tumbled 15 percent on Nov.
16 to a three-month low of $45.07, ending the week down 16
percent.  The Beijing-based company’s fourth-quarter revenue forecast
of as little as $132 million fell short of the $152.4 million
average projection of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey before
its Nov. 15 statement.  ‘Powerful Media’  At least 10 analysts who have updated their  recommendations 
since Sina’s report slashed their price estimates for the stock,
including Hong Kong-based Piyush Mubayi at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  “Sina’s shares will bounce back once the economic growth
rebounds,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of T.H. Capital LLC, said
in by phone from Beijing on Nov. 16. “Sina’s Weibo has become a
powerful media that the government used it for party congress
broadcasting, and ordinary people are using it to follow news.
It’s been integrated into people’s life.”  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-largest solar maker, sank
36 percent last week, leading a slump in peers, and was the
biggest decliner on the Bloomberg index. Its American depositary
receipts dropped to a record low of $2.32.  The Guangzhou-based company cut its estimate for third-
quarter shipments on Nov. 12 by 20 percent to as much as 385
megawatts, citing a supply-demand imbalance and “irrational
pricing practices” by competitors. Trina is scheduled to
release third-quarter results tomorrow.  Boosting Value  LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of wafers,
and JA Solar Holdings Co., China’s largest solar-cell maker,
said they will take steps to boost the value of its ADRs after
prices below listing requirements drew warnings from U.S. stock
exchanges.  LDK ended the week little changed to 91 cents after a four-
day slump. Its bigger competitor Suntech lost 15 percent last
week to 77 cents. Shanghai-based JA plunged 10 percent on Nov.
16 to 63 cents, adding to a weekly loss of 16 percent.  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , an Internet-data center service
provider, plunged 11 percent last week, the most in three
months.  Beijing-based 21Vianet projected sales for the fourth
quarter to be between 413 million  yuan  ($66.2 million) and 420
million yuan, lower than the 427.2 million mean analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg before its Nov. 16 announcement.  ‘Top Priority’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 1.9 percent last
week to $35.77. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.4 percent
for the week to 1,359.88 on Nov. 16.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index of domestic shares sank
2.6 percent last week to 2,014.73, the lowest since Sept. 26,
while the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , representing the biggest companies in
the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, dropped to the lowest level
since March 2009. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
companies traded in  Hong Kong  retreated 2 percent to 100,242.7.  “The top priority of the new leaders is to return some of
the economic interest to the grassroots,” T.H. Capital’s Hou
said. “The only path they can choose is to use economic growth
to calm down social conflicts that have accumulated over the
years, giving themselves some time to initiate political
reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  