-- China’s Bonded Bunker Sales Fell in October, Sinopec Says
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-11-16T07:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/china-s-bonded-bunker-sales-fell-in-october-sinopec-says-1-.html
China ’s sales of tax-free ship fuel,
known as bonded bunker, fell in October from a month earlier,
according to an official at  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
the country’s largest oil refiner.  The nation’s total bonded-bunker sales may be more than
900,000 metric tons last month, down from about 1 million tons
in September, Zhou Yiqing, the vice manager of the bunker
department at  China Petroleum (386) , known as Sinopec, said in a
telephone interview.  Bunker supply growth slowed as China, the world’s second-
largest  economy , contracted for a seventh quarter even as the
nation’s exports rose more than estimated in October. Volume of
the fuel rose about 21 percent last year from a year earlier,
according to Shao Lei, a sales director at the fuel oil unit of
PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company.  November volume should be similar to October, with no
“sign of improvement,” Zhou said. China imports most of its
bonded bunker, a residue product from crude refining.  The Chinese government is developing a plan to issue more
licenses for bonded-bunker supply to open up the market, which
is currently dominated by five Chinese companies.  “The authorities are still formulating the rules before
granting more licenses,” Zhou said. “The rules, including a
threshold on storage capacity, barge requirements and registered
capital, may be released next year.”  Sinopec and  BP Plc (BP/)  have expanded cooperation in bunker
delivery to 10 Chinese ports under its joint-delivery contract
signed last year, according to Zhou. “Joint supply volumes are
rising steadily,” he said, without elaborating.  The two companies signed an agreement in August 2011 to
work more closely in the global bunkering business. BP will
distribute shipping fuel to the Chinese ports of Ningbo,
Zhoushan, Shanghai, Lianyungang and Yantai in the east, Xiamen
and Shenzhen in the south, and Tianjin in the north, Zhou said
on June 26.  The spot price for 380-centistoke bunker in Singapore, the
regional benchmark, has fallen 13 percent from $692.50 a ton on
Sept. 17, a four-month high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in  Singapore  at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  