-- China’s Stocks Fall, Dragging CSI 300 to 2009 Low; Sinopec Drops
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-16T08:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/china-s-stocks-fall-dragging-csi-300-to-2009-low-sinopec-drops.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
 CSI 300 (SHSZ300)  Index to the lowest level since 2009, on concern the
nation’s new leadership won’t accelerate economic reforms
including reducing the dominance of state-owned enterprises.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , an oil refiner known as
Sinopec, retreated 2 percent after the government lowered fuel
prices for the first time since July. Qingdao Haier Co., the
biggest refrigerator maker, dropped to a two-week low after
 China  said it will end subsidies of rural home-appliance sales.
China Shenhua Energy Co. led a gauge of energy producers to the
third-steepest drop among industry groups.  “The composition of top leaders may indicate that the
much-needed reforms such as the break-up of the monopoly of
state-owned enterprises will be done in a slow and gradual
way,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co.
“The magnitude of the reforms may be weaker than expected.”  The CSI 300, representing the biggest companies in the
Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, declined 0.8 percent to
2,177.24, the lowest level since March 2009. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.8 percent to 2,014.73, the lowest close
since Sept. 26. The measure last closed below 2,000 in 2009. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in
 Hong Kong  added 0.2 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) 
fell 0.5 percent in New York yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite slid 2.6 percent this week, the
biggest decline among Asia’s major markets according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as the Communist Party held a meeting to
appoint new leaders. Xi Jinping was named general secretary
yesterday, putting him in line to become president, while Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  is forecast to replace Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Wang Qishan  Wang Qishan , vice premier overseeing the financial sector,
was named head of the party’s discipline body, indicating he
won’t have a post directly overseeing an economy that is
forecast to grow this year at the slowest pace in more than a
decade. Under his watch, China in June 2010 moved to widen the
yuan trading band and remove its peg to the dollar.  “Hopes for economic reform took a big hit,” Adam Wolfe, a
senior economist for Asia at Roubini Global Economics, wrote in
an e-mail yesterday. “Wang has a track record of implementing
market-oriented reforms in the past. He would have been expected
to take on the state-owned enterprises’ monopolies and ease
financial repression in the banking sector.”  Wang, Xi, Li,  Zhang Dejiang , Shanghai party boss Yu
Zhengsheng, Liu Yunshan and Zhang Gaoli were also elected to the
Politburo’s Standing Committee, the highest decision-making
body, which was cut to seven members from nine.  The Standing Committee has a “sizable presence of cautious
and conservative leaders, such as Zhang Dejiang, Liu Yunshan and
Zhang Gaoli,” said Tai Ming Cheung, an associate professor
specializing in Asian security at the  University of California ,
 San Diego .  Profit Drops  New leaders face the challenge of reining in the dominance
of state-owned enterprises that has helped drag stock valuations
down the most among the so-called BRIC nations in the past
decade. The Shanghai index trades at 9.6 times estimated profit
for 2012, compared with the 17.8 average multiple since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006. It has fallen
8.4 percent this year.  The profit slump at state-owned enterprises and speculation
initial public offerings will resume after the end of the party
congress is also dragging on markets, said Mao Sheng, an analyst
for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu.  State-owned companies’ combined profit for the first ten
months of this year dropped 8.3 percent from a year earlier, the
 finance ministry  said yesterday. More than 25 percent of China’s
state enterprises are unprofitable and their productivity growth
has trailed that of private firms the past three decades, the
 World Bank  said in February.  Energy Stocks  Sinopec slid 2 percent to 6.04  yuan . The maximum at which
gasoline can be sold to motorists will fall by 310 yuan ($50) a
metric ton and diesel by 300 yuan starting today, the National
Development and Reform Commission said yesterday.  China Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, fell 1.8
percent to 21.72 yuan. Datong Coal Industry Co., the third
biggest, sank 2.2 percent to 8.65 yuan. A gauge of energy
producers fell 1.5 percent today, adding to a five-day loss of
4.2 percent.  Haier slid 1.1 percent to 11.12 yuan, the lowest close
since Oct. 29. Gree Electric Appliances Inc. declined 0.7
percent to 22.75 yuan. The government will end rural home
appliance subsidies Jan. 31, according to a statement posted on
the Ministry of Finance’s website.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 26 percent
lower than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was
at 14, compared with this year’s average of 17.1.  Dividend Tax  China will cut the stock dividend tax by half for
individuals who hold shares for at least one year as part of
efforts to encourage long-term investment and educe speculative
trading.  The  tax rate  will be lowered to 5 percent effective Jan. 1,
the Ministry of Finance said in a statement on its website
today. The rate will be doubled to 20 percent for those who hold
shares for one month or less and be kept unchanged at 10 percent
for those who keep equities between one month to one year,
according to the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  