-- China’s Luxury Car Demand to Boost Aluminum Usage, Novelis Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-16T00:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/china-s-luxury-car-demand-to-boost-aluminum-usage-novelis-says.html
Novelis Inc., the largest supplier
of flat-rolled aluminum products to the auto industry, expects
aluminum usage by carmakers in  China  to beat estimated annual
global growth rates as demand surges for luxury car brands.  “The market is very large potentially,” Shashi Maudgal,
president of Novelis Asia, said in a phone interview. “We
believe that it will grow rapidly, exceeding the 25 percent
compound average growth rate over the next several years.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit, the world’s second-largest
luxury-car brand, reported sales in China, the world’s biggest
automotive market, advanced 20 percent in September, while
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz posted a 10 percent gain. Novelis
yesterday broke ground on its first aluminum auto sheet plant in
China, moving closer to customers including the Chinese ventures
of Mercedes-Benz and Audi.  “Those reports indicate clearly the premium sector of the
automotive industry in China is growing faster than the low-end
market,” James Liu, managing director of Novelis China, said in
the interview. Novelis is the U.S. unit of India’s  Hindalco
Industries Ltd. (HNDL)   Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, reported a 14 percent gain in third-quarter profit,
driven by demand from China where deliveries jumped 59 percent
in September. In comparison, China’s passenger vehicle sales
fell 0.3 percent in September from a year ago, according to
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Reduce Weight  Aluminum can reduce weight by as much as 40 percent in key
automotive components, compared with 11 percent for high-
strength steel, according to Novelis, citing a research report
by University of Aachen. Regulations to cut carbon emissions and
improve fuel efficiency may prompt carmakers to cut the weight
of vehicles by using more aluminum.  China has set a goal of cutting carbon-dioxide emissions by
as much as 45 percent from the 2005 level by 2020, joining the
European Union and the U.S. in efforts to conserve energy. China
announced in July that new passenger cars must have fuel
efficiency of 5.9 liters of gasoline per 100 kilometers (62
miles) in 2015 and 5 liters per 100 kilometers by 2020.  The 120,000-ton-a-year plant in the Chinese eastern city of
Changzhou, about 180 kilometers from  Shanghai , may start
operation in late 2014 using aluminum coil, a semi-finished
product, imported from Novelis’ plant in South Korea, Maudgal
said.  “We will be expanding into other categories” such as
beverage cans or construction, Maudgal said. “That would
require another massive investment for a rolling facility in
China.”  Novelis is currently shipping products from  Europe  to its
customers in China, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  