-- China’s Slow-Motion Thaw of Relations With Taiwan
-- B y   K a r l   G e r t h
-- 2012-11-16T21:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/china-s-slow-motion-thaw-of-relations-with-taiwan.html
Quick, when did the  Cold War 
end? One obvious choice: June 1987, when U.S. President
 Ronald Reagan  stood in front of the Berlin Wall that
separated communist East Germany from capitalist  West
Germany  and famously challenged the Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  to “tear down this wall.”  Yet at about the same time as Reagan’s telegenic dare,
far from the glare of the cameras, a less sensational but
perhaps more significant barrier was crumbling: the one
separating communist China from capitalist Taiwan.  Nowhere, perhaps, was the Cold War better represented
than in the division of the Chinese nation into two blocs
separated not only by water but by ideology -- by communism
and capitalism at their most strident.  Starting in 1949, more than a million mainland Chinese
retreated to  Taiwan  with Chiang Kai-shek, leader of the
Western-backed Nationalist Party, leading to a long-running
civil war with the Chinese Communist Party. Military
tensions between the countries ran high well into the
1980s. In the center of Taipei, giant placards proclaimed
the national goal: “Retake the mainland!”  Gradual Change  But starting the same year as Reagan’s memorable
speech, shared economic interests and history would lead to
a gradual thaw between the two places that would
dramatically accelerate China’s  economic  reintegration with
capitalist countries.  It wasn’t the Taiwanese military but rather a
political decision that transformed Taiwan-China economic
and cultural relations. In 1987, Taiwan’s Nationalist
government lifted martial law and eased restrictions on
contact with the mainland. Many of the exiles who helped
Taiwan prosper and grow had been forced to leave families
and friends behind when they fled the mainland. As these
restrictions were lifted, a massive increase in flows of
capital, products and eventually people between Taiwan and
 China  resulted.  Political decisions on both sides hastened the
reunion. Taiwan’s comparative advantage in human and
material resources and Chinese demand for those resources
created strange bedfellows. As China’s economic reforms
advanced in the 1980s, more and more mainland consumers
demanded goods -- such as fast food and pop music -- that
the Taiwanese were best able to provide. As Taiwan’s
industrial sector became less competitive internationally,
its de-industrializing economy needed to find new markets
and its workers new jobs.  The profit motive led the way; manufacturers and
business owners followed. As a consequence, China has since
received more than $100 billion in Taiwanese investment.
This has funded tens of thousands of projects all over
China, even in Nanchang, the birthplace of the communist
state. Today, more than 70,000 Taiwanese companies have
investments in the mainland. Trade between the two
countries now breaks records yearly and has amounted to
more than $2 trillion since 1987. In 2002, China replaced
the U.S. as the top market for Taiwanese goods. This is all
the more remarkable considering the size of Taiwan and that
the two nations remain technically at war.  These figures represent not simply commodities
traveling back and forth but a transformation of ordinary
lives. Girls who once lined up by the millions in identical
Mao suits to shout Communist Party slogans now wear the
trendiest fashions and sing the latest pop tunes from
Taipei while walking down streets full of restaurants and
clubs.  Travel Ban  Perhaps as important as this resumption of trade was
Taiwan’s partial lifting of a travel ban to China upon the
death of Chiang Kai-shek’s son, Chiang Ching-kuo. This led
to an informal cultural exchange as families, divided for
decades, reunited and shared a tide of cultural influences.
Those Taiwanese driven into exile by the Civil War of the
1940s and their children now became agents of new consumer
lifestyles as they traveled back and forth between the two
countries, taking new customs and tastes with them.  When the father of one of my former Taiwanese students
traveled to see his relatives in rural  Henan province , he
didn’t arrive empty-handed. Like tens of thousands of other
Taiwanese visitors, he returned to China with lavish
presents. He had intended to give his relatives a color
television, one of the most coveted products in China at
the time -- but they begged him not to. Not only would it
elicit envy, they feared, it would force his relatives to
host TV parties for family, friends and hangers-on. Many
others, of course, were less cautious and eagerly accepted
not only TVs but washing machines, motorcycles and cash.
Such gift-giving became so common that enterprising
Taiwanese stores streamlined the process by allowing
travelers to buy the gifts in Taiwan and then pick them up
in China.  After decades of separation, Taiwanese travelers
taught the Chinese much about being consumers through
everyday interactions, arguably doing more than any other
group to directly transform Chinese consumer culture.
Although their visits usually lasted only a few days or
weeks, their gifts and their attitudes stayed behind.  The fall of the  Berlin Wall  was celebrated as the
triumph of capitalism over communism, with clear winners
and losers. But in  East Asia , the struggle between these
ideologies hasn’t had such a clear or dramatic resolution.
Rather, the introduction and spread of capitalism and
consumerism into China has occurred in countless small
ways. The effects are still unfolding.  (Karl Gerth teaches modern Chinese history at Merton
College of the University of Oxford and is the author of
“As China Goes, So Goes the World: How Chinese Consumers
Are Transforming Everything.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more from  Echoes online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Karl Gerth at  karl.gerth@history.ox.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  