-- China’s Leadership Change Will Help Stocks, Robeco Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-11-16T07:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/china-s-leadership-change-will-help-stocks-robeco-s-mio-says.html
China’s leadership change “removes
the biggest overhang” for the nation’s equities as the new
government is determined to carry out reforms, according to
Victoria Mio, portfolio manager at Robeco  Hong Kong  Ltd.  “Investors are now anticipating a more pro-active
government going forward,” Mio, whose  Chinese Equities fund  has
beaten 85 percent of rivals over the past year according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, said in e-mailed comments. “Implications
on sentiment are positive as it removes the biggest overhang on
the Chinese equities market this year.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.8 percent to 2,014.73
at the close, extending losses this week to 2.6 percent, as the
Communist Party named a new generation of leaders to oversee an
economy that is forecast to grow this year at the slowest pace
in more than a decade. Xi Jinping was appointed general
secretary of the party, putting him in line to become president.  China ’s new leaders will be more tolerant towards lower
“new normal” rates of economic growth as the days of massive
stimulus to boost the expansion are probably over, Barclays Plc
said yesterday. The economy is expected to grow 7.7 percent this
year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which would
be the slowest pace since 1999.  “Implications on the economy are neutral in the near term
as the new leadership is expected to maintain the current
monetary and fiscal policies,” Mio said, who helps to manage
$240 billion at Robeco. “As the economy showed some signed of
early stabilization, there is no incentive to announce more
stimulus.”  Stocks Caution  Chinese industrial production, fixed-asset investment,
retail sales and exports growth exceeded economists’ estimates
last month, according to government reports. The central bank
has refrained from easing since rate cuts in June and July and a
May reduction in  reserve requirements  for lenders.  John Woods , the Hong Kong-based chief Asian strategist at
Citigroup Inc.’s private bank, said he’s advising clients to be
cautious on Chinese stocks given policy uncertainty in China and
global turmoil including the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S.  Investors are focused on whether the new leadership is
intent on reform, according to Woods, who said Chinese stocks
valuations are cheap and may get cheaper.  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  is forecast to replace Premier  Wen
Jiabao .  Wang Qishan , vice premier overseeing the financial
sector, was named head of the party’s discipline body,
indicating he won’t have a post directly overseeing the economy.  Stocks on the Shanghai Composite trades at 9.6 times
estimated profit, compared with 8.5 for the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Liu Yang , chairwoman of Atlantis Investment Management
Ltd., said China’s stocks are “extremely cheap” and both
mainland and Hong Kong equities offer “great value.”  “Investors need time to digest what’s going on with the
leadership transition,” Liu said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong today. “Our new president is really a
reformer. The reformers are still there but need time.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  