-- Christie’s Prospects Clouded by Sandy as Cuomo Solidifies Status
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/christie-s-prospects-clouded-by-sandy-as-cuomo-solidifies-status.html
For two weeks after  Hurricane Sandy 
ravaged New York and New Jersey, Governors Andrew Cuomo and
Chris Christie traded business attire for crisis-mode casual as
they held briefings, toured the destruction in helicopters and
pushed power companies to get the lights on.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, is now focusing on
rebuilding New York, with damages estimated at $33 billion, and
probing the failings of the state’s Long Island Power Authority,
which incurred residents’ wrath for its performance after the
storm. As he casts himself as a champion for constituents, he
already has a 70 percent approval rating.  The road is rockier for Christie, a 50-year-old Republican
whose first term ends in a year. The governor, often mentioned
as a 2016 presidential candidate, has come under fire from his
party for praising President  Barack Obama ’s handling of Sandy.
The small-government proponent finds himself rethinking an
income-tax cut central to his strategy, and even warning of
property-tax increases to pay for cleanup beyond the 2 percent
annual cap he signed into law. While the storm allowed Cuomo to
burnish his reputation, it has Christie improvising.  “As people work to rebuild, I think there are real
challenges for Christie and his administration,” said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and political science at Montclair
State University. “Add to that the backing down on two of his
key policy priorities.”  Lost Youth  Sandy, the largest Atlantic storm in history, leveled beach
towns and boardwalks that Christie calls “the Jersey shore of
my youth.” It killed 37 people in his state, upended
transportation and cut electricity to 2.7 million customers,
more than two-thirds of homes and businesses.  The state may release a preliminary tally of the damage as
soon as today, Christie said Nov. 14.  In a Quinnipiac University  poll  released less than two
weeks before the storm, Christie had an approval rating of 56
percent, three percentage points below an all-time high. The
governor spent much of the year holding town-hall meetings,
where he would say New Jersey was “in a comeback” and could
afford an income-tax cut for every resident.  Christie’s revenue forecasts have been challenged by
Democrats, who control the legislature, and by Standard &
Poor’s, which revised its outlook on the state’s debt in
September to negative from stable. Collections for the first
three months of the fiscal year that began July 1 missed his
forecast by 4 percent, putting revenue about $175 million short
of targets in the $31.7 billion budget Christie signed in June.  Cleanup Job  The governor said Nov. 12 he’s not sure he’ll pursue a tax
cut because Sandy may have hurt revenue. The next day, he said
homeowners in areas damaged by the storm may face higher tax
bills for rebuilding costs.  Though Christie won’t say yet whether he’ll seek a second
term, Sandy may force him to if he wants to leave the office on
a high note, said Steve Schmidt, senior strategist on Republican
John McCain’s 2008 presidential run.  “The building effort and the recovery effort will take
years,” Schmidt said in a telephone interview. “The state’s
going to need a steady hand on the wheel for years to come.”  Christie appeared on television almost daily from Oct. 28,
the day before Sandy made landfall, wearing a blue fleece
pullover embroidered with his name and title. The garment became
such a trademark that the actor who lampooned him on the NBC
show “Saturday Night Live” wore one just like it.  In New York, Cuomo also held daily briefings, often wearing
a blazer and no tie. Both governors resumed wearing suits this
week. “Now it’s time to get back to normal and back to work;
that’s why I don’t have the fleece on,” Christie joked on
 Twitter .  New Normal  Normal times have been good to Cuomo. In his first term, he
has pushed through a divided legislature a bill legalizing same-
sex marriage and a property-tax cap. He persuaded public-worker
unions to agree to furloughs and pay freezes as he cut more than
$12 billion in budget deficits over two years. A pension
overhaul approved in March, he says, will save state and local
governments $80 billion over the next 30 years.  Cuomo also is seen as a potential 2016 presidential
candidate, though he’s not so well-known beyond his state.
Sandy, which ravaged New York City, introduced him to a national
television audience during rounds with NBC’s Brian Williams,
ABC’s Diane Sawyer,  CNN ’s Anderson Cooper and CNBC’s Rachel Maddow.  Lights Out  The governor, however, must deal with the fallout from the
performance of the power authority, which drew demonstrations as
its crews failed to bring power back to Long Island long after
other areas were relit. Cuomo has said the agency is “beyond
repair” and ordered an investigation.  A 15-member board of trustees, nine of whom are appointed
by the governor, oversees the authority. Four of those nine
seats are vacant and two members are serving even though their
terms have expired. In almost two years in office, Cuomo has
appointed only one trustee.  Cuomo also had to vie for attention with Mayor Michael Bloomberg, said Robert Shapiro, a Columbia University political-
science professor. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “The nature of the geography and the population of the
state required Cuomo, in part, to compete and work with Mayor
Bloomberg in spearheading the recovery,” Shapiro said.
Christie, he said, “was more of a singular figure.”  Softer Side  The New Jersey governor, known for a blunt and caustic
style, begged barrier-island residents to leave as the storm
approached after they ignored his orders. He soothed victims who
cried in his arms, and promised to get them help. He spoke
during briefings about homes ripped from foundations, and the
boardwalk rides on which he recently took his children cast into
the Atlantic Ocean.  “The tone softened and was tempered by the magnitude of
the crisis and its aftermath,” Schmidt said. “You’ve seen his
full range now play out. I think that’s politically good.”  Ten days before the storm, Christie was on  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign trail in Richmond,  Virginia , where he
spoke about Obama’s “arrogance” and told a crowd: “He doesn’t
know anything about leading. He’s never led anything in his
life.”  Since the night before the storm, when Obama promised
federal relief, Christie has had only praise for the Democratic
president. Obama called daily, said Christie, who also had kind
words for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s attention to
New Jersey’s needs.  Fish to Fry  As the storm approached, Christie said he told Romney he
wouldn’t be able to campaign for him if Sandy was as severe as
forecast. Christie has said he stopped caring about the
presidential election once Sandy hit.  “I don’t give a damn about Election Day,” he said on Oct.
30. “At the moment I have much bigger fish to fry than that and
so do the people of the state of New Jersey.”  Christie’s next challenge will be to make sure relief money
is spent wisely, said Peter Woolley, professor of comparative
politics at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Florham Park, New
Jersey. If he is successful, Christie may find that voters
reward him for his handling of the disaster rather than punish
him on taxes, Woolley said.  “The stronger of those two is he’s perceived as running an
efficient state that responded swiftly and efficiently to these
dire needs, and I think that’s easier said than done,” Woolley
said. “There’s plenty of opportunity to stumble here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  