-- Cigna Sees Choice on Drug-Benefits Unit by First Half ’13
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-16T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/cigna-forecasts-2013-profit-below-analyst-estimates.html
Cigna Corp. (CI) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, expects to decide the future of its pharmacy-
benefits unit by the first half of 2013, Chief Executive Officer
David Cordani said.  Cigna is exploring “a variety of options” for the
division that manages prescription benefits, Cordani said today
in an interview in New York. The Bloomfield, Connecticut-based
company’s choices range from a sale to extending its existing
contract with  Catamaran Corp. (CTRX) , the CEO said.  The insurer said in March that it was considering a sale,
after its purchase this year of Medicare carrier Healthspring
Inc. increased the division’s value. The unit may be worth $1.5
billion, Ana Gupte, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New
York , said at the time. Catamaran’s contract with Cigna expires
at the end of next year, Cordani said today.  “If you think about that time frame, I have to have a
decision by first half of 2013 and some clarity about the value
proposition for my customers,” the CEO said.  Cigna fell 1.8 percent to $49.96 at 3:10 p.m. New York
time. At a presentation for analysts earlier in the day, Chief
Financial Officer Ralph Nicoletti said the company expected 2013
earnings of $5.80 to $6.25 a share, below the average analyst
estimate of $6.33. Catamaran, based in Lisle,  Illinois , rose 1.2
percent to $47.50.  Benefit Managers  Benefit managers serve governments, unions and private
employers. A purchase by Catamaran would continue a wave of
consolidation in the industry, including  Express Scripts Holding
Co. (ESRX) ’s $29.1 billion acquisition this year of Medco Health
Solutions Inc. Catamaran, the fourth-biggest manager, is looking
to keep pace after it was formed in April when SXC Health
Solutions Corp. agreed to buy rival Catalyst Health Solutions
Inc. for about $4.4 billion.  Healthspring was SXC’s largest customer, accounting for 40
percent of the company’s $5 billion in revenue last year, SXC
said in a regulatory filing Feb. 24.  Cigna shares initially fell after the 2013 earnings
projection was below analyst expectations. While the company
expects enrollment to grow 1 percent to 2 percent next year, it
also is projecting “gradually” higher medical costs and didn’t
factor in any share repurchases, Nicoletti said.  “We believe our near- and longer-term outlooks are
attractive,” the CFO said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is
the biggest health plan by market value.  Health insurers  generally have predicted higher medical
costs and lower profit, and then beaten their projections in
recent years, said  Sarah James , a Wedbush Securities Inc.
analyst, in an interview.  “It’s very typical in the sector for people to guide low
on earnings and raise throughout the year,” she said. “There
may be some upside there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  