-- Colombia Bond Yields Fall From Two-Month High Touched After Sale
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-16T20:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/colombia-bond-yields-fall-from-two-month-high-touched-after-sale.html
Colombian peso bond yields fell from
a two-month high on speculation yesterday’s increase following a
government debt offering was excessive.  The yield on the government’s 6 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in April 2013 dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.07 percent, according to the central
bank. The yield jumped yesterday to its highest level since Aug.
8 following a government auction of peso bonds. It surged 22
basis points this week, the biggest increase since the period
ended April 29.  The  Finance Ministry  sold yesterday 519 billion pesos ($285
million) of short-term securities, less than the 670 billion
pesos offered. The auction came amid reduced volume after the
government said Nov. 7 that it would liquidate Interbolsa SA’s
brokerage, which failed to meet a loan payment.  “There’s thin trading and yields are moving at a range so
when they reach certain levels, some see a buying opportunity,”
said Francisco Chaves, a strategist at brokerage Corredores
Asociados in Bogota.  Colombia  said this week it will sell as much as 4 trillion
pesos worth of short-term securities through the end of this
year to drain liquidity created by foreign-exchange market
intervention. At yesterday’s sale, the bonds due in January 2014
were sold to yield 5.5 percent, those due November 2014 yielded
5.5 percent and November 2015 bonds yielded 5.7 percent.  “The bonds were sold at high yields given the difficult
local environment,” said Daniel Escobar, the head analyst at
Global Securities brokerage in Bogota.  The central bank and government stepped up dollar purchases
this year to ease a rally in the local currency that policy
makers say is threatening jobs in agriculture and industry by
making exports more expensive in dollar terms.  The peso closed little changed at 1,824.05 per  U.S. dollar .
It dropped 0.5 percent this week and has risen 0.4 percent in
November, the most among emerging-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  