-- Congo Seeks 6-Month Extension to $528 Million IMF Loan Program
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-16T15:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/congo-seeks-6-month-extension-to-528-million-imf-loan-program.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo
requested a six-month extension to its three-year, $528 million
loan program with the  International Monetary Fund  in order to
comply with its terms, an IMF official said.  The multilateral lender, based in  Washington , has delayed
payments to Congo since December 2011 because the country
failed to meet some of the conditions of its loan agreement,
including the publication of mining contracts. About $225
million in disbursements remain outstanding from the IMF
program, which is set to end Dec. 10, Oscar Melhado, the IMF’s
resident representative, said in an interview.  “In order to complete the remaining reviews, Congo needs
more time,” he said yesterday in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital.
The IMF’s staff must petition its executive board by Nov. 19 to
recommend the extension and is considering Congo’s request,
Melhado said.  Under the terms of the loan agreement, Congo agreed to
publish all contracts related to oil, mining and forestry deals
to improve governance of its extractive industries. The country
hasn’t published the contract of a 2011 sale by state-owned
copper miner Gecamines of its 25 percent stake in the Comide
Sprl mining project, which is controlled by London-listed
 Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)   Comide board minutes showing that the shares were sold to
British Virgin Island-based Straker International Corp. have
been published on the website of Congo’s Mines Ministry. The
minutes don’t provide a selling price or other details of the
sale.  ‘Contracts Published’  “There were discussions if the minutes were sufficient to
observe the conditionality,” Melhado said. “It is the
Congolese authorities’ position that all contracts have been
published.”  Gecamines has published all documents relating to the sale
that it plans to publish, Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kalej Nkand said in an Oct. 23 interview in Lubumbashi, where
Gecamines is based.  Patrice Kitebi, the minister in charge of finance in Prime
Minister Matata Ponyo’s office, didn’t answer two phone calls
or respond to a mobile-phone message seeking comment.  The funds from the IMF loan facility, which are supposed
to support economic growth and reduce poverty, will be used to
shore up Congo’s cash reserves, Melhado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 