-- Copper Sags as U.S. Industrial Output, Fiscal Cliff Dim Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-11-16T19:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/copper-sags-as-u-s-industrial-output-fiscal-cliff-dim-outlook.html
Copper fell for the second time in
three days as U.S. industrial production unexpectedly contracted
and on concern that lawmakers may be unable to avoid a so-called
fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases.  Output at factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.4
percent last month, Federal Reserve data showed today.
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.
President  Barack Obama  and Congressional leaders held a first
round of talks aimed at avoiding a $607 billion deficit-cutting
package known as the fiscal cliff.  “There are concerns about demand in general as we continue
to get signs of weakness in the global economy,” Frank Cholly,
a senior commodity broker at RJO Futures in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  Copper futures for delivery in March slid 0.3 percent to
settle at $3.4615 a pound at 1:10 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The contract still rose 0.2 percent this week, the first
increase in six weeks.  Superstorm Sandy cut total production by almost 1
percentage point in October, the Fed said.  “Sandy crushed output in the Northeast, and it will be
months before we can determine the true state of the nation’s
industrial base,” Joel Naroff, the president of Naroff Economic
Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania , said in a note.  Copper also retreated as the dollar strengthened for a
seventh session in eight against a basket of six currencies,
reducing the appeal of commodities as alternative investments.  Stockpiles monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange rose 0.7
percent to 255,175 metric tons, capping a third straight weekly
advance, the longest increase since June.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 0.5
percent to $7,605 a ton ($3.45 a pound). Aluminum, tin, lead and
zinc also dropped in London. Nickel advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  