-- Could 18th Century’s ‘Sinking Fund’ Solve Fiscal Cliff?
-- B y   W o o d y   H o l t o n
-- 2012-11-16T17:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/could-18th-century-s-sinking-fund-solve-fiscal-cliff-.html
As President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans seek to resolve the so-called fiscal
cliff, the combination of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts scheduled for next year, a mutually agreeable solution is
lurking in an unexpected place: the 18th century.  In the 1700s,  Great Britain  had a debt burden that was even
more ominous than the $16 trillion the U.S. government now owes.
In 1716, Parliament proposed an ingenious, and fairly
uncontroversial, way to reduce this debt, called a sinking fund.
The scheme was copied 74 years later by the  U.S. Congress . And
it could work just as well now as it did three centuries ago.
The sinking fund was the brainchild of Robert Walpole, who was
then the first lord of the Treasury and chancellor of the
Exchequer. Its purpose was to chip away at a national debt that
had swollen to 55 million pounds, which Parliament considered
“insupportable.”  The concept is simple: A government imposes a special tax
for the sole purpose of sinking -- reducing -- its debt. As the
sinking fund cuts into the debt, it reduces the amount of
interest that has to be paid every year. The crucial step is for
these interest savings to be plowed back into the fund. If the
annual  interest rate  was 2 percent, then every $100 reduction in
the government’s debt would diminish its annual interest
obligation by $2, which would allow another $2 to be diverted to
the sinking fund -- not just in that year but every subsequent
year. As the amount owed gradually decreased, the sinking fund
would grow at an accelerating rate, not unlike the way compound
interest swells an untouched savings account.  Interest Savings  Richard Price, a British preacher and political economist,
published a pamphlet in 1772 demonstrating that a country paying
5 percent interest on a 258 million pound debt could pay the
whole thing off in 86 years if it established a 200,000 pound
sinking fund and put all interest savings back into it.
Parliament created another sinking fund in 1786, and it helped
slow the growth of Great Britain’s national debt. Unfortunately,
the temptation to raid the funds for other purposes was always
strong. In “The Wealth of Nations,” which appeared in 1776, a
sadder-but-wiser  Adam Smith  complained that often “a sinking
fund, though instituted for the payment of old, very much
facilitates the contracting of new debts.”  One 18th-century strategy for making sure tax dollars
actually went to sinking the national debt was the concept of
“certificate taxes.” During the American Revolution, the
Continental Congress and the 13 state legislatures had no cash
to pay soldiers and the army’s suppliers. So in 1783, when the
war ended, they gave soldiers and suppliers IOUs, and the state
legislatures adopted taxes to redeem them.  State officials knew these taxes wouldn’t actually bring in
much money, because citizens had the option of paying them using
the IOUs. If you were a veteran, you could use some of your
promissory notes to pay your taxes, then sell the rest to
neighbors who hadn’t fought in the war or sold supplies to the
army and thus needed promissory notes to satisfy the tax
collector.  Certificate taxes enabled soldiers, suppliers, and other
holders of government promissory notes to turn them into cash
without either the IOUs or the cash passing through the hands of
the government. Those who had IOUs to sell got their money
directly from fellow taxpayers.  Certificate Tax  Today, many Republicans might support a sinking fund in
principle but worry that a future Congress would divert the new
revenue to wasteful government expenditures. A modern-day
certificate-tax system would reduce this risk: Taxpayers could
have the option of discharging their portion of the sinking fund
just like their other federal taxes, through payroll deductions
or quarterly payments, or they could pay using Treasury bills --
and thus ensure that their money was being used to reduce the
debt.  Alexander Hamilton , the first U.S. Treasury secretary, was
so impressed with the sinking-fund idea that he proposed one in
his first major report to Congress. He expected the postal
service to make a profit of about $100,000 a year and wanted to
put all of that money into a sinking fund to begin redeeming
federal securities. In 1790, when Congress adopted their version
of the proposal, they did Hamilton one better: They decided to
use all income from the sale of western land -- at a time when
the U.S. was forcibly acquiring Indian property west of the  Ohio
River  -- to form a sinking fund.  Most economists now agree that going over the fiscal cliff
would push the  U.S. economy  back into  recession . But efforts to
indefinitely delay dealing with government debt could eventually
prove even more ruinous. Because if the 18th century is any
guide, the most dramatic effects of government indebtedness
might not be economic.  Enormous government shortfalls were largely responsible for
all of the 18th century’s big revolutions. In the 1760s, the
British Parliament’s determination to reduce the deficit led to
the measures -- especially “taxation without representation” -
-that provoked the American Revolution. In the ensuing war, the
assistance that the rebellious colonies received from Britain’s
principal rival, Louis XVI of  France , bankrupted him, setting
the stage for the French Revolution, which led to  Haiti ’s as
well.  Debt was also a necessary precondition for the 18th
century’s most significant nonviolent revolution, the junking of
the Articles of Confederation and adoption of the U.S.
Constitution. The Founding Fathers wouldn’t have felt the need
for this transformation if the Continental Congress and the 13
states had managed to emerge from the Revolutionary War debt-
free. Debt-retirement measures, especially high taxes, had
ravaged the American economy and caused an alarming spike in
farmers’ revolts.  Those of us who would prefer to keep such rebellions in the
history books would do well to heed the warnings of the 18th
century. And perhaps to consider one of its great remedies.  ( Woody Holton  is a professor at the University of  South
Carolina  and the author of “Abigail Adams,” a 2010 winner of
the Bancroft Prize. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from  Echoes online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Woody Holton at  aholton@mailbox.sc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  