-- Crude Oil Rises on Concern Mideast Tension Will Disrupt Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-16T13:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/crude-oil-rises-on-concern-mideast-tension-will-disrupt-supplies.html
Oil rose in New York on concern that
the clash between Israel and Hamas may escalate into a wider
conflict that would endanger Middle East crude exports.  West Texas Intermediate futures advanced as much as 1.3
percent, reversing earlier losses. Air-raid sirens sounded for a
second day in Tel Aviv and an explosion was heard in the city as
Israel extended its bombing of Gaza and militant groups fired
rockets at the Jewish state.  Egypt ’s prime minister, Hisham Qandil, visited Gaza today and called for an international
effort to end the violence.  “The weekend will carry some risk for oil markets,” said
 Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a
researcher in Zug, Switzerland. “If Egypt is not able to stop
Hamas from sending rockets then the conflict will definitively
escalate, with a big question mark on the reaction of the new
Egypt.”  Crude for December delivery, which expires today, rose as
much as $1.12 to $86.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange and traded at $86.55 a barrel at
1:33 p.m. London time. The more-actively traded January contract
gained $1.04 to $86.91. Front-month futures are little changed
this week.  Brent for January settlement increased 97 cents to $108.98
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month European benchmark grade was at premium of $22.07 to
the corresponding WTI contract, down from $25.53 yesterday.  Crude Inventories  Oil may fall next week on concern weaker economic growth
will reduce fuel demand and boost inventories, a Bloomberg
survey showed. Sixteen of 33 analysts and traders, or 48
percent, forecast crude will decrease through Nov. 23. Thirteen
respondents, or 39 percent, predicted a gain. Four forecast
little change.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 1.09 million barrels last week,
the Energy Department reported. Oil output gained for a 10th
week to 6.71 million barrels a day, the most since May 1994.  Oil in New York remains in a downtrend channel on the daily
chart, signaling price advances may not be sustainable, compiled
by Bloomberg show. Futures have traded between the middle and
lower Bollinger Bands for almost two months. These indicators,
representing technical resistance and support levels
respectively, are around $87.80 and $82.30 a barrel today.  Missile Attack  A long-range missile attack on Tel Aviv yesterday by
Palestinian militants in Gaza “is an escalation and there will
be a price to pay,” Ehud Barak,  Israel ’s defense minister, said
on Channel 2 television. Israel Army Spokesman Brigadier General
Yoav Mordechai told the same channel that the military was
calling up 30,000 reservists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  