-- Cyprus May Accept Bailout Even If Terms Are ‘Hard to Accept’
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-11-16T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/cyprus-may-accept-bailout-even-if-terms-are-hard-to-accept-.html
Cyprus may accept an international
bailout even if the conditions are “hard to accept,”
government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said, with a possible
cash crunch looming next month if aid is delayed.  Cyprus on June 25 became the fifth country in the euro area
to seek a rescue, which will encompass the public sector as well
as banks. One in two Cypriots believes the government should
sign a deal for aid from the euro area and the International
Monetary Fund, a poll by Cypronetwork for state-run broadcaster
CyBC showed.  Any agreement is contingent upon the results of an audit to
determine the recapitalization needs of Cypriot banks, which
lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in  Greece ’s debt
restructuring, Stefanou said today on Sigma TV. Preliminary
results of the audit should be ready in the first week of
December, he said.  Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said on Nov. 14 that
the troika, comprising the European Commission, the European
Central Bank and the IMF, was setting “political terms” in the
bailout talks that were hard for the country to accept.  Stefanou today said that while the terms of an agreement
may be “hard to accept, that doesn’t mean we won’t accept
them.”  Central Bank of Cyprus Governor Panicos Demetriades has
said an aid deal is needed “without delay.” Many of the
country’s banks have seen deposits dwindle as uncertainty about
the bailout and the country’s economy continues.  Bank Deposits  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, which was nationalised in May, saw
its deposits decline to  10.2 billion euros  at the end of
September from 11.7 billion euros at the end of December,
according to central bank data.  Total deposits in banks increased to 70.7 billion euros in
September from 69.3 billion euros at the start of the year,
though the gain came as deposits were increasingly shifted to
non-Cypriot banks operating on the island, the data show.  The commission today said it’s pursuing an agreement with
the Cypriot government on emergency aid and refused to speculate
about whether a current negotiating mission will produce a
breakthrough.  “We are taking forward discussions with them,” Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for the commission, told reporters in
Brussels. “I can’t tell you how long this mission will last or
whether there will need to be a subsequent mission. That depends
on the progress in discussions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  