-- Defunct Slaughterhouse Owners Settle Claims Over Beef Recall
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-16T20:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/defunct-slaughterhouse-owners-settle-claims-over-beef-recall-1-.html
The owners of a defunct beef
supplier to the National School Lunch Program agreed to settle
allegations by the  Justice Department  stemming from the largest
meat recall in U.S. history.  Hallmark Meat Packing Co. owners Donald Hallmark Sr. and
Donald Hallmark Jr. will pay $316,802, the Humane Society of the
 United States  said today in a statement. They also agreed to
entry of a $497 million final judgment against the Chino,
California-based company, according to the statement.  The slaughterhouse has no assets won’t be able to pay the
$497 million, which is to serve as deterrent, Jonathan Lovvorn,
a Humane Society lawyer, said in a phone interview. The
settlement will be filed next week in federal court in
Riverside,  California , Lovvorn said.  The Justice Department intervened in 2009 in the
whistleblower lawsuit first brought by the  Humane Society 
against Hallmark and Westland Meat Co. The companies had to
recall 143 million pounds of beef the previous year after a
video made by the Humane Society showed workers abusing animals
unable to walk on their own.  Undercover Video  The undercover video, which showed plant workers using
electric prods, high-powered water hoses and forklifts to force
cattle that had collapsed to walk, raised questions about
whether the “downer” animals that could be carriers of mad cow
disease had been properly inspected before being slaughtered.
Both companies went bankrupt after the recall, Lovvorn said.  Donald Sieveke, a lawyer for the Hallmarks, declined to
comment on the settlement.  Bruce Riordan, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office
in  Los Angeles , which worked on the case, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office.  Westland Meat, which is a separate entity from Hallmark,
isn’t part of the settlement and continues to defend the case,
Mark Troy, a lawyer for the company said in a phone interview.
He said the Hallmarks’ agreement to the judgment against their
company has “absolutely” no effect on his clients.  The case is Humane Society v. Hallmark Meat Packing,
08-00221, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 