-- Deutsche Bank May Have to Pay $1.9 Billion in Kirch Suit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-11-16T17:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/deutsche-bank-may-have-to-pay-eu1-5-billion-in-kirch-lawsuit-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may have to pay as
much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in a case tied to the
collapse of the Kirch group of media companies, a Munich court
said today.  Judge Guido Kotschy said in a preliminary assessment of the
case that it is likely that Deutsche Bank and former Chief
Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer  will be found liable in the
lawsuit. The damages will range from 120 million euros to 1.5
billion euros, he said.  The case is one of several lawsuits continuing after  Leo Kirch ’s July 2011 death that allege the bank secretly plotted to
bring about the demise of his media empire. Part of the
conspiracy, they argue, was a 2002 interview on Bloomberg
Television in which Breuer said “everything that you can read
and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to
provide further” loans or equity to Kirch.  “We don’t believe that the comments in the interview were a
mere accident, as you told us here at the beginning of this
case,” Kotschy said in court, addressing Breuer. “It just
doesn’t fit the facts.”  Deutsche Bank and Breuer have denied the allegations.  “The insinuations are violating my personal honor,” Breuer
said today in closing arguments.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert declined to
comment on Kotschy’s assessment beyond the bank’s statements in
court. The court scheduled another hearing for Dec. 14.  Rejected Settlements  Deutsche Bank rejected a possible settlement with the Kirch
side in March. The lender and Kirch’s heirs discussed a possible
800 million-euro settlement, a person with knowledge of the
negotiations said at the time. The Frankfurt-based bank last
year was said to have rejected a 775 million-euro settlement
proposed by the Munich court.  “The judge looks to have given a range with a sum that is
unacceptable to the Kirch side and includes a horror scenario
for Deutsche Bank, which is likely to help get them to settle,”
said  Christian Muschick , an analyst with Silvia Quandt Research
in  Frankfurt  who has the equivalent of a hold recommendation on
Deutsche Bank shares. “The figure Deutsche Bank was said to
reject as a settlement earlier is pretty much in the middle of
the range, maybe that’s where we’ll end up after all.”  Kotschy told the parties in October that the court was of
the preliminary opinion the Kirch side successfully showed
Breuer and Deutsche Bank intentionally wronged Kirch by
obstructing the restructuring of the group.  Kirch Death  Kirch, who died last year at the age of 84, pursued claims
against Breuer and Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion
euros.  The litigation spawned a separate criminal probe by Munich
prosecutors over testimony Breuer gave last year in another
Kirch case. Former Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann , former
Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck are also under investigation over their testimony.  Deutsche Bank has denied wrongdoing by any of its
executives.  Today’s case is: OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  