-- Dollar-Funding Stress Rise on Week, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-11-16T15:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/dollar-funding-stress-rise-on-week-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions rose this week.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  rose  to 0.3115 percent, from the 0.3110 percent
level the day before, according to the British Bankers’
Association. On Nov. 9, the Libor was 0.31 percent. The Libor-
OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, rose to 16.4
basis points from 15.8 basis points, yesterday.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, was 20.9 basis points compared with 20.2
basis points yesterday, according to the second rolling three
month contracts. The spread has widened from 18.25 basis points
at the end of last week.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened to 14 basis points, from 13.25 basis points
yesterday. The gap, a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S.
banking sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from
expectations for dollar Libor, was at 12.1 basis points at the
end of last week.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $5 billion to $968.6 billion in the week ended Nov. 14,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market rose. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 30.3 basis points below Euribor, compared with 29.3
basis points below yesterday. The swaps were at 26.8 basis
points below Euribor on Nov. 9.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
rose 12.3 basis points from 11.6 basis points yesterday.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.27 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.26 percent yesterday, according
to index data provided on a one-day lag by the Depository Trust
& Clearing Corp. That was little changed from the day before.
The rate was at 0.127 percent at the start of the year.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
over $3 trillion in repos transactions daily.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.16 percent yesterday. That compares
with the central bank’s target rate for overnight loans between
banks of zero to 0.25 percent. The rate opened today at 0.17
percent today. The effective rate is a volume-weighted average
of trades between major brokers for overnight funds, reported on
a day lag by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  