-- DuPont-Dow Corn Defeated by Armyworms in Florida: Study
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-16T20:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/dupont-dow-corn-defeated-by-armyworms-in-florida-study.html
Fall armyworms in southern Florida
survived a pesticide engineered into corn by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
and DuPont Co., the second insect to show signs of resistance to
genetically modified crops in the U.S., according to a study.  Fall armyworms ate the leaves of corn engineered to produce
an insecticidal protein and lived, according to 2012 field trial
data presented Nov. 13 at a conference in Knoxville, Tennessee.
The protein is marketed by Dow and DuPont as Herculex.  “This is most likely field resistance,”  Fangneng Huang ,
an assistant professor at  Louisiana State University  in Baton
Rouge, said at the annual meeting of the  Entomological Society
of America.   The study follows last year’s discovery in  Iowa  that
rootworms have developed resistance to  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s corn.
Concern that the insecticides are failing is prompting farmers
to apply more chemicals, unwinding the primary environmental
benefit of pest-fighting crops,  Michael Gray , an entomologist at
the  University of Illinois  in Urbana, said in a Nov. 14
presentation at the conference.  Fall armyworms, the caterpillar stage of a moth, got the
name because infestations move between fields like a marching
army, typically in autumn. The insect can survive U.S. winters
only in southern Florida and Texas, limiting its  range  as a pest
to the southeast.  Dow hasn’t seen Huang’s data and can’t confirm his claims,
Garry Hamlin, a spokesman for the Midland, Michigan-based
company, said in an e-mail. A finding of armyworm resistance
“would seem to have little agronomic significance for U.S.
growers operating north of Tampa,” he said.  ‘Minimal Amount’  DuPont’s Pioneer seed unit sells “a minimal amount” of
corn with the Cry1F protein in  Florida  and doesn’t expect a
business impact, Josh St. Peters, a spokesman for the
Wilmington, Delaware-based company, said in an e-mail. A Dow
study earlier this year found no indications of armyworm
resistance, he said.  Armyworm isn’t a primary target of the insecticide produced
by the crop, the companies said separately.  The companies will work with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, which regulates pesticides, to determine the
next steps. Dale Kemery, an EPA spokesman, had no immediate
comment when reached by phone yesterday.  Fall armyworm resistance to the insecticide was first
discovered in Puerto Rico in 2006, prompting Dow and DuPont to
voluntarily stop selling the product on the island, according to
the EPA’s registration for the product.  Biggest Business  DuPont’s agriculture unit is its largest business,
generating 24 percent of company sales last year, including
 $4.31 billion  in corn seed revenue. Dow’s agriculture unit,
which doesn’t break out seed sales, had $5.66 billion of revenue
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Also contributing to the armyworm study were scientists
from the USDA, University of Florida,  University of Minnesota 
and Louisiana State University.  Resistance to Monsanto’s rootworm-killing protein is
suspected in Iowa,  Illinois ,  Minnesota  and Nebraska, the EPA
said last year. There’s “mounting evidence” the engineered
corn is losing its effectiveness in the Midwest, the agency said
in August.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s Agrisure corn may have “cross-resistance”
with Monsanto’s insecticide, meaning the crop is vulnerable to
the same rootworms that are no longer killed by Monsanto’s
toxin, according to other presentations at the conference this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  