-- LME Says New Delivery Rules Will Address Consumer Needs
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-16T13:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/lme-says-new-delivery-rules-will-address-consumer-needs.html
A proposed requirement for  London 
Metal Exchange-monitored warehouses to deliver an additional 500
metric tons of metal a day is “reasonable” and will be under
review, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said.  The LME, which has a network of more than 600 warehouses,
said yesterday minimum delivery rates from warehouses may
increase by 500 tons for storage companies in locations where at
least 30,000 tons of one metal awaits delivery. The rule, which
is expected to come into effect from April 1, will address the
issue of long aluminum wait times slowing down the delivery of
other metals, Abbott said.  “Five hundred tons, it seems to us right now, is
reasonable and obviously it will be under review,” Abbott told
reporters in London today. “It’s not a sort of tentative first
step. We do think that it will achieve our purposes. If it turns
out it doesn’t then we’ll review it, but it’s not a death by a
thousand cuts. We do think this is good enough.”  Current minimum delivery rates require the daily release of
at least 3,000 tons of any metal from stocks exceeding 900,000
tons at a single location. A separate requirement for delivery
of nickel and tin will be introduced in April. Withdrawals can
take as long as 59 weeks in  Detroit , the biggest LME repository
of aluminum. Withdrawing aluminum held in Vlissingen, the
second-biggest LME location for the metal, may take as long as
54 weeks.  Aluminum Queues  The new rule will address consumer needs and is also
“doable,” Abbott said. “It’s not going to make aluminum
queues go away because it’s not actually targeted at aluminum.
There is a danger that those aluminum factors may be having an
effect on other markets, which are not actually subject to the
same macroeconomic factors,” he said, referring to copper,
lead, zinc, nickel and tin markets.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 0.8 percent to
$1,949.25 a ton by 1:42 p.m. on the LME. Prices are down 3.5
percent this year. The premium added to the immediate-delivery
price is at a record $280 to $295 a ton at warehouses in
Rotterdam, including a duty into the EU, Platts, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Cos, said last week. The fee in the U.S. reached a
record 11.15 cents a pound on Oct. 22, according to Platts.  Consumers are getting aluminum for less than before because
the price of the metal on the LME has declined enough to counter
record-high premiums, Abbott said. Still, consumers prefer a
combination of higher LME prices and lower surcharges because of
how they handle their profit margins, he said.  Inventories  The spot premiums have risen even as stockpiles of the
metal climbed. Inventories of the lightweight metal are at 5.1
million tons after rising to a record 5.13 million tons in
February, LME data showed today. About 65 percent to 70 percent
of the LME stockpiles are locked in so-called financing
transactions and not available to the market, according to
Societe Generale SA.  “There is a huge amount of metal that is being financed,”
Abbott said, referring to aluminum. “I hope that the other
metals don’t simply become chips in the financing game.”  At yesterday’s LME cash price of $1,943 a ton, the current
European premium means about 13 percent of the total aluminum
price can’t be hedged to protect from price changes, according
to Bloomberg calculations. Hedging aluminum premiums is an
“interesting area to look at,” while it won’t be a
“panacea,” deputy CEO Diarmuid O’Hegarty said at the same
press briefing. Abbott said there isn’t enough liquidity now to
hedge the premiums.  The LME handled contracts worth $15.4 trillion in 2011. Its
network of warehouses extends from  Singapore  to the U.S.
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan & Chase Co. own some of the warehouse companies
approved by the bourse to store metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  