-- Eagles’ Vick, Bears’ Cutler Have Concussion, Will Miss NFL Games
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/eagles-vick-bears-cutler-will-miss-nfl-games-with-concussions.html
Quarterbacks Michael Vick of the
Philadelphia Eagles and Jay Cutler of the Chicago Bears both
have concussions and were ruled out of their teams’ next
National Football League games.  Vick, 32, was injured during a Nov. 11 loss to the Dallas
Cowboys and will be replaced by Nick Foles, who will make his
first career start when the Eagles visit the Washington Redskins
tomorrow, Eagles coach Andy Reid said yesterday.  Foles, a 23-year-old rookie who played at the University of
 Arizona , went 22-of-32 passing for 219 yards, with a touchdown
pass and an interception against the Cowboys. Vick completed six
of nine pass attempts for 70 yards and a score before his exit.  “He’s had symptoms all week since the game,” Rick Burkholder, the Eagles’ trainer, told reporters, citing a
headache that has diminished somewhat this week, fogginess and
fatigue. “He’s not the Michael Vick that I know when he’s
healthy.”  Burkholder didn’t say when the team expects Vick to return.  “Right now, we’re early on in the process,” he said.  The Eagles, at 3-6, have lost five straight games.  Backup Jason Campbell will start for the Bears (7-2) when
they visit the San Francisco 49ers on Nov. 19, the team said on
its  website .  Cutler, 29, was injured during the second quarter of a 13-6
loss to the Houston Texans. Campbell played the entire second
half, completing 11 of 19 passes for 94 yards.  Texans linebacker Tim Dobbins was fined $30,000 -- and
filed an appeal -- for the hit that injured Cutler when the
quarterback scrambled out of the pocket and threw a pass before
being struck in the chin by Dobbins’s helmet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  