-- EasyJet Sees Business-Credentials Boost on Moscow, Rome
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-11-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/easyjet-sees-business-credentials-boost-on-moscow-rome.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ’s success in securing
rights to link London with Moscow and Milan with  Rome  represents
a breakthrough for its plan to win more business travelers,
Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said.  EasyJet was chosen by the U.K.  Civil Aviation Authority  to
operate Moscow flights on Oct. 25, edging out  Richard Branson ’s
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., before being selected by the
Italian authorities to end Alitalia SpA’s monopoly on services
from Milan Linate to Rome Fiumicino a day later.  “The transformational aspect is about how EasyJet is seen,
the credibility,” McCall said in an interview. “Moscow is a
business route and I think a few years ago we wouldn’t have got
it because we weren’t perceived to be looking after passengers
or really strong on business. And to get Linate-Fiumicino, the
main business route in  Italy , cannot be underestimated.”  While ranked second to  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  among Europe’s
low-cost airlines, EasyJet has dropped its early no-frills
approach in favor of a model where passengers can opt to pay
extra for everything from food and checked bags to lounge access
and flexible tickets. The Luton, England-based carrier is
seeking a bigger share of the lucrative corporate-travel sector
just as network carriers including IAG SA and  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  recast their short-haul operations along low-cost lines.  Stock Boost  Shares of EasyJet , which was founded in 1995 with the
slogan “making flying as affordable as a pair of jeans,” have
surged 62 percent this year for a market value of 2.53 billion
pounds ($4 billion). Dublin-based Ryanair has advanced 33
percent and is worth 6.66 billion euros ($8.5 billion).  “For us to get both in one week reinforced all the things
we’ve been doing over the last two years in positioning the
brand,” McCall said of the Moscow and Italy victories.  EasyJet was selected to compete with British Airways on the
route to the Russian capital after offering a lead-in fare of
125 pounds and undertaking to operate two flights a day from
 London  Gatwick airport, where it’s the biggest operator.  Starting in the first half of next year, EasyJet will serve
Moscow’s Domodedovo hub using 180-seat Airbus SAS A320 single-
aisle planes, and aims to carry more than 230,000 passengers in
the first 12 months of operations.  The new route could also create opportunities to link with
long-haul flights following a deal last week allowing passengers
at Dubai-based Emirates, the world’s biggest international
airline, to use their air miles to book EasyJet tickets.  Moscow Points  Russians traveling from Moscow to the Gulf on a route to be
served by an Airbus A380 superjumbo from Dec. 1 would accrue
enough points to fly to London with EasyJet for free, Emirates
sales chief Thierry Antinori said in an interview on Nov. 6.  In Italy, EasyJet will offer five flights a day between
Milan and Rome using Airbus A319 planes, opening up what McCall
said has been Europe’s “last great monopoly route.”  Around 21 percent of EasyJet’s 57 million annual passengers
are traveling for work, with destinations such as Amsterdam,
Geneva and Paris drawing close to 30 percent business traffic.  “They’re going ever-further in competing with the network
carriers,” said  Douglas McNeill , an analyst at  Charles Stanley 
in London with a “hold” rating on EasyJet. “It tends to make
you think the low-cost model is more multifaceted.”  Ryanair CEO  Michael O’Leary  said last week that EasyJet
under McCall is as much a challenger to British Airways as his
own airline, and that undercutting fares at the unit of
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  by as much as 30
percent represents “a very good medium-term strategy.”  EasyJet has also done “a good job” in targeting longer
routes to countries such as  Egypt , Israel, Jordan and Iceland,
as well as Russia, the Irishman said at a Nov. 5 press briefing.  McCall has said four-hour flight times aren’t a departure
from her company’s core strategy. The airline last year carried
5.7 million people on flights above three hours, more than the
5.4 million that long-haul specialist Virgin Atlantic attracted
across the whole of its network in the 12 months ended Feb. 29.  EasyJet will post earnings figures for the year ended Sept.
30 on Nov. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  