-- Heavy Canadian Crude Tumbles to 8-Month Low on Cramped Pipelines
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-16T21:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/heavy-canadian-crude-tumbles-to-8-month-low-on-cramped-pipelines.html
Heavy Canadian crude oil fell to the
lowest level in eight months as producers faced space
limitations on pipelines transporting oil to U.S. markets.  Western Canada Select, a heavy oil blend from  Alberta ,
tumbled to $34 below the U.S. benchmark, its widest discount
since March 14.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  yesterday apportioned space on two lines that
move WCS to the U.S. Midwest, and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  said this
week harsh weather in Manitoba will limit deliveries on its
Keystone line this month.  Western Canada Select declined $2 to a discount of $34 a
barrel against the benchmark West Texas Intermediate as of 2:21
p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
grade has fallen 31% since TransCanada said Nov. 13 that
Keystone was operating at reduced rates, and has more than
quadrupled its discount against WTI since September.  Enbridge apportioned Line 4 and Line 67, which run from
Alberta to Clearbrook,  Minnesota , by 18 percent because of
unplanned pipeline closings and maintenance, Graham White, a
Calgary-based Enbridge spokesman said yesterday.  The apportionment percentage amounts to 224,172 barrels a
day of the combined capacity of the lines, according to
Enbridge’s  website .  TransCanada said two days ago it would declare force
majeure for crude shipments scheduled to run on its Keystone
line this month. Keystone was running at reduced rates from Nov.
10 to Nov. 13 as Manitoba’s provincial utility company reduced
power to a pumping station in order to remove ice from power
lines after a winter storm this week.  Keystone has a capacity of 590,000 barrels a day and
returned to normal rates near 500,000 barrels a day on Nov. 13,
Grady Semmens, a TransCanada spokesman based in Calgary, said in
an e-mail. Keystone runs from Alberta to Cushing,  Oklahoma , and
refineries in Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  