-- EBay Sued by U.S. Over Recruiting Accords With Intuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ebay-sued-by-u-s-over-recruiting-accords-with-intuit.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
online marketplace, was accused by the U.S. and  California  of
violating antitrust laws by agreeing not to hire people working
for  Intuit Inc. (INTU)   Senior executives at EBay and Intuit struck “evolving
handshake” accords from 2006 to 2009 to restrict recruiting and
hiring each others’ workers, according to a complaint by the
U.S.  Justice Department  filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Jose , California. The practice allegedly distorted competition
for specialized computer engineers and scientists and made it
harder for workers to get better, higher paying jobs.  “This agreement harmed employees by lowering the salaries
and benefits they might otherwise have commanded, and deprived
these employees of better job opportunities at the other
company,” according to the complaint.  California also sued EBay yesterday in the same court.
Intuit, which settled a Justice Department case over hiring
practices in 2010, isn’t named as a defendant in either case.  Intuit, the  Mountain View , California-based financial
software company that makes TurboTax and QuickBooks,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and three other technology companies agreed in
2010 to halt agreements under which companies refrained from
placing “cold calls” to lure workers from competitors. The
agreements resolved an antitrust lawsuit filed against the
companies in  Washington . No companies were fined.  2010 Investigation  The Justice Department’s 2010 antitrust investigation
focused on recruiting and hiring practices at some of the
biggest U.S. technology companies. The agency said at the time
that it would continue to investigate other “no solicitation”
agreements.  EBay said it will vigorously defend itself against the
lawsuits, which the company described as overly aggressive.  “EBay Inc. strongly believes that the  Department of
Justice  and California Attorney General are wrong and are using
the wrong standard in these matters,” Lara Wyss, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We compete openly
for talent in a broad, diverse global market across a range of
industries and professional disciplines, and EBay’s hiring
practices conform to the standards that the Department of
Justice has approved in resolving cases against other
companies.”  Meg Whitman , then chief executive officer at EBay, and
Scott Cook, founder and chairman at Intuit, were “intimately
involved” in forming and enforcing the agreements between the
companies, Justice Department lawyers said in yesterday’s
complaint.  ‘War for Talent’  EBay and Intuit called a truce in the “war for talent”
among technology companies, according to the complaint. EBay
initially sought a limited no-solicitation agreement aimed at
high-level employees, and expanded it to “placate” Cook, who
was on EBay’s board and had complained about EBay’s hiring
practices, according to the lawsuit.  An initial agreement between EBay and Intuit took effect in
August 2006, and EBay backed away from hiring an Intuit employee
for an opening at its PayPal unit, according to the complaint.
By April 2007, the accord became a no-hire agreement after Cook
complained to Whitman about a job offer made to an Intuit
worker.  Whitman forwarded to Cook a recruiting flier Intuit had
sent to an EBay employee. “#@!%$#^&!!! Meg my apologies. I’ll
find out how this slip up occurred again...” Cook responded in
an e-mail, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit seeks a judgment that the agreements constitute
an illegal restraint of trade and a court order blocking any
similar agreement, as well as damages “to dissipate the
anticompetitive effects” of the agreements.  State Laws  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  said in her
complaint that the agreements violate state laws in addition to
federal laws. She identified Intuit as a “co-conspirator.”  “This is an EBay matter,” Diane Carlini, an Intuit
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “The DOJ lawsuit
clearly mentions Intuit but we have already resolved any
concerns the DOJ had with our recruiting practices. We believe
the matter is resolved and we are in compliance.”  Intuit is cooperating with the California Attorney
General’s investigation, Carlini said in an e-mail.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , where
Whitman is now CEO, declined to comment in an e-mail. Whitman
retired from EBay in 2008 and joined HP in 2011.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v. EBay, 12-5859, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The
state case is California v. EBay, 12-5874, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  