-- Egypt Seen Buying U.S. Wheat in Next State Grain Tender
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-11-16T14:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/egypt-seen-buying-u-s-wheat-in-next-state-grain-tender.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
importer, is likely to resume purchases of supplies from the
U.S. in its next state grain tender, said Sadri Mathari, chief
commercial officer with Venus International, the country’s
largest private trader of the grain.  Egypt’s General Authority for Supply Commodities, the state
grain buyer, likely has enough wheat to last until the end of
this year, with the next tender occurring after the start of
2013, said Mathari, whose company trades 2.5 million to 3.5
million metric tons of grain a year. Venus operates in a free
zone in the Port of Dekheila, allowing it to buy grain from the
U.S., the  Black Sea region  and other places around the world,
and sell it into GASC tenders.  “The foreign exchange factor will influence the direction
of French prices, but I believe that the next tender we see in
Egypt will be 50/50 U.S. and  France ,” Mathari said yesterday in
an interview in Geneva.  Milling-wheat futures for March delivery on NYSE Liffe in
Paris traded at 269 euros a ton today, equal to about $9.33 a
bushel. The grain was almost 72 cents a bushel more expensive
than March futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, the widest price  spread  on record for the two
contracts. Prices in Paris jumped 39 percent this year,
outpacing the 17 percent increase for the contract on the CBOT,
as dry weather cut supplies in Russia and eastern  Europe .  Egypt hasn’t bought U.S. wheat in a state tender since a
purchase of 115,000 tons in April, which included 60,000 tons
from Venus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Supplies
from  Russia  and eastern Europe dominated imports until
September, when the north African country began purchasing more
French supplies.  Egyptian Imports  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  estimates that Egypt
will import 9.5 million tons of wheat in the 2012-13 season, the
least since 2007-08 and down from 11.65 million tons in 2011-12.
Total imports may be closer to 7.5 million tons, because the
country has increased domestic production, Mathari said.  Venus has a terminal that can unload Panamax vessels, the
largest to transit the Panama Canal, containing wheat, corn and
protein meal on two berths. It has 400,000 tons of storage
capacity, after expanding its facilities this year. The company,
which is headquartered in Cairo, plans to ship grain into the
broader  Middle East  and north African region in 2013, boosting
trade to 5 million tons annually in the next five years, he
said.  U.S. Shipments  The U.S. exported 150,400 tons of wheat to  Egypt  in the
marketing year which began June 1 through to Nov. 8, down from
246,700 tons at the same time last year, USDA data show. The
European Union granted export licenses for 2.63 million tons of
soft wheat in the six weeks through Nov. 13 to all destinations
outside the bloc, 35 percent more than the year-earlier period.  Wheat production in the EU may drop to 131.8 million tons
this season, a five-year low, as southern and eastern countries
experienced dry weather, USDA data show. The agency estimates
that the bloc’s inventories may slide to 9.2 million tons before
next year’s harvest, the lowest on records since 1999.  “We’re bullish the Paris versus Chicago price spread,
which is reflective of tight supplies in Europe,” Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank International, said in an
interview in Geneva. “U.S. wheat exports are going to increase
later in the marketing year.”  Russia, Ukraine  Russia and Ukraine have “closed the door” on wheat
shipments after drought cut crops in both countries, Venus’
Mathari said. Russia’s government forecasts the country may
produce about 39.6 million tons of wheat this season, less than
the 41.5 million tons harvested in the 2010-11 season, when
drought spurred a 10-month ban on exports. Russia has no need to
implement trade limits now, President  Vladimir Putin  has said.  Ukraine’s wheat harvest fell 29 percent from a year earlier
to 16.4 million tons as of November, official statistics showed
Nov. 14. The country likely will stop exports by Dec. 1,
Volodymyr Klymenko, head of Ukraine’s Grain Association, said in
an interview today. GASC vice chairman Nomani Nomani has said
Egypt will drop Ukraine from its official list of wheat
suppliers next year, Reuters reported.  During the 2010-11 season, when Russia banned exports,
Egypt became the number one  buyer  of U.S. wheat, with shipments
totaling 4.021 million tons, according to the USDA. Last year,
U.S. shipments dropped to 949,800 tons, making Egypt the sixth-
largest buyer.  About 60 percent of Egypt’s wheat  imports  are managed by
the government and the rest is supplied by the private sector,
Mathari said. The country’s grain import program is unlikely to
change, even after political unrest toppled former President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s regime last year, he said.  “The  food supply  for the population is a very strategic
and very important sector,” Mathari said. “No matter what the
direction is that the regime in Egypt will take, it will always
be the top priority. They cannot afford to let the population
starve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  