-- Emerging Stocks Drop in Week as Earnings Sink Eletrobras
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-11-16T22:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/emerging-stocks-heading-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-august.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
extending the benchmark’s biggest weekly decline since May, as
escalating Middle East tensions and concern over the U.S.
economy cut demand for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid for a seventh day,
losing 0.5 percent to 969.82 at the close of trading in New
York, the lowest level since Sept. 7. The index declined 2.1
percent this week. Brazilian utility  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  had the biggest drop on the gauge, slumping to
the lowest close since 2003 after quarterly earnings trailed
estimates.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  tumbled 1.8 percent, leading
a retreat in emerging-market technology stocks.  The index pared losses after John Boehner, speaker of the
U.S. House of Representatives, said talks with President  Barack Obama  over the so-called fiscal cliff were “constructive.”
Industrial production in the nation unexpectedly fell 0.4
percent in October, data today showed. Palestinian missiles
landed in areas around  Jerusalem  and Tel Aviv, while  Israel 
stepped up its bombing on Gaza, buoying oil prices on
speculation supply will be interrupted.  “The risk-off mood continues to prevail,”  Benoit Anne ,
head of emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said by e-mail. “I don’t think we are going to see a
turnaround in the near term.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.3
percent, paring its weekly loss to 1.4 percent. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 2.8 percent.  Petrobras Sinks  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index retreated 1.6 percent, led by power
generator Eletrobras, as Centrais Brasileiras is known, which
plunged 12 percent. Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes (PDGR3)  dropped 7.3 percent to the lowest close since
March 2009 after canceling the release of new projects guidance
for 2012.  The Bovespa fell 3.4 percent in the week.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the country’s state-controlled oil producer,
dropped 3.9 percent to the lowest close since July. Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa told reporters in New York
yesterday that the company may have to sell more assets should
it not be allowed by the government to raise fuel prices.  Russia’s  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  fell 0.2 percent, extending its second
weekly drop to 1.3 percent. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the country’s largest
producer of coal for steelmakers, fell 2.2 percent while OAO
Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, sank 2.7 percent.  Spread Shrinks  Latam Airlines SA (LAN) , the world’s most valuable carrier,
tumbled 1.8 percent, leading declines in Chile’s benchmark Ipsa
index and posting its longest streak of losses in six months.
The airline’s chief executive officer said it is considering
selling new stock to help reduce debt and regain an investment-
grade credit rating.  The Russian ruble weakened 0.2 percent. South Korea’s won
fell 0.5 percent against the dollar, the most in almost two
months, while the Indian rupee and the Brazilian real fell 0.9
percent, leading declines among emerging-market currencies.
Israel’s shekel added 0.2 percent as Jerusalem and Tel Aviv
sounded air-raid sirens and Israel extended its bombing of the
Gaza Strip.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 306 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  China Leadership  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost the most among major
Asian markets this week on concern the nation’s new leadership
won’t accelerate economic reforms. The economy of the euro area
contracted 0.1 percent in the third quarter, slipping into
recession for the second time in four years, a Luxembourg-based
statistics office said yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite slid 0.8 percent today, paring
earlier losses of as much as 1.4 percent, after the government
announced a dividend-tax cut for long-term investors.  The composition of the Communist Party’s top leadership
body announced in  China  yesterday hurt expectations for economic
reform, Adam Wolfe, senior economist for Asia at Roubini Global
Economics in London, wrote in an e-mail.  Wang Qishan , who
oversaw the nation’s financial sector amid looser government
controls on interest rates and the  yuan , was named to a post
that signaled he won’t directly supervise the economy.  Zhang Dejiang, vice premier in charge of industries
including telecommunications and energy, was also named
yesterday to the paramount Politburo Standing Committee. Zhang
said in a November 2010 speech that state-owned enterprises must
strive to be “stronger, more excellent and bigger,” the Xinhua
News Agency reported.  ‘Big Hit’  “Hopes for economic reform took a big hit,” Roubini
Global’s Wolfe wrote yesterday. “Wang has a track record of
implementing market-oriented reforms in the past. He would have
been expected to take on the state-owned enterprises’ monopolies
and ease financial repression in the banking sector.”  China will cut its stock dividend tax by half for
individuals who hold shares for at least one year as part of
efforts to encourage long-term investment and reduce speculative
trading. The tax rate will be lowered to 5 percent effective
Jan. 1, the Ministry of Finance said on its website today.  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.5 percent, while
Taiwan’s Taiex index lost 0.2 percent. The BSE India Sensitive
Index fell 0.9 percent, extending a six-day decline, the longest
slump in almost a year.  Samsung Electronics slid the most in three weeks, while SK
Hynix Inc. sank 4.6 percent, making a gauge of  technology stocks 
the biggest decliner among 10 industries in the MSCI emerging-
market index. Dell Inc. forecast fiscal fourth-quarter revenue
will be $14 billion to $14.4 billion, lower than the $14.5
billion average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Applied Materials Inc. predicted sales in the fiscal first
quarter will decline as much as 15 percent from the prior
quarter.  Haier Electronics (1169)  sank 6.4 percent, its biggest loss
since March 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  