-- Henkel Drops Most in Year as Four-Year Targets Disappoint
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-11-16T10:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/henkel-drops-most-in-year-as-four-year-targets-disappoint.html
Henkel AG fell the most in more than
a year in Frankfurt trading on disappointment that the German
maker of Loctite glues and Persil detergent refrained from
giving a margin forecast among four-year goals outlined today.  The  shares  fell as much as 5.6 percent to 57.85 euros, the
steepest decline since November last year. They were 4.8 percent
lower as of 11:16 a.m., leading declines in the DAX index.  The 2016 targets announced by the Dusseldorf-based company
were “disappointingly non-existent or vague,”  Andrew Wood , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients. He
said investors may be unhappy at the absence of a margin goal.  Henkel predicted that revenue will rise to 20 billion euros
($25.5 billion) in 2016 with half coming from  emerging markets 
as it plans mid-sized acquisitions. Earnings per share will grow
at an annual pace of 10 percent, the company said. Henkel is
“deeply committed” to reaching the goals, Chief Executive
Officer Kasper Rorsted said at a meeting with analysts.  Also today, the company reported third-quarter sales growth
that missed analysts’ estimates and said it expects 125 million
euros of costs for restructuring this year, higher than a
previous forecast of 100 million euros.  The 2016 targets imply that Henkel will make “small and
mid-sized acquisitions” as well as divest non-strategic
activities with total sales of about 500 million euros, the
company said today. The guidance doesn’t include any potential
big acquisitions or divestments, it said.  Acquisitions Sought  Henkel, which ended last year with the lowest level of net
debt since 2004, wants to boost growth through acquisitions,
Chief Financial Officer Carsten Knobel said at the meeting. The
German company in May purchased Cytec Industries Inc.’s
pressure-sensitive adhesives product line for $105 million and
in August acquired  Colgate-Palmolive Co.’s (CL)  laundry cleaning
business in the  Dominican Republic , its first  acquisitions  since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Share repurchases and higher dividends are also possible,
Knobel said, though buybacks aren’t part of the plan at the
moment and the company’s growth is the main priority, he said.  Henkel is tapping growth in developing regions as austerity
measures weigh on spending in the euro area. Competitor Unilever
reported third-quarter revenue growth on Oct. 25 that beat
estimates led by demand for personal-care products in emerging
markets, while  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  had profit in the period that also
exceeded estimates on strong developing markets growth.  Henkel said it will increase investment and raise  capital
spending  by more than 40 percent to about 2 billion euros until
2016. The company will continue to focus on cash generation by
reducing working capital to about 5 percent of sales by 2016.  So-called organic sales rose 2.5 percent in the third
quarter, Henkel said today, trailing the 3.4 percent  average
estimate  of nine analysts. Adjusted earnings before interest and
tax rose 17 percent to 631 million euros, exceeding the 620.1
million-euro average estimate of 13 analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  