-- Erdogan Fights Ataturk Secularism With Islam Fervor Once Denied
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/erdogan-buries-ataturk-secularism-with-islam-fervor-once-denied.html
When an earthquake toppled a school
in eastern Turkey last year, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government opened a new one at the same site, with one
difference.  It was no longer named after Turkey’s founder and secular
hero, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. A smiling Erdogan cut a red ribbon
and posed for pictures in front of the elementary school, now
named after his late mother, Tenzile. A week later on Oct. 29,
police used tear gas and water cannons against opposition
supporters marching to Ataturk’s mausoleum in Ankara to
celebrate the republic’s 89th anniversary.  Many admirers of Ataturk say the way of life he enshrined
is at peril under the Islamist-rooted Erdogan. Defenders of
Turkey’s secular traditions rallied again on Nov. 10, the
anniversary of Ataturk’s death in 1938, when more than 400,000
visited the mausoleum. Their grievances include the conversion
of secular schools into religious ones, the spread of Islamic
headscarves in public offices, the jailing of secular-minded
generals and journalists, and a diplomatic shift away from
Europe and toward the Islamic  Middle East .  Erdogan’s government is “purposefully trying to erode the
place of Ataturk in the Turkish collective memory,” said Svante E. Cornell, research director at the Central Asia-Caucasus
Institute & Silk Road Studies Program in  Stockholm . “Turkey is
becoming a model, but not the one we in the West believe. It’s a
model for how Islamist parties can accede to power and stay in
power.”  New Entrepreneurs  Erdogan counters that he has transformed Turkey from an
 indebted  and coup-prone country into the regional power Ataturk
always wanted it to be. Growth has averaged 5.5 percent since
2002, compared with about 4 percent in the 1990s.  Gross domestic
product in dollar terms  tripled to almost $800 billion,  exports 
quadrupled and  foreign investment  rose to a record as companies
such as Vodafone Group Plc and  BNP Paribas SA (TEBNK)  acquired units.  Buoyed by the  economy ’s success, Erdogan has pushed his
party to the center of the business world as well as political
life.  New entrepreneurs are emerging with ties to Erdogan’s
government. While established businesses have benefited too,
their share is shrinking. In the decade under Erdogan, the
benchmark Istanbul share index has jumped about 600 percent.  Koc
Holding AS (KCHOL)  and  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , the two biggest
diversified groups with roots in the early republic, rose about
375 percent.  Business Boycott  Erdogan in September repeated a vow to boycott Tusiad, the
business federation that groups Koc, Sabanci and Turkey’s other
biggest companies. His ministers are more likely to show up at
meetings hosted by its rival  Musiad , a pro-Islamic business
group whose members are typically smaller and more likely to be
from outside Istanbul.  After narrowing escaping a court ban in 2008 for
undermining secular rules, his Justice and Development party
last week proposed legislation to bolster the powers of the
president at the expense of parliament. While the post is
currently mostly symbolic, the move could pave the way for
Erdogan to become the first elected head of state in 2014.  Three election wins for Erdogan have already left  Turkey ’s
secularists on the defensive as his Justice and Development or
AK Party cements its control of state institutions. The army, a
bulwark of secularism which has ousted four elected governments
since 1960, has been shorn of its political influence and
hundreds of military officers, as well as journalists, are in
jail on charges of plotting a coup.  Postwar Turkey  “The prime minister wants us all to live in the Republic
of Tayyip Erdogan,” said Huseyin Emre Altinisik, deputy
chairman of the Ataturk Thought Foundation. “It’s a country
where we can only think and breathe the way he wants us to.”  The increasingly prosperous Turkey that Erdogan presides
over contrasts with the conflict-ravaged land where Ataturk took
charge after World War I. As Turkey’s traditional Ottoman rulers
capitulated and Western powers drew up plans to partition its
territory, Ataturk mustered a rebel army and freed the country
from occupying British, French, Greek and Italian troops.  He then abolished the  Ottoman Empire  and its Caliphate, the
office through which the sultans had claimed leadership of the
Islamic world, and proclaimed a secular republic of Turkey. The
new state introduced the Latin alphabet to replace the Arabic
one, and promoted European styles in clothing and culture. It
also banned opposition parties.  Stand to Attention  On Nov. 10, Ataturk’s devotees repeated the rituals marked
each year since he died. Tens of thousands marched to the
 mausoleum  through the rain, some wearing masks of Ataturk and
holding red carnations. In central parts of Ankara, Istanbul and
other cities, drivers pulled over and honked their horns at 9:05
a.m., the time of his death, and pedestrians stood to attention.  In much of the country, though, the moment passed without
notice. In a hotel in the southeastern city of Sanliurfa, guests
continued with their breakfast and outside it pedestrians kept
walking.  “Observance of the ceremony is no longer as universal as
it used to be,” said Azeem Ibrahim, a fellow at the Michigan-
based Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, which
specializes in Islamic politics. “Turks are instead looking
ahead to the next ten years. And if Turkey does change from a
parliamentary to a presidential system, then those years will
almost certainly be Erdogan’s.”  ‘With Gratitude’  In Brunei for an official visit, Erdogan became the first
premier to miss the commemoration in Ankara, according to the
pro-secular  Cumhuriyet newspaper . He posted on Twitter the day
before that “we once again remember Ataturk with gratitude.”  Erdogan rebuffed criticism over his absence. “Is it a
crime?” he said on the plane home, according to Hurriyet daily.  It’s illegal to denigrate Ataturk, and his framed portraits
still decorate schools, businesses, public offices and homes,
while banknotes and coins feature Ataturk’s profile. When coins
without it, printed to commemorate a cultural festival, appeared
earlier this year, secular newspapers protested.  Erdogan’s party has proposed that lawmakers should no
longer be required to swear loyalty to Ataturk’s principles and
the secular republic when taking their oath of office,  Hurriyet
newspaper reported yesterday , citing submissions to a parliament
committee in charge of rewriting the constitution.  Erdogan also rejects claims that he doesn’t show due
deference to Ataturk. In parliament on Nov. 13, Erdogan accused
the main opposition  Republican People’s Party , founded by the
country’s founder, of exploiting his legacy and announced that
the government is rebuilding two houses owned by Ataturk’s
father in Macedonia.  No Sermons  “We’re not the kind of people who sermonize, or memorize
speeches,” he said. “We’re taking care of Ataturk’s legacies
and relics.”  Education Minister Omer Dincer has also rejected opposition
charges that the change of name at the Van school was
disrespectful, saying Ataturk’s name was given to another larger
school nearby. The expansion of religious education was a
response to public demands, he said.  “No one has a monopoly on Ataturk,” Nusret Bayraktar, a
lawmaker from Erdogan’s party, said by phone yesterday. “We
should take his views as a base and if necessary adapt them,
according to changes in today’s world, to develop and progress
Turkey further and fulfill his vision.”  The legacy of Ataturk is nevertheless too powerful for any
Turkish leader to overcome, says Soner Cagaptay, director of the
Turkish Research Program at the Washington Institute.  Ataturk was determined to restore Turkey’s great-power
status so it could “successfully compete against its historic
European rivals,” Capagtay said. While Erdogan’s Turkey may not
seek to emulate  Europe , it will still treat it as a measuring-
stick, he said. Also, both leaders favor “top-down social
engineering,” seeking to raise generations of Turks who shared
their ideas, Cagaptay said.  “Kemalism may be dead, but Ataturk’s way of doing business
appears to be alive and kicking,” Cagaptay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  