-- MetroPCS Talked With Eight Companies on Way to T-Mobile Merger
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/metropcs-held-talks-with-eight-companies-on-way-to-t-mobile-deal.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (S)  agreed
to a merger with T-Mobile USA after holding a range of talks
with at least eight other companies, including one that offered
$13.39 a share in cash and stock, according to a filing.  The unnamed suitor, referred to as “Company G,” decided
not to go forward with the deal in February, MetroPCS said
yesterday in a  proxy filing  to investors. People familiar with
the matter have identified Sprint Nextel Corp. as the company
bidding for MetroPCS at the time. MetroPCS ultimately made a
deal with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s owner, which announced
plans on Oct. 3 to merge the two businesses.  MetroPCS shares closed yesterday at $10.76, about 20
percent less than Sprint’s February offer. That bid, which
included $5.50 in cash, represented a 30 percent premium over
MetroPCS’s shares at the time and a roughly 60 percent premium
over their price when the Richardson, Texas-based company first
received a formal offer from Sprint in December.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has
considered making a counteroffer to the T-Mobile bid, people
familiar with the situation said last month. The company will
probably study yesterday’s filing for insight into the T-Mobile-
MetroPCS deal, said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC.  “The filing could provide Sprint more details to consider
whether to launch a competitive bid for MetroPCS,” Piecyk, who
is based in New York, said in an e-mail.  Bill White, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment, as did MetroPCS and T-Mobile.  T-Mobile Terms  Under the T-Mobile deal, Deutsche Telekom will hold 74
percent of the merged business and pay MetroPCS shareholders
$1.5 billion in cash. The combined entity will keep the T-Mobile
name and be run by John Legere, the former chief executive
officer of Global Crossing Ltd., who took charge of T-Mobile USA
in September.  MetroPCS had initially sought to retain more control of the
combined company, according to yesterday’s filing. It had
weighed giving up the cash offer to get 51 percent control --
terms that Deutsche Telekom refused. Over the course of eight
months of negotiations, executives from Deutsche Telekom and
MetroPCS met in  Germany ,  Dallas ,  Boston , New York and  Athens .  Sprint rekindled talks with MetroPCS in August, before the
deal with T-Mobile was set. That month, Sprint said President
Keith Cowan, who handled strategic planning for the carrier,
would be stepping down. A senior executive from Sprint,
described as Company G, told T-Mobile that the reasons why the
deal hadn’t proceeded earlier in the year were no longer
applicable. Company G indicated that it was considering another
bid, according to the filing.  Softbank Investment  On Oct. 15, Softbank Corp. agreed to buy a stake of about
70 percent in Sprint for $20.1 billion. The Japanese company
will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders, and the deal
includes $8 billion of new capital. That has provided Sprint
will funds to make its own acquisitions.  Sprint also has seen its stock more than double in value
since the February MetroPCS talks. The shares fell 1.1 percent
to $5.48 yesterday.  According to the filing, a senior Company G executive
indicated in October that his company was still considering a
bid for MetroPCS and that if the T-Mobile deal moved forward,
“he hoped any breakup fee payable by MetroPCS to pursue an
alternative transaction would be reasonable.”  Under its deal with Deutsche Telekom, MetroPCS would pay
$150 million if it backs out of the arrangement. The reverse
breakup fee for T-Mobile is $250 million. Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom is prepared for a counterbid from Sprint and would
consider better terms if necessary, a person familiar with the
matter said in October.  The deal is the latest attempt by Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann to revive the fortunes of T-Mobile, the fourth-largest
U.S. carrier, more than a decade after the German company
entered the American market. The combined entity will have sales
of $24.8 billion and 42.5 million subscribers -- still well
behind Verizon Wireless, AT&T Inc. and Sprint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  