-- EU Carbon Auction Clears at Biggest Discount to Spot Price
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-11-16T11:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/eu-carbon-auction-clears-at-biggest-discount-to-spot-price.html
Germany’s sale  of spot European
Union carbon permits for the third phase of the bloc’s carbon
market cleared at the biggest discount to the spot market price
since the sales began three weeks ago.  The country sold 3 million metric tons of permits valid for
Phase 3 of the EU emissions-trading system, which starts in
January, at a price of 6.75 euros ($8.59) a ton on the European
Energy Exchange AG. That’s 25 cents less than the prevailing
price for Phase 2 spot allowances, according to data from  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and Caisse des Depots et des Consignations’ Bluenext SA
spot exchange, and the biggest discount to the spot price since
Phase 3 sales started on Oct. 26.  The European Commission, the market’s regulator, proposed
this week to withhold 900 million permits from the market
starting next year, to fix a surplus of permits that drove
prices for December to a record-low 5.99 euros on April 4. It is
also selling as many as 120 million Phase 3 permits before that
period begins, after utilities sought early auctions of carbon
allowances to match their forward sales of electricity.  The EU sold 4.03 million Phase 3 permits yesterday at a
discount of 8 cents to the prevailing spot market price. Bidding
volume in yesterday’s sale was the lowest yet, as buyers sought
a total of 4.9 million tons compared to the total of 4.03
million tons for sale.  EU regulations governing carbon auctions allow the seller
to cancel the sale if the clearing price is deemed to be
“significantly under” the prevailing market price. EEX didn’t
immediately reply to e-mailed questions seeking more details of
the cancellation criteria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  