-- EU Talks Said to Bring No Breakthrough on CO2 Supply Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-16T12:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/eu-talks-said-to-bring-no-breakthrough-on-co2-supply-fix.html
European Union talks on a carbon
market fix failed to bring clarity on whether governments will
back a proposal by the bloc’s regulator to curb a glut of
emission permits, two EU officials said.  Representatives of EU nations in the Climate Change
Committee reached no breakthrough at a meeting yesterday on a
draft measure to delay auctions of 900 million carbon permits
starting in 2013, according to the officials, who declined to be
identified citing policy. The gathering in Brussels was the
first after the European Commission on Nov. 12 proposed a
specific number of allowances to be delayed under the draft
measure outlined earlier this year and two days later set out
long-term options to improve the market, as requested by
governments.  While there was no sign of a blocking minority emerging at
the meeting, many  member states , including  Germany , stopped
short of revealing their position on the strategy to delay
auctions of carbon permits, known as backloading, according to
the officials.  At stake is the price of emission permits in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade system after they plunged to a record low
of 5.99 euros in April as the economic crisis hurt industrial
output, boosting the surplus of allowances to almost half of the
average annual pollution limit in the 27-nation EU.  EU allowances for delivery next month fell 1.8 percent to 7
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
11:19 a.m. in  London . The contract has lost about a third of its
value in the past year.  Further Questions  France and  Belgium  confirmed their support for the measure
at the meeting yesterday and  Poland  reiterated its objections to
the plan, according to the officials. A number of countries had
further questions about the commission’s proposal, they said.  The proposal to auction fewer permits at the beginning of
the next trading period in the EU emissions trading system is
considered in the so-called comitology procedure. Under that
process, a draft measure needs qualified-majority support from
representatives of member states to pass and then becomes
subject to a three-month scrutiny period by national governments
and the European Parliament before being officially adopted.  In a parallel but separate process, member states and the
European Parliament are considering an  amendment  to the EU
emissions trading law to reassert the commission’s power to
decide about the timing of auctions, a provision that would
remove any legal uncertainty about the backloading measure.  Next Meeting  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  has said she aims
for a decision on the backloading measure before the end of this
year. The next meeting of the Climate Change Committee is
scheduled for Dec. 13.  The European Parliament is scheduled to decide about the
amendment to the ETS emissions law on April 15, two months after
a vote in the assembly’s environment committee. The commission
will adopt the backloading measure only after lawmakers’ verdict
on the change to the EU carbon-trading legislation, Hedegaard
said on Nov. 12.  The EU carbon-permit auction calendar for next year, which
may be published by early December, won’t initially take into
account the amount of permits to be delayed, according to the
commission. The ICE Futures Europe exchange and the European
Energy Exchange AG, which host carbon auctions for EU
governments, will update their schedules to take account of
backloading after the commission adopts the supply fix, reducing
the volume for the remainder of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  