-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Slump in Five Months
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-slump-in-five-months.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly drop since June amid concern President  Barack Obama  and
Congress will fail to agree on a new budget, triggering $607
billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  EON AG slumped 16 percent after  Germany ’s biggest utility
lowered its earnings forecast. Vodafone Group Plc slid 5.9
percent as the world’s second-largest mobile-phone company took
a 5.9 billion-pound ($9.4 billion) writedown on its operations
in Spain and  Italy . SBM Offshore NV plunged 19 percent after
saying it won’t meet its sales forecast for 2012.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 2.7 percent to 262.86
this past week, erasing its advance since the European Central
Bank authorized an unlimited bond-buying program in September.
The gauge has  lost 4.3 percent  since Obama won a second term on
Nov. 6 amid concern that the president and Republican lawmakers
will fail to avert a package of deficit-cutting measures.  “The way to play the fiscal cliff is to be very cautious
in the short term,” Stewart Richardson, chief investment
officer at RMG Wealth Management LLP said on Bloomberg
Television in  London  this week. “The day after the election we
saw another bad down day in equities and that gave us a
technical signal that markets were vulnerable to the downside.
We have seen that movement follow through this week.”  Stocks have tumbled  around the world  on concern that the
so-called fiscal cliff will push the world’s largest economy
into a recession at the beginning of next year.  Budget Negotiations  Obama began negotiations with Democrat and Republican
congressional leaders on Nov. 16. The president said at a press
conference on Nov. 12 that Bush-era tax cuts for high earners
should expire at the start of 2013. House Speaker John Boehner’s
colleagues refuse to raise tax rates.  European stocks extended their selloff this week as  Israel 
bombed the Gaza Strip. Hamas’s armed wing, the Al-Qassam
Brigades, said that it fired rockets at  Jerusalem  and Tel Aviv.
Crude oil erased its slide this week.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western-European
market except Greece and Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 2.4
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 2.8 percent and Germany’s DAX
declined 3 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index slipped 0.6 percent
amid speculation the country will soon request a bailout from
the European Union.  A report from the EU’s statistics office on Nov. 15 showed
the euro area slipped back into a recession in the  third quarter 
as governments imposed tougher austerity measures to narrow
their fiscal deficits. Gross domestic product slipped 0.1
percent, its second consecutive quarter of contraction.  Industrial Production  Separate releases showed that  industrial production  in the
currency zone dropped the most since 2009 in September, Greece’s
economy contracted for a 17th straight quarter and jobless
claims rose at the fastest pace in more than a year in the U.K.  More than 60 companies on the Stoxx 600 were  scheduled  to
report earnings results this week. Of those that have posted
results since Oct. 9, 51 percent have exceeded analysts’ profit
forecasts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-three
percent have beaten revenue estimates, down from 61 percent in
the previous quarter,  the data  shows.  EON slumped 16 percent after the company said its previous
earnings forecast for 2013 “no longer seems achievable”
because its gas-fired power plans were not making money. The
company also said it will consider cutting  dividends .  Vodafone Declines  Vodafone slid 5.9 percent after the telecommunications
operator also reported a 1.4 percent decline in service revenue
in the second quarter, its first drop in 10 quarters.  SBM Offshore (SBMO)  plunged 19 percent after the Dutch oil-
services company said it won’t meet its 2012 revenue forecast of
$4 billion. The shares also fell after MSCI Inc. removed the
stock from some of its indexes.  Zurich Insurance Group AG lost 5.2 percent after
 Switzerland’s biggest insurer  reported on Nov. 15 a 62 percent
drop in third-quarter profit following a $550 million writedown.
Net income missed analysts’ estimates.  Melrose Plc sank 16 percent after the company said revenue
growth in the period since July 1 has slowed compared with the
first half of the year and the outlook for earnings-per-share
growth in 2013 has become more uncertain.  Hennes & Mauritz AB retreated 4.7 percent after  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer said on Nov. 15 that sales at
stores open a year or more slid 5 percent last month, missing
some analysts’ estimates.  ICAP, Mediaset  ICAP Plc tumbled 9.4 percent after the world’s largest
broker of transactions between banks reported a 26 percent slump
in first-half pretax profit. The company said full-year profit
would be at the “low end” of analysts’ estimates.  Mediaset SpA declined 8.7 percent after the broadcaster cut
its full-year profit forecast and posted an 88.4 million-euro
($112 million) third-quarter net loss.  J Sainsbury Plc fell 4.6 percent after Britain’s third-
largest supermarket chain predicted that food inflation will
increase over the next few months and shoppers will buy less.
The retailer still reported a 5.4 percent increase in first-half
earnings.  Vivendi SA gained 4.9 percent after the French company said
earnings will fall less this year than it had predicted, helped
by cost cuts and demand for video games. Third-quarter profit
also exceeded analysts’ estimates.  ITV Plc surged 7.2 percent after the U.K.’s largest
terrestrial commercial broadcaster accelerated its cost-cutting
program, saying it will deliver 30 million pounds of savings in
2012. The company also reported a 4 percent increase in nine-
month revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  