-- U.S. Stocks Gain After Budget Talks While Oil Rallies
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-11-16T21:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/european-stocks-drop-yen-weakens-to-six-month-low.html
U.S. stocks rose, trimming a weekly
slump, as House Speaker John Boehner said budget talks with
President  Barack Obama  were constructive and he would accept an
increase in government revenue if coupled with spending cuts.
Commodities climbed and Treasuries pared an earlier advance.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.5 percent to
close at 1,359.88 at 4 p.m. in New York, rebounding from its
 lowest level  since July. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index ended down 1
percent at the lowest since August. Oil added 1.4 percent as
conflict escalated in Israel. Treasury 10-year yields fell 1.4
basis points to 1.58 percent.  Japan ’s  Topix Index (TPX)  had its best
two-day gain in 19 months on speculation of monetary easing.  Stocks erased  earlier losses  as Boehner’s remarks spurred
optimism that lawmakers would reach an agreement to avoid a $607
billion deficit-cutting package known as the fiscal cliff.
Earlier declines also were triggered as Israel extended its
bombing of the Gaza Strip and militant Palestinian groups fired
rockets at the Jewish state.  “Any tidbit of hope on the fiscal-cliff front would lead
to a positive response,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who
helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama . “That’s been the driving force in the
market.”  Obama held his first face-to-face conversation with Boehner
since the presidential election. The president also hosted House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican.  ‘Very Shaky’  The S&P 500 retreated for a second  straight week  and has
lost almost 5 percent since the Nov. 6 election set up a budget
showdown between Obama and the Republican-controlled House. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average slid for a fourth straight week,
it’s longest slump since August 2011. Ten-year Treasury notes
increased in six of seven sessions since the election and yields
today touched a 10-week low.  “The markets are very shaky,” former Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan told Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” program with  Betty Liu . “The markets will crater if we
run into any evidence that we can’t solve this problem,” he
said. “If we get out of this with a moderate recession, I would
say the price is very cheap. The presumption that we’re going to
solve this problem without pain, I think, is grossly
inappropriate.”  Among the 10  main industry groups  in the S&P 500, health-
care, utility and consumer companies rose at least 0.6 percent
as groups to lead gains. Alcoa Inc., Home Depot Inc.,
UnitedHealth Group Inc. and American Express Co. rose more than
1.2 percent for the best gains in the Dow.  Market Movers  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
increased 1 percent after raising its full-year earnings
forecast as sales in North America advanced.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  tumbled 7.3 percent after predicting fourth-
quarter revenue of as little as $14 billion, less than the $14.5
billion  average of analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Dynavax Technologies Corp. slid 47 percent after its hepatitis B
vaccine failed to win the backing of U.S. regulatory advisers.
Sears Holdings Corp. lost 19 percent after posting a wider-than-
forecast loss and a 23rd straight quarterly sales decline.  The 10-year Treasury yield trimmed an earlier decline of as
much as four basis points. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE
index, which measures price swings on Treasuries based on
options, dropped to 55.6 yesterday, its lowest level since June
5, 2007.  European Markets  The Stoxx 600 dropped below its closing level on Aug. 2,
the day before European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
announced a plan to buy the debt of euro-area countries that ask
for its help.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  lost 2.3 percent after people
familiar with the situation said that  Europe’s largest
semiconductor maker  will probably decide against splitting
itself into two units. French and Italian executives disagreed
over the proposal, said the people who asked not to be
identified. Henkel AG plunged 4.7 percent as the maker of Persil
washing powder posted sales growth that  missed estimates .  The Topix climbed 1.9 percent, extending yesterday’s 2.1
percent rally, on signs that an opposition party that advocates
unlimited monetary stimulus will win next month’s election in
Japan. Mazda Motor Corp. and Nikon Corp. surged more than 7
percent in  Tokyo  as the yen’s depreciation against the dollar
this week aided their earnings outlook.  Oil futures advanced 1.4 percent to $86.67 a barrel,
erasing yesterday’s 1 percent drop, amid concern that the clash
between  Israel  and Hamas will escalate into a wider conflict and
threaten supplies from the Middle East.  Crude and natural gas led gains in 12 of 24 commodities
tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, sending the index up 0.5 percent.  Emerging-market stocks fell for a seventh day, their
longest losing streak in four months, amid concern  China ’s new
leaders may slow efforts to reduce the government’s grip on the
economy. The Shanghai Composite Index sank as much as 1.4
percent to its lowest level in more than 3 1/2 years, before
paring its drop to 0.8 percent. South Korea’s KOSPI declined 0.5
percent to its lowest level in more than three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  