-- European Stocks Sink to Three-Month Low on Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-16T17:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/europe-stock-futures-little-changed-before-u-s-talks.html
European stocks  sank to a three-
month low as U.S. President  Barack Obama  held talks with
Republican lawmakers on the so-called fiscal cliff and fighting
between  Israel  and Hamas escalated.  Natixis led a drop in banks, sliding 4.7 percent.  Melrose (MRO) 
Plc plunged 11 percent as revenue growth slowed. Henkel AG & Co.
KGaA retreated the most in a more than year as the chemical
maker’s sales missed projections. Royal Boskalis Westminster NV
jumped 5.3 percent after raising its profit forecast.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1 percent to 262.86 at
the close of trading, the lowest since Aug. 2. The measure has
lost 4.3 percent since Obama’s re-election on Nov. 6 as traders
turned their focus to the $607 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts that come into force next year if Congress doesn’t
act. The gauge has retreated 2.7 percent this week for the
biggest decline in five months.  “Investors’ attention is focused on the meeting between
lawmakers in the U.S. today to discuss the fiscal cliff,” said
John Plassard, vice president at Mirabaud Securities LLP in
Geneva, which oversees about $26 billion. “If they can’t agree
in the coming days, we would be in a similar situation as last
year when Republicans and Democrats couldn’t agree on raising
the debt ceiling. General expectation is that they’ll come to an
agreement in the last minute, but until then markets will be
nervous and rather shaky.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets, except Greece and Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and
 Germany ’s DAX Index sank 1.3 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 Index
slipped 1.2 percent.  Israel Tension  Stocks extended losses as Hamas fired rockets at  Jerusalem 
and Tel Aviv and Israel expanded its bombing of the Gaza Strip.
The escalating conflict threatens a region still unbalanced
after a wave of popular uprisings last year, including one in
Israel’s neighbor  Syria  that has turned into a civil war.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters staged demonstrations from
Cairo to Tehran and Istanbul to denounce Israel’s attacks.  “The situation in Israel doesn’t help at all,” said
Richard Bonnor-Moris, head of multi-asset allocation at Newscape
Capital Group Ltd. in  London , which oversees about $600 million.
“Any kind of tensions in that region that do end up forcing the
price of oil higher is particular bad for growth.”  Crude for January delivery gained 1.5 percent to $87.14 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Budget Talks  Obama held his first face-to-face talks with House Speaker
John Boehner since the presidential election today. He also
hosts House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat,
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican. Obama’s
insistence on higher taxes for top earners and Republicans’
refusal to raise rates leaves negotiators with arithmetically
complex and politically fraught choices.  Today’s meeting featured the same people who failed to
reach an agreement during debt-ceiling talks in 2011. Obama
leaves for Asia tomorrow and Congress is departing  Washington 
until Nov. 26 for the Thanksgiving recess. After European
markets closed, Boehner said the talks with Obama were
“constructive.”  Industrial production in the U.S. unexpectedly declined in
October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power in the Northeast.
Output at factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.4 percent
last month after a revised 0.2 percent increase in September
that was smaller than previously estimated, Federal Reserve data
showed today. Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according
to the Bloomberg survey median.  ECB Action  The Stoxx 600 has erased all the gains that followed the
European Central Bank’s Sept. 6 announcement of unlimited bond
buying to bring down borrowing costs in the region’s weakest
economies. The number of shares changing hands today was 13
percent greater than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stoxx 600  bank  shares fell 1.9 percent for the worst
performance among the 19 industry groups. Paris-based  Natixis (KN) 
sank 4.7 percent to 2.30 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s
second-largest lender, lost 5 percent to 1.24 euros and  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  retreated 5.9 percent to 73 euro cents.  Melrose slid 11 percent to 208.9 pence, the largest drop
since August 2011. The London-based company that acquires
engineering businesses said revenue growth in the period since
July 1 has slowed compared with the first half of the year and
the outlook for 2013 has become more uncertain.  Henkel Drops  Henkel fell 4.7 percent to 58.41 euros, the largest decline
since Sept. 22, 2011. The German maker of Loctite glues and
Persil detergent reported third-quarter so-called organic
revenue growth of 2.5 percent, falling short of the 3.4 percent
average analyst estimate.  De’Longhi SpA (DLG)  tumbled 12 percent to 9.23 euros, the largest
decline on record. The main shareholder in the Italian maker of
appliances sold 11.96 million shares, or 8 percent of total
stock outstanding. De Longhi Soparfi SA, controlled by the De
Longhi family, sold the holding at 9.50 euros a share.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO)  retreated 6.5 percent to 8.12 euros,
extending yesterday’s 13 percent slide. Societe Generale SA cut
its share-price estimate for the world’s biggest supplier of
floating oil platforms to 9.30 euros from 13 euros.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  fell 4.7 percent to 68 euro cents after
Il Sole 24 Ore said Italy’s biggest phone carrier may call off
the possible spinoff of its fixed-line network.  Royal KPN NV, the former Dutch phone monopoly, slid 7.1
percent to 4.03 euros, the lowest price in a decade. Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. cut its recommendation on the stock yesterday,
and KPN’s chief executive officer said it may temporarily accept
a lower credit rating.  Boskalis Rallies  Boskalis, the largest dredging company, jumped 5.3 percent
to 29.82 euros in Amsterdam for the best performance in the
Stoxx 600. The company raised its 2012 net income  forecast  to a
range of 230 million euros to 245 million euros. It earlier
forecast profit of 210 million euros to 230 million euros.
Boskalis also said it’s in talks after being approached by a
party in the Middle East to sell its 40 percent stake in
coastal-infrastructure company Archirodon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  