-- Eutelsat CEO Predicts Abertis Will Sell Remaining Stake
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-16T13:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/eutelsat-ceo-predicts-abertis-will-sell-remaining-stake.html
Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL)  Chief
Executive Officer Michel de Rosen said the French satellite
company expects shareholder  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  to
divest its remaining stake.  “When they will sell it, who they will sell it to, that is
their prerogative,” de Rosen said in an interview at a
conference organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona today.
“They don’t have to report to us. It’s their decision.”  Abertis owns about 8.4 percent of Paris-based Eutelsat,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Barcelona-based
Abertis, whose businesses range from toll-road management
to telecommunications and airports, sold 35.2 million Eutelsat
shares, or a 16 percent stake, for 27.85 euros each in January.
It agreed to sell an additional 7 percent stake to China
Investment Corp. in June.  Eutelsat’s CEO said he’s “confident” the company will
meet or even beat its financial targets for revenue growth,
capital expenditure and the margin for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for the fiscal year ending
June 30. Eutelsat also wants “the dividend to grow every year
so as to have happy shareholders,” he said, ruling out any
extraordinary dividend or share buybacks.  The company is also considering the purchase of some
businesses to boost growth and won’t dispose of any assets,
according to de Rosen.  “We’re not planning anything transformational, but
respecting our leverage we would be delighted to be able to do
some focused, limited, value-creative deals,” de Rosen said.
“We are working on this and maybe something would happen this
year, maybe next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  