-- Ex-Refco Lawyer Guilty of Aiding $2.4 Billion Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ex-refco-lawyer-guilty-of-aiding-2-4-billion-fraud.html
Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former
outside lawyer whose 2009 fraud conviction was reversed in
January, was again found guilty by a jury in federal court in
Manhattan.  Jurors convicted Collins on seven out of 10 criminal
charges against him after a four-week retrial. Prosecutors
claimed Collins helped Refco Chief Executive Officer Phillip Bennett and other executives defraud investors of $2.4 billion.  “Even though we found him guilty, he was lucky to have
us,” Andrea Brennan, Juror No. 9, said after the verdict was
delivered yesterday afternoon, on the fifth day of
deliberations. “We really agonized over this. People didn’t
sleep.”  Jurors found Collins guilty of one count of conspiracy and
two counts each of  securities fraud , wire fraud and filing false
statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. He was
acquitted of bank fraud and two wire-fraud charges. Brennan said
that at no time during deliberations did any of the jury members
argue Collins was innocent of all the charges.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska set Collins’s sentencing
for March 20. He faces as long as five years in prison on the
conspiracy charge and as long as 20 years on each of the other
charges.  Improper Instructions  The new trial had been granted by a U.S. appeals court,
which ruled that the judge in the first trial improperly
instructed a deliberating juror outside the presence of
Collins’s lawyers.  Prosecutors at the second trial accused Collins of helping
New York-based Refco’s management hide transactions that
concealed losses.  “Over and over and over again, Collins ignored his duties
as an officer of the court by actively participating in the
crimes of his client -- telling blatant lies, falsifying
important documents and concealing others,”  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday. “In
addition to the staggering losses and financial disarray caused
by his actions, Collins gave the legal profession a black eye.”  Collins, formerly with the Chicago law firm Mayer Brown
LLP, claimed he had no knowledge of the fraud, which he said was
set in motion and concealed by Bennett and senior executives
Robert Trosten and Santo Maggio. All three men pleaded guilty.
Trosten and Maggio agreed to cooperate in the case against
Collins. Maggio died this year.  Refco Collapse  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  Prosecutors claimed Collins drafted legal documents that
allowed Bennett to deceive investors and helped him transfer
losses to the Bennett-owned firm. Mayer Brown wasn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  Alleged victims of the scheme included Boston-based Thomas
H. Lee Partners, which paid $507 million for a 57 percent stake
in Refco in 2004.  Bennett is serving a 16-year sentence. His ex-partner, Tone Grant, is serving 10 years following a conviction at a trial.  In the first trial, Collins was convicted of five counts,
including two counts of  wire fraud , two counts of securities
fraud and one count of conspiracy. Jurors were unable to reach a
verdict on nine other charges. Before his conviction was
reversed, Collins was sentenced to seven years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  