-- Texas Billionaires Bet on Austin F-1 Race Backed by State
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/texas-billionaires-bet-on-austin-f-1-race-backed-by-state.html
The first U.S. Formula One auto race
in five years, slated for Austin,  Texas , in two days, would’ve
been doomed without a state pledge for as much as $290 million
in aid over the next decade, backers say. Keeping that money
flowing may prove as tricky as negotiating the track’s curves.  Billionaires Red McCombs and John Paul DeJoria joined other
locals to build a $450 million speedway, looking to ignite the
nation’s interest in races that draw 50 million television
viewers worldwide. Their Texas-size bet came despite past failed
efforts to keep the series going in the U.S.  “The staying power of the Austin race is its ability to
maintain state funding,” said Christian Sylt, editor of the
Formula Money report, published in  London . “We can’t say for
sure the organizers will receive the state’s funding over time,
because it is dependent on the event’s economic impact.”  Subsidies for the Austin race, backed by Governor  Rick Perry  and Comptroller Susan Combs, will depend partly on the
effect the first event has on tax receipts. With just days to go
before the start, more than 115 hotels in Austin had vacancies,
Priceline.com and other travel websites show. That may signal
that forecasts of a Super Bowl-caliber boost won’t pan out.  “The economic studies said every hotel would be completely
filled all the way down to San Antonio,” a 90-minute drive from
Austin, said Danielle Crespo, who runs two websites that link
Formula One visitors to lodging. “That isn’t the case.”  Slow Month  Fewer fans are coming to Austin from Europe and  Canada  than
hoteliers expected, and they’re booking three nights instead of
the projected five or six, said Randy McCaslin, a vice president
of PKF Consulting who tracks the Texas hotel market from
Houston. In a normally slow month, the race may boost occupancy
rates as much as 2 percent, he said.  Perry, a Republican, called the event “a great opportunity
to showcase our state” at a Nov. 8 news briefing in Austin, the
capital. Some of the more than 20,000 visitors expected from
other countries will include corporate chief executives who may
be interested in expanding in Texas, the governor said.  The state’s support has drawn criticism from lawmakers and
raised fairness concerns among other motorsports leaders.  “It’s caused a lot of questions and there has not been a
reasonable explanation so far,” said Eddie Gossage, the
president of Texas Motor Speedway, a NASCAR venue in  Fort Worth .
More than 700,000 fans in the past two years have attended six
NASCAR and Indy Racing League events there, yet it has received
a far smaller subsidy, $5.7 million, a state report shows.  Funding Imbalance  “You have a fund that is going to pay them much more for
not nearly as large of a crowd as we have,” Gossage said of the
Austin group, called Circuit of the Americas LLC.  Texas is the only U.S. state with funds dedicated to
subsidizing major entertainment and sporting events, as a way to
attract them, said Robert Wood, the comptroller’s director of
local government assistance and economic development.  State law permits municipalities to ask for money from the
Major Events fund, which is overseen by Combs, on behalf of
organizers, Wood said. The comptroller analyzes the request and
the economic effects before deciding on whether to provide a
subsidy. Local governments backing the application must put up
$1 for every $6.25 of state money.  For the Formula One event, a private group with ties to
race organizers agreed to contribute Austin’s portion of $4.2
million. The state has been asked to chip in $25.3 million.  Controversial Support  In 2010, Combs approved giving race organizers $25 million
from the fund before the first event, approximating a fee
charged by Formula One’s London-based overseers, led by  Bernie Ecclestone . Under pressure from state Land Commissioner Jerry
Patterson and amid bickering among event organizers, the
Republican comptroller backtracked last November, saying nothing
would be disbursed until after the race.  “The  trust fund  can be very beneficial to the state, but I
don’t believe it has been handled right by the comptroller,”
said state Senator Kirk Watson, an Austin Democrat. He said
lawmakers will examine the issue after they convene in January.  Motorsports executives including Tom Cotter, the former
president of a New Jersey group that sought unsuccessfully to
stage a June 2013 Formula One race in the  New York  metropolitan
area, said even with subsidies, it won’t be easy to sustain the
circuit in Austin.  Tempting Business  “Racing is one of those industries where it all looks easy
to conquer from the outside,” Cotter said. “Normally wise
business people will make potentially unwise business decisions
in order to have an event like this one.”  Austin, experienced at attracting throngs of visitors for
occasions such as the South by Southwest and Austin City Limits
music festivals, is closing several downtown streets to foster a
party atmosphere and entertain visitors and locals alike. Among
musical acts set to appear are Aerosmith and rapper Flo Rida.  Among accommodations around Austin for well-heeled fans
will be a pop-up restaurant, the Sapphire Room Supper Club,
which will offer dining, dancing and live music, according to
partner Barbara Kelso, who heads a local entrepreneurs
organization. Prices for the club range from $50 to $2,100.  Formula One tends to attract the wealthiest fans of any
major international sport, said Christopher Pook, who once ran
the circuit’s  Long Beach ,  California , road race. They’re drawn
by finely calibrated Lotuses and Ferraris that blast through
turns and straightaways reaching 220 miles per hour. Winning
drivers such as Sebastian Vettel and Fernando Alonso pocket
millions of dollars and often become heroes to their countrymen.  One fan, Frederico Fuentes, a civil engineer from Caracas,
said he saved for a year to come to Austin for the race with two
friends. He said he spent “a lot” of money to make the trip so
he could see Spaniard Alonso drive, “and I love fast cars.”  Civic Motive  For Austin resident DeJoria, whose companies include John
Paul Mitchell Systems hair-care products and tequila marketer
Patron Spirits Co., his purchase of a 10 percent share of
Circuit of the Americas was for both business and civic reasons.  “That $25 million from the state will generate over a few
hundred million dollars in economic impact for Texas,” DeJoria
said. “Besides the business plan, I always consider how it
feels inside and this is one of the coolest things I’ve seen.”  About 119,000 tickets priced from $159 to $4,300 have been
sold for the Austin race Nov. 18, according to Steve Sexton,
president of Circuit of the Americas.  “We’re more excited today than when we started this two
years ago,” said Rad Weaver, president of McCombs Partners, Red
McCombs’s investment firm in  San Antonio , citing ticket sales.
Formula One is growing while revenue from NASCAR and other
motorsports has been declining, he said.  “It’s not obvious you’re going to be successful,” said
Austin bond trader Robert Epstein, the track’s largest investor.
“But there are few things you can do that will produce a return
for the area’s economy more than something like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 