-- Texas Fund Dismisses GAM to Curb Costs, Retains Mesirow
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-17T00:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/texas-fund-poised-to-dismiss-gam-mesirow-to-curb-costs.html
The  Texas  Permanent School Fund, a
$25 billion trust that supports public education, is shifting
about $330 million from money manager  GAM Holding AG (GAM)  as a cost-
cutting move.  The board decided against pulling a similar sum from
Mesirow Financial Inc. after member David Bradley said the
fund’s in-house managers need to develop more expertise in
handling the investments. Both Mesirow and GAM had already
agreed to reduce their fees.  “This is about getting the best value,” said Thomas Ratliff, a member who voted for the changes. “We will be saving
$24 million over the next five years without a significant
change in our returns.”  The money invested in hedge funds by GAM would be directed
to units of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Grosvenor Capital Management
LP. The shift would occur over several months, starting after
contracts expire in February. Mesirow also invests trust assets
in hedge funds and was given another two years on the job. The
board’s finance committee recommended dismissing both firms at a
Nov. 14 meeting.  Fund Distribution  Separately today, the board approved a $1.6 billion
disbursement from the trust for fiscal 2014 and 2015, starting
Sept. 1. Half of the money must be used for instructional
materials such as textbooks and computers, under state law. The
rest of the funds will be sent to districts and charter schools,
in amounts based on enrollment.  GAM  fell  5.5 percent in Zurich, where it is based, closing
at 11.10 Swiss francs ($11.74). The shares have fallen almost 15
percent during the past four days. Blackstone rose 0.8 percent
to close at $13.63 in  New York , the first gain in 11 sessions.  The shift from GAM comes as in-house staff is doubling to
39 to help trim $23.7 million in fund-management costs over five
years, Chief Investment Officer Holland Timmins said in a
report, which assumed Mesirow would also be cut.  While Blackstone, based in New York, and Grosvenor, in
 Chicago , haven’t agreed to fee cuts, the firms offer “broader
experience” in strategic partnerships with pensions and
endowments, Timmins said at the fund’s Nov. 14 finance committee
meeting. The trust’s overseers in January voted to change hedge-
fund investment management to a partnership approach that
includes more direct staff involvement.  Joseph Gieger, a GAM USA managing director based in New
York, declined to comment on the committee’s recommendation
after the Nov. 14 meeting, which he attended. Stacey Coglan, a
GAM spokeswoman in  London , didn’t immediately respond to a
message seeking comment left after normal business hours.  Lopsided Costs  Timmins pushed for the change, saying that 10 percent of
assets are lodged with  hedge funds , yet they account for 44
percent of investment expenses. Such fees have cost the trust
$82.7 million since 2008, according to a document Timmins
distributed to Education Board members.  About $2.5 billion in trust assets are placed with hedge
funds, Timmins said at the Nov. 14 meeting. Gains net of fees
have been about 1 percent since March 2008, when the investments
began, according to Timmins’s report.  The trust may take on more risk if it increases management
duties for staff members, said Rhett Humphreys of NEPC LLC, the
board’s general investment counsel. He recommended that the
transition, if approved, be lengthened to three years so in-
house employees can gain experience in overseeing hedge funds.  Inexperienced Staff  “If our staff was sitting here today seeking a job, you
wouldn’t hire them,” Bradley, a Beaumont insurance agent, said
at today’s meeting. “If the program isn’t successful,” he
said, “the loss of funds will far exceed any cost savings.”  The committee also ignored longer-term performance by GAM,
Humphreys said. Since 2008, money managed by GAM has returned
more than funds overseen by both Grosvenor and Chicago-based
Mesirow, a unit of Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc., he said.
GAM’s results did trail Blackstone’s, he said.  All four companies have funds-of-funds units that pick and
oversee hedge funds rather than directly managing the
 investments  themselves.  The trust terminated a fifth “fund of funds,” K2 Advisors
LLC of  Stamford ,  Connecticut , in July. K2 had managed $405
million for the trust. That money also was shifted to Grosvenor
and Blackstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 