-- Mexico Third-Quarter GDP Rose at Slowest Pace in Over Year
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-16T16:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/mexico-gross-domestic-product-expands-0-45-in-third-quarter.html
Mexico ’s economy grew at the slowest
pace in more than a year in the third quarter as the nation’s
manufacturing expansion slowed on lower demand from the U.S.,
its dominant export market.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.45 percent from the second
quarter, an annualized rate of 1.82 percent, Mexico’s national
statistics agency said today. That missed the forecast of all
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg whose median estimate was for
0.7 percent growth in the quarter. GDP expanded 3.3 percent from
the same quarter a year earlier, less than the 3.6 percent
median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s growth slowed amid cooling investment by
businesses in the U.S. on concern Congress will fail to act in
time to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  Third-quarter growth was also slower partly the economy’s
performance in previous quarters was revised upward, said Sergio Martin, chief economist at HSBC Mexico. First-quarter GDP was
revised to 4.9 percent from 4.6 percent, while second-quarter
GDP was boosted to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent, according to
today’s report.  Stronger Performance  Revisions for the previous quarters indicate the economy
will likely expand close to 4 percent by the end of the year,
according to Martin.  “The Mexican economy is dynamic, probably more dynamic
that I thought,” he said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. Prior to today’s report, HSBC Mexico was projecting an
expansion of 3.6 percent for this year.  Mexico’s  manufacturing index  fell to 49.9 in September, the
lowest since 2009, in non-seasonally adjusted terms. The pace of
expansion has slowed in the past two quarters from the first
three months of the year, when it was the fastest since 2010.  U.S. demand for business equipment such as machinery
dropped in July by the most in eight months, signaling lower
sales for manufacturers, including those that produce in Mexico.
While demand grew in August and September, the increases were
the smallest since July 2009.  Agriculture Slumping  Today’s report showed agriculture and forestry activity
declined 0.55 percent in the third quarter. From a year ago, the
so-called primary sector expanded 1.7 percent, the slowest pace
this year.  Manufacturing continues to be the motor of Mexico’s
economy, expanding 3.6 percent in the quarter from a year ago,
though the pace of growth has slowed from 4.8 percent in the
first three months of the year. The service sector expanded 3.3
percent from a year ago, its worst performance in more than a
year.  Even as the  agriculture sector  contracted from the previous
quarter and the service sector slowed, some indicators for
retail sales and the  auto industry  show a recovery is in the
making for the last part of the year, according to Martin.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  plans to hold talks today on an
agreement to reduce long-term budget deficits with House Speaker
 John Boehner  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , both
Republicans, as well as Democrats  Nancy Pelosi , the House
Minority Leader, and  Harry Reid , the Senate Majority Leader.  Deutsche Bank AG economists calculate action by Congress to
avoid the fiscal cliff could boost U.S. expansion by as much as
two percentage points.  “The elements are in place for a U.S. recovery,”
 Guillermo Ortiz , chairman of Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and
Mexico’s former central bank governor, said in a Nov. 7
interview in Mexico City. “Hopefully this time around some bi-
partisan agreement can be achieved in order to instill that
confidence.”  Inflation  Mexico’s central bank may be limited in its ability to cut
 interest rates  to boost growth because inflation has remained
above the 2 percent to 4 percent target range since June after a
bird flu outbreak and drought drove up farm prices.  The annual  inflation  rate fell in October for the first
month since April, to 4.6 percent, and most policy makers at the
central bank’s last meeting on Oct. 26 said consumer price
increases probably peaked in September.  The central bank board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
has kept the nation’s benchmark rate at 4.5 percent since July
2009, the lowest level among major rate-setting banks in  Latin
America  after  Peru . The bank said at its last meeting in October
that it stands ready to tighten monetary policy “soon” should
the price pressures persist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  