-- Facebook Adds Retailers Selling Gifts in E-Commerce Push
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-16T21:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/facebook-adds-more-partners-to-online-gift-giving-feature.html
Facebook  Inc. closed at the highest
price in more than three months after expanding the roster of
retailers that let users buy and send items to friends on its
website, helping the owner of the world’s biggest social network
push into e-commerce.  Partners added include Brookstone Inc., Dean & Deluca Inc.
and Fab.com Inc., Facebook said at a press conference yesterday
in New York. “Tens of millions” of users in the U.S. can now
access products via the gifting service, which was introduced in
September with retailers such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and 1-800-
Flowers.com Inc. Shares of Facebook rose 6.3 percent to $23.56
in New York, for the biggest close since July 27.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California , is seeking fresh
ways to make money from its more than 1 billion users as revenue
growth has slowed. Since an initial public offering in May, the
shares slipped 38 percent as Facebook has struggled to boost
advertising sales as more users access the service on mobile
devices and grappled with competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  and Amazon.com Inc.  “It’s a good first step to get into e-commerce,” said
 Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., in an
interview. “In the near term, I don’t expect Facebook to be
selling televisions or appliances, but there are certain
categories like flowers, chocolate and wine where they could add
revenue.”  ‘Life’s Moments’  The new feature lets users find and send gifts from a
birthday reminder or from a friend’s profile. Recipients can
choose the color, size or flavor of an item or exchange it for
something else. The service also lets members choose whether to
post the gift to a friend’s Facebook Timeline or alert them
privately.  “There is nowhere people go more to share life’s moments
than Facebook,” said Lee Linden, product lead for Facebook
Gifts and founder of Karma, the gift-giving application Facebook
 acquired  earlier this year. “It’s a huge milestone for the
team, and something we think people are very much going to
enjoy.”  Sales rose 32 percent to $1.26 billion in the third
quarter, Facebook reported last month, matching the growth rate
of the previous three-month period. In the third quarter of 2011
sales more than doubled from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  