-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Aggressive Easing Needed to Spur Jobs
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-11-16T23:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/fed-s-lockhart-says-aggressive-easing-needed-to-revive-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said forceful central bank policies
will remain needed to spur job growth even if Congress averts
sudden tax increases and spending cuts at the end of the year.  “I expect that continued aggressive use of balance sheet
monetary tools will be appropriate and justified by economic
conditions for some time even if fiscal cliff issues are
properly addressed,” Lockhart said today in Charlottesville,
Virginia. Fed easing isn’t aimed at “abetting” fiscal policy
by reducing the cost of financing the federal deficit, he said.  The Atlanta Fed chief voted with the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in October to continue buying $40 billion in mortgage
bonds each month until the labor market improves
“substantially.” The central bank is also purchasing $45
billion of longer-term Treasuries in a securities-swap program
called Operation Twist scheduled to end in December.  “I am not prepared to say we are remotely close to
substantial improvement on the employment front,” Lockhart said
in a speech to the University of Virginia Investing Conference.  Lockhart said he may be willing to support a strategy of
announcing the Fed won’t increase the main  interest rate  from
close to zero before hitting numerical thresholds for the
 unemployment rate  and inflation.  “It’s possible to get to a threshold number for
unemployment as long as we present it as indicative of a broader
evaluation” of labor-market conditions, Lockhart told reporters
after the speech.  Zero Rates  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  has proposed holding
interest rates near zero until unemployment falls to 7 percent
so long as inflation does not breach 3 percent. Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  has suggested continuing with
zero rates until unemployment falls to 5.5 percent so long as
inflation remains below 2.25 percent.  “We are likely to have to begin to tighten before we get
to full employment,” Lockhart told reporters. “So I am more
comfortable with one of the interim target numbers, say 7
percent, conceivably 6.5 percent” as the unemployment rate
threshold. Currently the jobless rate is 7.9 percent.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the economy is vulnerable
to the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically at
the end of the year unless Congress acts. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 economic report that fiscal
tightening of that magnitude could cause a recession.  ‘New Challenges’  Failure to avert the fiscal cliff may create “new
challenges to monetary policy and an uncomfortable tension
between monetary policy and fiscal policy,” Lockhart said in
his speech. In response to an audience question, he said,
“there is no direct link in terms of intention between the low-
interest rate policy and the financing of the deficit.”  U.S. stocks rose today, erasing earlier losses, as House
Speaker  John Boehner  said he had constructive talks with
President  Barack Obama  on the budget and would accept government
revenue increases coupled with spending cuts. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,359.88 in  New York 
trading.  Even with a resolution of fiscal challenges, the labor
market will warrant continuing central-bank stimulus, Lockhart
said.  “There is still a disproportionate share of part-time jobs
reflected in the overall employment gains, long-term
unemployment remains unacceptably high,” Lockhart said. “Labor
force participation rates are still surprisingly low, and
initial unemployment gains have not yet fallen to levels that
seem consistent with a truly robust jobs picture.”  Same Amount  Under Operation Twist, the Fed is buying about $45 billion
a month of longer-term securities to replace the same amount of
short-term debt that is maturing or being sold.  “A decision will have to be made as to whether to replace
it by another round of Treasury securities purchases,” Lockhart
said. Lockhart told reporters after the speech that he was “not
yet ready to indicate” if he supported additional Treasury
purchases in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Charlottesville, Virginia at   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  