-- Fed’s Dudley Says It’s Premature to Bust Up Too-Big Banks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-11-16T01:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/fed-s-dudley-says-it-s-premature-to-bust-too-big-banks.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said regulators should press on with
current efforts to curb the risk from too-big-to-fail financial
institutions rather than try to immediately dismantle them.  “Critics of our approach believe it would be better to
just break up firms deemed TBTF now,” Dudley said today in a
speech in New York. “My own view is that while this could yet
prove necessary, it is premature to give up on the current
approach: changing the incentives facing large and complex
firms, forcing them to become more resilient and making the
financial system more robust to their failure.”  More than four years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., U.S. regulators are still grappling with how to
reduce the risk taxpayers will need to bail out too-big-to-fail
financial firms in a crisis. Dudley said regulators must lower
the likelihood that such institutions fail and the “cost to
society” in the event they do.  Dudley, who didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy
or monetary policy, said that while “advocacy for the break-up
path has been strong,” it has so far lacked “the detail to
assess whether this is indeed superior to the course we are
currently following.”  “It would be helpful in this regard if advocates of break-up
solutions would put a bit more flesh on the bones and develop
detailed proposals that address essential questions of how such
downsizing or functional separation would be accomplished, and
what benefits and costs could be expected,” Dudley said.  Liquidity Buffers  Regulators have bolstered capital and liquidity buffers at
financial firms and forced them to draw up so-called “living
wills” for their unwinding, Dudley said.  The Fed today told the 30 largest banks to test whether
they could withstand a severe recession in the U.S. and other
major economies with weakening housing markets. The Fed drew up
a  stress test  in 2009 to restore confidence in the financial
system after the worst financial turmoil since the Great
Depression brought down Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman.  Regulators have also been working to make the financial
system “more robust,” such as through the wholesale funding
markets, he said.  “We have a considerable ways to go to finish the job and
reduce to tolerable levels the social costs associated with such
failures,” Dudley said.  “We should continue to press forward on the first path”
of minimizing the costs from the collapse of a too-big-to-fail
firm, he said. “But, if we fail to reach our destination by
this route, then a blunter approach may yet prove necessary.”  Dudley said in response to an audience question that
regulators “have a lot to do” in writing the rules required by
the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul legislation, and that it may
take a while for them to complete their task.  “Speed is not of the first order” and “the quality of
what results is more significant,” the New York Fed chief said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  