-- Fed Push to Tie Zero-Rate to Economic Goals Faces Doubts
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/fed-push-to-tie-zero-rate-to-economic-goals-faces-doubts.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents signaled opposition to a proposal to sharpen monetary
policy by linking the Fed’s zero-interest-rate forecast to
economic indicators.  “I am concerned that we would create more confusion than
clarity,” Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in a
speech yesterday in Washington. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said after a speech in Stanford, California, “it’s very
difficult for us to state specific employment targets.”  The remarks by the Fed regional bank chiefs underscore the
hurdles central bankers face as they seek to forge a consensus
on new ways to communicate the outlook for policy. Measures
such as inflation and the  unemployment rate  could augment or
replace the current statement that officials expect low rates
through at least mid-2015.  Policy makers “generally favored” an approach linking the
duration of  record-low interest rates  to “economic variables,”
according to minutes of their Oct. 23-24 meeting released this
week. Four Fed officials have advocated this plan, which was
first proposed by Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  last year.  Evans favors keeping the benchmark rate near zero until
the jobless rate falls below 7 percent as long as inflation
doesn’t breach 3 percent, while Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  and
Minneapolis’ Narayana Kocherlakota have called for different
thresholds. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  this week said she was
“strongly supportive” of the idea without endorsing any set of
numbers.  No Vote  San Francisco’s  John Williams  said this week he is
“wrestling” with the best way to communicate the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s thinking. Plosser and Fisher do not vote on
monetary policy this year on in 2013.  Setting numerical benchmarks may lead the public to believe
the Fed will tighten as soon as those unemployment or inflation
thresholds are met, Williams told reporters Nov. 14. Also, a
broad set of data would be needed to accurately size up the
economy, he said.  Still, a more qualitative approach that would describe the
general conditions needed before a rate increase may be too
“vague,” Williams said.  Stocks fell for a third day yesterday as U.S. lawmakers
continued to wrangle over how to avoid more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases threatening economic growth. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.2 percent to 1,353.33.  Plosser yesterday told reporters after his speech that the
Fed has created “a big communications problem” by using
different guidance for how long its quantitative easing program
will last and how long it will hold rates low.  Better Guide  A better guide would be a “rule-like approach,” he said.  Under this method, the central bank would look at a policy
yardstick like the Taylor rule, which estimates what the Fed’s
target rate should be based on economic conditions. Yellen has
signaled she opposes such a framework.  Such rules don’t offer good policy prescriptions during
abnormal economic times like today, Yellen said this week. When
the Fed can’t lower its rate any further and the economy faces
“persistently strong headwinds,” these rules would suggest
policy makers tighten too early, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Stanford, California at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  