-- FedEx, UPS Part of U.S. Probe of Illegal Drug Shipments
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   T o r i   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-16T04:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/fedex-ups-part-of-u-s-investigation-of-illegal-drug-shipments.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  have been part of a federal grand jury
investigation of shipments by online pharmacies that may have
operated illegally.  UPS said in a regulatory filing that it responded to
subpoenas as far back as 2007 from the U.S. attorney in  San
Francisco  in connection with an investigation by the Drug
Enforcement Administration. The company said it is cooperating
with the investigation and exploring a settlement with the
government, including paying a fine.  “Such a payment may exceed the amounts previously accrued
with respect to this matter, but we do not expect that the
amount of such additional loss would have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity,” the company said in a Nov. 2 filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  UPS, based in Atlanta, disclosed the investigation last
year. In a Dec. 31 annual report, UPS said it planned to
“vigorously defend” itself.  Mike Mangeot, a UPS spokesman, declined to comment today on
the investigation beyond the company’s filings.  FedEx said in a Sept. 19 filing with the SEC that it
responded to grand jury subpoenas in 2008 and 2009.  FedEx Response  “We do not believe that we have engaged in any illegal
activities and will vigorously defend ourselves in any action
that may result from the investigation,” Memphis-based FedEx
said in the filing.  Jack Gillund, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
San Francisco, said today in an e-mail he couldn’t confirm or
deny whether FedEx and UPS are potentially targets of
prosecutions.  “Clearly we find the entire investigation to be absurd,
and it’s something that we are hoping that the  Department of
Justice  and the government overall takes a different approach to
and works with us and the industry to find a solution to the
problem,” Patrick Fitzgerald, a FedEx spokesman, said today in
a phone interview.  Fitzgerald said the government agencies have refused to
provide FedEx with a list of pharmacies engaging in the illegal
distribution, preventing the company from prohibiting shipments.  FedEx is asking the justice department to reconsider its
investigation and create an industry-wide solution so it can
better support the government’s efforts, Fitzgerald said.  “Settlement is not an option when there is no illegal
activity on our part,” he said.  The Wall Street Journal reported the investigation earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  