-- Fitch’s Renwick Says Europe Is Being Realistic on Greek Targets
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-16T09:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/fitch-s-renwick-says-europe-is-being-realistic-on-greek-targets.html
Fitch Ratings Director Douglas Renwick backed European policy makers’ decision to push back
 Greece ’s debt targets and said there may be a move to do the
same for other bailed-out nations.  “With Greece you have to be realistic on how much time
they need,” Renwick said in an interview with Francine Lacqua
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” in  London  today. “If
you look at how much debt reduction they’ve done over the last
three years, it’s actually been quite significant. They started
from a very bad position.”  A disagreement with the  International Monetary Fund  broke
out this week after euro-area finance ministers granted Greece
an additional two years to reach debt-reduction goals in its
bailout program. IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  will
attend a meeting in Brussels next week as finance chiefs discuss
ways of plugging the nation’s funding gap. Renwick said he’s
“positive” a deal will be reached.  “Greece has done its side of the bargain, it’s implemented
its budget, which was politically a very difficult thing,”
Renwick said. “With the eurogroup, the ball is in their court,
they need to see how they’re going to get this program
sustainable again.”  “More broadly, we may be seeing a move toward extending
out program targets for other countries as well,” he said.
“We’re uncertain about that. But at the end of the day I don’t
think there’s too much leniency here, the eurogroup is very
conscious that these measures need to be done. It’s positive to
be realistic.”  Lagarde declined today to predict the outcome of the Nov.
20 meeting of euro-area finance ministers. She said the IMF’s
objective is that Greece regain access to markets as soon as
possible. She is cutting short a trip to  Southeast Asia  to
attend the gathering in Brussels.  “It’s not over until the fat lady sings, as they say,”
she told reporters in  Manila  when asked if an agreement can be
achieved. “I would not say anything else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  