-- Gaza Conflict Highlights Tensions Obama Faces in Mideast
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-16T14:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/gaza-conflict-highlights-tensions-obama-faces-in-new-middle-east.html
Israeli troops massing on the border
of Gaza pose a dilemma for a U.S. administration that supports
America’s closest Mideast ally while trying to defuse an
escalating conflict before it deepens the instability in a
changing Arab world.  The Obama administration’s prospects for containing the
crisis rest largely on economically fragile Egypt and its
president, Mohamed Mursi, who was drawn from the ranks of the
 Muslim Brotherhood , the parent organization of Hamas, which
controls Gaza and sparked the latest confrontation by lobbing
hundreds of rockets into  Israel . The U.S. and Israel consider
Hamas a terrorist group.  “Right now, the United States is torn between the
solidarity with its closest ally in the Middle East and a desire
to court the new Egyptian government and the Egyptian people,
the latter in particular who are very sympathetic to Hamas and
hostile to Israel,” said Daniel Byman, a professor of  security
studies  at  Georgetown University  and a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution , a Washington policy group.  Domestic political considerations are in play as well, as
President  Barack Obama  faced criticism during his re-election
campaign that he wasn’t doing enough to support Israel. In the
Nov. 6 election, Obama won 69 percent of the  Jewish vote , down
from 78 percent in 2008, according to national exit polls.  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Wilson Center,
a Washington policy group, said: “There’s absolutely no way
this president is not going to demonstrate full and complete
support for Israel on this issue, particularly as this involves
jihadi groups which are operating with a fair degree of
impunity.”  New World  The last time Israeli troops entered the  Gaza Strip , in
late 2008, Obama was waiting to take office and the Arab world
was a different place. Autocrats such as Egyptian President
 Hosni Mubarak  hadn’t been felled by the Arab Spring movement and
provided the U.S. and Israel with stability.  Four years later,  Syria  is in chaos, with mortar shells and
random artillery fire hitting Israel’s north. The U.S. and its
allies are convinced that  Iran  is edging closer to a nuclear
weapon. Jordan, an important U.S. ally and long a source of
stability on Israel’s eastern border, is facing growing unrest
that has erupted in shooting, according to the Petra News
Agency.  While Egypt remains a signatory to a 1979 peace treaty with
Israel and its  Suez Canal  gives the U.S. Navy a route between
the Mediterranean Sea and the Persian Gulf, the Obama
administration is still trying to forge ties with the new
Islamist government in Cairo.  Public Opinion  As Egypt’s first democratically elected leader, Mursi must
reckon with pro-Palestinian, anti-Israeli  public opinion , even
as he must maintain U.S. support for continued American aid and
loans he’s negotiating with groups such as the IMF.  An administration official, who wasn’t authorized to speak
on the record, said the Obama administration has asked Mursi,
Turkey and Europe to mediate between Hamas and the Israelis. The
message the administration sent to Egypt, the official said, was
that the Gaza conflict risks greater threats to civilians and
could escalate if it continues.  “Any time violence springs up in the  Middle East , wherever
it is, it’s cause for concern because you never know quite where
it’s all going to lead,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in
an interview in Bangkok with the Voice of America.  Mursi’s Dilemma  The U.S. and Egypt “agree there needs to be a de-
escalation, and we urged the government of Egypt to take steps
to support that kind of de-escalation,” deputy State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday.  Mursi shares the Obama administration’s goal of preventing
any escalation in Gaza, even as he will protect his domestic
political image while doing so, said Shibley Telhami, a
professor at the  University of Maryland .  “He doesn’t want his opponents to taunt him by saying
there’s no difference between him and Mubarak,” who often kept
quiet in the face of Israeli actions in Gaza, Telhami said.  Mursi has styled himself a leader who can restore  Egypt ’s
regional leadership. After Israel’s Gaza operation began, he
recalled his ambassador to Israel, appealed to the UN Security
Council to end the fighting, condemned Israel and sent his prime
minister and intelligence chief to Gaza today.  Obama also faces the danger that the Gaza operation could
further destabilize Jordan, which has a population that’s
roughly half Palestinian. Riots over food prices and the lack of
political reform have rippled through the kingdom. A crisis
there would leave Israel surrounded on three sides by active
instability.  King Abdullah  If  King Abdullah  doesn’t take the sort of symbolic moves in
support of Palestinians that Mursi has made, “a lot of people
could latch onto that to broaden claims against the king,”
Telhami said.  Israeli leaders took into account the regional tensions
that might be inflamed by the Gaza operation,  Michael Oren , the
Israeli ambassador to the U.S., said in an interview. “We’re
factoring in instability throughout the region, how it impacts
situations in neighboring countries,” Oren said.  “We pay a price in terms of some of our relationships in
the world, in the media; but you have to weigh that against the
lives of a million Israelis,” Oren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  