-- George Links Slow Recovery to ‘Unresolved Problems’ at Banks
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-16T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/george-links-slow-recovery-to-unresolved-problems-at-banks.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said the sluggish expansion in the U.S.
and elsewhere following the 2008 financial crisis may reflect a
failure to adequately address the banking crisis.  “The slow nature of this recovery, the limited amount of
new lending after more than four years and the continuation of
banking issues in some countries may suggest that the actions we
took left unresolved problems,” George said in a speech in
 Panama  City, Panama. “We must consider whether what we are
doing is sustainable in the long run or whether it only
increases the chance of future crises.”  More than four years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., U.S. regulators are still grappling with how to
reduce the risk taxpayers will need to rescue too-big-to-fail
financial firms in a crisis. “We cannot expect to have a sound
financial system if the key players in it are not held fully
responsible for the choices they make,” George said.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C.
Dudley yesterday said regulators should press on with current
efforts to curb the risk from too-big-to-fail financial firms
rather than try to immediately dismantle them. George’s
predecessor,  Thomas Hoenig , as well as Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  and the St. Louis Fed’s  James Bullard  have all
urged breakup of big banks.  Equity Infusions  The Kansas City Fed leader was critical of the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program that provided equity infusions
into banks without first requiring them to write down troubled
assets and replace management.  “We must have the correct supervisory focus, particularly
since we have not carefully followed some of the lessons of
previous crises,” she said. “For instance, do we still need to
clean up the banks and insist on better management?”  The Federal Reserve and other regulators said earlier this
month they won’t hold banking companies to a Jan. 1 deadline
they wrote into proposed rules for boosting the reserves lenders
must hold against potential losses. The agencies are working to
align U.S. banks with international standards set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision .  The Dodd-Frank law, the most comprehensive rewriting of
financial regulation since the 1930s, subjected the largest
banks to more scrutiny and higher  capital requirements . The law
requires large banks to draft contingency plans detailing how
they would be unwound in a crisis and created a financial-
stability council charged with monitoring excessive risk-taking.  Enhanced Supervision  “Today we are focused on enhanced supervision of the
systemically important financial institutions, stress tests,
macroprudential supervision and many other reforms,” George
said. “These steps will not get us very far if we don’t first
address the incentive problem in our financial institutions,
insist on better bank management wherever needed and emphasize
our traditional supervisory framework.”  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
Hoenig, who retired last year. She didn’t discuss monetary
policy or the economic outlook in her remarks. George joined the
Fed in 1982, spent much of her career in bank supervision and
became first vice president in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  