-- German Stocks Fall for Third Day Before Obama Holds Talks
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-16T17:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/german-stocks-fall-for-third-day-before-obama-holds-talks.html
German stocks  fell for a third day,
with the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index declining to its lowest in more
than two months, as President  Barack Obama  met with
congressional leaders to discuss the so-called fiscal cliff, and
conflict escalated in Israel.  Henkel AG & Co. KGaA dropped 4.7 percent after reporting
third-quarter organic sales growth below analysts’ estimates.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Allianz SE (ALV)  led lenders and insurers lower,
falling 5 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.  The DAX slid 1.3 percent to 6,950.53, its lowest since
Sept. 4, at the close of trading in Frankfurt, for a weekly loss
of 3 percent. The equity benchmark has dropped  5.8 percent  since
Obama’s re-election on Nov. 6 as investors’ attention turned to
the U.S. fiscal cliff that will trigger $607 billion in
automatic budget cuts and tax increases unless Congress reaches
a compromise. The broader HDAX Index lost 1.3 percent today.  “People are sitting on the sidelines and want to know what
the outcome is going to be because then you can factor it into
valuations and start making sensible decisions as an investor,”
 Andy Lynch , a portfolio manager at Schroder Investment
Management Ltd. in London, said, referring to the fiscal cliff
discussions.  Obama began meetings on the fiscal cliff with Democratic
and Republican congressional leaders today. Lawmakers of both
parties want to avoid a short-term shock to the economy while
making progress on long-term deficit reduction.  Obama’s insistence on higher taxes for top earners and
Republicans’ refusal to raise rates leaves negotiators with
arithmetically complex and politically fraught choices.  Obama Meeting  Obama held his first face-to-face conversation with House
Speaker  John Boehner  since the presidential election. At the
White House meeting on the fiscal cliff, Obama also hosted House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  Industrial production in the U.S. unexpectedly declined in
October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power in the Northeast.
Output at factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.4 percent
last month after a revised 0.2 percent increase in September
that was smaller than previously estimated, Federal Reserve data
showed today in Washington.  Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. The Fed said the storm cut total
production by almost 1 percentage point.  Stocks extended losses as Hamas said it fired a rocket at
the Israeli parliament in Jerusalem, while Israel extended its
bombing of Gaza.  Greek Aid  Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said he is
confident that euro-region finance chiefs will reach an
agreement on aiding Greece when they meet next week.  The Mediterranean nation was granted an additional two
years to reach budget-deficit goals in its bailout program.
European finance ministers will be discussing ways of plugging
the funding gap resulting from that extension at a Nov. 20
meeting in Brussels.  “We know that there are several options for helping Greece
get through this very important challenge,” Grilli said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in London. “I am clearly
optimistic that we can come to a decision.”  Henkel Drops  Henkel fell 4.7 percent to 58.41 euros, its biggest drop in
more than a year. The chemical company reported third-quarter
organic sales growth of 2.5 percent, falling short of the
average analyst estimate of 3.4 percent growth.  It still reported third-quarter profit that surpassed
analysts’ estimates led by revenue growth in laundry, home care
and  emerging markets . Adjusted earnings before interest and
taxes rose 17 percent to 631 million euros ($803.6 million), the
Dusseldorf-based company said in a separate statement. Profit
exceeded the 620.1 million-euro average estimate of 13 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 3.8 percent to 32.16 euros. Germany’s
largest bank extended declines in the final hour of trading
after a Munich court said it may have to pay as much as 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion) in a case tied to the collapse of
the Kirch group of media companies.  The case is one of several lawsuits continuing after  Leo Kirch ’s July 2011 death that allege the bank secretly plotted to
bring about the demise of his media empire.  Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-largest bank, lost 5
percent to 1.24 euros. A gauge of banks was the worst performer
on the Stoxx 600 Europe Index.  Allianz SE slid 2.4 percent to 92.40 euros as a measure of
European insurers fell 1.6 percent on the Stoxx 600.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, lost 3.3
percent to 15.96 euros.  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s largest utility, slid 3 percent to
31.71 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  