-- German Citizen Group Sues to Block ECB’s Bond-Buying Plan
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-11-16T11:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/german-citizen-group-sues-to-block-ecb-s-bond-buying-plan.html
The  European Central Bank  was sued
over its proposal to buy unlimited bonds from debt-laden
countries to regain control of  interest rates  in nations that
make up the monetary union.  A group, which currently includes 5,217 plaintiffs and is
led by activist group Zivile Koalition e.V., filed the lawsuit
on Nov. 12 with the European Union General Court, the 27-nation
EU’s second-highest tribunal. The Luxembourg-based court’s press
office confirmed the lawsuit, which seeks to block the ECB’s
Outright Monetary Transactions program announced on Sept. 6.  “The ECB’s policy violates its own statutes and has an
immediate influence on monetary stability in the euro area,”
Beatrix von Storch, the group’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The case is the sixth to reach the EU’s two top courts
challenging the Frankfurt-based ECB on euro-area-related
decisions. Earlier this year, a group of more than 200 Italian
retail investors  filed a lawsuit  to overturn an ECB decision
they claim meant the bank avoided losses on Greek debt that
private bondholders had to endure in a restructuring.  The ECB declined to comment.  The General Court on Nov. 29 is scheduled to rule on
 Bloomberg News ’s lawsuit to have the ECB release files showing
how  Greece  may have used derivatives to hide its borrowings. Two
cases by the U.K. against the ECB are also pending at the lower
EU court over plans to block trades in some euro-denominated
securities from being cleared outside the euro area.  Another lawsuit, being appealed to the EU Court of Justice,
the bloc’s top court, seeks to annul the ECB’s decisions to buy
euro-area government debt and accept Greek, Irish and Portuguese
debt from banks as collateral.  The case is: T-492/12, Von Storch and others v. ECB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Stephen
Foxwell in London at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  