-- Getco to Consider Buying Knight Shares, Evaluate Investment
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-11-16T19:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/getco-to-consider-buying-knight-shares-evaluate-investment-1-.html
Getco LLC will consider transactions
with  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  such as buying or selling shares
of the market-making firm that dodged bankruptcy in August.  Getco said it may evaluate its investment in Knight,
according to an amended 13D filed yesterday with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Chicago-based Getco owns convertible
securities representing a 23.8 percent of Knight’s outstanding
common stock after helping rescue the company following its $457
million trading error. The new language is similar to passages
in filings by Blackstone Group Inc. and Stephens Inc., two other
Knight investors that helped save the firm three months ago.  “They may be contemplating or signaling to the market that
they may be more open to acquisition-type transactions,”
William J. Tuttle, a Washington-based lawyer who focuses on
corporate and securities matters at Dechert LLP, said in a phone
interview. “This language is still very flexible but it sends a
slightly stronger statement to the market.”  Knight shares  rallied  6.6 percent to $2.52 as of 2:03 p.m.
in  New York , poised for the biggest advance in almost two
months. Getco’s stake represents 23.8 percent of the 181.9
million shares of common stock outstanding on Nov. 5, according
to the filing. It would own 15.6 percent of Knight’s 364.7
million shares of common stock if all the preferred stock
holders converted their shares, the filing said.  Getco and Knight are market-making firms whose rise
paralleled the explosion in electronic and individual trading
since the 1990s. Control of the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
company was transferred from public  shareholders  to six Wall
Street firms including Getco in August after they provided cash
to preserve its solvency.  Jefferies Investment  Getco didn’t mention evaluating its Knight holdings or the
possibility of buying or selling shares in its filing on Aug. 6.  “As a matter of policy, Knight does not comment on
shareholder activities including filings,” Kara Fitzsimmons, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for
Getco, declined to comment.  Getco, the automated trading firm founded in 1999, was one
of six investors that acquired stakes when they bought $400
million of convertible stock. Others included  Jefferies Group
Inc. (JEF) , the investment bank that agreed last week to be taken over
by its largest owner,  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , for $2.8 billion.  Knight’s capital was depleted after it bombarded U.S.
equity exchanges with erroneous orders on Aug. 1 in the wake of
improperly installed software that malfunctioned, according to
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce. The trading caused volume
to surge and prices to swing in dozens of securities listed on
the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.  Market Makers  Getco and Knight are automated market makers. While Getco
operates across asset classes mainly on exchanges and similar
platforms around the world, Knight is also a wholesale market
maker that services retail brokers including  Fidelity
Investments  and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. by executing buy and
sell orders for individuals.  Knight has expanded its operations beyond equities and
market making to areas such as foreign currency and fixed-income
trading. It owns the Hotspot FX and  BondPoint  platforms,
provides research and asset management and got into the reverse
mortgage business in 2010. Knight had more than 1,400 employees
at the end of last year, it said in a filing.  More Control  The change in Getco’s filing “would suggest to me that
they might now be thinking that they want to expand their
holding and go for more control,” Elizabeth Nowicki, a mergers
and acquisitions professor at  Tulane University Law School , said
in a phone interview.  In an Aug. 6 interview,  Daniel Coleman , chief executive
officer of Getco, said Knight’s disappearance wouldn’t have
yielded a “better world” for Getco. Without Knight’s ability
to provide liquidity, “it would be more expensive for everyone
to trade,” he said in a phone interview.  “In some ways Knight’s a competitor, in some ways they’re
a client, in some ways we’re their client,” Coleman said. “But
at the end of the day the liquidity they provide and I think the
liquidity we provide probably makes both of us better. This is
in our strategic interest to make sure Knight stays viable.”  SEC Investigation  The SEC began a formal investigation into Knight’s
compliance with a rule governing risk-control procedures in its
trading operation and other regulations, the company said in a
filing with the commission on Nov. 8.  Knight’s stock plunged after the computer malfunction,
which accelerated an industrywide assessment of how to improve
controls in electronic trading. From a price of $10.33 on July
31 the shares fell 75 percent over the next two days and haven’t
traded above $3 since Aug. 10. Its market capitalization
bottomed at $253 million in August and has climbed back above
$420 million as stock has been converted by its rescuers.  Joyce said on a conference call accompanying the firm’s
earnings release on Oct. 17 that he had no plans to split apart
the electronic business, the market-making unit and the
institutional sales and trading segment, or reallocate resources
between them.  “We are better off having them all than becoming a siloed
kind of one-product firm,” Joyce said. “We came back as well
as we came back because of the broadness of our organization.”  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, said Knight is stronger now than it was
in early August when retail brokers reduced the number of orders
they sent the firm.  “Knight’s business is more stable now,” Repetto said in a
phone interview. “I don’t think Knight needs to do an
acquisition but it may help speed a recovery after the
technology mishap that occurred.” He said he considers Getco a
“possible partner, especially once they participated in
Knight’s recapitalization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  