-- Google Judge Says She May Approve $22.5 Million FTC Deal
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-16T20:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/google-judge-says-she-may-approve-22-5-million-ftc-deal.html
A federal judge said she may approve
Google Inc.’s $22.5 million agreement with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission over claims the company improperly planted
cookies on  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s Safari Internet browser.  Advocacy group Consumer Watchdog opposes the accord, saying
it lets Google off too easily and suggests that a separate
government antitrust enforcement action against the world’s
largest search engine company may lack teeth.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston said at a hearing today
in  San Francisco  that her “preliminary view” is to approve the
proposed settlement, under which Google would pay a fine and
expire the cookies without admitting wrongdoing. She said the
penalty appeared “adequate” and that she will issue a final
ruling soon.  “It implicates the procedure that will be used to resolve
the antitrust case,” Gary Reback, an attorney for Consumer
Watchdog, said in an interview after the hearing. “A consent
decree will be weak, it won’t really make Google do anything.”  The record $22.5 million fine is the FTC’s first for an
alleged violation of  Internet privacy . Google deceived consumers
and violated terms of a 2011 consent decree when it bypassed
Apple software’s privacy settings and planted cookies on Safari,
which allowed it to track users Internet browsing behavior, the
FTC alleged.  Denies Wrongdoing  Google denies wrongdoing, according to filings in federal
court in San Francisco. Software cookies are files residing on
computers that help websites and browsers identify users.  A separate probe by the FTC into whether Google is abusing
its dominance of the Internet has been under way for almost 20
months, and the agency is prepared to sue if the operator if
Google fails to make an acceptable proposal, two people familiar
with the matter said this week.  Consumer Watchdog says the cookie settlement allows Google
to keep and use the data it collected, thus letting the company
continue to profit from its misconduct. Google collected data
from as many as 190 million users whose browsers’ privacy
settings were overridden by the cookies, the group said in court
filings.  The group also faulted the settlement because it doesn’t
include an admission of wrongdoing by  Mountain View , California-
based Google.  Cookie Information  David Kramer, Google’s attorney, told Illston that Consumer
Watchdog’s concerns are “neither realistic or practical”
because the company doesn’t retain cookie information
identifying users and their Internet addresses change over time.  Adrienne Fowler, a Justice Department attorney, told
Illston that Google garnered very little data on users and most
of it came from other legal methods not at issue in the FTC
case.  “Any data collected would really be a drop in the ocean,”
Fowler said.  The company signed a consent decree with the FTC last year
to settle allegations that it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies in introducing the Buzz
social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year agreement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles user information and requires the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  The case is U.S. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 3:12-cv-04177, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  