-- Greek Insolvency Overwhelmed by Argentina’s Default Risk
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-16T11:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/greek-insolvency-overwhelmed-by-argentina-s-default-risk.html
Argentina ’s bond yields are
eclipsing those of  Greece  for the first time since the European
nation’s debt restructuring in March, as speculation increases
the South American country will opt to default rather than
settle with its so-called holdout creditors.  Yields on Argentina’s euro-denominated bonds due in 2033
surged 4.15 percentage points to a five-month high of 16.93
percent after a U.S. court ruled Oct. 26 the country must pay 
holders of debt from its record $95 billion default in 2001 
when it makes payments on restructured notes. The notes yield 
0.91 percentage point more than similar-maturity bonds sold by 
Greece after it restructured more than $200 billion of debt.  While Greece has contracted for 17 straight quarters and
its bailout funds from the European Union have been frozen since
June, Argentine bonds are considered less creditworthy because
investors doubt President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will
comply with the ruling and trigger a default as soon as next
month, according to TCW Corp Inc. Based on credit-default swaps,
the implied probability that Argentina will renege on its debt
over the next 12 months has now surged to 63 percent.  “What’s being priced in isn’t a solvency issue for
Argentina but instead a risk of technical default,” Marcela Meirelles, a Latin America strategist at TCW Corp Inc., said in
a telephone interview from  Los Angeles . “There’s uncertainty
regarding how the government will react.”  Alfredo Scoccimarro, a spokesman for Fernandez, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  ‘Vulture Funds’  Fernandez has vowed to never pay investors she has dubbed
“vulture funds.” Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said Nov. 5
that “the actions of the vulture funds aren’t going to impede”
the government from paying the 93 percent of investors who
tendered defaulted bonds for new debt in 2005 and 2010.  Billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer  is among
creditors who rejected the offers that paid 30 cents on the
dollar and have sought to compel Argentina to repay them in full
for almost 11 years.  In its Oct. 26 ruling, the appeals court upheld orders
issued by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa and sent the case
back to him to clarify how a payment formula he set is intended
to work. He said on Nov. 9 that he will determine how much
Argentina must pay on its defaulted debt by Dec. 1, one day
before $42 million in interest is due.  Argentina asked the U.S. appeals court to reconsider its
decision on Nov. 11, according to a court filing.  Greek Restructuring  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Singer’s New York-based hedge
fund Elliott Management Corp., declined to comment on the
ongoing litigation.  Greece forced holders of notes issued under domestic law to
accept a 53.5 percent loss on the face value of its securities,
while continuing to pay overseas bonds.  If Argentina’s appeal is denied, the government may choose
to default on some of the international bonds and pay holders of
local notes, according to Claudia Calich, who helps manage $2.4
billion of emerging market debt, including Argentine bonds, at
Invesco Advisers Inc.  “There is the potential for the government to let some
bonds go into technical default and accumulate arrears while
they pay others, especially local law bonds,” Calich said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed income research at
Bulltick Capital Markets, says that Argentina will probably
continue to pay interest on its euro-denominated bonds because
they wouldn’t be subject to the jurisdiction of U.S. courts.  ‘No Sense’  “It makes no sense,” Bernal said in a telephone interview
from Miami. “At these levels, I wouldn’t sell my euro-
denominated bonds. You already took a huge hit and you’re going
to get paid.”  The cost to insure Argentine debt against default rose 132
basis points to 2,656 basis points yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The credit-default swaps imply a 84.8
percent probability Argentina will default in five years, based
on the assumption investors will recover 25 percent of the par
value of the bond.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 35
basis points to 1,240 basis points at 5:59 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 4.7938 per dollar yesterday.  ‘Weak Sponsorship’  While Argentina’s economy continues to expand and the
country has enough foreign reserves to pay debt, Fernandez’s
seizure of oil producer YPF SA in April and the tightening of
foreign-exchange restrictions had already eroded demand for the
nation’s debt, according to TCW’s Meirelles.  “Even before the recent court decision, you had weak
sponsorship of the credit,” Meirelles said. “Now you overlay
the risk of a technical default driven by a court ruling. It’s a
particularly negative combination that explains why bonds are
down so much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  