-- Greece May Need 2nd Writedown After Reforms, Weidmann Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-16T16:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/greece-may-need-2nd-writedown-after-reforms-weidmann-says-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said  Greece  may need a second debt
writeoff after enacting economic reforms, deepening a dispute
over how to return the country to financial health.  “One should ask if it would create trust if Greece were to
receive a debt writedown today,” Weidmann said at an event in
Berlin today. “Would it not make more sense to give the
prospect of a writedown that one would need to regain  market
access  when the reforms are actually carried out?”  Weidmann, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, said Greece’s
debt sustainability and financing gap need to be “honestly”
discussed by European leaders. The finance ministers of the 17
euro nations meet on Nov. 20 to discuss how to pay for a two-
year extension of Greek budget targets.  Germany  has said
imposing losses on European taxpayers who have lent to Greece is
“out of the question.”  “A debt writedown itself wouldn’t solve the problems,”
Weidmann said. Enacting a writedown today when the budget still
isn’t sustainable “is surely not sensible.”  Greece’s creditors led by Germany opted on Nov. 12 to keep
bailout funds flowing instead of risking a default that could
lead to the nation’s exit from the euro and stir more turmoil
for the countries that remain in the single-currency bloc.  “The first question is what to do about the financing gap
that has been opened, the second is the not-to-be-assumed
sustainability of state debt,” Weidmann said. “Those are facts
that can’t be negated, they have to be honestly addressed. The
question of -- if because of that -- the necessity for a debt
writedown arises, I see that as remaining open.”  Debt Sustainability  Making Greece’s debt “sustainable,” previously defined as
cutting it to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, is
critical for keeping the  International Monetary Fund  involved.
The “troika” of international donors including the IMF, the
ECB and the European Union have said Greece’s debt will peak at
190.1 percent of GDP in 2014.  In March, Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history after getting private investors to
forgive more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  suggested on Sept.
24 that Greece may need another debt cut, saying that the
country’s financing gap won’t be bridged with austerity alone.
This week, Greece reported its 17th straight quarter of economic
contraction with economists forecasting GDP declines in 2013 and
2014.  ‘Step Forward’  “It seems we are gradually moving toward a Paris Club-
style solution to Greece’s issue: some debt forgiveness, in
exchange for a reform plan,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at
 Standard Chartered  in  London , said in an e-mail. “It’s not
taboo anymore, which is already a great step forward.”  The Bundesbank president, who has clashed with ECB
President  Mario Draghi  over crisis-fighting measures, said
governments weren’t focusing closely enough on how to set the
right incentives for countries receiving joint financial aid to
carry out budget reforms.  “How can the Portuguese prime minister, the Irish prime
minister go to their parliaments with more reform measures, when
there’s a precedent for a country to keep receiving financing
without having kept to the agreed reforms,” Weidmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Berlin at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  