-- Michigan Vote Against Rescue Hits Local Financings: Muni Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/michigan-vote-against-rescue-hits-local-financings-muni-credit.html
Investors in  Michigan  bonds are
already feeling the effect of voters' rejection of a law
permitting state takeovers of ailing municipalities.  The  yield penalty  on debt of Michigan issuers reached a
five-week high yesterday after voters killed Public Act 4 on
Nov. 6. The law gave state-appointed emergency managers powers,
including firing elected officials and canceling union
contracts, to balance budgets and avoid the fate of three
 California  cities that sought bankruptcy protection this year.  Unions led opposition to the 2011 law. Yet Republican
Governor Rick Snyder, who championed it, said repeal increases
the chances of Chapter 9 filings, which can spark bondholder
losses. While Detroit averted a takeover in April by agreeing to
a state plan to erase its deficit, five cities and three school
districts have emergency managers, including Flint and Pontiac.  “With this gone, all bets are off,” said Chris Mauro,
head muni strategist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York. The
act “seemed to be fairly successful in keeping these fiscally
stressed local governments out of Chapter 9.”  From California to Rhode Island, 25 municipal issuers
burdened by the longest recession since the 1930s filed for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy since the start of 2011, according to  James Spiotto , a partner at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago .  Different Path  Michigan cities such as Benton Harbor, Flint and Pontiac
have avoided that path with the help of emergency managers.
Detroit, the state’s most populous city, is still in danger of
running out of cash by year-end. The state and city agreed
yesterday to cost savings that will allow Detroit to access $30
million held in escrow from a bond sale in August.  “Public Act 4 had proved to be one of the most effective
pieces of legislation in the country for dealing with credit
stress for local governments,” said Bart Mosley, co-president
of Trident Municipal Research, an analytical company in New
York. Of all the bond ballots Nov. 6, the repeal “was the one
that was a clear negative.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to own general obligations
of Michigan and its localities rather than top-grade debt
increased to 0.80 percentage point yesterday, the most since
Oct. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Further clouding Michigan’s fiscal terrain is a lawsuit
challenging the use of emergency managers after the repeal of
Public Act 4.  1990 Law  Since August, when the issue was approved for the November
ballot, cities and school systems with emergency managers have
operated under a 1990 law giving leaders less authority to curb
spending and restructure. Opponents argue that even that law is
invalid. Snyder and Republican Attorney General Bill Schuette
have declared it in effect.  Snyder said some provisions of the defeated measure should
be enacted in a new law, such as “early warning” steps that
allowed intervention in stressed cities before they reach a
financial crisis.  Lawmakers are torn between wanting to re-enact the state’s
ability to intervene and allowing some cities to file for
bankruptcy, said Representative Al Pscholka, a Republican who
helped write the rejected law.  “There’s a feeling that maybe we should let a couple of
communities go bankrupt so they can appreciate what the process
is like,” Pscholka said.  Bing Drive  Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing, who opposed an emergency manager
for the city, said he’ll keep working under the fiscal agreement
with the state.  “With or without the support of Public Act 4, our goal
remains the reform of city government to better serve the
citizens of Detroit,” he said in a statement after the
election.  The city has a Moody’s Investors Service rating of B3, six
steps below investment grade.  Detroit bonds maturing in 2028 traded Nov. 7 and Nov. 8 at
average yields of 3.98 percent and 4 percent, respectively, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. They’re the highest since September.
Interest rates also rose on debt due in 2023 and 2024.  The securities are trailing a rally in the $3.7 trillion
muni market. The  interest rate  on AAA munis maturing in 30 years
is falling for a third-straight week. At 2.7 percent yesterday,
it’s the lowest since at least January 2009, when the Bloomberg
Valuation index began.  ‘Right Way’  “I’ll certainly be requiring much wider spreads” to buy
some of these municipalities, said Robert Miller, senior
portfolio manager in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , for Wells
Capital Management, which oversees $30 billion in munis. “A lot
of the muni bond community held it up as an example of the right
way to do things.”  Snyder and a Republican-dominated legislature pushed Public
Act 4 as localities reeled from plunging property values that
sapped revenue. The state sponsored two emergency-manager
training sessions that drew about 400 participants, including
municipal and school officials.  The new law ignited protests in Lansing, the state capital,
by sympathizers who called it an attempt to bust unions and
usurp voters’ rights. In Benton Harbor, emergency manager Joseph Harris stripped the council and mayor of all powers and began
restructuring city government.  About 200 miles (322 kilometers) east in Pontiac, emergency
managers have cut the workforce to 40 from about 700 five years
ago, and whittled its general fund to $29 million from $55
million, Louis Schimmel, Pontiac’s emergency manager, said in a
telephone interview.  Safety Rehires  Public-safety departments were abolished and their duties
contracted to area communities, which hired the city’s police
and firefighters.  Schimmel sold the city’s sewer capacity to surrounding
Oakland County for $55 million and used the money to retire debt
-- something he couldn’t do under the 1990 law. Pontiac citizens
voted to repeal Public Act 4 by a 3-to-1 margin.  “The benefit of Act 4 was that it had the efficiency of a
dictatorship,” said Spiotto, who leads the bankruptcy practice
at Chapman & Cutler. “They have to make sure whatever is
developed has the efficiency of a financial manager, not the
inefficiency of a committee.”  Following are pending sales:  TEXAS MUNICIPAL GAS ACQUISITION & SUPPLY CORP. plans to
sell $1 billion of gas supply revenue bonds as soon as next
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will finance the
prepayment of a 20-year supply of natural gas, according to bond
documents. (Added Nov. 15)  MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, plans to sell about $808
million in bonds as soon as next week that will be backed in
part by revenue from Miami International Airport, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The proceeds will refinance debt.
(Added Nov. 16)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  