-- Michigan Court Blocks Bid to Remove Detroit School Chief
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-16T21:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/michigan-court-blocks-bid-to-remove-detroit-school-chief.html
Michigan ’s Court of Appeals today
denied a request by officials with a union representing city
employees to have the emergency manager of  Detroit ’s public
schools removed.  State voters on Nov. 6 voided a 2011 law that gave state
emergency managers broad powers to cut spending and avoid
bankruptcy for stricken cities and school districts.  The referendum repealed Public Act 4, passed by the
Republican-controlled legislature at the urging of Republican
Governor Rick Snyder, which allowed the state to intervene more
quickly to prevent insolvencies and have more power to reverse
financial collapse.  The three-judge panel found that the emergency manager of
Detroit’s schools, Roy Roberts, was appointed under a 1990
statute that remained in effect because the section of Public
Act 4 that repealed the earlier law didn’t survive the
referendum, according to a one-page ruling written by Presiding
Judge Kirsten Frank Kelly.  The union’s reliance on a  state statute  that prevents older
laws from being revived if newer ones are repealed is
“unavailing” as the statute “includes no reference to
statutes that have been rejected by referendum,” Kelly wrote.  “Even if the rejection of PA 4 is deemed to operate as a
repeal” under the so-called anti-revival law, “the voters
rejected PA 4 in its entirety by way of the referendum,” Kelly
said.  The ruling will be appealed to the Michigan Supreme Court,
said Andrew Paterson, an attorney for plaintiff Robert Davis,
who is a staff representative with Council 25 of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.  Public Act 4 replaced a 1990 statute that gave emergency
managers less authority. It allowed managers to assume the
powers of mayors, city councils and school boards, as well as to
fire employees, sell assets and cancel union contracts. After
the measure to void it was placed on the ballot, Michigan
reverted to the earlier law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  