-- IMF’s Lagarde Touts Asia as Lesson for Rich Nations in Crisis
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-11-16T11:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/imf-s-lagarde-touts-asia-as-lesson-for-rich-nations-in-crisis.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde said western economies now in crisis
can learn from Asia, where countries undertook changes in
response to the turmoil of the late 1990s.  “Asia embraced change, not without a laborious, difficult
process, not without huge sacrifices, not without misery and
suffering,” Lagarde told students today at the Asian Institute
of Management in Manilla, the Philippines’ capital. “But it
emerged as a result stronger, less vulnerable, more resilient.”  Asia’s experience with bailouts and austerity is being
reflected in  Europe , where governments under pressure to reduce
debt and boost growth are trying to make similar changes to
their economies. Budget cuts that policy makers say are
unavoidable and labor leaders call economic suicide have sent
thousands of people protesting from  Madrid  to  Athens .  Europe’s debt crisis, in which the IMF is involved through
bailouts to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, forced Lagarde to cut
short her visit to Southeast Asia. She will skip the Cambodia
leg of the trip, which started this week in  Malaysia , to attend
a Nov. 20 meeting of euro-area finance ministers.  In Asia, Lagarde sought to promote how the IMF has changed
its policy prescription from the 1990s. The fund’s ties with
nations such as Thailand and  Indonesia  took years to mend after
the 1997 Asian financial crisis forced some countries into
unpopular IMF austerity policies.  ‘More Flexible’  “As we face an increasingly complex and interconnected
world, we understand that the IMF needs to change and modernize,
and we are doing so,” Lagarde said in a Nov. 14 speech in Kuala
Lumpur. “We are more flexible across a number of dimensions,
including the time horizon for fiscal adjustment and policy
responses for dealing with surges in capital flows.”  The region is now a haven for investors after its
governments spent the years since the turmoil restoring
finances, bolstering banking systems and diversifying industries
to increase resilience. Lagarde said today that Asia contributed
two thirds of global growth from 2007 to 2011.  Her comments pleased Aissa Ang, a student in the Master in
Business Administration program at the institute, who attended
the speech and asked Lagarde if the IMF would impose
“sanctions” on the U.S. for initiating the global financial
crisis of 2008 in the way the  Philippines  had to implement
economic reforms attached to IMF loans.  “I got very excited when she mentioned that the developed
countries can learn from the Asian experience,” Ang said in an
interview after the event. “The developed countries can learn,
for instance, resilience and a certain level of trust between
government and business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Manila at  srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  