-- Industrial Production in U.S. Drops 0.4% on Sandy Effect
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-11-16T22:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-drops-0-4-on-sandy-effect.html
Industrial production  unexpectedly
fell in October as superstorm Sandy disrupted output of goods
from food to chemicals, adding to the woes of companies
contending with cooling global demand.  Production at factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.4
percent after a revised 0.2 percent increase in September that
was smaller than previously estimated, Federal Reserve data
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
production, slumped 0.9 percent and was little changed excluding
the effects of the storm, the Fed said. Europe’s recession and
slower growth in Asia risk stemming overseas orders, while sales
of capital equipment falter as U.S. companies brace for the so-
called fiscal cliff of federal spending cuts and tax increases.  “Manufacturing is pretty much treading water,” said
 Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez
Inc. in  New York  and the top-ranked forecaster on the  U.S.
economy , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “There’s soft
domestic demand and weakening export demand. The overall trend
hasn’t changed much regardless of the storm.”  Stocks rose as House Speaker  John Boehner  said budget talks
with President  Barack Obama  were constructive. The  S&P 500 
climbed 0.5 percent to 1,359.88 at the close in New York.  Elsewhere, Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
decision to call an election in December may inhibit the
government’s ability to stimulate an economy that’s sliding
toward its third recession in four years.  The decline in U.S.  manufacturing  matched the drop in
August as the biggest since May 2009, today’s Fed report showed.  Railroads Disrupted  Sandy, which came ashore Oct. 29, killed more than 100
people, disrupted rail and subway service, and left more than 8
million homes and businesses without power for days.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit, the
third-largest aircraft-engine maker, said some of its suppliers
in the Northeast were affected.  “Most are now operational,” company spokesman Bryan
Kidder said in an e-mail last week. “We worked closely with
suppliers and freight carriers to reroute material originally
scheduled to be routed through New York, and as a result we have
experienced minimal impact to our operations.”  Old Dominion Freight Line Inc., a Thomasville, North
Carolina-based shipper of consumer and capital goods, said Sandy
prevented it from meeting projections for a 5.5 percent to 6
percent increase in tonnage shipped in October from a year
earlier.  Lost Revenue  “Our October tonnage was up only 4 percent so we came up
short, but the reduction was primarily due to several days of
lost revenue at the very end of October due to the storm,”
David Congdon, president and chief executive officer, said at a
Nov. 7 industrial conference in  Chicago .  A pair of reports yesterday showed the effects of the storm
extended into November as manufacturing contracted in the Fed’s
New York and Philadelphia regions, which cover New York,  New
Jersey , eastern  Pennsylvania ,  Connecticut  and  Delaware .  The Fed today said the storm cut total industrial
production by almost 1 percentage point last month. September’s
figure was previously reported as a 0.4 percent increase.  Output at  utilities  fell 0.1 percent in October after no
change in September, today’s report showed. The largest
estimated storm-related effects included production cutbacks in
utilities, chemicals and electronics, the Fed said. Mining,
which includes oil drilling, increased 1.5 percent, the biggest
gain since October 2011.  Motor Vehicles  Motor vehicle and parts output decreased 0.1 percent after
a 1.8 percent drop a month earlier. Auto manufacturing has been
a bright spot in the economy, with cars and light trucks selling
at a 14.22 million  annual rate  in October after climbing to
14.88 million in September, the strongest since March 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Output of business equipment fell 1.2 percent, the biggest
drop since May 2009. Consumer goods production declined 0.9
percent, led by non-durables such as food, paper and clothing.  Capacity utilization, which measures the extent to which
plants are achieving their full potential output, decreased to
77.8 percent from 78.2 percent.  Companies such as  W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW) , a Lake Forest,
Illinois-based supplier of tools and equipment, are finding more
restraint in corporate investment as the U.S. gets closer to the
fiscal cliff.  “We’re not seeing anyone that’s stepping out and taking
big chances with large projects or capital investments,” James T. Ryan, president and chief executive officer at W.W. Grainger,
said on a Nov. 14 conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  