-- Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Expanded at Slower Pace
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-11-16T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
probably cooled in October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power
for utility customers in the Northeast, economists said before a
report today.  Output at manufacturers, mines and utilities rose 0.2
percent after a 0.4 percent increase in September, according to
the median projection of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the  Federal Reserve ’s report. Production at  factories  may
have also climbed 0.2 percent.  American manufacturers, a source of strength for much of
the three-year expansion, face a persistent challenge from
 Europe ’s recession and slower growth in  Asia . A further cutback
in  capital spending  by companies concerned about the possibility
of $607 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
next year represents another hurdle for the industry.  “Manufacturing is soft,” said Guy Berger, an economist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , whose forecast
matched the median. “The economy’s moving along at a pace
that’s generally disappointing.”  The Fed releases the production data at 9:15 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a 0.3
percent decrease to a 0.6 percent gain. Manufacturing, about 12
percent of the  U.S. economy , accounts for 75 percent of total
industrial production.  Sandy, which swept ashore in the last week of October,
killed more than 100 people in the U.S., disrupted rail and
subway service, left more than 8 million homes and businesses
without power.  Power Outages  Outages caused by the storm along with “lost manufacturing
output” will weigh on the data, said  Carl Riccadonna , senior
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York , who
projected a 0.1 percent drop.  A pair of regional factory reports yesterday showed the
effects of Sandy extended into November. The Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s general economic index was minus 5.2 this
month after minus 6.2 in October. Readings of less than zero
signal contraction in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
Connecticut. The Philadelphia Fed’s  economic index , which covers
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware ,
decreased to minus 10.7 in November from 5.7 a month earlier.  Shares of manufacturers may be underperforming as a result.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has fallen
8.5 percent since March 30. That compares with a 3.9 percent
drop in the broader  S&P 500 Index  in the same period.  Business Investment  W.W. Grainger Inc., a  Lake Forest , Illinois-based supplier
of tools and equipment, is among companies that are finding more
restraint in corporate investment as the U.S. gets closer to the
so-called fiscal cliff. Without resolution from lawmakers before
year-end, taxes will increase and spending cuts will occur in
2013, threatening the economy with a recession.  “The volume on the fiscal cliff has absolutely notched up
over the last several months,” James T. Ryan, president and
chief executive officer at W.W. Grainger, said on a Nov. 14
conference call with analysts. “We’re not seeing anyone that’s
stepping out and taking big chances with large projects or
capital investments.”  At the same time, auto manufacturing has been a bright spot
in the industry as purchases picked up. Autos in October sold at
a 14.22 million annual rate after climbing to 14.88 million in
September, the strongest since March 2008, according to data
from Ward’s Automotive Group.  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York,
said the outlook for manufacturing hinges on whether the U.S.
will avoid the fiscal cliff.  “The answer to that going forward is going to be found in
the fiscal cliff talks,” Ryding said. “If they go badly and we
have tax increases, then manufacturing is going to do quite
poorly in 2013.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  