-- Infigen, Suntech Scale Back Plan for Solar Farm in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-16T05:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/infigen-suntech-scale-back-plans-for-solar-project-in-australia.html
Infigen Energy (IFN)  and  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  cut the size of a solar plant proposed for
Australia’s New South Wales state to about a quarter of the
original plan as they vie for federal funds.  The Australian company and  China ’s Suntech want to develop
a 35-megawatt solar project after failing in an attempt to get a
government grant for a 150-megawatt plan, Miles George, managing
director of Sydney-based Infigen, said in a phone interview
yesterday. The solar plant would be located next to Infigen’s
140.7-megawatt Capital Wind Farm, George said.  “It’s significantly smaller, but nevertheless a
reasonable-scale project by world standards,” he said,
declining to provide a cost estimate for the plant.  The Infigen and Suntech venture was referred to the
Australian Renewable Energy Agency by Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  in June after losing a bid for funds in the
government’s Solar Flagships program. The government agency is
in talks with Infigen and Pacific Hydro Pty. about funding
projects as the country moves toward a target of getting 20
percent of its power from renewable energy by 2020.  While the government in June awarded A$129.7 million to  AGL
Energy Ltd. (AGK)  and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  to build a 159-megawatt solar
project in New South Wales, it scrapped a plan to provide A$464
million to an  Areva SA (AREVA)  venture after the  Queensland government 
pulled funding for the 250-megawatt project.  Potential Projects  The renewable energy agency, set up last year to help the
industry expand, is targeting smaller, “sensible-scale” solar-
power projects, George said in an e-mail.  The government previously set the 150-megawatt requirement
for solar plants seeking grants, said George, whose company has
interests in 24 wind farms in  Australia  and the U.S.  A program in Australian Capital Territory to develop as
much as 40 megawatts of solar power is a model, the renewable
agency’s chief executive officer, Ivor Frischknecht, said in a
Nov. 12 phone interview “Smaller, not quite as ambitious, very
clear in terms of what’s intended,” he said.  Infigen has slumped 7.4 percent this year in Sydney trading
following a 50 percent drop in 2011 as low prices of renewable
energy certificates discourage investment in new wind farms.
Electricity retailers are required to purchase the certificates
from developers of wind and solar plants as part of the
government’s policy to expand the industry.  Certificate Prices  Infigen  shares  climbed 14 percent today to 25 cents, the
biggest gain in 13 months, compared with a 0.3 percent decline
in Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The government last year revised its renewable energy
program after an increase in household solar installations led
to a glut of the certificates that pushed down prices.  Infigen expects prices will rise next year, allowing some
of the company’s 1,300 megawatts of potential projects to go
ahead, according to George. Infigen’s plans include the
Bodangora, Capital 2 and Flyers Creek wind farms in Australia.  The price of Australia’s renewable energy certificates is
forecast to rise toward A$50 ($52) by the end of the decade from
about A$36 currently, Kobad Bhavnagri, a Sydney-based analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  