-- Iosco Seeks Investor Data-Access to Stress Test Securitizations
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-16T17:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/iosco-seeks-investor-data-access-to-stress-test-securitizations.html
Banks should be forced to give
investors buying securitized debt data for stress tests to gauge
its risk, global regulators said as they push to make financial
markets safer.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions
said investors should have the same access as credit-ratings
companies to “all documents and data relevant to assess
creditworthiness of a given securitization product,” as part of
a push to improve regulation of the industry. The group also
said that the EU should work to iron out differences with the
U.S. on its rule-making.  “Iosco considers that investors should be able to test
whether future cash flows generated from underlying pools” of
assets in a securitization will “pay investors in full and on
time,” the group said in a report published on  its website .  The boom in the U.S. and European markets for securitized
debt in the years leading up to 2008 has been identified by
regulators as one of the main reasons for the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial crisis, as
lenders struggled with a plunge in the debt’s market value.  Securitization involves bundling together assets, such as
mortgages and corporate loans, and then selling bonds that pay
interest based on the performance of this pool of underlying
securities.  Regulators have made strides since the crisis to force
banks that create securitizations to keep some so-called skin
in the game so that they will face losses if the underlying
assets default, Iosco said.  U.S. rules do this directly, while EU legislation takes an
“indirect approach” by banning financial companies from
investing in a securitization unless the originator retains some
of the risk, the group said.  The EU rules create “additional layers of complexity,”
Iosco said, adding that efforts should be made to “reconcile”
the measures with the U.S.’s approach.  $124 billion of securitized debt was issued in the U.S. in
2011, from a peak of $753 billion in 2006, Iosco said.  New issuance in  Europe  in 2011 was 228 billion euros ($290
billion), from a peak of more than 700 billion euros in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  