-- Hitachi Construction Targets Latin America for Mining Expansion
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-11-16T03:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/hitachi-construction-targets-latin-america-for-mining-expansion.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators used in mining,
plans a sales drive in Latin America to take market share from
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   Hitachi’s making the move into the resource-rich continent
where its competitors dominate mining equipment sales as demand
slows in Indonesia and Australia. The company will work with
 Deere & Co. (DE) , its U.S. partner that handles marketing for Hitachi
in the region, Toshiaki Takase, vice president at the company’s
global mining operation group, said in an interview.  “We’re far behind Komatsu in Central and South America,”
Takase said at the company’s  Tokyo  headquarters. “We’ll need to
put our energy and drive into that market.”  Takase wants to double Hitachi’s 10 billion yen ($123
million) annual sales in  Latin America  within a couple of years
“as a first step” to close the gap with Tokyo-based Komatsu
that sells more than 10 times that amount in the region, he
said.  Hitachi Construction will have a tough fight to catch
Caterpillar and Komatsu as they are the established players in
Latin America for large mining equipment, said Hiroyuki Soma, an
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.  “It’s important for them to build a dealer network with ,
Deere, but in addition they’ll need to directly deal with major
miners” and Hitachi’s quality customer base will help that, he
said.  Brazil Target  Brazil and Chile are the company’s next target for
expansion in the resource-rich region after it gained a foothold
in  Colombia , Takase said.  Hitachi previously kept its focus on expanding in Asia and
mostly stayed away from North and  South America , where Komatsu
had the ambition to catch up with Caterpillar, the world’s
biggest maker of construction and mining equipment, Soma said.  Central and South America were Komatsu’s biggest market for
mining equipment after Asia in the year ended March 31,
according to an Oct. 30 company presentation.  Hitachi last month forecast sales and profit for the
current year that missed its July target as falling coal prices
cut mining activity in eastern Australia and Indonesia.  As economic growth in Latin America and Africa fuels demand
for raw materials, this will help Hitachi keep its global sales
of mining equipment at the current year’s levels of 182.1
billion yen in the fiscal year starting April 1, 2013, according
to an estimate by Takase.  Hitachi Construction, half owned by  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Japan’s
second-biggest manufacturer, rose 1.6 percent to 1,390 yen as of
11:04 a.m. in Tokyo trading. The stock has gained 7.3 percent
since the beginning of this year. Komatsu has fallen 2.3 percent
in the same period, while Caterpillar has dropped 10 percent.  Mining Slowdown  The  European debt crisis  and slower growth in  China  are
beginning to curtail demand for Hitachi, Komatsu and Caterpillar
machinery. Weaker commodity prices prompted companies including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. to put off
projects and cut jobs.  With the slowdown, Hitachi Construction may delay the start
of operations at plant expansions in Hitachinaka city, northeast
of Tokyo, Takase said. In March, the company said it would spend
40 billion yen on the factories that would start up in 2013. A
decision will be made at the end of March, Takase said.  Hitachi’s biggest excavator weighing 800 metric tons is as
tall as a three-story building and costs as much as 1.3 billion
yen. Hitachi holds a 30 percent global share of the market for
large excavators weighing more than a 100 tons, while it has a
10 percent share of  dump trucks  that can carry at least 150
tons, Takase said.  As a latecomer to the dump-truck market, Hitachi wants to
boost sales of the vehicles, given as many as five trucks are
sold for every excavator, said Takeshi Kitaura, an analyst at
Deutsche Securities Inc.  “The company can grow its sales because it has built a
reputation for excavators and made customers recognize its
brand,” Kitaura said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  