-- Titanium Metals Investors File Suit Over $2.9 Bln Buyout
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-11-16T23:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/titanium-metals-investors-file-suit-over-2-9-bln-buyout.html
Titanium Metals Corp.’s $2.9 billion
acquisition by  Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP)  was engineered by
billionaire Harold Simmons, Titanium Metals’ controlling
shareholder, to get around an earlier settlement of claims about
Simmons’s company-related dealings, a pension fund said in a
lawsuit.  Simmons and other Titanium Metals executives didn’t solicit
other bids for the maker of titanium used in the aerospace
industry and set up the buyout by Precision Castparts, maker of
jet-engine parts, to “avoid certain obligations that members of
the company’s board are obligated to undertake pursuant to the
settlement,” lawyers for the Sunshine Wire & Cable Defined
Pension Benefit Plan said in a Delaware Chancery Court suit.  Under the offer, stockholders of Dallas-based Titanium
Metals will get $16.50 a share, a 44 percent premium, according
to the company’s Nov. 9 statement about the deal. Entities
controlled by Simmons have agreed to sell their 45 percent stake
in the company, known as Timet, officials of  Portland , Oregon-
based Precision Castparts said.  The deal, Precision Castparts’ largest since at least 1995,
extends an acquisition spree under Chief Executive Officer Mark Donegan, who has overseen more than two dozen purchases in the
past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Planemakers  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS have urged suppliers to consolidate to help
support record increases in jet output.  Self-Dealing  John St. Wrba, a Titanium Metals spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the suit. Dwight Weber,
a Precision Castparts spokesman, also didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  A Louisiana pension fund sued Simmons and other Timet
executives in Delaware last year accusing them of engaging in a
half-dozen self-dealing transactions, including below-market-
rate loans made by the company to firms controlled by the Texas
billionaire and cost-sharing arrangements.  Timet officials agreed last month to settle shareholder
derivative claims against Simmons and the rest of the company’s
board by agreeing to toughen the company’s oversight policies
regarding so-called “related-party transactions,” according to
an Oct. 10 court filing.  A committee of independent directors also will review
challenged transactions from the past and issue a report on them
by Jan. 31 that will be published in the company’s proxy
statement, according to the filing.  Final Hearing  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine is slated to have
a final approval hearing on the settlement of the derivative
suit filed by the Louisiana pension fund on Jan. 9 in
Wilmington.  Lawyers for the Sunshine Wire pension fund contend that
Simmons and other Timet executives pushed to sell the company to
Precision Castparts, one of the company’s largest customers, to
avoid having to comply with the settlement’s requirements,
according to the Nov. 13 suit.  “The proposed acquisition is thus, a sham and/or
fraudulent transaction, a primary, if not sole purpose of which
is to avoid the obligations of the settlement,” the lawyers
said.  Lawyers for the Sunshine Wire pension fund noted the
settlement papers for the earlier case didn’t mention a
potential buyout and the suit over Precision Castparts’
acquisition isn’t covered by the accord.  Business Stakes  Simmons, 81, didn’t immediately return a call today for
comment on the suit over the Precision Castparts buyout. His
Contran Corp. holding company has stakes in businesses that
include  Keystone Consolidated Industries Inc. (KYCN) , a maker of wire
products, and  Valhi Inc. (VHI) , which manufactures titanium goods.  Simmons has long been active in Texas politics and made
forays into national elections as well. He gave $2.3 million to
the Restore Our Future super-PAC that backed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , and in 2004, he donated $4
million to Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that
questioned Democratic nominee Senator John Kerry’s Vietnam War
service.  The case that generated the earlier settlement is Louisiana
Municipal Police Retirement System v. Harold Simmons, 7059,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The new case is Ira J.
Gaines and Sunshine Wire & Cable Defined Pension Benefit Plan
Dates 1/192 v.  Titanium Metals Corp. (TIE) , 8029, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  