-- Liverpool May Release Downing, Daily Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-16T08:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/liverpool-may-release-downing-daily-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Down and Out  Liverpool will allow Stewart Downing to leave, and lose
money on the 20 million pounds ($32 million) paid for the winger
16 months ago,  the Daily Mirror said.   The 28-year-old, who earns 70,000 pounds a week, hasn’t
scored a league goal since joining from Aston Villa in 2011, the
newspaper said.  Torres Trade  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is ready to give up on
striker Fernando Torres and sign Atletico  Madrid ’s Radamel
Falcao,  the Daily Mail said .  Torres joined the Blues from Liverpool, and the London team
may send him back to Atletico as part of a deal for Falcao who
has a 48 million-pound buyout clause, the newspaper said.  Cisse Question  Newcastle striker Papiss Cisse may be banned from playing
against Swansea this weekend after sitting out the  Senegal ’s
last match with an injury,  the Daily Telegraph said.   Senegal is questioning Cisse’s back injury and may use a
rule that can block a player from appearing for his club up to 5
days after missing an international game, the newspaper said.  Relegation Zone  Southampton coach Nigel Adkins expects both he and Queens
Park Rangers’ Mark Hughes to remain in their jobs whatever the
outcome of their relegation-zone match this weekend,  the
Guardian said.   Geography Lesson  Christian Benteke said he thought Aston Villa was located
in  London  when he signed for 7 million pounds before this
season,  the Sun  said.  The 21-year-old Belgian, who is a fan of Arsenal, sees the
Birmingham-based club as a stepping stone to the Gunners, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  