-- Jailed American in Cuba Sues U.S., Employer in Washington
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-16T23:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/jailed-american-in-cuba-sues-u-s-employer-in-washington.html
Alan Gross, a U.S. contractor
arrested and jailed in Cuba, accused the government and his
employer of ignoring the dangers of his assignment in the
Communist nation and failing to protect him  properly.  Gross, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
 Washington , alleged the U.S. and Development Alternatives Inc.
didn’t provide him with training and education to minimize risks
to his safety and refused to pull him out of the country after
he expressed concerns about the operation. Gross and his wife
are seeking $60 million in damages.  “DAI engaged in this behavior -- putting profits before
safety -- despite having, along with defendant  United States ,
superior knowledge regarding the risks posed to Mr. Gross,”
Scott Gilbert, a lawyer for Gross, wrote in the complaint.  Gross, 63, was working as a subcontractor for the U.S.
Agency for International Development in Cuba when he was
arrested Dec. 3, 2009, and charged with “actions against the
independence or the territorial integrity of the state.” He has
maintained his innocence while serving a 15-year sentence.  Gross’s detention heightened tensions between Cuba and the
U.S., which has called for his immediate release and rejected
charges that he was a spy for carrying telecommunications
equipment to the island. Bill Richardson, a former U.S.
Ambassador to the  United Nations , failed to win Gross’s release
in a visit to Cuba last year.  Rejected Offer  The U.S. also last year rejected an offer to release a
group of five convicted Cuban spies as part of a deal to free
Gross.  “We are disappointed that the Gross family has chosen to
file a law suit at this point in time,” Steven O’Connor, a
spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based DAI, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As much as we would like to address the numerous
disagreements we have with the content of the complaint, the
fact is that doing so will not advance the cause of bringing
Alan home, which remains our highest priority.”  He said “we will have a chance to tell DAI’s side of this
story in due course.”  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Jewish Communities  Gross was in Cuba as part of a contract his company had
with USAID to establish wireless networks and Internet
connections for non-dissident Cuban Jewish communities. Cuba
state prosecutors accused him of performing a “subversive
project aiming at bringing down the revolution” by
disseminating distorted information about the government.  Gross told DAI in post-trip reports that the project was
“very risky,” warning supervisors that unauthorized use of
radio frequencies “usually means confiscation of equipment and
arrest of users,” according to the complaint. After his fourth
trip to the country, Gross described efforts by Cuban officials
to “sniff out” wireless networks and other radio-frequency use
outside of  Havana .  DAI passed the memos on to USAID, which ignored his
concerns, Gross alleges.  “Defendant United States continued, without any
adjustment, the Cuba ICT Project, using Mr. Gross as a pawn in
its overall Cuban policy efforts,” according to the complaint.  The case is Gross v. Development Alternatives Inc., 12-cv-
1860, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 