-- Japan Downgrades Economic View After Contraction Last Quarter
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-11-16T00:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/japan-downgrades-economic-view-after-contraction-last-quarter.html
Japan ’s government downgraded its
view of the economy for a fourth month, the longest streak since
the global financial crisis as slumping exports and weak demand
threaten to tip the country into a recession.  “The Japanese economy is showing weakness recently due to
the deceleration of the world economy,” the Cabinet Office said
in a report released in  Tokyo  today, as it cut its assessment of
consumption, investment, corporate profits and the job market.
“Attention should be paid to employment and income situations
in the future, and the adverse effects of deflation on the
economy.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will today dissolve
parliament for a general election on Dec. 16 that polls suggest
he will lose. The Cabinet Office’s report underlines the
challenges facing any new government after the economy shrank
the most since the 2011 earthquake in the third quarter, and may
boost the case for additional fiscal stimulus and central bank
easing.  Japan is at risk of entering its third technical recession,
defined as two straight quarters of contraction, since 2008.
Gross domestic product may fall 0.4 percent in the this quarter,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Japanese recessions are officially defined by a
government-charged panel that considers data beyond GDP figures.  “Showing Weakness”  In today’s report, the government cut its assessment of the
job market for the first time in 17 months. Private consumption
is “showing weakness” and capital expenditure is “growing
weaker,” the government said.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , one of several Japanese electronics makers
struggling to compete with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , said Nov. 15 it would cut 8,000 jobs in the second half of
this fiscal year.  Opinion surveys show that the  Liberal Democratic Party 
could regain power in the December election, reinstating party
leader Shinzo Abe, an advocate of more aggressive monetary
policy, to the premiership he quit in 2007. Abe’s call yesterday
for unlimited easing and a benchmark interest rate of zero or
lower sent the yen to a six-month low against the dollar late
yesterday in Tokyo.  The yen traded at 81.15 per dollar at 8:32 a.m. in Tokyo
from 81.17 at the close yesterday, when it touched 81.46, the
weakest since April 25. It has lost 2.1 percent this week.  The government said in today’s report that it had
“strong” expectations that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  would continue
its “powerful easing.”  The series of downgrades is the longest since the
government lowered its economic view for five consecutive months
between October 2008 and February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  