-- Japan Signs Deal With India on Rare Earth Production, Supply
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-11-16T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/japan-signs-deal-with-india-on-rare-earth-production-supply.html
Japan  signed an agreement to import
4,100 tons of rare earths a year from India in its second deal
this month to diversify supply from China for the metals used in
mobile phones and hybrid cars to missile guidance systems.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, signed
a memorandum of understanding in Tokyo today for India to supply
as much as 20 percent of the country’s rare earth imports,
according to a briefing by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry. On Nov. 2,  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  opened a rare-earth
processing plant in  Kazakhstan  that will produce 3,000 metric
tons by 2015.  Under the agreement today,  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , a Japanese
trading company, will set up a joint venture with  India  Rare
Earths Ltd. Production and supply will start next year.  The moves come as China, the supplier of more than 90
percent of the world’s rare earths, sets lower export quotas for
the metals. Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar
elements identified by the U.S. Defense Department this year as
critical to the operation of military equipment.  Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. will join the
venture in India, Yuko Yasunaga, an official of the industry
ministry said, adding that other companies from India and Japan
may also take part.  Rare earths became a political issue after China cut
domestic output and exports in July 2010 by 40 percent, which
caused prices to double for some rare earths. The move soured
ties with major users including the U.S. and Japan.  Japan will get 9,000 tons a year of rare earths from
Australia’s Lynas Corp. and 10,000 tons per year from  Molycorp
Inc. (MCP)  of the U.S. in the second half of next year, according to
Yasunaga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  