-- Jordanians Protest Fuel-Subsidy Cut, Demand King’s Ouster
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r
-- 2012-11-16T13:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/jordanians-plan-protest-in-amman-over-cut-in-fuel-subsidy.html
Thousands of Jordanians rallied
around the country for a third day against the government’s
decision to cut subsidies on fuel, with some demanding the
ouster of  King Abdullah  II.  Security forces in Amman prevented protesters from marching
to the royal court from Al Husseini mosque after the Friday
sermon. While the demonstration broke up, protesters announced
plans to continue the rally tonight outside the Ministry of
Interior at the Dakhlia circle. Police barricaded the circle and
are refusing entry to the area.  “The reason behind these protests is not to demonstrate,
but to vandalize, and we are against vandalism,” Prime Minister
Abdullah Ensour said in an interview today on Al Arabiya
television. “Seventy-three percent of Jordanian citizens
including government employees, armed forces, retirees,
companies and anyone who is on social security will receive next
Tuesday financial support from the government in dinars.”  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
has largely escaped the Arab Spring uprisings that have toppled
the leaders of Egypt, Libya and  Tunisia . King Abdullah, 50, has
ruled since 1999 and is an important U.S. ally.  No injuries or violent acts were reported today. One person
was killed and at least 17 civilians and 54 policemen were
injured, seven of them critically, in the first two days of the
unrest. The  Muslim Brotherhood , the country’s largest opposition
group, called on people to take to the streets today and the
group’s chief, Hammam Saeed, urged King Abdullah to restore the
subsidies, saying Jordanians can’t shoulder the extra burden.  Rallying Cry  Some protesters today called for the king and Ensour to
quit, chanting “Down with corrupt government,” “Down with
Ensour” and “Down with the regime” -- the rallying cry of the
Arab Spring uprisings.  The Obama administration recognizes the difficult situation
of Jordan and respects the rights of people to protest
peacefully, the state-run Petra news agency reported, citing
Mark Toner, deputy State Department spokesman. The “reformatory
road-map King Abdullah has provided responds to” Jordanians’
financial and political concerns and their aspirations, Toner
said, according to Petra.  Lack of Money  Jordan imports almost all its fuel and relies on foreign
aid and investment to cover shortfalls. Grants from abroad
plunged by 98 percent to 25.8 million dinars ($36.4 million) in
the first nine months of 2012 in the absence of donations from
Arab states, the government said this month.  The state is so short of money that it can’t pay for the
cargo carried by two fuel ships docked in the port of Aqaba,
Ensour said on Nov. 13.  Repeated bomb attacks against a gas export pipeline in
 Egypt  have cost Jordan about $4 billion, increasing the nation’s
debt and budget deficit, King Abdullah said on Oct. 23.  Saudi
Arabia ’s support last year “barely covered the additional
deficit resulting from the disruption in Egyptian gas supply in
2011,” Abdullah said.  Until 2003, Jordan used to receive oil from  Iraq  at
subsidized prices of less than $30 a barrel, according to the
king. Today, Jordan buys crude at more than $100 a barrel, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  