-- JPMorgan’s Trades Ensnared by Post-Enron Regulator Zeal
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-16T19:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/jpmorgan-s-trades-ensnared-by-post-enron-regulator-zeal.html
Millions of dollars in penalties
slapped on some of the world’s biggest banks, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , by U.S. regulators are the result of policing
powers established after the 2001 collapse of Enron Corp.  Within the past month, the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, acting on recommendations from a 200-person
enforcement unit assembled in the past three years, proposed
fines on  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  for manipulating
energy trades. The agency this week revoked J.P. Morgan Ventures
Energy Corp.’s right to trade power for six months next year --
the first such sanction for an active market participant.  “I wouldn’t say that we’re picking on the banks,” FERC
Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said in an interview. “We’re going
after anybody who’s involved in manipulative or fraudulent
activity in these markets.”  FERC didn’t always wield such muscle. Its authority
expanded after the  California  power crisis of 2000-2001, when
Enron traders’ actions triggered rolling blackouts. In 2005
Congress enacted a sweeping energy law that gave the FERC the
ability to go after fraud and manipulation. It also gave the
agency the authority to impose fines as high as $1 million a day
for those who tamper with electric-grid reliability.  ‘Build Up’  The FERC enforcement unit is led by Norman Bay, a former
U.S. attorney in New Mexico, and includes a former general
counsel for the Federal Bureau of Investigation as well as about
40 analysts who focus on market-manipulation violations.  “A lot of people think you put a law in place and you’re
ready to go the next day,” Wellinghoff said in a Nov. 7
interview. “Unfortunately it’s not quite like that. It takes a
substantial period of time to build up a team and to build up
the expertise and the resources necessary to utilize the tools
that Congress gave us.”  Researching cases also takes time, and much of the office’s
efforts in recent years are now coming to fruition. Since
January 2011, the FERC announced 11 cases of alleged market
manipulation in the electricity and natural gas markets, and
this year settled with Constellation Energy Group Inc. for $245
million.  The cases have been developed over years. Barclays’ alleged
violations, which drew a proposed record fine on Oct. 31, took
place from 2006 to 2008. Barclays, which said its trading
complied with the law, has vowed to fight the $469.9 million
penalty.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank Energy Trading LLC on Nov. 5 said it was
protesting FERC’s proposed penalties of $1.6 million for alleged
misconduct during early 2010, saying the agency’s legal position
is “radical.” The agency is punishing JPMorgan for producing
incorrect documents in a manipulation investigation.  A spokeswoman for JPMorgan, which has apologized for what
it has said was an inadvertent mistakes, said it is reviewing
the decision and its next steps.  “This is a novel use of FERC’s authority over market-based
rates and is unsupported by FERC’s own regulations,”  Jennifer Zuccarelli  said in an e-mail.  While the violations during the Enron era involved traders
using illegal practices to drive up prices which led to
blackouts, the commission has seen a different type of
manipulation violation in recent years, in which traders try to
“play one market off the other,” Wellinghoff said.  Without Hedging  Traders might take a loss in the physical energy markets,
where electricity is bought and sold, in order to make money on
financial exchanges “without any legitimate hedging purpose,”
he said. FERC alleges that this is what happened in the Barclays
case. Wellinghoff said energy companies also are reporting
misconduct by calling an agency telephone hotline.  “We’re getting substantial information from other market
participants” who may be losing money at a competitor’s
expense, he said.  Even though Wellinghoff denied FERC is targeting financial
companies, the investigations are evidence that Wall Street
firms have the savvy to game the system, according to Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at Public Citizen, a
Washington-based consumer group.  “It appears as though Wall Street is playing a significant
role in exploiting overly complex market rules,” Slocum said in
an interview. Regulators should revoke energy-trading privileges
for all companies accused of alleged market manipulation, he
said. “That’s the most significant club that FERC can wield.”  California Market  Separately, the California Independent System Operator
complained to the FERC yesterday that the JPMorgan unit, which
controls electric generators in Huntington Beach, is using its
stake to block changes to plants that will be needed by the
state next year.  The grid operator is seeking the FERC’s permission to move
ahead with the project, by removing JPMorgan’s right to object
to the changes. Asked about the filing to FERC, Zuccarelli in an
e-mail today said: “J.P. Morgan’s goal is to work cooperatively
to help to find an economic and efficient way to make generation
available in California.”  Wellinghoff said he expects market-manipulation violations
to decline as traders realize that the agency’s enforcement
division is operating at “full speed.”  “The message is going to transfer through the industry
that if you engage in this kind of activity you’re going to get
caught,” he said. “If you get caught you’re going to pay.”  Wellinghoff said the FERC plans to “go after” individual
traders as well as specific companies. And he’s not concerned
about whether this may spook the financial sector.  “Have you ever met any traders?” he said to reporters
after the commission’s monthly meeting yesterday. “Very few of
them are scared or intimidated by anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  