-- JPMorgan Faces Order on Anti-Money Laundering, WSJ Says
-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-11-16T10:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/jpmorgan-faces-order-on-anti-money-laundering-systems-wsj-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is expected to
receive an order from regulators to bolster anti-money
laundering systems and examine past transactions, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will give the
cease-and-desist order amid a wider crackdown on the nation’s
largest banks, the people said, according to the newspaper.
JPMorgan spokeswoman  Kate Haywood  in London declined to comment,
as did a spokeswoman in Hong Kong.  Authorities and lawmakers in the U.S. have been increasing
scrutiny of banks’ money-laundering controls.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said this month that it’s likely to face criminal charges and
the cost of a settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5
billion the London-based bank has set aside. U.K. rival  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  paid $340 million in August to settle a New York
regulator’s claim it broke Iranian sanctions rules.  The comptroller last week told banks including New York-
based JPMorgan to expect more enforcement actions and fines for
possible violations of money-laundering procedures, the Journal
said, citing banking industry officials it didn’t identify.  JPMorgan  fell  1 percent to $39 by 11:21 a.m. in Germany
from $39.39 at the close of trading on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday.  The OCC in April ordered  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to improve
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act requiring safeguards
against money laundering. Deficiencies prevented New York-based
Citigroup from identifying risky customers and monitoring client
relationships, the regulator said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  