-- JPMorgan, Credit Suisse Settle SEC Mortgage Inquiries
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/jpmorgan-settles-with-sec-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to pay almost $417 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims they misled investors while selling billions
of dollars of investments linked to home loans.  JPMorgan resolved claims that it made misstatements about
delinquency data for loans packaged into securities and that
Bear Stearns Cos., which the bank acquired in 2008, didn’t tell
mortgage investors it kept reimbursements on soured loans, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a  statement . Credit
Suisse was also faulted for disclosures on reimbursements.  For JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , whose
firm is forfeiting $296.9 million in the SEC deal, the claims
add to a growing list of regulatory costs from the housing
bubble, a botched bet on  credit derivatives  and an energy-
trading probe. Since mid-2011, the bank also has been sued by
state and federal watchdogs over sales of mortgage-backed
securities to  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac and loans sold to
investors by Bear Stearns.  “Misrepresentations in connection with the creation and
sale of mortgage securities contributed greatly to the
tremendous losses suffered by investors once the U.S. housing
market collapsed,” the SEC’s enforcement chief,  Robert Khuzami ,
said in yesterday’s statement.  One SEC claim against New York-based JPMorgan focuses on a
$1.8 billion offering of residential mortgage-backed securities,
known as RMBS, as the credit crisis loomed in December 2006. The
bank told investors only four loans were delinquent by 30 to 59
days, when in reality, the firm had information showing more
than 620 loans fit that description, the SEC said.  Bear Stearns  Another claim focuses on 156 mortgage-backed securities
transactions by Bear Stearns from 2005 to 2007. Lenders were
supposed to buy back home loans that defaulted early or were
defective. Bear Stearns instead negotiated bulk settlements with
the lenders and then kept payments for itself without telling
investors, the SEC said.  The practice had been reviewed by attorneys for Bear
Stearns and top executives, then continued after the firm’s
takeover by JPMorgan, Khuzami said.  Dimon, 56, one of the industry’s most forceful advocates,
lost stature this year as his bank, the nation’s biggest by
 assets , juggles investigations and more than $6.2 billion in
trading losses on bets by the firm’s chief investment office.
Dimon has said he did the U.S. a favor by buying Bear Stearns
and that he might not do such a deal again after costs were
boosted by legal and regulatory claims against the business.  Acquiring a company traditionally means taking on its
liabilities too, Khuzami told reporters.  Ill-Gotten  “Here it certainly would not be a right result if JPMorgan
was able to retain the ill-gotten gains from this illegal
scheme,” he said. Still, the agency adjusted the penalties
because much of the abuse took place before the deal, he said.  JPMorgan and Credit Suisse didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing
in settling. The firms agreed to forfeit gains from the
misconduct and pay fines. Khuzami said he doesn’t expect to
bring claims against individuals in either case. That might
change if the investigators uncover new evidence, he said.  “The SEC’s complaint makes allegations under the
negligence-based provisions of the federal securities laws and
does not include charges of intentional misconduct,” JPMorgan
said in a statement.  Credit Suisse, led by CEO Brady Dougan, agreed to pay $120
million. It too had engaged in bulk settlements with originators
from 2005 to 2010, kept proceeds and failed to tell investors,
according to the SEC. The agency also faulted the bank,
 Switzerland ’s second largest, for failing to make good on
obligations to repurchase certain loans that defaulted.  ‘Highest Standards’  “The bulk settlement practice involved a number of acts
that operated as a fraud or deceit on RMBS investors,” the SEC
said its complaint.  “Credit Suisse is committed to the highest standards of
integrity and regulatory compliance in all its businesses,” the
Zurich-based company said in a separate statement.  Dougan, 53, ran Credit Suisse’s investment banking division
until 2007, when the bank’s board appointed him CEO. He was
replaced by Paul Calello, who died in November 2010. Eric Varvel
is the current chief of the unit.  The SEC said the settlements were reached in coordination
with a state-federal  task force  set up by President  Barack Obama 
earlier this year to root out misconduct involving mortgage-
backed securities.  Advanced Talks  JPMorgan said last year it already was in advanced talks to
settle a broad SEC inquiry into how firms packaged and sold
mortgage-backed securities as the housing market unraveled. In
February, the firm said it was warned by SEC employees that they
may bring civil claims linked to two inquiries. This month, the
bank said it reached an “agreement in principal” to resolve
SEC complaints.  The regulator is seeking to wrap up probes into how banks
bundled and pitched investments tied to risky home loans, after
being accused by lawmakers and investors of failing to punish
 Wall Street  for misconduct that may have fueled the housing
bubble and financial crisis.  The agency has targeted companies at various stages of the
loan-packaging process -- from originators such as Countrywide
Financial Corp. to underwriters including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
Wells Fargo agreed last year to pay $11 million to settle claims
it sold risky collateralized debt obligations at unfair prices.
The San Francisco-based lender didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Other Lawsuits  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid $550 million in 2010 to
settle SEC claims that it misled investors on a mortgage-linked
investment in 2007. In that case, the New York-based company
said it made a “mistake” in omitting disclosures.  JPMorgan was among more than a dozen banks sued in
September 2011 by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which said
at the time it aimed to recoup $196 billion spent on mortgage-
backed securities bought by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . The FHFA
accused the banks of misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about
the soundness of the mortgages underlying the securities.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman also sued the
bank in October, claiming that Bear Stearns deceived mortgage-
bond investors about defective loans backing securities.
JPMorgan, which bought Bear Stearns in March 2008 after a run on
what was then Wall Street’s fifth-largest securities firm, said
it planned to contest the claims.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. JPMorgan
Securities LLC, 12-cv-01862, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  