-- Kathie Lee Gifford’s Debut; Porn Stars at Home: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/kathie-lee-gifford-s-debut-porn-stars-at-home-review.html
The Mormons have been granted a
reprieve with the arrival on Broadway of “Scandalous: The Life
and Trials of Aimee Semple McPherson.”  It will probably be temporary, because I’m pretty certain
the musical’s very high kitsch factor is unintended. Clearly the
show is meant as an advertisement for the Foursquare Foundation,
the Salvation Army-like legacy of the megachurch that McPherson
founded in  Los Angeles  in the 1920s.  Like the living dioramas savagely satirized in “The Book
of Mormon,” the best parts of “Scandalous” offer supersize
tableaux vivants of Samson and Delilah and Moses with Pharoah on
the stage of the Angelus Temple, where the charismatic holy
roller preached her Good News gospel.  The show has a book, lyrics and some music by morning TV
personality Kathie Lee Gifford (the rest is by David Pomeranz
and  David Friedman ); monumentalist sets by Walt Spangler
blazingly lit by Natasha Katz; and heavenly costumes by Gregory
A. Poplyk.  And it has a big, old-fashioned voice-like-a-brass-band
star in Carolee Carmello in the subtitle role.  Church Flashbacks  The story is told in flashback from the stage of the
church, a stalagmite-like structure of Heaven-ascendant crystal
spires. McPherson has been accused of fraud, cohabitation and
general bad behavior following a disappearance of several weeks
during which she claimed to have been kidnapped and taken to the
Mexican desert for purposes of torture and ransom.  Having emerged from her ordeal with little more than a few
grass stains, she seems more likely to have in fact been holed
up in lovely Carmel-by-the-Sea with a married lover. The tabloid
press smells blood. And so she, backed of course by a swinging
choir, tells her story.  She was drawn to preaching, faith healing, speaking in
tongues and the like from an early age. Despite the disapproval
of her deadly serious mother (Candy Buckley), she is also drawn
to the theater, in which her understanding father (George Hearn)
saw no harm. The training would become pretty useful.  The songs are nearly all ear drum-shattering anthems as
Aimee turns sinners into believers across the Roaring Twenties.  There is no discernible point of view in evidence about any
of this. For a show about an evangelical, “Scandalous” is
oddly devoid of the words Jesus Christ -- an indication,
perhaps, that the authors didn’t want to rub the Broadway
audience’s collective face in too much of that, you know,
religious stuff.  “Scandalous” is as ecumenically innocuous as it is
pointless.  At the Neil Simon Theatre, 250 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-
877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com . Rating: *1/2  Porn Stars  “The Performers” is an old-fashioned romantic sitcom
tricked out in Vegas glitz and spritzed with a dose of
titillation recalling those lame British sex comedies that
nearly killed Broadway in the 1960s and ’70s.  David West Read’s one-act begins in a hotel suite, where a
straight-arrow journalist (wide-eyed Daniel Breaker) is
interviewing a porn star (the goofily charming hunk Cheyenne
Jackson) on the evening he expects to win the “adult film”
equivalent of an Oscar. The star and the journalist were high
school acquaintances.  The former is married to another porn star (daffily
appealing Ari Graynor). The journalist has brought his fiancee
(Alicia Silverstone, the most grounded of the lot), his
girlfriend since their teenage years and the only woman he’s
ever slept with.  You can imagine the strange trip these innocents are in
for. If their odyssey through porno land doesn’t have quite the
resonance of Candide and Cunegonde’s trials, the theme of a
journey that tests true love is at least as old as Voltaire’s
garden, and as new as “Moonrise Kingdom.”  I’d leave it at that; there are some thumping laughs at the
expense of vain, dopey stars mixing it up with suburban rubes
and a game cast that also includes The Fonz  -- Henry Winkler --
as a legend, the paterfamilias of porn, in Evan Cabnet’s breezy
production.  But in too many nasty punchlines that I can’t repeat here,
“The Performers” shattered the comforting fantasy that these
actors are just like you and me only naked, enhanced and happily
splashing around in their own juices. Cunegonde learns a
shocking thing or two about female debasement in her journey. No
such wisdom accrues here.  Through Sunday at the Longacre Theatre, 220 W. 48th St.
Information: +1- 212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: *  ‘Good Mother’  Gretchen Mol plays the title role in “The Good Mother,”
Francine Volpe’s forgettable one-act play about a single parent
who may or may not be a seductress, a wanton, psychotic, merely
immature or all of the above.  She hires the mentally unbalanced son of her former
counselor (who may have been more than that) to babysit her
autistic 4-year-old daughter so she can have sex with the
trucker she just met in a bar. When they come back to the
apartment, spooky things begin to happen.  The production, as halting and aimless as Mol’s
performance, makes clear that director Scott Elliott (who leads
the adventurous  New Group , which is presenting the show) doesn’t
have any more of a clue about what the playwright is getting at
than I did. When “The Good Mother” stopped dead in its tracks
-- which, oddly, it did rather than end -- I was relieved.  Through Dec. 22 at the New Group, 410 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-244-3380;  http://www.thenewgroup.org .
Rating: (No stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 