-- Kenya Electricity Hydro-Power Generation to Fall to 45% in 2014
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-11-16T06:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/kenya-electricity-hydro-power-generation-to-fall-to-45-in-2014.html
Kenya Electricity Generating Co. (KEGC) ,
the East African nation’s biggest power producer, said it will
reduce hydropower’s share of total output to less than half
within two years as geothermal production increases.  The company, based in Nairobi, will begin providing 280
megawatts of electricity from its Olkaria IV plant to the
national grid by 2014, Managing Director Eddy Njoroge said.
Production at the facility, supplemented by output from an
extension to Olkaria I, will reduce hydropower’s share to 45
percent from the current 60 percent, he said.  “We will have achieved our goal of a stable, reliable
supply of power which is not dependent on the vagaries of
weather,” Njoroge said in an interview yesterday.  Kenya , East  Africa ’s largest economy, rationed power to
homes and businesses last year amid the worst regional drought
in six decades. Growth in the $33.6 billion economy slowed to
4.4 percent in 2011 from 5.8 percent a year earlier, according
to the Planning Ministry. Kenya is Africa’s largest producer of
geothermal power with installed capacity of 212 megawatts.  The deadline for expressions of interest to build a new
560-megawatt plant in the Olkaria complex is Dec. 4. That will
be followed by a request for proposals around March and
selection of a joint-venture partner in June, Njoroge said.  “We are actually planning for that by about 2016 or
2017,” he said.  Kenya has an installed electricity capacity of 1,600
megawatts, with a peak power demand of 1,500 megawatts growing
at an average rate of 8 percent a year. KenGen, as it is known,
produces 1,232 megawatts currently, while four private companies
generate the balance.  Solar Power  KenGen also plans to begin building its first solar-power
plants next year, producing as much as 150 megawatts of
electricity at a cost of about $300 million, he said.  “ The plan is to start with about 10 megawatts of solar
connected to the grid, what we call photovoltaic,” Njoroge
said. “ We are also looking at about 20 megawatts of what is
called concentrated solar power.”  Feasibility studies by the company identified nine sites
for solar power production, including the coastal town of Lamu,
Garissa, Malindi, Gitaru and Magadi, he said. KenGen is also
planning construction of wind-power plants in the northern
Kenyan towns of Isiolo and Marsabit.  The company has loans of 70 billion shillings ($817
million) from various lenders and expects a further 60 billion
shillings will be made available when it expands the Olkaria
complex, Njoroge said.  “There is no way that we can build the projects that we
want to build out of our own cash flows or out of our own
retained earnings,” he said. “There is nothing really wrong
with borrowing as long as you can be able to service your
debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  