-- Kirkland, Gibson Dunn, V&E, Drinker: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-16T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/kirkland-gibson-dunn-v-e-drinker-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP partner Mark Filip and Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s Joseph Warin led the
negotiations with the U.S. government for  BP Plc (BP/) , which reached
a $4.5 billion settlement to end criminal charges against the
company and resolve securities claims relating to the worst U.S.
oil spill, according to court documents.  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company announced a $4 billion
settlement yesterday with the U.S. Justice Department that
includes a record $1.26 billion criminal fine, which would be
paid over five years. The London-based company agreed to five
years’ probation and also will pay $525 million to settle
charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Two well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter and a former executive was charged with obstruction
and false statements.  On the government side, Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, and John Buretta, head of the Deepwater Horizon Task Force, led
negotiations. They were joined by deputy director Derek Cohen.  Filip was formerly at the Justice Department, where he
served as deputy attorney general from March 2008 to February
2009.  Warin is chairman of the litigation department at Gibson
Dunn’s  Washington  office. He is also co-chairman of the firm’s
white-collar defense and investigations practice group. He
served as assistant U.S. attorney in Washington from 1976 to
1983.  BP’s roster of outside lawyers includes Thomas H. Milch,
the chairman of Arnold & Porter LLP, and Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale and Dorr LLP partner  Jamie Gorelick , a former deputy
attorney general under President  Bill Clinton , according to
earlier reports and people familiar with the litigation.  BP agreed to plead guilty to 11 felony counts of misconduct
or neglect of ships officers related to the 11 deaths aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, one misdemeanor count under the
 Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the  Migratory Bird
Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of justice.  “All of us at BP deeply regret the tragic loss of life
caused by the Deepwater Horizon accident as well as the impact
of the spill on the Gulf Coast region,” BP Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley said yesterday in a statement.  Along with the criminal fine, the resolution with the
 Justice Department  includes a total of $2.4 billion that will be
paid to the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation over a period of
five years. Another $350 million will be paid to the  National
Academy of Sciences  during that same period.  The government case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production
Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Louisiana  ( New Orleans ). The lawsuit is part of In Re Oil Spill
by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April
20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Deals  Targa to Buy Saddle Butte’s Williston Pipes for $950 Million  Vinson & Elkins LLP advised  Targa Resources Partners LP (NGLS)  in
its agreement to buy Saddle Butte Pipeline LLC’s Williston Basin
oil and natural gas pipeline and processing systems in North
Dakota for $950 million in cash. Thompson & Knight LLP advised
Saddle Butte.  V&E mergers and acquisitions partner  Chris Collins  led the
acquisition team for Targa, with assistance from tax partner
 John Lynch .  Targa’s equity offering, announced at the same time as the
acquisition, was led by V&E partners Collins and David Oelman.  Arthur J. Wright, Jeffrey A. Zlotky and R. David Wheat were
the primary partners on the deal from Thompson & Knight advising
Saddle Butte.  The purchase includes 155 miles of oil pipelines and
storage capacity of 70,000 barrels, Houston-based Targa said in
a statement. It also includes about 95 miles of gas gathering
pipes and a gas processing plant that’s expected to double
capacity.  “We are very excited to expand our geographic footprint
into one of the most important oil producing basins in the
country,” Joe Bob Perkins, chief executive officer of Targa’s
general partner, said in the statement.  Evercore Partners advised Targa on the transaction, which
is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter.  Firm News  Lewis Silkin Expanding With Third office in Cardiff  London   law firm  Lewis Silkin LLP announced that it will
open an office in Cardiff on Nov. 19.  The office will initially focus on employment law issues
and will be managed by a partner from the London employment team
who will transfer to Cardiff, the firm said. It said the office
is expected to expand to 10 staff by the end of 2013.  “The opening of our third office in Cardiff will ensure
the continued delivery of exceptional service and hands-on
support in response to ever-changing client needs,”  Ian
Jeffery , managing partner of Lewis Silkin, said in a statement,  Lewis Silkin is a 60-partner commercial law firm based in
London, Oxford and Cardiff.  Barnes & Thornburg’s Re-Elects Atlanta Office Head  Stuart C. Johnson was re-elected Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s
Atlanta managing partner for the third time since the office
opened in 2009.  Johnson also serves as a member of Barnes & Thornburg’s
management committee, chairman of the firm’s private equity
practice group, and a member of the firm’s corporate department.  Johnson is a corporate and transactional lawyer and has
assisted clients with mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures,
corporate financing transactions, and general business matters
in a variety of industries, according to the firm.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 lawyers in 12 offices.  Moves  Drinker Biddle Hires Delaware Governor’s Chief of Staff  Delaware  Governor Jack Markell’s chief of staff, Tom
McGonigle, will join Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP and head the
firm’s Wilmington office.  “I chose Drinker because of the quality of its lawyers and
clients nationwide,” McGonigle said in a statement.  McGonigle will join the firm Dec. 10 and act as outside
general counsel for a number of clients as well as handle
litigation and administration law matters. He was a partner at
WolfBlock LLP before joining Markell’s administration, the firm
said.  As the governor’s chief of staff since the 2008 election,
McGonigle helped Markell select his team and handle fiscal
issues. During the past four years, he has helped to manage the
governor’s office and the cabinet as the administration focused
on jobs, schools and state government efficiency, the firm said.  In Wilmington, the firm’s roster of lawyers also includes
 William Quillen , a former Supreme Court justice and former
chancellor of the Delaware Chancery Court, and  Joseph Schoell ,
the former chief legal counsel to ex-Governor Ruth Ann Minner.  “There are not many firms in Delaware that have such a
depth of experience,” Andrew C. Kassner, Drinker Biddle’s
executive partner and chairman of the corporate restructuring
practice group, said in a statement.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices.  Seyfarth Shaw Hires Real Estate Partner in New York  Seyfarth Shaw LLP announced that  Miles Borden  joined as a
partner in the firm’s real estate department in  New York . Borden
was previously a partner at Troutman Sanders LLP.  Borden’s practice focuses on commercial real estate
transactions and real estate-related matters in connection with
corporate mergers and acquisitions.  Seyfarth’s real estate department has added more than 20
attorneys across the country in 2012, the firm said. Among its
representations was  Australia ’s  Dexus Property Group (DXS)  in the $770
million sale of its U.S. central portfolio to affiliates of
Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys in 10 offices
throughout the U.S.  Carter Ledyard Hires Litigator Greenblum in New York  Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP hired  Justin A. Greenblum  as a
partner in its litigation department. Greenblum previously was
with the New York office of K&L Gates LLP, the firm said.  Greenblum’s practice concentrates on complex commercial and
business disputes in the financial services industry and the
general representation of private investment funds. He has
experience representing institutional lenders,  hedge funds ,
private equity funds and other alternative investment funds and
issuers of financial products in various breach of contract and
breach of fiduciary duty matters, the firm said.  Carter Ledyard has about 100 attorneys at two New York City
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 