-- N.Y. Warns Wells Fargo About Post-Sandy Mortgage Reviews
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-16T21:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/n-y-warns-wells-fargo-about-post-sandy-mortgage-reviews.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  risks violating a
national foreclosure settlement by suspending reviews of New
York homeowners’ loan-modification requests following  Hurricane
Sandy , the state’s attorney general warned.  Delaying the reviews in the aftermath of the storm will
probably result in “multiple violations” of the settlement
that Wells Fargo and four other lenders reached with states and
the federal government this year, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  “My office expects Wells Fargo’s full cooperation in
ensuring that no additional and unwarranted damage is inflicted
on those who were victims of this tragic event,” Schneiderman
said in a letter today to John Stumpf, chairman and chief
executive officer of the bank.  The settlement reached with Wells Fargo,  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  sets requirements for servicing mortgages and provides
mortgage relief to homeowners across the country.  Wells Fargo this month told a federal judge that a false
claims case filed by the U.S. against the bank violates the
settlement, which provided liability releases to the lenders.
The U.S. sued Wells Fargo in October, claiming it made reckless
mortgage loans that caused losses for a federal insurance
program when they defaulted.  Disaster Areas  After Sandy made landfall, Wells Fargo began suspending all
foreclosure sales and evictions in places designated as disaster
areas by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based lender.  The suspensions of “any foreclosure activity” will last
at least 90 days for the loans Wells Fargo both owns and
services, Adams said. The bank is still processing loan-
modification requests made before the storm hit, she said.  Under the national settlement and  New York  law, Wells Fargo
is required to make a decision about a homeowner’s request for a
loan modification within 30 days of receiving a completed
application, Schneiderman said. Wells Fargo isn’t excused from
its obligations as a result of the storm, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  