-- Al-Qaeda Recruit Gets Life in Prison for Subway Bomb Plot
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/n-y-man-sentenced-to-life-for-plot-to-blow-up-subways-1-.html
A New York man recruited by al-Qaeda
who plotted to bomb the city’s subway system was sentenced to
the equivalent of two life terms in prison.  Adis Medunjanin, 28, was sentenced yesterday in  Brooklyn ,
New York, for planning the failed suicide bombing, which was set
to occur around the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.  A jury convicted Medunjanin in May of nine charges
associated with the would-be bombing, including conspiracy to
use weapons of mass destruction and providing material support
to a foreign terrorist organization. A life sentence is
mandatory under charges of using a destructive device in
connection with the plot.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson sentenced Medunjanin, who
is from Bosnia and lived in Queens, New York, to life plus an
additional 95 years.  “This was not a fringe character in our society. He was a
bright, well-liked young man,” Gleeson said. “I still can’t
wrap my mind around it, the road from being a kid in Queens like
so many other kids to being a terrorist.”  Swore Oath  The attack was planned after Medunjanin and two associates
swore an oath to the Taliban in 2008 and received training from
al-Qaeda in  Pakistan , the U.S. said. It was aborted after the
conspirators became suspicious they were being watched by law
enforcement, prosecutors said in court filings.  At yesterday’s hearing, Medunjanin, with long, dark hair
and a beard, stood in front of the judge’s bench wearing a
wrinkled black suit. Before he was sentenced, he sang several
verses of the Koran in Arabic and commented on what he perceived
as social injustices.  “I would like to ask you in what kind of world are we
living, full of hate and lies?” he said. “Why is it we always
talk about helping the poor, but all we see is poor getting
poorer?”  Medunjanin denied the government’s allegations in the case.  “I had nothing to do with any subway plot or any bombing
plot whatsoever,” he said.  Medunjanin’s lawyer, Robert Gottlieb said his client plans
to appeal the conviction.  ‘Sensitive’ Person  During the hearing, Gottlieb said Medunjanin is a sensitive
person who became profoundly religious. His family came to the
U.S. to escape conflict in Bosnia, Gottlieb said. Medunjanin’s
parents, sister and extended family were watching in the
courtroom, the lawyer said.  “His life, his family, his religion were under attack as
soon as he was born,” Gottlieb said. “Adis, your honor, loved
this country and its ideals and he felt a responsibility to
stand up.”  Authorities arrested Medunjanin in 2010 after he crashed
his silver Nissan Altima in what the prosecutors described as a
“jihadist attack on a public highway.” His associates,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty in the same
year and agreed to testify in the trial. The three men have been
in custody since their arrests.  In testimony, Zazi said the men agreed to be part of a
terrorist plot because they were upset about the U.S.’s presence
in  Afghanistan . Ahmedzay came to the U.S. from Afghanistan. Zazi
was born in Pakistan.  Terrorist Camp  For training, the men went to a terrorist camp in
Waziristan, Pakistan, where they were taught to use rocket
launchers, machine guns, grenades and pistols, Zazi testified.  Al-Qaeda didn’t specify what to target in suicide attacks,
Zazi said. Other possibilities the men discussed included Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., the New York Stock Exchange and movie
theaters, he said.  The men had planned to bomb subways during either the
morning or afternoon rush hour in the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan, which fell in about September 2009, Zazi testified. The
plotters discussed the No. 3 train, which runs on  Manhattan ’s
West Side, or the No. 4 train on the East Side, because they are
busy lines, he said.  Law enforcement officers searched Medunjanin’s home in the
Flushing area of Queens on Jan. 7, 2010. About an hour after
they left the property, Medunjanin swerved his Nissan into
another vehicle at more than 90 miles (145 kilometers) an hour
while followed by government agents on a New York expressway,
prosecutors said.  During the incident, Medunjanin dialed 911 and screamed in
Arabic, “We love death more than you love your life,”
according to the government.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 