-- Naira Drops to 2-Month Low on Reduced Dollar Supply: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-16T13:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/naira-drops-to-2-month-low-on-reduced-dollar-supply-lagos-mover.html
Nigeria ’s naira declined against the
dollar on the  interbank market , reaching a two-month low and
capping the worst week in 12, as foreign inflows and oil company
foreign-exchange sales were said to be limited.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer retreated 0.3
percent to 158.525 a dollar, the lowest closing level since
Sept. 5, at 2:33 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital. The
naira retreated of 0.7 percent this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a temporary shortfall in supply this week,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based  emerging markets  strategist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.
“I don’t think there were significant foreign-exchange sales
from  oil companies  and foreign inflows have been less robust.”  Oil-producing companies, which sell dollars to meet
domestic expenses, are the second-biggest source of foreign
currency after the central bank, which sells dollars on Mondays
and Wednesdays to keep the naira within a 3 percent band around
155 per dollar.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. added the West African nation’s bonds
to its benchmark emerging-market index series last month.
Barclays Plc followed last week when it said it would also add
Nigerian debt to its emerging-market local-currency government
bond index from March 2013. Yields on 10-year naira debt have
tumbled 348 basis points since August to 12.65 percent,
according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the Financial
Markets Dealers Association website.  ‘Market Confidence’  “We suspect the foreign-exchange market will be more
supported next week given the forthcoming fixed-income
auctions,” said Gadio. “Foreign-exchange demand is not
meaningful and market confidence remains strong.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sells bills to help manage
currency supply within the market. The Abuja-based regulator is
offering 116.2 billion naira ($733 million) of bills on Nov. 22.
The Debt Management Office is also scheduled to sell 50 billion
naira of 10-year and 7-year bonds next week.  The central bank, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, has left
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record high 12
percent this year to help support the naira and keep prices low.
Sanusi told an investor conference in Lagos yesterday that
Nigeria’s food inflation accelerated last month after flooding
this year washed away farms.  Annual inflation slowed to 11.3 percent in September from
11.7 percent the previous month. Food prices, which account for
more than half of the  consumer price index , rose 10.2 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 9.9 percent in August. The
country’s National Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to release
October inflation figures Nov. 19.  Borrowing costs on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds
due January 2021 were little changed at 4.4 percent today.  Ghana’s cedi gained less than 0.1 percent to 1.8796 a
dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  