-- New Jersey Among States Where Gay-Marriage Backers Smell Victory
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-11-16T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/new-jersey-among-states-where-gay-marriage-backers-smell-victory.html
Gay-marriage advocates, coming off
their first ballot-box victories, are targeting New Jersey and
five other U.S. states where the road to legalization is simpler
because voters can’t overturn laws through referendums.  In  Delaware , Hawaii, Illinois,  Minnesota , New Jersey and
Rhode Island, lawmakers plan to consider or revisit the issue
next year, and all except Minnesota already allow civil unions.
Even though they prevailed in votes in four states Nov. 6 after
a decade of defeats, backers say they prefer to make homosexual
weddings legal through legislatures or courts.  “Where we’re going next are states where we can win in the
legislature,” said Marc Solomon, national campaign director at
 Freedom to Marry , a New York-based group that helps and funds
local gay-rights organizations. “The ballot, without question,
is not our preferred route because we fundamentally don’t think
it’s appropriate for the public to be voting on the rights of
gay people or other minority groups.”  The pool of states that have yet to legalize or ban gay
vows is shrinking. By Jan. 1, same-sex couples will be able to
marry in nine states and the District of Columbia, home to a
combined 14 percent of the U.S. population. On the other side of
the issue, 30 states have constitutional amendments defining
marriage as a pact only between a man and a woman.  Streak Ends  The losing streak for same-sex marriage at the polls ended
on Election Day, when voters affirmed laws passed by the
legislatures of Washington and  Maryland , extended the right to
gay Mainers and rejected a bid in Minnesota to constitutionally
define marriage as heterosexual. Gay-marriage groups spent $35
million, compared with $10 million for opponents, according to
both sides.  Before then, legalization had come only through legislative
or judicial action as gay marriage was defeated all 32 times it
appeared on a ballot.  Last week’s victories were aberrations, said Brian Brown,
president of the  National Organization for Marriage , which
opposes same-sex nuptials. If they were indicative of what most
Americans believe, supporters would be pushing for ballot
measures rather than opposing them, he said.  “They don’t want the people to have a say on this issue --
they want to take it through the courts and ram it through
legislatures,” Brown said. “They’ve won four votes. We’ve won
32. The track record is clear.”  The Washington-based organization hopes to make Indiana the
31st state to amend its constitution to ban same-sex marriage.  Growing Support  Advocates of same-sex marriage say they are optimistic
because their movement enjoys the broadest backing to date among
politicians and the public.  Support has gone from a potential liability to “almost a
necessity” for Democratic candidates, Solomon said. Of the 47
party members newly elected to the U.S. House, 43 ran as gay-
marriage supporters.  Forty-nine percent of voters said gay marriage should be
legal in their state, according to  exit polls  taken on Election
Day. That mirrored the support in an October poll by the
Washington-based Pew Research Center, which also found that
opposition had fallen to a record-low 40 percent.  Brown called the polls flawed and said that those done for
his group show greater opposition.  While backing has grown among all groups over the past
decade, it remains lowest among white evangelical Protestants,
conservative Republicans, Southerners and those who attend
religious services at least once a week, Pew  polls  show.  Demographic Shift  In  Illinois , New Jersey and Hawaii, demographic profiles
suggest a larger degree of support for same-sex marriage,
according to Pew and Census data compiled and analyzed by
Bloomberg and D’Vera Cohn, a senior writer at Pew. All have
worship-service attendance rates at or below the national
average, household income above the U.S. median and higher-than-
average percentages of adults with college degrees.  Even so, advocates aren’t targeting those states because of
demography, Solomon said. Instead, they are among the logical
battlegrounds because groundwork has already been laid, he said.  In New Jersey, supporters are working to help Democrats
assemble the two-thirds majority in the legislature needed to
override Republican Governor Chris Christie’s veto of a gay-
marriage bill passed in February. Lawmakers in Rhode Island,
soon to be the only New England state without gay marriage, plan
to introduce a bill in the 2013 legislative session. Bills are
also in the works in Illinois, Delaware,  Hawaii  and Minnesota.  Long Road  None of those states allow voters to overturn legislation
through referendums.  It’s worthwhile to introduce marriage bills even if they
aren’t expected to pass because it sparks dialogue, Solomon
said. In heavily Democratic New York, for instance, last year’s
legalization of gay vows came after a previous attempt failed in
the Senate.  “It’s not snap your fingers and get it done,” Solomon
said. “The more conversations we have on this issue, the more
people engage with their lawmakers and people in their
community, the more support we get.”  Freedom to Marry’s strategy moving forward will also
include attempts to repeal constitutional amendments, beginning
with a referendum in  Oregon  in 2014, Solomon said.  Supreme Court  For now, advocates and opponents are waiting to hear from
the U.S. Supreme Court, which is slated to consider on Nov. 30
whether it will take up the issue this session. Cases it may
consider include the constitutionality of the Defense of
Marriage Act, which bars the federal government from recognizing
same-sex marriages even in states where it’s legal; and
Proposition 8, a ballot referendum that California voters
approved in 2008 that invalidated a court ruling legalizing the
unions.  Democrats, who control both chambers of the California
Legislature, won enough extra seats last week to secure the two-
thirds majority needed to place a repeat of Proposition 8 on the
statewide ballot without Republicans votes.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrel Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento  and supporter of gay marriage, “believes that voters
would deserve to have another say,” said his spokesman, Mark
Hedlund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  