-- NFL Board Paid Brain Disability Victims, ESPN-PBS Report Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/nfl-board-made-brain-disability-payments-espn-pbs-report-says.html
A National Football League
retirement board gave at least $2 million in disability payments
to former players in the 1990s and 2000s after concluding that
the sport caused their brain injuries, according to ESPN and the
PBS television program “Frontline.”  The payments were made to at least three former NFL
players, the  news organizations said , citing uncovered records
relating to the 1999 disability claim of Hall of Fame center
Mike Webster, and came as NFL medical experts “consistently
denied any link between the sport and long-term  brain damage .”  Almost 4,000 retired NFL players have filed lawsuits
against the league seeking damages for head injuries sustained
on the field, according to ESPN and “Frontline.”  E-mails seeking comment on the report from  Greg Aiello , a
spokesman for the NFL, and George Atallah, a spokesman for the
NFL Players Association, weren’t immediately returned.  The retirement board has seven representatives: three from
the owner’s side, three from the players’ side and one non-
voting from the commissioner’s office, according to ESPN.  It’s an independent body whose decisions “are not made by
the NFL or by the NFL Players Association,” Aiello said,
according to ESPN and “Frontline.”  Webster, who played his first 15 seasons with the
Pittsburgh Steelers and final two with the  Kansas City Chiefs ,
died at age 50 in 2002.  Traumatic brain damage has been found in the autopsies of
at least two ex-NFL players who killed themselves. Andre Waters,
a former Philadelphia Eagles defensive back, shot himself in
November 2006 at the age of 44. Dave Duerson, a one-time Chicago
Bears defensive back, died in February 2012 at age 50.  Former San Diego Chargers linebacker Junior Seau also
committed suicide, in May at age 43, while former Atlanta
Falcons safety Ray Easterling, one of the players suing the
league, shot and killed himself at 62, two weeks before Seau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  