-- Nigeria’s Sanusi Says Food Inflation Rose From Flooded Farms
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-16T10:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/nigeria-s-food-inflation-rose-after-floods-hit-farms-correct-.html
Nigeria’s food  inflation  accelerated
last month after flooding this year washed away farms, Central
Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  Sanusi, who was speaking at FBN Capital’s annual investor
conference in Lagos, the commercial capital, didn’t mention
October’s food-inflation rate or how it affected the headline
figure. Annual inflation slowed to 11.3 percent in September
from 11.7 percent the previous month. Food prices, which account
for more than half of the consumer price index, rose 10.2
percent from a year earlier, compared with 9.9 percent in
August.  “We already have an uptick for food inflation for last
month; food prices have already come up,” Sanusi said
yesterday. “For many of those farmers, the floods have simply
swept away their income for one year, and that’s going to have
an impact on our agricultural productivity.”  Nigeria’s two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue,
overflowed their banks as dams let out water after heavy rains,
killing 363 people, displacing 2.2 million and affecting nearly
8 million from July to Oct. 31, according to the National
Emergency Management Agency. Farms, homes and roads have been
washed away in the flooding in  Africa ’s most-populous nation.  Data Release  The West African country’s  National Bureau of Statistics  is
scheduled to release October inflation figures Nov. 19.
Agriculture is the biggest contributor to the country’s economic
output, accounting for 41 percent of gross domestic product in
the second quarter, according to the Abuja-based statistics
office.  The inflation rate of Africa’s largest-oil producer fell in
September for the third consecutive month, though still above
the central bank’s target of below 10 percent.  The Abuja-based central bank left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at a record high 12 percent this year to help
support the naira and keep prices low. Inflation has stayed
below the bank’s forecast of a peak of as much as 15 percent
after President Goodluck Jonathan cut a gasoline subsidy in
January.  The central bank wants women to hold at least 40 percent of
senior management positions in commercial banks and 30 percent
of bank board seats by 2014, Sanusi also said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  