-- Novartis Bexsero Meningitis Shot Wins EU Agency’s Backing
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-11-16T16:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/novartis-bexsero-meningitis-shot-wins-eu-agency-s-backing.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  won the backing of the
European Union’s drug regulator for the Bexsero meningitis shot
that Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said was key to
returning the company’s vaccines division to profitability.  Novartis should be given authorization to market Bexsero
for use in patients starting at 2 months of age, the European
Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
Use said in a  statement  today. The European Commission usually
follows the committee’s recommendations within three months. The
shot would be the first inoculation against the meningococcus B
bacterium, the biggest cause of meningitis in industrialized
countries.  “This is clearly good news,” Alistair Campbell, an
analyst with Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone
interview today. “We’ve been waiting a long time for the
approval and the delay had raised questions about the viability
of the division.”  Failure to win approval for Bexsero may have led Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis to sell or scale back the vaccine
unit, which the company built through the $7.5 billion
acquisition of Chiron Corp., completed in 2006. Andrin Oswald,
who heads the unit, declined to discuss the sale of parts or all
of the unit.  Expansion Focus  “Our focus is on expanding and growing the business, not
on making it smaller,” Oswald said in a telephone interview
today.  Novartis closed down 0.4 percent at 55.60 Swiss francs at
5:30 p.m. in Zurich.  Novartis,  Europe ’s largest drugmaker by sales, must still
persuade national health agencies to recommend that parents give
their children the shot and governments to pay for it.  “It’s not only about getting the vaccine approved; it’s
also about making it a commercial success,” Campbell said.  Novartis may struggle to get Bexsero included in routine
pediatric vaccination schedules because the incidence of
meningitis B has been waning for years, said Tim Anderson, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “If the disease occurs only rarely, then it may not make
sense to administer the vaccine broadly as a preventive
measure,” he wrote in a Nov. 14 note to investors.  Peak Sales  Analysts are divided on Bexsero’s sales potential. Anderson
sees the shot generating annual revenue of about $700 million by
2020, while Helvea SA’s Olav Zilian predicts sales of $1.45
billion in 2016. Campbell doesn’t have a peak sales estimate for
Bexsero.  Meningitis can be caused by viruses, fungi and bacteria.
Bacterial meningitis causes an estimated 170,000 deaths
worldwide each year, according to the  World Health Organization .  Novartis competes with  Sanofi (SAN)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in
marketing shots against four other strains of meningococcus.  Bexsero targets type B, which accounts for as many as 40
percent of cases in North America and as many as 80 percent in
some European nations, according to the  WHO .  “MenB disease is a major cause of meningitis and
septicemia in children, and its ability to cause a rapidly
progressive, devastating illness makes it one of the infections
most feared by both parents and pediatricians,”  Matthew Snape ,
a pediatrician at the Oxford Vaccine Group at the University of
Oxford, said in a statement distributed by Novartis today.  Novartis is discussing the inoculation’s U.S. approval with
the Food and Drug Administration, Oswald said. The company may
combine its Menveo shot, which protects against the ACWY
strains, with Bexsero in a pentavalent vaccine. “A pentavalent
vaccine would add quite some benefit,” Oswald said.  Kissing, Sneezing  Meningococci bacteria can be carried in the throat and
transmitted through kissing, sneezing, coughing or sharing food
and drink. The bugs mainly affect young children and can cause
meningitis, in which the thin lining surrounding the brain and
spinal cord becomes inflamed, causing symptoms including stiff
neck, high fever, sensitivity to light, confusion, headaches and
vomiting.  As many as 10 percent of those infected die within 48 hours
after symptoms start, according to the WHO. Brain damage,
hearing loss or learning disabilities may affect as many as 20
percent of survivors, the Geneva-based agency said on its
website.  Novartis applied to the London-based EMA in December 2010
for marketing approval of Bexsero. A decision was delayed by
questions from the regulator, Novartis has said.  Sales in Novartis’s vaccines and diagnostics division
peaked at $2.9 billion in 2010 on revenue from influenza
vaccines sold during the H1N1 flu pandemic. Last year the
business had revenue of $2 billion and a $249 million operating
loss.  Jimenez told analysts in January he was confident Bexsero
would win regulatory backing and make the division successful.
“If that doesn’t happen, then obviously we have to rethink
that, because we’re not going to continue to accept losses in
the division,” Jimenez said on a conference call Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  