-- Obama’s Asia Pivot Depends on What He Can Deliver at Home
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/obama-s-asia-pivot-depends-on-what-he-can-deliver-at-home.html
With his trip to  Southeast Asia ,
President  Barack Obama  is surpassing the Woody Allen test of
Asian diplomacy -- i.e., just showing up. Not only is this his
first foreign excursion after his re-election, it’s also the
first visit by a sitting U.S. president to Myanmar.  Both distinctions are symbols of the administration’s
commendable “pivot” to  Asia , a strategic shift whose fuzzy
outlines are starting to come into stronger focus. For a broader
rebalancing to succeed, however, the president will have to find
a way to expand the U.S. presence without inciting a harsh
backlash from a new Chinese leadership worried about
encirclement. And for Obama’s commitment to deeper U.S.
engagement in Asia to be credible, he must also take on some
stiff challenges at home.  Obama’s trip to Thailand, Myanmar and Cambodia takes place
against a backdrop of tension and uncertainty.  China  and  Japan 
are at daggers drawn over a handful of rocky islets surrounded
by potentially rich deposits of oil and gas. China’s leadership
transition and recent political jockeying in Japan have fed
nationalist flames on both sides. Meanwhile, territorial
tensions between China and several of its Southeast Asian
neighbors roil the  South China Sea . The U.S. and China have
traded diplomatic missives over that issue, with increasingly
shrill ripostes from the Chinese side. This past summer, the
dispute led to a remarkable failure by foreign ministers from
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  to agree on their
summit communique.  Defense Spending  China’s rise is one good reason for the U.S. to  rebalance 
its strategic presence in Asia. And the U.S. is by no means the
only country to do so: According to one recent  study , defense
spending by China,  India , Japan,  South Korea  and  Taiwan 
accelerated sharply in the second half of the last decade, and
at $224 billion in 2011 was almost double the amount of a decade
earlier.  As U.S. officials have taken pains to  point out , however,
the U.S. has reasons far beyond China’s higher military spending
to seek a bigger presence in Asia. The region now accounts for
25 percent of U.S. exports (supporting an estimated 2.4 million
U.S. jobs) and 35 percent of its imports. By 2030, according to
one  estimate , it will account for 49 percent of global
population, 43 percent of gross domestic product (up from 32
percent in 2010), 35 percent of trade, 38 percent of market
capitalization and 41 percent of energy consumption -- not to
mention 46 percent of global greenhouse emissions. Those numbers
generally outstrip the combined projections for the U.S. and
European Union by growing ratios: Failure to deepen U.S.
engagement with Asia would be strategic malpractice on a grand
scale.  President Obama’s trip will give him a chance to advance
broad U.S. goals that predate China’s recent rise.  Thailand , his
first stop, has been a diplomatic partner with the U.S. for
almost two centuries; its recent decision to join talks for the
 Trans-Pacific Partnership , the Obama administration’s top trade
priority, will bolster established economic ties.  In Myanmar, Obama’s next stop, headlines will rightly focus
on U.S. efforts to lock in progress for democracy and human
rights and increase the prospects for investment. Myanmar’s
opening also represents a remarkable opportunity to advance
another longstanding U.S. interest: fighting hunger, as the U.S.
did in the  Green Revolution  sown partly by the  innovations  of
Americans such as Norman Borlaug. Myanmar was the world’s
biggest exporter of rice from 1960 to 1963; today it is ninth.
With improved yields, production could more than double.
Emphasizing such opportunities is a good way to remind China’s
more paranoid strategists that encircling China is not the only
reason for U.S. presidents to hop on a plane to Asia.  Maritime Rules  In  Cambodia , the leaders of 12 nations participating in the
East Asia Summit will have the chance to calm the waters of the
South China and East China seas. We hope they will reach
agreement on a code of conduct for avoiding maritime conflict,
something that China and the members of Asean have been
discussing for a decade.  The Obama administration could spur that effort by pushing
the Senate to  ratify  the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea, which safeguards U.S. interests in navigation and
commerce and provides a strong framework for resolving such
sovereignty disputes. The results of the U.S. election might
prompt Republican senators to rethink their obstinate and
misguided opposition.  More fundamentally, the Obama administration needs to back
up its big words on Asia by getting the U.S. fiscal house in
order. Asian leaders can read budgets and newspapers. They know
that the crude defense cuts called for by the 2011 debt-ceiling
deal won’t help U.S. plans to sustain a robust presence in the
Pacific. They know that uncertainty over the fiscal future will
cast a deep shadow over any U.S. economic recovery, stunting
trade and imperiling greater integration. And they know that the
longer this uncertainty lasts, the longer the  Federal Reserve ’s
magical money machine will crank out cheap dollars, devaluing
their  more than $2 trillion  in U.S. IOUs and beggaring their own
exporters.  Put bluntly, the Obama administration’s Asian promises
largely depend on what it can deliver at home.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 