-- Ohio Wins Delay in Order Over Provisional Ballot Count
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-16T19:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ohio-wins-delay-in-order-over-provisional-ballot-count.html
Ohio  Secretary of State Jon Husted
won delay of a U.S. District Court ruling that a new state
directive on the counting of provisional ballots risked denying
citizens’ right to vote.  Husted, a Republican, issued a directive to county election
officials on Nov. 2 requiring the rejection of a provisional
ballot if the voter failed to record the type of identification
used when casting the vote.  A labor union and a homeless advocates’ coalition asked
U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley in Columbus, Ohio, to stop
authorities from rejecting such ballots, citing an Ohio law that
requires poll workers, not voters, to record the information.
Marbley found on Nov. 14 that the rule “violates substantive
due process,” and ordered the ballots counted where voters
didn’t provide the type of identification.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati today granted the
state’s motion to stay the lower court’s order pending an
appeal, saying that the district court ruling “improperly
expands the class of voters it was intended to cover and the
types of provision ballot issues it was meant to address.”  Ohio officials ran a “smooth election” “despite the
efforts of those who sought to create controversy where none
existed,” and the ruling is “vindication,” Husted said in a
statement.  ‘Dramatic Departure’  “I am pleased that the court has once again ruled to
uphold consistent standards and to maintain the integrity of
Ohio’s elections process,” Husted said. “As the court
correctly noted, plaintiffs and the lower court inaccurately
portrayed Directive 2012-54 as a dramatic departure from prior
policy and that to change the rules by which votes are counted
after they have already been cast would compromise the interest
of Ohio and the public in fair and orderly election
procedures.”  The cases are  Service Employees International Union , Local
1 v. Husted, 12-cv-00562, and Northeast Ohio Coalition for the
Homeless, 06-cv-00896, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  