-- Oil Rises as Middle East Tension May Disrupt Supplies
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-11-16T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/oil-rises-as-middle-east-tension-may-disrupt-supplies.html
Oil rose on concern that the clash
between Israel and Hamas will escalate into a wider conflict
that would endanger Middle East crude shipments.  Futures advanced 1.4 percent as Israel extended its bombing
of Gaza while Palestinian missiles struck areas around Jerusalem
and Tel Aviv. Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil visited Gaza
today and called for an international effort to end the
violence. Israel’s army said it has deployed tanks near the Gaza
border and called up reservists.  “When there is shooting in the Middle East, and it
involves Israel,  oil prices  are going to move higher,” said
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA
in New York. “The fighting doesn’t have to be near oil
production to have an impact on prices.”  Crude oil for December delivery, which expired today,
climbed $1.22 to $86.67 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Nov. 6. The more-actively
traded January West Texas Intermediate oil contract gained
$1.05, or 1.2 percent, to $86.92.  Brent oil for January settlement increased 94 cents, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $108.95 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The price rose after  Statoil
ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest energy company, said its Troll C field in
the North Sea will remain shut after it found corrosion on two
tanks in separate gas-treatment systems, cutting the country’s
crude output by close to 10 percent.  ‘Extra Dollar’  “Fighting between Israel and Hamas, together with the
disruption in the North Sea production, is good for an extra
dollar in the crude price,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“It’s hard to be short when there’s shooting between Israel and
the Palestinians in Gaza.”  Air-raid sirens sounded in both Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. At
least one rocket landed south of Jerusalem in the Gush Etzion
region of the West Bank, where Jewish settlements are located,
hitting an “open area” with no casualties or damage reported,
 Micky Rosenfeld , an Israeli police spokesman, said by phone. A
blast was heard in Tel Aviv at about 1:30 p.m. and air-raid
warnings sounded around the same time.  “The bombing has been heightened and it could disrupt oil
trade,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “The geopolitical tension will keep
the market higher.”  Israel  said yesterday it’s ready to step up its operation
if rocket fire continues, signaling the possibility of the first
ground assault on Gaza since December 2008, when more than 1,100
Palestinians and 12 Israelis dead.  ‘Fully Entitled’  Palestinians are “fully entitled” to defend themselves
against “any forms of Israeli aggression,” Iran’s Deputy
Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said in an interview with Russian
state broadcaster RT.  Hamas, the Islamic group that controls the  Gaza Strip , is
fighting for a “just cause,” Iran’s Araqchi was cited as
saying in the interview by RT, according to a transcript of his
comments translated into Russian and e-mailed today.  “Going into the weekend, it’s difficult for traders to
ignore the growing tensions in the region,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.
“The bombs continue to fly and people are going to think twice
about being short.”  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa accounted for
36 percent of global oil production and held 52 percent of
proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  Gulf Fire  Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations LLC, a closely held
oil and natural gas producer, said a fire at its platform in the
U.S.  Gulf of Mexico  has been extinguished. Two people are
missing, a company spokeswoman said. The platform was not
producing oil or natural gas at the time of the fire.  “The fighting in the  Middle East  and the fire in the Gulf
of Mexico have been bullish for both WTI and Brent,” Wittner
said. “There are still macroeconomic issues that are keeping a
lid on prices.”  The U.S. is facing a “fiscal cliff,” a combination of
$607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that will begin
in January without action from Congress. Lawmakers of both
parties want to avoid a short-term shock to the economy while
making progress on long-term  deficit reduction .  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he offered a “framework”
including new revenue to cut the  U.S. budget deficit  in his
first face-to-face talks today with President  Barack Obama  and
top Congress leaders since the Nov. 6 election. Both sides
“agreed to do everything possible to find a solution that
averts the so-called fiscal cliff,”  Jay Carney , the White House
press secretary, said in a statement after the meeting.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 514,627
contracts as of 2:59 p.m. Volume totaled 640,713 contracts
yesterday, 21 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.51 million, the least since Sept. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  