-- Oil Heads for Weekly Decline as Economy Counters Mideast Tension
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-16T12:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/oil-heads-for-weekly-decline-as-economy-counters-mideast-tension.html
Oil headed for the fourth weekly
decline in five in New York as signs of a slowing economy in the
U.S., the world’s biggest crude user, countered concern that
tension in the  Middle East  will disrupt supplies.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed after
falling 1 percent yesterday as a report showed U.S. unemployment
claims climbed to the highest level since April 2011. Crude
 stockpiles grew  last week to the highest since July as output
rose to an 18-year high, according to the Energy Department. Oil
pared losses after  Israel  said it’s ready to escalate military
operations against Gaza.  “Supplies are overwhelming while demand is non-existent,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based analyst at VTB Capital
who predicts WTI may slip to $84 a barrel this month.
“Geopolitical risks are hopefully going to subside, and so
ultimately macroeconomic and demand concerns will still dominate
the agenda.”  WTI for December delivery, which expires today, slipped 15
cents to $85.30 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 12:28 p.m. London time. The January
contract dropped 14 cents to $85.73. The front-month future
dropped 87 cents yesterday to $85.45 and is down 0.9 percent
this week. Prices have retreated 14 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose 28 cents to $108.27 a barrel. The
front-month European benchmark grade was at premium of $22.55 to
the corresponding WTI contract, from $25.53 yesterday.  Crude Inventories  Oil in  New York  remains in a downtrend channel on the daily
chart, signaling price advances may not be sustainable, compiled
by Bloomberg show. Futures have traded between the middle and
lower Bollinger Bands for almost two months. These indicators,
representing technical resistance and support levels
respectively, are around $87.80 and $82.30 a barrel today.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 1.09 million barrels last week
to 375.9 million, the Energy Department reported. Oil output
gained for a  10th week  to 6.71 million barrels a day, the most
since May 1994.  Gasoline inventories fell 440,000 barrels, the data show.
Distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, declined 2.5 million barrels, according to the
department.  Missile Attack  Applications for  jobless benefits  surged by 78,000 to
439,000 in the week ended Nov. 10, according to data from the
U.S. Labor Department yesterday.  Oil may fall next week amid concern that weakening economic
growth will reduce fuel demand and boost inventories, a
Bloomberg survey showed. Sixteen of 33 analysts and traders, or
48 percent, forecast crude will decrease through Nov. 23.
Thirteen respondents, or 39 percent, predicted a gain. Four
forecast little change.  Air-raid sirens sounded for a second day in  Tel Aviv  and an
explosion was heard in the city as Israel extended its bombing
of Gaza and militant groups fired rockets at the Jewish state.  Egypt ’s prime minister, Hisham Qandil, visited Gaza today
and called for an international effort to end the violence
there. Israel’s army said it has deployed tanks near the Gaza
border and called up reservists.  A long-range missile attack on Tel Aviv yesterday by
Palestinian militants in Gaza “is an escalation and there will
be a price to pay,”  Ehud Barak , Israel’s defense minister, said
on Channel 2 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  