-- Holder Names Hesse Acting Head of Antitrust Division
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-11-16T23:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/holder-names-hesse-acting-head-of-antitrust-division.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
named Renata Hesse as acting head of the  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division, replacing outgoing chief  Joseph Wayland .  Hesse, whose high-profile cases for the division have
included the one against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , first worked at the
department from 1997 to 2006. During that period, she was one of
the division’s lead lawyers in the remedy phase of the Microsoft
case, according to an e-mailed statement.  She was also involved in the division’s unsuccessful
attempt to block the acquisition of PeopleSoft Inc. by  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , which completed the deal in January 2005.  “Renata is a veteran antitrust lawyer who will lead the
Antitrust Division during this time of transition on its mission
to vigorously and effectively enforce the antitrust laws and
protect American consumers from anticompetitive behavior,”
Holder said in today’s statement.  Hesse, who became a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati PC after leaving the government, also served as senior
counsel to the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission
during its review of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed merger of T-Mobile USA
Inc. last year.  AT&T abandoned the bid in December after the Justice
Department sued to block the transaction and FCC Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  said he would ask his agency’s commissioners to hold
a hearing on the proposed transaction.  Hesse returned to the Justice Department in March as
special adviser for civil enforcement and deputy assistant
attorney general, according to the statement. Her nomination is
effective today, the Justice Department said.  Hesse is a graduate of Wellesley College and the Boalt Hall
School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  