-- Hong Kong Growth Trails Estimates as City Cuts Outlook
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-11-16T09:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/hong-kong-growth-trails-estimates-as-city-cuts-2012-outlook-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s  economy  expanded less
than estimated in the third quarter as export gains stalled and
retail sales rose at a slower pace. The government also cut its
forecast for full year growth.  Gross domestic product rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, the government said today. That compared
with the 1.7 percent  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey
of 16 analysts and 1.2 percent in the three months through June.
The economy grew 0.6 percent from the previous quarter on a
seasonally adjusted basis.  Hong Kong’s economy is set for its weakest annual expansion
since the global financial crisis, adding to challenges for Hong
Kong’s new Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying as he grapples with
capital inflows that are stoking property prices and testing the
local currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar . Financial Secretary
 John Tsang   said  on Nov. 11 that the trade-reliant economy may
enter recession if its major partners show a loss of growth
momentum or signs of contraction.  “The biggest drag on Hong Kong’s economy is external
trade,” said Lily Lo, a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. “There is as yet no clear data or evidence
pointing to a sharp rebound in key western export markets.”  Lo said she is maintaining her full-year forecast for the
city’s expansion at 1.5 percent. “The risk of recession is
muted as fourth-quarter growth is expected to pick up modestly
on the back of a rebound in China’s growth.”  Lower Growth  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has climbed about 15 percent
this year, as monetary loosening in developed economies
attracted capital betting on a recovery in China’s growth. The
gauge gained 0.2 percent today.  The government today lowered its estimate for full-year
growth to 1.2 percent from an August projection of a range of 1
percent to 2 percent. That would be the slowest pace since 2009
when the economy contracted 2.6 percent. GDP  increased  5 percent
last year and 7.1 percent in 2010.  The new growth estimate “is a prudent forecast,” Helen Chan, the government’s economist, said at a briefing today. “We
are confident we can achieve that.”  At the same time, she said that after four quarters of
“subdued growth, the pressure on the labor market has begun to
emerge.”  The government also today raised its forecast for the
city’s full-year inflation rate to 3.9 percent from 3.7 percent,
citing higher global food prices, the impact of quantitative
easing in advanced economies and a renewed pickup in housing
rental costs.  Downside Risks  The city’s exports increased 15.2 percent in September from
a year earlier, rebounding from a 0.6 percent increase in August
and a drop the previous month. The gain was helped by an
improvement in demand from  China  and the U.S. and what the
government described as a “distinctly low base of comparison”
in the same month last year.  At the same time, the “global economic environment is
still fraught with downside risks stemming from the euro debt
crisis and looming U.S. fiscal cliff,” a government spokesman
said in a statement when the data were released on Oct. 25. He
was referring to the $607 billion in U.S. federal spending cuts
and tax increases scheduled to take effect in January unless the
nation’s legislature acts.  Financial Secretary Tsang also warned of the risks to Hong
Kong’s economy from a slowdown in external demand in comments on
his blog on Nov. 11.  Record Price  Tsang this week rejected calls from lawmakers to review the
city’s 29-year-old peg to the U.S. dollar amid rising concern
that asset prices are being driven to unsustainable levels by
record-low borrowing costs and capital inflows.  Swire Properties Ltd., the Hong Kong landlord whose tenants
including Time Warner Inc., sold a Hong Kong apartment in a
building designed by  Frank Gehry  for a record square-foot price
of HK$68,083 ($8,783), the company said in an emailed statement
on Nov. 13.  The exchange-rate system ties the city’s monetary policy to
that of the U.S., where the  Federal Reserve  is using near-zero
interest rates to support an economic recovery. Funds are
flowing into Hong Kong after the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan 
introduced policies to stimulate their economies.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de-facto
central bank, has bought a combined $4.2 billion of the U.S.
currency since it began defending the upper limit of the peg for
the first time in three years on Oct. 19 in  New York  trading.
The HKMA has acted 10 times, with the latest move on Nov. 2.  Overheated Market  “The dilemma of having a sluggish economy and an
overheated property market is unavoidable under the peg system,
particularly under such extensive quantitative easing measures
by the Fed,” Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said before the data release.
“That means Hong Kong’s going to end up with either a boom-or-
bust scenario.”  Interest rates  close to record lows and an influx of
Chinese money have helped double Hong Kong apartment prices in
the last four years.  The government imposed a tax on overseas homebuyers last
month to deter capital inflows and reduce the risk of a housing
bubble. The move followed a tightening of mortgage requirements
and an increase in the supply of land for developers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  