-- Pabst Owner Metropoulos Considers Bid for Hostess Brands
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-11-17T00:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/pabst-owner-metropoulos-is-considering-bid-for-hostess-brands.html
C. Dean Metropoulos & Co., the
private equity firm that owns Pabst Brewing Co., is considering
an offer to buy Hostess Brands Inc., which said today it plans
to liquidate its business.  “Our family would love to purchase these iconic brands,”
said Daren Metropoulos, a principal at the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based firm, which paid $250 million for Pabst in
2010. “We are actively pursuing this deal as no doubt
strategics will also.”  C. Dean Metropoulos, founder of the firm, has specialized
in purchasing struggling brands, such as Chef Boyardee and
Bumble Bee Tuna and turning them around. The firm paid close
attention to the maker of Twinkies and Wonder Bread during its
bankruptcy proceedings, Daren Metropoulos has said.  “We have analyzed this opportunity very carefully for a
few years now,” Metropoulos said in an e-mail. “Shedding the
complications of the unions and old plants makes it even more
attractive.”  The 82-year-old company also makes Hostess CupCakes, Ding
Dongs and Ho Hos. The private equity firm is “fully prepared to
participate in any process involving selling the brands,” Daren
Metropoulos said.  Hostess said today it will fire more than 18,000 workers
and liquidate after a nationwide strike by bakery workers
crippled operations. The company struggled after changes in
American diets led to years of declining sales while ingredient
costs and labor expenses climbed.  The company, based in Irving,  Texas , plans to sell its
products until supplies are exhausted. The decision to liquidate
capped a weeklong standoff between Hostess, once the largest
U.S. wholesale baker, and a union that called its proposed labor
contract “horrendous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  