-- Petronas Said to Answer Queries on Revised Progress Offer
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-11-16T22:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/petronas-said-to-answer-queries-on-revised-progress-offer.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. has
responded to queries from the Canadian government after
submitting a modified bid for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) , a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Malaysia’s state energy company made a revised proposal
after the government blocked its C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion)
takeover of the Calgary-based natural gas producer last month on
grounds that it wasn’t a “net benefit” to the country. Canada
wanted clarifications on the new offer said the person, who
declined to be named as the information is confidential.  Progress rose 2.3 percent to C$20.43 in Toronto today,
about 7.1 percent below the C$22 a share offer price.  Petronas, as the company is known, agreed to buy Progress
Energy in June. The acquisition would give Malaysia’s state-
owned oil and gas producer ownership of the largest holder in
the Montney shale-gas area of British Columbia and full control
of the three  Progress Energy  fields it bought a stake in last
year. Asian buyers have been lured to  North America  by cheaper
gas prices.  A spokesman for Progress Energy declined to comment on
details of the offer made by Petronas to the Canadian
government.  “Petronas, as per the last news release, was going to be
making additional submissions, after having met with Industry
Canada officials. But that’s all I can confirm right now,” Greg Kist, vice president of marketing for Progress Energy, said in a
phone interview from Calgary today.  Period Expires  Petronas spokesman Azman Ibrahim declined to comment on the
talks in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News .  The Malaysian company has since offered to appoint more
independent directors to Progress Energy’s board, the Financial
Times reported Nov. 12, citing the Malaysian firm’s Chief
Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas. Petronas has also
stressed its operational independence from Malaysia’s
government, telling the newspaper it behaves like publicly
traded company.  Petronas was given 30 days from Oct. 20 to appeal and make
additional concessions. Christian Paradis, Canada’s industry
minister, said yesterday that his ruling may come after that
period expires this weekend.  The rejection of Petronas’ bid has raised questions about
the openness of Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government to foreign investment. It’s also cast doubt on
whether Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1-billion takeover of
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  will be approved under its foreign takeover law.  The Petronas decision was the second time in two years
Harper’s administration has denied a multi-billion dollar
overseas bid. The government blocked  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40
billion hostile offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in
2010 after the province’s premier, Brad Wall, opposed it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  