-- Pfizer CEO Must Testify in Chantix Trial, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-16T21:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/pfizer-ceo-must-testify-in-chantix-trial-lawyer-says.html
Pfizer Inc.’s top executive must
testify in court about claims the company’s anti-smoking drug
Chantix causes depression and other psychiatric disorders, a
lawyer for an  Alabama  man suing over the medication said.  Attorneys for Billy Bedsole have subpoenaed  Ian Read ,
Pfizer’s chief executive officer, and two other officials to
testify live at the trial of Bedsole’s claims that the anti-
smoking drug caused his breakdown and forced him to be
institutionalized, said  Ernest Cory , one of Bedsole’s lawyers.
U.S. District Judge Inge Johnson has denied Pfizer’s request to
throw out the subpoenas, Cory added.  The trial, which would be the first patient lawsuit over
Chantix to be heard by a jury, is slated for Jan. 22, 2013, in
 federal court  in Florence, Alabama, according to court records.  “I think the jury will look forward to having Mr. Read
testify in Alabama and he should look forward to defending
Chantix,” Cory said in an interview today.  Last month, New York-based Pfizer, the world’s biggest
drugmaker, reached a confidential settlement with the widow of a
Minnesota man who killed himself after taking Chantix. The case
on behalf of the family of Mark Alan Whitely had been slated to
begin Oct. 22 in Florence.  Chris Loder, Pfizer’s spokesman, declined to immediately
comment on the subpoenas for the executives.  ‘Erratic Behavior’  Read, along with Pfizer executives Diana Hughes and Carl
Wilbanks, had been subpoenaed in the Whitely case before it
settled. The same three executives have been called to testify
in Bedsole’s case, Cory said.  Bedsole, an employee with a local power company, took
Chantix in 2007 in hopes of being able to quit smoking, Cory
said. Instead, the drug caused him to develop suicidal thoughts,
“ memory loss , depression, erratic behavior, mood swings,
anxiety and hospitalization,” according to court filings.  Bedsole’s case and other lawsuits have been combined in a
multidistrict litigation before Johnson in Alabama for pretrial
evidence-gathering and the first trials.  The suits claim Chantix causes depression and other
psychiatric disorders, some so severe that patients attempt or
commit suicide. The plaintiffs allege that Pfizer knew of a link
between Chantix and suicide and failed to sufficiently warn
patients.  Pfizer has denied that Chantix was the cause of Bedsole’s
ailments or that the company withheld information about the
drug. The company provided warnings on the drug’s package insert
of reports of suicidal thoughts since 2006, its lawyers have
said in court filings.  The consolidated cases are In re Chantix (Varenicline)
Products Liability Litigation MDL 2092, 09-cv-2039 U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Florence). Bedsole’s case
is Billy G. Bedsole Jr. v.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , 09-cv-2051 U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Florence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  