-- Postal Service Drain Leaves Week’s Pay as Paltry Cushion
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-11-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/postal-service-drain-leaves-week-s-pay-as-paltry-cushion.html
The U.S. Postal Service has cash on
hand equal to about a week’s pay for its 525,000 employees, in
the best cash-flow environment it expects to have this fiscal
year.  That shows how close to the edge the mail and package
agency is, as it appeals to Congress to allow major cost cuts it
can’t implement on its own.  “It’s a pretty dire situation,” said  Kevin Sterling , a
BB&T Capital Markets analyst who follows freight-delivery
companies including FedEx Corp. and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
that compete with the Postal Service.  “Even under the rosiest scenario, they have a hard time
meeting their current obligations,” Sterling said. “Congress
or something’s going to have to happen in order for them to just
pay the bills.”  The service needs about $250 million per day to pay its
workers, fuel its vehicles, and keep the lights on at its plants
and post offices. Come October, it expects it won’t have that
much cash on hand, Chief Financial Officer Joe Corbett said
yesterday.  The service’s current ratio, a measure of cash relative to
liabilities, is no higher than 0.579 when excluding $11.1
billion in missed payments to the  U.S. Treasury  for health
benefits costs of future retirees and non-cash liabilities of
$5.6 billion. A ratio under 1 suggests a company may struggle to
pay its short-term obligations as they come due.  When including the other liabilities, the ratio is 0.105,
David Partenheimer, a  Postal Service  spokesman, said.  Oct. 15  At the highest ratio, the service would be among the lowest
60 out of 2,847 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or
traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The lower number would be the third-worst among those
companies.  Without action by Congress, the service said yesterday, it
will run out of cash on Oct. 15, 2013. That’s about the day it
must make a required workers-compensation payment to the U.S.
Labor Department, and holiday mailing revenue probably won’t be
coming in at that point, Corbett said yesterday.  The service was close to zero cash last month after making
the same payment for 2012, according to a presentation to the
postal board yesterday. One difference this year is that the
service in October had revenue coming in from campaign mailings
tied to the November elections.  “We’ll be running at a cash balance of somewhere near an
average of just over $1 billion for the first half of this year,
which is four days of operating cash,” Corbett said yesterday
on a conference call with reporters. “We ought to have cash
balances of close to $5 billion.”  Record Loss  The cash situation has worsened, with about $1 billion less
available cash on average than at any given point last year, he
said.  The Postal Service yesterday said its loss for fiscal 2012
widened to $15.9 billion, a record and more than the $15 billion
it had projected. It blamed the loss on mail volume that fell 5
percent and a law that requires it to pay about $5.5 billion a
year for future benefits costs. The Postal Service has defaulted
on the last two years’ of those payments, a total of $11.1
billion.  Labor accounts for about 80 percent of costs at the postal
service, compared with 61 percent at UPS and 41 percent at
 FedEx. (FDX)  Its payroll is $1.8 billion every other week for the
workforce that would be second only to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. if
the service were a U.S.-based publicly traded company.  No Borrowing  Hugh Cannon, a marketing professor at  Detroit ’s Wayne State
University, characterized the Postal Service as “far worse”
off financially than the U.S. auto industry was when General
Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
2009 and were bailed out by the U.S. government.  “They’re not even in the same ballpark when you’re losing
$15 billion a year,” he said in an interview.  The Postal Service, as an agency of government that is
supposed to be self-supporting, doesn’t have the option of
filing for bankruptcy like the auto companies did. The service
tapped out its $15 billion  credit line  with the Treasury on
Sept. 28 and can’t by law borrow from any other source.  The service is asking Congress to enact legislation before
adjourning this year that would allow future retirees’ health-
benefit payments to be spread over more years, which could
preserve billions a year in cash. The service also wants to stop
Saturday mail delivery, and more easily close post offices and
processing plants.  The Senate passed a postal overhaul measure in April while
House leadership hasn’t promised any time on the floor for a
bill approved by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, led by California Republican  Darrell Issa .  Fiscal Cliff  Without congressional action, the Postal Service is left to
preserve cash by inducing employees to retire early; raising
postage prices, though it can do so only at the rate of
inflation; and closing facilities when it can after following a
process that can include congressional intervention and reviews
by its regulator.  “They need to act in the lame duck and do the right thing
and get this legislation passed,” Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said on a conference call with reporters. “We and the
industry will get back into good shape and then they can focus
on the fiscal cliff and all the other issues facing this
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  