-- Profit Disappointments Show No Rousseff Bounce: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-11-16T13:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/profit-disappointments-show-no-rousseff-bounce-corporate-brazil.html
A majority of Brazilian companies
missed earnings estimates for a third straight quarter,
signaling President Dilma Rousseff’s interventionist policies
have failed to spark the economic rebound she is seeking.  Fifty-eight percent of the 62 companies on the Bovespa
index that reported third-quarter  earnings  have trailed
analysts’ forecasts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sixty-two percent fell short of projections in the second
quarter this year, and 60 percent missed estimates in the first.  Rousseff’s pressure to boost consumer credit at lower costs
hurt profits at lenders including  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
Latin America’s largest, as three of the four banks that have
reported posted quarterly earnings that were below projections.
Pulp producer Suzano Papel & Celulose SA missed estimates by the
widest margin, leading disappointments among materials producers
as a slowdown in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, led to
a 12 percent drop in exports.  “The government’s idea was to encourage consumption, but
up to now the effect for these companies was just the
opposite,” said Paulo Hegg, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based
investment adviser Blue Star Private. “For the country to
accelerate again, we need to see those measures really working
and a recovery in the international economy as well because
 Brazil  depends a lot on its exports. There is too much
uncertainty on both sides.”  Itau rose 1.5 percent to 30.38 reais at 11:55 a.m. in Sao
Paulo today. Suzano declined 0.5 percent to 5.55 reais.  Stalling Growth  Rousseff has used interventionist policies to try to spur a
rebound in Latin America’s biggest economy. Growth slowed to
below 1 percent in the first two quarters of the year from 2.7
percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010. She’s ordered power
utilities and phone companies to reduce prices, capped car
imports from  Mexico  and reduced taxes on consumer goods.  The central bank has also cut the benchmark lending rate
5.25 percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 7.25
percent, the most aggressive reductions among Group of 20
nations, to encourage lending and bolster growth.  Foreign investors have pulled out of Brazilian stocks as
the tumble in earnings drove up companies’ valuations.
International money managers sold a net $2.6 billion of equities
in the past two months, the biggest outflows since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, according to data
compiled by  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  and Bloomberg. The average ratio of
price to estimated earnings for members of the benchmark index
jumped to 16.5 this month from 9 in October 2011 as profits
tumbled.  Bovespa Decline  The Bovespa has fallen 0.8 percent this year after plunging
18 percent in 2011. Russia’s Micex Index has dropped 1.1 percent
in 2012 while the Shanghai Composite declined 7.7 percent and
the BSE India Sensitive Index gained 20 percent.  The Finance Ministry’s press office didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Itau and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  posted quarterly earnings that
were below estimates after increasing provisions for bad loans
amid pressure from Rousseff to cut lending rates. Itau’s net
income excluding one-time charges was 3.4 billion reais,
compared with a 3.46 billion reais average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bradesco’s adjusted net income
was 2.89 billion reais, less than the 2.91 billion reais average
estimate of six analysts.  Bradesco’s shares have dropped 2.7 percent since Rousseff
said in a nationally-televised speech on Sept. 6 that she
“won’t rest until” banks further reduce consumer lending
rates. Itau has fallen 5 percent.  Banks Pressured  “Everybody agrees that interest rates banks charge clients
in Brazil are too high and should be cut, but the problem was
the way the government chose to do that, by using the state-
controlled banks to force the others to lower borrowing costs
and service fees,” Luiz Roberto Marinho, an analyst at
brokerage Renascenca, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The
measure affected the banks’ earnings in the third quarter and is
reducing value to shareholders.”  Rousseff’s administration ordered state-run  Banco do Brasil
SA  and Caixa Economica Federal to lead the way with lower rates
and fees, prompting private banks to follow suit to maintain
market share.  Some companies that sell predominantly in the local market,
including homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  and brewer Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas, were among those whose third-quarter earnings exceeded
estimates. Gafisa’s adjusted net income was 26.2 million reais,
above the 16.4 million-real average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. AmBev, as the Brazilian unit of Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV is known, reported a 2.5 billion-real profit,
compared with an average 2.3 billion-real estimate among eight
analysts.  Unemployment, Inflation  “Brazil is not growing as much as expected, but
unemployment remained low and inflation did not escalate, so
household income remained high,” said Jose Francisco Cataldo,
the chief strategist at Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage Agora
CTVM SA. “That’s what explains the good performance of some
companies that sell in the internal market.”  While most Bovespa companies trailed earnings estimates, 67
percent reported sales that were higher than projected. The
divergence is attributable in part to increasing costs in a
tight labor market, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at equity
consulting firm Empiricus Research. Brazil’s  unemployment rate 
fell to 5.4 percent in September from 6 percent a year earlier,
near a record low of 5.2 percent reached in November 2011.  “Companies are succeeding in boosting sales, which signals
the economy is not doing that badly, at least on the demand
side, but profit margins are under pressure,” Amstalden said by
phone from Sao Paulo.  Raw Materials  Raw-material producers, which account for about 43 percent
of the Bovespa’s weighting, trailed earnings estimates even as
policy makers orchestrated a 0.8 percent slide in the real
during the quarter as part of their effort to make Brazilian
goods more price competitive overseas. The 12 percent drop in
exports followed a 5.8 percent decline in the first quarter of
2012, according to data from the Ministry of Development,
Industry and International Commerce.  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer,
reported a 214.6 million-real quarterly loss, compared with a
54.8 million-real average estimate. Steelmaker  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  logged
a profit of 389.2 million reais, below a 437.8 million-real
average estimate.  While earnings growth may pick up at some companies that
benefit from increased consumer spending spurred by tax cuts and
other stimulus measures, electric utilities face a struggle to
maintain profitability amid the government’s effort to reduce
rates.  Electric Utilities  Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the Brazilian unit of  AES
Corp. (AES) , has slumped 3 percent since Sept. 11, when Rousseff first
disclosed a plan to lower electricity costs percent by forcing
utilities to agree to reduce rates by as much as 28 percent as a
condition for renewing contracts. The Sao Paulo-based utility
reported third-quarter adjusted net income of 13.7 million
reais, below the 46.4 million-real average estimate of six
analysts.  Overall, analysts project companies on the Bovespa index to
post fourth-quarter earnings growth of 7.8 percent from the same
period last year.  “The government has done a lot in an attempt to boost
growth, and we should see more results from all those actions in
the coming months,” Fausto Gouveia, a portfolio manager at
Legan Administracao de Recursos who helps oversee 380 million
reais, said in a phone interview. “In 2013 growth should be
stronger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  