-- Rahul Gandhi to Lead Congress Campaign for 2014 India Polls
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-11-16T05:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/rahul-gandhi-to-lead-congress-campaign-for-2014-india-elections.html
Rahul Gandhi  will lead the ruling
Congress party’s campaign for parliamentary elections due within
18 months, signaling the elevation of the latest member of
 India ’s famed political dynasty.  Congress President Sonia Gandhi appointed her son Rahul,
42, to head a six-member panel that will formulate and implement
alliances, the manifesto and publicity ahead of the 2014 poll,
the party said in a statement issued yesterday.  “It’s a clear indication that eventually he will lead the
party and will become prime minister if Congress comes to
power,” said  Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the
Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. “He has become
the mascot of the party for the election and will play a more
decisive role.”  Manmohan Singh , India’s 80-year-old prime minister, will
look to Gandhi to help resurrect the government’s fortunes after
being dogged for almost two years by corruption allegations, a
faltering economy and plunging popularity. Flunking a major
leadership test, Congress was routed into fourth place in May
elections in Uttar Pradesh state after Rahul Gandhi took charge
of the party’s campaign.  Gandhi’s family have dominated Congress and Indian politics
since freedom from British rule in 1947.  Jawaharlal Nehru ,
Gandhi’s great-grandfather and independence movement hero,
became the country’s first prime minister. He was followed by
his daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son,  Rajiv Gandhi , Rahul’s
father. Both were assassinated, Indira while still in office,
bringing comparisons with the Kennedy family.  Family Magic  “A lot of people think that the Nehru-Gandhi name brings
some sort of magic,” said B.G. Verghese, an analyst with the
Center for Policy Research and a former aide to Indira Gandhi,
in a phone interview in New Delhi before yesterday’s
announcement. “The great problem we have in India is of
nostalgia when we should be looking to the future. I don’t think
Gandhi is a man of ideas.”  Since being elected to parliament eight years ago, Rahul
Gandhi has kept a low profile giving few major speeches and
declining requests to join Singh’s government. If Congress were
to win the 2014 election, senior party figures have said they’d
press Gandhi to become prime minister.  Sonia Illness  While he was one of four senior Congress members handed
control of the party while  Sonia Gandhi  had surgery overseas in
August last year, an illness the family has refused to discuss,
Rahul Gandhi now faces a far greater challenge in seeking to win
back support for a party hit by a series of graft claims and
presiding over a slowing economy.  Indian industrial production unexpectedly fell in September
and the trade deficit widened to a record last month as exports
declined, adding to signs that  Asia ’s third-largest economy is
struggling.  When he has spoken Gandhi has focused on issues facing
India’s poor and how to make economic growth more inclusive,
throwing his weight behind a bill to raise compensation for
farmers’ land when it’s acquired for industry or roads. Even
with Gandhi’s backing, the proposals remain mired in ministerial
debate.  Gandhi “has been maintaining a scam-free, pro-poor image,
working silently to modernize and democratize the party,
building his own team,” said Rasheed Kidwai, author of the book
“Sonia: A Biography.”  Investment Push  Singh in September began his biggest policy push in a
decade, opening the retail and aviation industries to foreign
investment, raising diesel prices and cutting tax on Indian
companies borrowing abroad in a bid to revive a stalled agenda.
He followed that up in October with proposals to allow greater
overseas holdings in the pensions and insurance industries, and
an overhaul of his Cabinet.  Opposition lawmakers have pledged to counter many of the
reforms when parliament reconvenes Nov. 22.  While he has been groomed to lead Congress since entering
parliament in 2004, Gandhi hasn’t announced his views on key
issues such as the global economic slowdown, foreign policy or
ways to combat corruption, according to Verghese.  Author and Times of India columnist Santosh Desai said in
September the presence of a Gandhi at the top of the Congress
provided a degree of certainty to a broad-based party whose
constituents often have little else in common.  Still, “It’s a fading legacy that holds the party together
by necessity,” Desai said at the release of a new book on Rahul
Gandhi in  New Delhi .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  