-- Rand Gains 1st Day in 5 After Failing to Breach Resistance Level
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-16T13:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/rand-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-six-on-protests-downgrade.html
The rand gained for the first time
in five days as the currency’s biggest weekly slump since
October failed to push it through a key resistance level. Bond
yields also dropped for the first time this week.  The currency advanced 0.7 percent to 8.8652 per dollar by
3:36 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has weakened 1.7 percent
this week, the worst performance of major emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg and the most since the week
ended Oct. 5. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 fell 11 basis points to 7.65 percent after
reaching the highest in more than two weeks yesterday.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated after failing yesterday
to break through 9 per dollar, seen as an important resistance
level to further weakness. The stochastics oscillator for the
rand versus the dollar was 29.8 today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, below the 30 threshold that signals the
currency may have declined too fast and is poised to strengthen.  “We’re seeing a technical pullback after yesterday’s
move,”  Ian Martin , a senior currency trader at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone. “We’re stuck in a range
but I still think the risk is” for further weakness, he said.  Stochastics measure the price of a security relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period.  The rand’s decline this week came as violent wage protests
in the Western Cape province damped investor sentiment and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the country’s
second-biggest gold miner, to junk.  Junk Rating  Police fired rubber bullets at farmworkers protesting low
wages and poor service delivery, who burned down liquor stores
and looted other stores in Swellendam, 124 miles east of  Cape
Town , eNCA Channel reported. Gold Fields,  Africa ’s second-
largest producer of the metal, had its ratings cut to BB+ from
BBB- as the risk of operating in South Africa increased, S&P
said in a statement yesterday.  “In mentioning Gold Fields’ exposure to South Africa as
one of the principle reasons behind the downgrade, it is yet
another vote of no-confidence in South Africa’s leadership and
the country’s investment prospect,” ETM analysts including
Johannesburg-based  George Glynos  wrote in e-mailed comments.
“It is yet another reminder to government of the desperate need
to improve on South Africa’s industrial policies so as to raise
the overall level of investment attraction.”  Bonds gained as yields at the highest in two weeks lured
investors and as some traders bought the securities after
selling bonds they didn’t own, betting the prices would fall.  “Yields are at the top of recent ranges, and providing a
good entry level for some of the speculative portfolios,” Alvin Chawasema, a bond trader at Renaissance BJM Securities in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “There was also some short-
covering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  