-- Rangers Join Flyers in Atlantic City Hockey Benefit After Sandy
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-16T16:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/rangers-join-flyers-in-atlantic-city-hockey-benefit-after-sandy.html
Members of the New York Rangers and
Philadelphia Flyers will join other locked out National Hockey
League players in a charity game to benefit those affected by
Hurricane Sandy.  The Rangers’  Ryan Callahan  and  Brad Richards , the Flyers’
 Scott Hartnell  and Kimmo Timonen, and former Flyer  Simon Gagne ,
now with the Los Angeles Kings, are among the players who will
participate in the Nov. 24 game at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic
City, New Jersey, according to the  Facebook  page for the event,
titled “Operation Hat Trick.”  Proceeds from the game, which is presented by Caesars
Atlantic City Hotel & Casino, will benefit the American Red
Cross, the New Jersey Hurricane Relief Fund and the Empire State
Relief Fund.  Tickets  range from $20 to $100.  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm on record, made landfall
near Atlantic City on Oct. 29, knocking out power to more than
8.5 million customers in 21 states and killing more than 100 in
the U.S., including 42 in New York City.  Others joining the benefit include the Rangers’  Brian Boyle , Jeff Halpern and Steve Eminger; the Flyers’ Braydon Coburn and Jody Shelley; the Toronto Maple Leafs’ James Van Riemsdyk, a Middletown, New Jersey, native; the Washington
Capitals’  John Carlson ; the Buffalo Sabres’ Ville Leino; the
Anaheim Ducks’ Bobby Ryan, who is from Cherry Hill, New Jersey;
and the Pittsburgh Penguins’ James Neal, according to the New
York Post.  Boardwalk Hall was built in 1929 and completed a renovation
in 2001. It holds as many as 14,770 people for concerts and also
hosts some games for the Albany Devils of the American Hockey
League, a New Jersey Devils’ affiliate.  The NHL, unable to agree on a new collective bargaining
agreement with the National Hockey League Players’ Association,
locked out the union on Sept. 16. A total of 327 regular-season
games through Nov. 30 have been canceled, including the annual
outdoor Winter Classic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  