-- Transit Wireless, Time Warner Cable in Talks on NY Subway
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-16T19:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/transit-wireless-time-warner-cable-in-talks-on-ny-subway.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is in talks
to join the coalition outfitting 277 New York City subway
stations with wireless Internet service.  Transit Wireless, the business overseeing the $200 million
project, said it’s having “active and ongoing” talks with Time
Warner Cable, part of an effort to expand the number of
companies involved. Wireless carriers  AT&T Inc. (T)  and T-Mobile
USA, and  Boingo Wireless Inc. (WIFI) , a Wi-Fi service provider, are
already working on the effort.  “We’ve had discussions with Time Warner Cable around their
Wi-Fi planning, and their interest in keeping customers
connected to their network as part of their service offering,”
said Bill Bayne, chief executive officer of Transit Wireless, a
unit of Broadcast Australia in Chatswood, Australia.  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said the talks are still preliminary.  The project first began offering wireless service in
September in six subway stations around Manhattan’s Chelsea
neighborhood. For now, Transit Wireless will only provide
connections on subway platforms, not inside the tunnel. While
the network is being built for expansion into tunnels, the
challenge is trying to install antennas without disrupting train
traffic, Bayne said.  Transit Wireless’s subway-networking plan had stalled in
2008 after the recession made it harder to get financing. The
project moved forward again in 2010 when Broadcast Australia
agreed to provide backing.  Under the deal with the New York City Transit Authority,
Transit Wireless was given two years to wire six stations near
14th Street on Manhattan’s West Side. The company has as many as
four more years to complete the remaining 271 underground
stations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  