-- Transocean, Alcatel-Lucent, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-16T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/transocean-alcatel-lucent-google-intellectual-property.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, won an appeals court ruling that
reinstates a $15 million jury verdict against shipping company
 A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  over a way to drill wells.  A trial judge was wrong to throw out the jury verdict, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said in a  decision 
posted on its website yesterday. “Transocean presented
substantial evidence” to back the jury’s April 2011 decision
upholding the patents, the appeals court said.  The dispute, first filed in 2007, is over Transocean’s
dual-activity technology, which lets a single derrick on a rig
perform parallel drilling operations to save time and money.
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean had claimed three patents
were infringed by a rig Maersk was building for use by Norway’s
 Statoil ASA (STL)  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  “Maersk was aware of Transocean’s patents and its
drillships embodying the patents while Maersk designed its
accused rig,” the three-judge appellate panel ruled. “The
evidence also shows that Maersk decided to incorporate the
claimed dual-activity feature anyway because it believed
Transocean’s patents were invalid.”  The case has bounced between the trial court and the
Federal Circuit for years. U.S. District Judge Kenneth Hoyt in
Houston in 2009 said the patents were invalid, only to have the
appeals court revive the case a year later.  “We welcome this news and continue to stand by our
patented dual-activity technology,” said  Guy Cantwell , a
spokesman for Transocean.  Transocean settled similar claims against Pride
International Inc. and  Noble Corp. (NE)  over the patents.  Officials with Copenhagen-based Maersk didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  The case is Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling Inc. v.
Maersk Drilling USA Inc., 2011-1555, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling Inc. v. Maersk
Contractors USA Inc., 07-cv-02392, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Alcatel-Lucent May Sell Patents to Boost Balance Sheet, CFO Says  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , the French phone-equipment maker
considering asset sales to bolster its finances, is weighing a
sale of some of its secondary patents as it seeks ways out of a
streak of quarterly losses and a shrinking cash pile, its chief
financial officer said yesterday.  “We can look to monetize that portfolio through licensing,
through limited sales if those patents aren’t part of our core
and a few other things,” Paul Tufano said in an interview at a
conference organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona. “We look
at all of the above.”  Alcatel-Lucent, based in Paris, has almost 30,000 patents
and 15,000 patent applications pending, Tufano said.  “It’s a broad variety of technologies that we cover,” he
said. “I think it’s very attractive and there’s a lot of
interest and there could be a lot of interest from a lot of
different sources.”  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, in his fifth year in
the job, is struggling to turn Alcatel-Lucent around as European
phone companies spend less and Asian rivals add pressure. With
more than 2 billion euros of debt due over the next three years,
the former  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  CEO is pressed to do more as thousands
of job cuts have failed to stem losses.  Verwaayen’s efforts to shore up  cash flow  so far included a
licensing agreement announced in February, which the company
expects will deliver several hundred million euros. The company
has yet to disclose any revenue from the contract.  The CEO has so far said that the company would not look to
sell its patents, which include voice-recognition and video-
conferencing technology.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Rocker Young Raises $500,000 for Pono System to Challenge MP3s  Neil Young , the rock singer who said he was prepared to
brave “treacherous” venture capital markets to popularize his
high-fidelity format for downloading music, raised $500,000 from
an investment group last month.  Ivanhoe Inc., a Santa Monica, California-based company that
lists Young as chief executive officer, got the money from 12
investors, according to an Oct. 29 regulatory filing. Young
filed an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office
in June to register the trademark Ivanhoe in connection with
online music distribution.  The musician, a two-time inductee to the Rock and Roll Hall
of Fame who co-founded the band Buffalo Springfield and played
in Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young before going solo, plans to roll
out an audio system called Pono as a higher-quality alternative
to digital formats such as MP3. Young, writing in a new memoir
that he has “big ideas and very little money to show for
them,” said he would finance Pono by turning to investment
firms that typically back technology startups.  “All I have to do now is navigate the waters of venture
capitalism, those treacherous shorelines of commerce, in the HMS
Pono,” Young wrote in “Waging Heavy Peace” (Blue Rider Press,
512 pages, $30), published in September by an imprint of Penguin
Group (USA) Inc. “I can’t tell you how scary this is,” Young
added, saying he has never been “on this vessel, in these
waters, with the cargo on board.”  Last month’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission didn’t identify the investors or disclose whether the
money came from friends and family, venture capital firms or
angel investors.  Ivanhoe, incorporated in December in Delaware, is the
vehicle Young is using to bring his technology to market,
according to Mark Goldstein, who said he served as the company’s
CEO for about six months and is now an adviser.  Elliot Roberts, the record executive who has served as
Young’s manager for decades, is listed as an Ivanhoe director in
last month’s SEC filing. Another director, according to the
filing, is Gisele “Gigi” Brisson, the co-founder of  Attractor
Investment Management  Inc., a Seattle-based  money manager  that
makes angel investments in high-tech startups.  Young decided to brand his concept Pono, which he says is
Hawaiian for “righteous and good,” after discovering that his
original choice, PureTone, was already in use, according to the
singer’s memoir. Warner Music Group, the parent company for
Young’s record label, has agreed to make its catalog of songs
available on Pono, the  New York  Times reported in September.  Google Tells Doogle Website Operator Name Must be Changed  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s most used search
engine, sent a cease-and-desist letter to the South African
operator of a website aimed at helping job seekers find
employment, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  Andries Maree Van Der Merwe, 23, who started his
 Doogle.co.za  website in 2011, said the name for his website
“just popped into my head,” according to the Guardian.  The cease and desist letter told Van Der Merwe that the
similarity of the two names would likely cause the public to
assume, falsely, that the two entities were connected, the
Guardian reported.  He hired a lawyer who plans to challenge the  Mountain View ,
California-based search-engine company and claims that the
services offered by her client are readily distinguishable from
Google’s, according to the Guardian.  Miss Pittsburgh Pageant Owner Sues Over Gay Miss Pittsburghs  The owner of a Miss Pittsburgh beauty pageant sued the
owners of a gay bar and the publisher of a gay-oriented magazine
for trademark infringement.  Michelle J. Alexander  of Pittsburgh filed the lawsuit in
Pennsylvania state court Nov. 13, claiming that the Miss
Pittsburgh Pride and Miss Pittsburgh Trash events infringed her
trademarks.  She said in her pleadings that she’s held the “Miss
Pittsburgh” trademark since 1998, and that the pageants tied to
the gay-oriented businesses harmed her business reputation and
caused her to lose customers’ trust and confidence.  Permitting the competing pageants to use her mark without
authorization would harm the purpose of her pageants, Alexander
said, namely to enable “young women to achieve great levels of
educational opportunities and to become empowered with life
sustaining skills.”  She asked the court to bar the competing pageants’ use of
her mark, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  One defendant in the case,  Delta Foundation of Pittsburgh ,
didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.
The  Associated Press   reported  that a foundation spokesperson
denied that Delta sponsored the alternative pageants.  The case is Alexander v. Delta Foundation of Pittsburgh,
GD-12-021024, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Allegheny
County (Pittsburgh).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Mississippian Gets 15-Year Sentence in Criminal Copyright Case  A resident of Hazlehurst,  Mississippi , received a 15-year
prison sentence following a guilty plea in a criminal copyright
case in state court, according to a  statement  from the
Mississippi attorney general.  Patrick Lashun King, 37, pleaded guilty in Copiah County
Circuit Court to six felony counts of selling pirated DVDs and
CDs. In addition to the 15-year sentence, King will have three
years of supervised release, according to the statement.  A search of King’s store and home by an undercover
investigator from the attorney general’s  Intellectual Property 
Theft Task Force yielded 10,510 pirated discs, together with the
equipment used to make the copies. Additionally, the attorney
general said police found and confiscated several weapons,
including an assault rifle.  King was previously prosecuted for compact-disc piracy in
2003 and sentenced to one year in the Mississippi Department of
Corrections Intensive Supervision/House Arrest Program.  The state’s Intellectual Property Theft Task Force was
established with the assistance of a grant from the U.S. Justice
Department.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Oaktree’s GT Solar Settles Trade-Secret Misappropriation Case  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ’s GT Solar unit, a New Hampshire-
based producer of material for solar energy plants, settled a
trade-secrets case against a former employee of a company it
hired to help build a chemical vapor decomposition furnace used
to make the solar cells.  In June 2008, GT Solar sued Fabrizio Goi, a former employee
of Italy’s VRV SpA, in federal court in Concord, New Hampshire.
According to court papers, when Goi worked for VRV, he had
access to the New Hampshire company’s plant and acquired
“valuable proprietary information” about its business.  Goi left VRV and joined  Poly Plant Project Inc. , of
Burbank, California, a competitor to GT Solar, the company said
in its filing. GT claimed that the California company built its
furnace based on knowledge Goi brought from the New Hampshire
company without authorization.  In the settlement document filed Nov. 9, the parties
dismissed all claims and counterclaims and said they would pay
their own litigation costs and attorney fees. No other details
of the settlement were disclosed.  The case is GTAT Corp v. Goi, 08-cv-249, U.S. District
Court, District of New Hampshire (Concord).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  