-- Red Bull Energy Drinks Named in 21 Reports to U.S. FDA
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-16T22:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/red-bull-energy-drinks-named-in-21-reports-to-u-s-fda.html
Red Bull energy drinks were named in
21 adverse event reports submitted to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration . No deaths were cited.  The events date to 2004 and in some cases involved
increased  heart rate  and abdominal pain, according to a list
posted today on the FDA’s  website . The reports cited four
hospitalizations. The incidents are voluntarily reported and are
deemed allegations with no conclusion drawn until investigations
are completed.  The FDA released reports yesterday for Rockstar Inc.,
 Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , and Living Essentials LLC’s 5-Hour
Energy products. The agency is making the reports public as they
become available, Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  5-Hour Energy was cited in 92 reports, including 33
hospitalizations and 13 deaths, according to the data covering
Jan. 1, 2004, to Oct. 23, 2012. Monster products were in 40
reports, with 20 hospital stays and five deaths. Rockstar was
listed in 13 reports, including four hospitalizations. No deaths
were attributed to Rockstar.  Monster and competitors such as  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s AMP Energy,
for which the FDA hasn’t released data yet, aren’t bound by the
agency’s guidelines for caffeine in sodas because energy drinks
are often sold as dietary supplements. Soda typically can have
as many as 71 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounces for the FDA
to consider it safe. The FDA may require companies to prove
caffeine levels are safe if they exceed the guideline.  A Red Bull drink has 80 milligrams of caffeine, the same as
an average cup of coffee, according to the product’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  