-- Redwood Sells $295 Million of Mortgage Bonds as Deals Accelerate
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-16T19:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/redwood-sells-295-million-of-mortgage-bonds-as-deals-accelerate.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold $295 million
of bonds tied to new U.S. home loans without government backing
as issuance accelerates after a slump that began in 2007.  The offering completed today by Redwood, a specialist in
so-called jumbo mortgages, was its sixth this year, packaging a
total of almost $2 billion of loans into securities, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which
bundled $1.2 billion of mortgages into bonds in two earlier 2012
deals, is working on a $334 million transaction, the data show.  Issuance of so-called non-agency, or private-label,  home-
loan bonds  peaked at $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before
collapsing as their prices tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and
plunging  real estate  values. After three Redwood deals totaling
$909 million in 2010 and 2011, activity in the market is rising
as bond buyers scour the fixed-income landscape for higher
returns while the Federal Reserve holds  short-term rates  near
zero and buys government-backed debt to stimulate growth.  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER) , a Jacksonville, Florida-based
bank that has been expanding its mortgage offices, is “starting
to see a return of the private-label, high-quality jumbo
securities market,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert Clements  said  on an Oct. 25 conference call.  The lender sold about $300 million of jumbo mortgages last
quarter and is “really pleased” with an additional sale
expected during this period, President Blake Wilson said on the
call. Demand among mortgage-bond issuers and other buyers for
packages of such fixed-rate loans will help the bank originate
more of them while balancing its  portfolio  with commercial
assets, he said.  Top-Rated  Barclays Plc managed today’s Redwood offering, according to
a person familiar with the deal, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak about the transaction.  The securitization by the Mill Valley, California-based
real estate investment trust included a $140.1 million top-rated
portion with a 2.5 percent coupon, which sold for 102.2 cents on
the dollar, the person said. Another $140.1 million, AAA rated
class with a 1.81 percent coupon was priced at 100 cents.  The non-agency market’s revival has been limited by
taxpayer-supported mortgage programs that account for about 90
percent of lending and by demand from banks to hold loans that
haven’t been packaged into securities.  Jumbo mortgages are those larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. Limits range from
$417,000 to $625,500 for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac loans with
the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a mortgage REIT based in
 Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , said this month that it’s moving closer
to its first jumbo securitization. It held $15 million of the
loans on Sept. 30 and had commitments to buy $320 million more.  Potential Returns  The potential returns for an issuer that retains the
lowest-ranked slices are improving as yields drop on the AAA
classes and rating companies demand a “little bit” less so-
called credit enhancement, Chief Investment Officer Bill Roth
said Nov. 7 in a telephone interview.  Credit enhancement can include some bonds taking losses
before others, cash reserves or payments from the underlying
assets that exceed coupons on the securities created.  While “the math on securitization is better than it was”
reselling the mortgages in bulk to banks is another potential
option for Two Harbors, Roth said.  In October, Lewis Ranieri’s Shellpoint Partners LLC filed
documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
allow the firm to issue home-loan securities in the future. The
company said its products include jumbo mortgages and loans to
good-credit borrowers with conforming balances that fall outside
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guidelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  