-- Rockstar Energy Drink Cited in 13 Reports Filed With FDA
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/rockstar-energy-drink-cited-in-13-reports-filed-with-fda.html
Rockstar Inc.’s energy drinks,
distributed in most of the U.S. by  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , were named in
13 adverse event reports dating to 2006, according to the Food
and Drug Administration. No deaths were cited.  The events in some cases involved increased heart rate,
abdominal pain and nausea, and included four hospitalizations,
according to a list posted yesterday on the FDA’s  website . The
incidents are voluntarily reported and are deemed allegations
with no conclusion drawn until investigations are completed.  Living Essentials LLC’s 5-Hour Energy was cited in 92
reports, including 33 hospitalizations and 13 deaths, according
to the data covering Jan. 1, 2004, to Oct. 23, 2012.  Monster
Beverage Corp. (MNST)  products were in 40 reports, with 20 hospital
stays and five deaths. The FDA hasn’t yet made public reports
for other drinks such as Red Bull and PepsiCo’s AMP Energy.  “It takes time to go through these reports and get the
information ready and redacted,” Shelly Burgess, a spokeswoman
for the FDA said by telephone. “We’re making this information
available as we can.”  The Monster and 5-Hour energy reports involving deaths had
been made public before yesterday.  Energy drinks are the target of some lawmakers, including
U.S. Senator Dick Durbin. The Illinois Democrat is seeking to
impose caffeine limits on the beverages after emergency room
visits involving such drinks jumped 10-fold from 2005 through
2009.  Caffeine Levels  Monster and competitors such as Red Bull aren’t bound by
the FDA guidelines for caffeine in sodas, because energy drinks
are often sold as dietary supplements. Soda typically can have
as many as 71 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounces for the FDA
to consider it safe. The FDA may require companies to prove
caffeine levels are safe if they exceed the guideline.  Caffeine in energy drinks often ranges from 160 milligrams
to 500 milligrams a serving, the FDA said in an August  letter 
responding to Durbin’s call for greater regulation of the
industry.  Monster is the largest U.S. energy drink maker by sales
volume, with about $1.6 billion from such drinks last year, the
majority of the Corona, California-based company’s revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker,
distributes almost half of Monster Beverage’s U.S. volume.
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the biggest brewer, distributes about
the same amount, with a few small vendors making up the balance.  Durbin and Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut
Democrat, sent a letter yesterday to FDA Commissioner Margaret
Hamburg asking for a meeting to discuss the safety of energy
drinks.  “Over the past year, there has been alarming evidence that
energy drinks pose a potential threat to the public’s health,”
the senators wrote. “It is necessary for the FDA to take
immediate action to address a serious public health issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  