-- Rogers Raises Sports Bet With Blue Jays Trade
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-16T21:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/rogers-raises-sports-bet-with-blue-jays-trade.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  is
raising its bet on sports with a 12-player trade designed to
revive the Toronto Blue Jays baseball franchise a year after
buying the National Hockey League’s Toronto Maple Leafs.  The Blue Jays, who haven’t made the playoffs since winning
a second-straight  World Series  title in 1993, may add about $160
million to its payroll with pitchers Josh Johnson and  Mark Buehrle  and shortstop  Jose Reyes  in a trade with the  Miami
Marlins , the Miami Herald and  Associated Press   reported  Nov. 14.
Jay Stenhouse, a Blue Jays spokesman, declined to comment on the
reports, and Rogers spokeswoman Patricia Trott didn’t return an
e-mail yesterday seeking comment.  “It’s a renewal of their interest in getting the team to a
competitive level,” said  Bob Decker , who helps manage about
C$5.5 billion ($5.5 billion) in assets at Aurion Capital in
Toronto and doesn’t own Rogers shares. “They do want to
maintain the integrity of the franchise in Canada because they
have such a vested interest in it.”  In addition, Melky Cabrera, who played with the  San
Francisco Giants  this year, signed a two-year $16 million free-
agent contract with Toronto, according to a report in the New
York Post today.  Toronto-based Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless company, is
looking to improve the on-field performance of the Blue Jays to
help drive higher baseball viewership among its cable,
smartphone and tablet customers. Like its Montreal-based
competitor  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Rogers is betting that wireless data
spending, which jumped 18 percent last quarter to C$719 million,
will rise if it can continue to offer exclusive sports content
from the  Blue Jays , Maple Leafs and basketball’s Raptors.  Revenue Fell  Revenue from Rogers’ media unit, which includes the Blue
Jays, fell 4 percent to C$392 million last quarter from a year
earlier even as revenue from its SportsNet channels rose. Profit
at the business declined 9 percent to C$50 million due to cost
containment efforts and “higher baseball player-related costs”
in the quarter.  The Blue Jays would increase their payroll by $13.8 million
for right-handed pitcher Johnson, who was 8-14 last season; $96
million over five years for Reyes; and $52 million over three
years for left-handed pitcher Buehrle, who was 13-13 last
season, the Miami Herald reported.  The trade has already boosted the Blue Jays’ odds of
winning in the Las Vegas sports books, according to R.J. Bell of
Pregame.com. Toronto, previously given a 100-1 chance of winning
the 2013 World Series, had its odds improve to 15-1 after talk
of the trade surfaced, Bell said in an e-mail.  Snowball Effect  “If you can put out a more successful team, there’s a
snowball effect for the business side,” David Heger, an analyst
with  Edward Jones  who covers Rogers, said by phone from  St.
Louis .  Rogers already added the most valuable team in the NHL.
Rogers and BCE completed their joint C$1.32 billion purchase of
a 75 percent stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. in
August. BCE also has a minority stake in the Montreal Canadiens
hockey team. In October, Rogers completed a C$167 million deal
to buy Score Media, adding online sports programming.  BCE and Rogers’ approach is in contrast to  Telus Corp. (T) ,
Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier. The Vancouver-based
company has avoided acquiring content and instead has focused on
investing in the speed and reach of its network and striking
outside deals for programming.  Rogers rose 0.8 percent to C$42.57 at the close in Toronto.
The shares have climbed 8.5 percent this year, compared with a
1.1 percent drop for BCE and a 9 percent gain for Telus.  Attendance Down  While owning professional sports teams may draw fans, it
isn’t necessarily a win for shareholders, and the payoff may
only come when a team is sold, said Neeraj Monga, an analyst at
Veritas Research in Toronto.  The Blue Jays average attendance at the Rogers Centre was
25,921 this year, among the 10 worst in  Major League Baseball ,
according to ESPN  estimates . The  Philadelphia Phillies  had
average attendance of 44,021, while the  New York  Yankees had an
average of 43,733, according to the ESPN website. In 2010,
Toronto’s average attendance fell to a decade low of 20,068.  Toronto’s payroll has shrunk relative to their rivals since
winning the two championships in the 1990s. Under Rogers’
ownership, the combined player  salaries  were $75.5 million on
opening day this past season, or 23rd in the league, according
to  USA Today . By contrast, the Yankees’ payroll was $198
million. The Blue Jays had the highest payroll in the league in
1995.  ‘Easily Monetize’  “The extent to which owners can easily monetize their
sports teams is not clear to me.” Monga said. “Rogers now has
hockey and basketball along with baseball, but in order to
crystallize value for shareholders they might have to spin it
off at some time just like Cablevision did with Madison Square
Garden.”  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  spun off its Madison Square
Garden unit in February 2010, giving its shareholders one share
of the new sports company for every four Cablevision shares they
owned.  Madison Square Garden comprises the New York Knicks
basketball team, Radio City  Music Hall , Madison Square Garden,
the New York Rangers hockey team and two New York-area sports
networks. Rogers also owns Rogers Centre, the home stadium of
the Jays, as well as the  Air Canada (AC/B)  Centre arena in downtown
Toronto along with its ownership of the Jays, Raptors, Leafs,
Toronto Marlies of the American Hockey League and Toronto F.C.
pro soccer team.  Madison Square Garden has climbed about 150 percent since
the February spinoff. Rogers has risen 25 percent in that time.  All-Star  Blue Jays General Manager Alex Anthopoulos, a Montreal
native, is betting the trade with the Marlins with fill more
seats for Rogers and turn around a team that finished fourth in
the American League East for the fourth straight season. Johnson
is a two-time all star, and Buehrle pitched a perfect game three
years ago.  In Reyes, the Blue Jays get a shortstop who is a four-time
All-Star. Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria, who once ran the Montreal
Expos baseball team before it relocated to Washington, was
looking to reduce his payroll after the team finished last in
the National League East division this year.  Rogers’ other main sports investment, meanwhile, is on hold
after the NHL owners locked out players before the start of the
season in September. That means the Toronto Maple Leafs aren’t
drawing sell-out crowds at the Air Canada Centre as they
normally would this time of year. The Raptors of the National
Basketball Association and the Marlies continue to play.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  