-- Ruble Records Fourth Week Loss on Europe Economy, U.S. Deficit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-16T16:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ruble-heads-for-fourth-week-loss-on-europe-economy-u-s-deficit.html
The ruble retreated for the first
time in three days as concern that the U.S. deficit and an
economic contraction in the euro region will derail the global
recovery curbed appetite for riskier assets.  The ruble depreciated 0.2 percent to 31.7250 against the
dollar by 7 p.m. in Moscow, extending its fourth weekly loss to
0.3 percent. The currency was 0.1 percent up versus the euro at
40.3999 and was little changed against the central bank’s euro-
dollar target basket at 35.6287.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  holds negotiations today with
Congress on reaching a deficit-reduction deal to avert $607
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts. The
economy of the euro area, Russia’s biggest trade partner,
slipped into recession for the second time in four years, a
report showed yesterday.  “We saw non-residents reducing their long ruble
positions,” Alexey Pogorelov, an economist at Credit Suisse AG
in Moscow, said by phone. “Most market players expect the U.S.
dollar to appreciate against currencies, which is happening in
Russia and other  emerging markets .”  Non-deliverable forwards showed the ruble at 32.2156 per
dollar in three months compared with 32.1645 yesterday.  Pogorelov forecasts the ruble will weaken to beyond 32 per
 U.S. dollar  by year-end partly because of continuous net private
capital outflow. Capital flight reached $58 billion in the first
nine months of this year, according to Bank Rossii data.  Interest Rates  “The central bank was also reluctant to tighten its policy
in November and those who were betting on the ruble as high-
yield currency were disappointed,” he said. “Any further ruble
strengthening would be very short-lived.”  Bank Rossii kept rates on hold on Nov. 9 after a surprise
increase in September. Consumer-price growth slowed to 6.4
percent as of Nov. 6 from a year earlier, Bank Rossii said.
That’s down from 6.5 percent in October.  The extra yield that investors demand to own  Russia ’s
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 204,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields fell three basis points to
7.0459 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  