-- Ruckus Wireless Falls After Pricing IPO at Top of Range
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-11-16T21:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ruckus-wireless-raises-126-million-in-ipo-priced-at-15.html
Ruckus Wireless Inc. (RKUS) , a maker of
wireless-networking equipment, fell 18 percent in its trading
debut amid a decline in telecommunications gear stocks, after
raising $126 million in its initial public offering.  The shares fell $2.75 to $12.25 at the close in  New York .
The company sold 8.4 million shares yesterday at $15 apiece, the
top of the proposed range. The S&P North American Technology
Multimedia Networking Index  fell  less than 1 percent, while
 Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  dropped 3.4 percent to $16.32.  Ruckus, based in Sunnyvale, California, makes devices that
let phone companies shunt data traffic from overcrowded cellular
networks onto higher-capacity Wi-Fi. Optimism for the company’s
growth prospects failed to make up for weakness in the broader
market, which weighed on the stock’s debut, according to Sam Hamadeh, chief executive officer of PrivCo Media LLC, a New
York-based firm that tracks private companies.  “The underwriters were far too optimistic,” Hamadeh said.
“A lot of people were looking at Ruckus because they are a
high-profile, venture-backed company. The reach was too far with
these market conditions.”  Carriers are using Ruckus’s small networking devices that
can be placed on telephone poles, street lights or roofs to
relieve networks swamped by data traffic from smartphones.  “We believe there’s strength in our stock,” Selina Lo,
CEO of Ruckus, said in an interview. “Despite the bumps here
and there, we think the stock will sustain and grow over time.”  Increasing Gap  The company crossed several obstacles before the offering,
including last month’s  Hurricane Sandy  superstorm, a snowstorm
and then a post-election slump in the stock market, according to
Lo. Ruckus filed on Oct. 5 to offer shares to the public.  Sequoia Capital  is the largest shareholder and didn’t sell
stock in the offering, regulatory filings show. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based venture capital firm had a 24 percent stake in
Ruckus following the IPO.  Revenue nearly doubled in the nine months through Sept. 30
to $152.5 million. Net income was $7.4 million, compared with
break-even results in the year-earlier period, according to the
prospectus.  The company said it has no specific plans for the proceeds
from the offering, and may use them for acquisitions and general
corporate purposes including sales and marketing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  led the deal.
The stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol RKUS.  Before starting Ruckus, Lo was vice president of marketing
at Alteon Websystems Inc., where she oversaw an IPO and then a
sale of the company to Nortel Networks Corp. for $7.2 billion in
2000.  “We are riding on the increasing gap between the demand
for mobile data and the ability of public networks to increase
their capacity,” Lo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Wollman in  San Francisco  at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  