-- Russia Stocks Register Second Weekly Drop as Risk Appetite Wanes
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-16T17:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/russia-stocks-register-second-weekly-drop-as-risk-appetite-wanes.html
Russian equities retreated, pushing
the benchmark gauge to its second weekly decline, as an economic
contraction in the euro region curbed investor appetite for
riskier assets.  The Micex Index slipped 0.2 percent to 1,383.66 by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow, leaving this week’s decline at 1.3
percent. Basic materials and utilities led the slump, losing at
least 0.8 percent. OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  tumbled as much as 2.6 percent
after MSCI Inc. said it will remove the coking coal producer’s
American depositary receipts from its  Russia  large-cap index.
OAO Transneft climbed the most in more than two months as
investors bet the oil pipeline operator will boost dividends
after the government approved payout rules for state companies.  The economy of the euro-area, Russia’s biggest trade
partner, slipped into recession for the second time in four
years, a report showed yesterday. Israel’s defense minister
signaled the country is ready to escalate military operations
against Gaza after at least one long-range missile was fired at
 Tel Aviv  by Palestinian militants.  “The global macro news flow remains unsupportive with euro
zone’s recession being confirmed yesterday and Middle East
tensions,” Peter Szopo, head of research at  Alfa Bank , said by
e-mail today.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company and natural gas
producer, dropped 1.1 percent to 140.36 rubles. Uralkali, the
world’s largest potash producer, lost 2.7 percent to 299.08
rubles. Belarus is discussing the sale of 10-15 percent of
Belaruskali to  India , Interfax reported, citing First Deputy
Prime Minister Vladimir Semashko.  Transneft Advances  Transneft rose 4.5 percent to 61,860 rubles in Moscow, the
biggest one-day gain since Sept. 14. The number of shares traded
was 20,595, equivalent to about 187 percent of the three-month
average.  Russia approved regulations requiring state companies to
pay no less than 25 percent of their net income in dividends,
according to a document posted on the government’s website
today. Transneft plans to pay a dividend equal to 10 percent of
net income under  Russian (INDEXCF)  accounting standards for 2011 to
preferred shareholders, Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for the
company, said by phone on May 24.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, was little changed at $26.52 in
 New York . Russia equity funds lost $48 million in the week ended
Nov. 14, Sberbank CIB analysts wrote in a research note, citing
EPFR Global data. This is the sixth consequent week of outflows,
according to Sberbank CIB.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  after
falling 1.7 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which has added 6
percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  