-- Ryanair Appeals U.K. Ruling Over Regulator’s Aer Lingus Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-11-16T13:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ryanair-appeals-u-k-ruling-over-regulator-s-aer-lingus-probe.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  asked an
appeals court to block a U.K. probe into its 30 percent stake in
 Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , arguing it overlaps with a European Union
review of plans to take over its Irish rival.  The U.K. Competition Commission’s investigation into the
minority stake is superfluous after the EU started a review of
its June bid to purchase Aer Lingus for 694 million euros
($884.6 million), Ryanair said in the Court of Appeal in  London 
today.  Europe ’s biggest discount carrier is seeking to overturn
an August ruling by a specialist antitrust tribunal in favor of
the regulator.  “Is it really sensible to have two investigations going on
at the same time?” Ryanair’s lawyer,  David Pannick , said in the
hearing. The U.K. probe “overlaps very substantially with
issues being considered by the European authority.”  The European Commission this week issued formal objections
to Ryanair’s takeover bid, setting out possible competition
concerns with the deal. Ryanair has been fighting with
regulators since acquiring the Aer Lingus shares in 2006 as part
of an earlier takeover bid that the 27-nation EU ultimately
blocked on competition grounds.  The “duty of sincere cooperation” required by national
regulators in EU member countries “simply does not preclude
the Competition Commission from continuing its investigation
into Ryanair’s minority share in Aer Lingus,” the regulator’s
lawyer, Daniel Beard, said at the hearing.  Britain’s Competition Appeal Tribunal ruled in August that
the commission in Brussels has no jurisdiction over the minority
shareholding, making it proper for British regulators to
investigate.  The two Dublin-based airlines carry more than 80 percent of
the 370,000 passengers that travel between the U.K.
and Ireland each month, regulators have said.  The minority stake gives Ryanair the ability to weaken Aer
Lingus as a competitor and stifle investments from other
airlines, the OFT, the U.K. regulator that referred the issue to
the  Competition Commission , said June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  