-- Sanofi Wins EU Backing for Drugs Against Diabetes, Cancer
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-11-16T21:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sanofi-wins-eu-backing-for-new-drugs-against-diabetes-and-cancer.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won European Union backing
for new drugs against diabetes and colorectal cancer, helping
the Paris-based drugmaker compete with products from  Novo
Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended approval for Lyxumia as a
treatment for diabetes, and Zaltrap for use with chemotherapy in
adults with colorectal cancer that’s spread after initial
treatment, it said in a  statement  today. The European Commission
usually follows the committee’s recommendations.  Approval of Lyxumia would give Sanofi, maker of the world’s
best-selling insulin Lantus, a product to compete with Novo’s
Victoza and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Byetta and Bydureon.
European approval would also bode well for marketing
authorization in the U.S., where Sanofi plans to apply for
approval next month, said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan
Garnier & Co. in Paris. He rates the stock a buy.  “This is the first significant approval in a significant
market, so that shows that there is nothing wrong or anything to
be concerned about in the regulatory package,” Le Berrigaud
said in a telephone interview today. “Where things really
matter for Sanofi in diabetes is in the U.S.”  Lyxumia, also known as lixisenatide, belongs to a class of
drugs known as GLP-1 analogues, which mimic the function of a
digestive hormone that stimulates the pancreas to produce
insulin after meals. Diabetics lack the insulin needed to
convert blood sugar into energy.  ’Validates Our Belief’  Patients are increasingly using a long-acting insulin in
combination with a GLP-1, and having both products will prevent
Sanofi’s customers having to use a competitor’s drug, Le
Berrigaud said. Lyxumia may get sales of $1.4 billion by 2020,
he said.  The committee’s recommendation “validates our belief”
that Lyxumia can be used in combination with other drugs as a
once-daily treatment, Pierre Chancel, the head of Sanofi’s
diabetes business, said in an e-mailed statement today. The
company defended the product at a diabetes conference last month
after some scientists questioned its novelty. Bristol-Myers’s
Byetta is given twice-daily.  The approval of Zaltrap is less significant because the
drug will be used as a second or third-line treatment and
profits are split with  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  The
product may reach 250 million euros by 2019, Le Berrigaud said.  Clinical Benefit  U.S. regulators approved Zaltrap in August. Sanofi
effectively cut the price of the $11,000-a-month drug in half
after  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York decided
not to use the medicine because it was more costly than Roche’s
Avastin and no more effective, the New York Times reported Nov.
9.  “It is gratifying to see the years of effort that went
into designing and developing the angiogenesis inhibitor Zaltrap
translate into a clinical benefit for patients,” George Yancopoulos, chief scientific officer at Tarrytown,  New York- 
based Regeneron, said in an e-mailed statement.  Sanofi fell 0.9 percent to 66.46 euros in Paris.  Zealand
Pharma A/S (ZEAL) , the Glostrup, Denmark-based drugmaker that licensed
Lyxumia to Sanofi, dropped 1.4 percent to 103 Danish kroner in
Copenhagen. Regeneron climbed 11 percent to $157.69 at the close
in  New York , its biggest single-day gain in nine months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  