-- Sanofi Wins EU Agency’s Backing for Zaltrap for Cancer
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-11-16T12:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sanofi-wins-eu-agency-s-backing-for-zaltrap-for-cancer.html
Sanofi (SAN)  and  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (REGN)  won backing from European Union regulators for their
experimental medicine Zaltrap as a second-line treatment for
colorectal cancer.  Zaltrap is recommended for approval for use with
chemotherapy in adults whose cancer has spread after initial
treatment, the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for
Medicinal Products for Human Use said in a  statement  today. The
European Commission usually follows the committee’s
recommendations. The medicine, also known as aflibercept, will
be used in combination with chemotherapy for patients whose
cancer has spread and who have undergone a previous treatment.  U.S. regulators approved the drug in August. Paris-based
Sanofi effectively cut the price of the $11,000-a-month drug in
half after  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York 
decided not to use the medicine because it was more costly than
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin and no more effective, the New York
Times reported Nov. 9.  Analysts predict Sanofi will have 204.8 million euros
($260.8 million) of annual revenue from Zaltrap in 2015, the
average of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sanofi recorded
Zaltrap sales of 7 million euros in the third quarter.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  reorganized
the company’s oncology business into a full-fledged division
soon after taking over in December 2008. The unit’s most
promising treatment, iniparib, failed in a key clinical study
last year.  Sanofi and Tarrytown, New York-based Regeneron collaborate
globally on development and sales of Zaltrap.  Zaltrap is designed to control cancer growth by blocking
the blood supply to the tumor. More than 143,000 new cases of
colorectal cancer are likely to be diagnosed in the U.S. this
year, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  