-- Sanofi Diabetes Treatment Lyxumia Wins EU Panel Recommendation
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-11-16T12:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sanofi-diabetes-treatment-lyxumia-wins-eu-panel-recommendation.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won the backing of a European
Union advisory panel for its diabetes treatment Lyxumia,
allowing the French drugmaker to expand its product offering for
the disease.  The  European Medicines Agency ’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended that Lyxumia, also known as
lixisenatide, be granted marketing approval, the London-based
agency said in a statement today. The European Commission
usually follows the panel’s recommendations.  Sanofi, whose Lantus treatment is the world’s best-selling
insulin, needs Lyxumia to counter increasing competition from
drugmakers such as  Novo Nordisk A/S. (NOVOB)  Paris-based Sanofi wants to
build upon the success of Lantus, which garnered 3.92 billion
euros ($5 billion) in sales last year and will lose patent
protection in 2015.  The recommendation “is positive because it comforts
Sanofi’s strategy to build a product offer around Lantus,”
Pierre Corby, an analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris, said in a
telephone interview.  Sanofi rose 0.6 percent to 67.45 euros at 1:20 p.m. in
Paris.  Lyxumia belongs to a class of drugs known as GLP-1
analogues, which mimic the function of a digestive hormone that
stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin after meals.
Diabetics lack the insulin needed to convert blood sugar into
energy. Lyxumia will compete with Victoza, produced by
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo, as well as with  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Byetta and Bydureon.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  created a diabetes
division in 2009, and two years later introduced blood-metering
devices to Sanofi’s product offering, pushing for an approach to
patients dubbed “360 degrees.” Sanofi is also testing a
combination of Lyxumia with Lantus.  Late-stage tests of the medicine in combination with Lantus
using a new pen-like device called “fix-flex” will start by
the middle of 2013,  David Solomon , chief executive officer of
 Zealand Pharma A/S (ZEAL) , the Danish company from which Sanofi
licensed Lyxumia, said in an interview last month. U.S.
regulatory filing for the product is scheduled for December,
Solomon said.  Sanofi will “aggressively” pursue a strategy of becoming
“a major, if not the major, player in diabetes,”  Elias Zerhouni , the French drugmaker’s global head of research and
development, said during a Sept. 12 presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  