-- Sauber CEO Kaltenborn Wants to Be Trailblazer for Women in F-1
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-16T00:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sauber-ceo-kaltenborn-wants-to-be-trailblazer-for-women-in-f-1.html
Monisha Kaltenborn wants to get more
women involved in the management of Formula One after becoming
the first female team leader in the 62-year history of the
world’s most popular motorsport.  Sauber  Chief Executive Officer Kaltenborn added team
principal to her title in October. She also owns one third of
the Swiss team that founder Peter Sauber, 69, bought back from
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG three years ago.  While Kaltenborn said she’s not against trackside pit girls
helping to promote the sport to a largely male following, she
said women should have more opportunities to become F-1
executives.  “That should not hinder us in having women in other
positions like on the commercial side and the technical side,”
Kaltenborn said in an interview after speaking at the
International Football Arena soccer conference in Zurich, near
where Sauber is based.  Sauber, whose sole Grand Prix win came in 2008 in  Canada ,
heads to the U.S. Grand Prix on Nov. 18 at a new $450 million
track in Austin,  Texas , in sixth place in the 12-team
constructors’ championship. The race is the 19th on the 20-event
calendar, which concludes in  Brazil  on Nov. 25.  Sauber drivers Sergio Perez, from  Mexico , and Kamui
Kobayashi are 10th and 11th in the driver standings, with 66 and
58 points respectively. Perez has twice finished second this
year, in Malaysia and  Italy , and was third in Canada.
Kobayashi’s only podium result came last month in his native
 Japan , where he was third.  Race Postponed  This weekend’s Grand Prix will be the first in the U.S. in
five years. A second F-1 race scheduled for next year along the
waterfront in Weehawken and West  New York , across the Hudson
River from New York City, was last month postponed until 2014.  Former lawyer Kaltenborn, a 41-year-old Austrian citizen of
Indian origin, said ingrained ideas mean it will take time for
women to make their mark in the sport.  “One of the other team principals, an elderly gentleman,
thought I was his translator,” she said. “He’s from a
different generation and, for him, that is his thinking.”  Bernie Ecclestone, an 82-year-old British billionaire who
has led F-1 since the 1970s, was criticized in 2005 when
speaking about U.S. Indycar racer Danica Patrick when he said
“women should be dressed in white like all the other domestic
appliances.”  Kaltenborn defended Ecclestone by saying “he’s one of the
first ones who’s had women in very high positions within his
organization.”  Women’s Records  Since the F-1 world championship began in 1950, five women
have entered Grand Prix qualifying, with two winning places on
the starting grid. The last female driver was Giovanna Amati,
who tried and failed to reach the starting line in three Grand
Prix races in 1992.  Marussia team test driver Maria de Villota, who lost an eye
in an accident in July, told a news conference in  Madrid  on Oct.
12 that Kaltenborn is a trailblazer in the sport.  “Women need someone to look up to in motor sports,” De
Villota said.  It will be “a couple of years” before fans can expect to
see a woman in the cockpit, Kaltenborn said.  “How many boys want to become racers?” she said. “And 24
of them from the tens of thousands all over the world make it.
So with a handful of girls it will take a while until you get
one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London   at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  