-- Scene in D.C.: Russian Pepsi, Arab Art, Legislator Dance
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-16T16:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/scene-in-d-c-russian-pepsi-arab-art-legislator-dance.html
Guests were transported to 1812 last
night at the Russian Embassy. Tchaikovsky’s overture echoed down
the red carpet leading to where Napoleon Bonaparte awaited
arrivals.  “1812 Gala: The Anthem, The Overture, and Salute to
Diplomacy” was hosted by the American-Russian Cultural
Cooperation Foundation, which is celebrating its 20th
anniversary. The foundation honored former  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  Chairman
and Chief Executive Donald Kendall, who introduced Pepsi Cola to
Russians more than 50 years ago.  PepsiCo,  DirecTV (DTV) , and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  were among the
evening’s sponsors.  Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak welcomed guests into the
romantic Golden Hall with its six chandeliers and floor-to-
ceiling mirrors. A dinner of lobster, Chateaubriand beef and
chocolate torte Napoleon was served with Russian Standard Vodka
and Veuve Clicquot.  The night was a remembrance of the bicentennial of the wars
of 1812 in Russia and the U.S.  John Quincy Adams, the former president and first American
envoy to Russia, regaled guests with anecdotes from his time in
St. Petersburg in the early 19th century. He was portrayed by
former U.S. Ambassador to  Russia  John Beyrle.  Guests left with Russian Pepsi bottles and commemorative
1812 plates.  Arabian Roads  Prince Sultan bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud of Saudi
Arabia attended a reception last night at the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery.  He cut the ribbon for “Roads of Arabia: Archaeology and
History of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.” The exhibit opens
Saturday for its North American premiere.  The prince is the president and chief executive of the
Saudi Commission for Tourism and Antiquities. His elegant son,
Prince Salman bin Salman, and Saudi Arabian Ambassador Adel bin Ahmed Al-Jubeir greeted guests. Others in attendance included
Gamal Helal, president of Helal Enterprises, and Ahmed Alzayyat,
president of Aramco Services Co.  Baku Friends  Representative Dan Burton, Indiana Republican, ended up on
stage with the dancers at the  Azerbaijan America Alliance  gala
on Wednesday night.  “A Night in  Washington  with Friends From Baku” was held
at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center and
featured a five-course Azerbaijani meal. Performers from the
Natig Rhythm Group offered incessant drumbeats.  “You have to try this too,” said Burton to no one in
particular as he was brought to the stage by what looked like a
golden genie. There he got into the spirit, along with
Representative Ruben Hinojosa, Texas Democrat and member of the
Financial Services Committee.  Before the legislators turned terpsichorean, Burton
testified to the beauty of Baku, recalling his trips there as
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe and
Eurasia.  At the VIP reception, House Speaker John Boehner and
Republican senators Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia  and Richard Burr
of North Carolina sipped cocktails with Azerbaijani Ambassador
Elin Suleymanov and Anar Mammadov, the alliance’s founder.  Mammadov started the alliance last year to increase
awareness of his country and encourage visitors from the U.S.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  auctions , Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 