-- Schibsted Seeks Classified-Ad Companies for Online Growth
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/schibsted-ceo-seeks-classified-ad-companies-to-increase-growth.html
Schibsted ASA (SCH) , Norway’s biggest
media company, is considering acquisitions to accelerate growth
of its online classified-advertising businesses as the European
economic crisis will “certainly” affect the media business.  “We are looking at acquisition targets in the classified
sector in the markets where we are already in,” Chief Executive
Officer Rolv Erik Ryssdal said today in an interview at a
conference organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona. “We don’t
have a specific budget. It’s important to be pragmatic and to
have the financial flexibility to participate in the deals that
we find interesting, and I believe that we have that.”  Schibsted owns Leboncoin.fr, one of  France ’s 10 most-
visited websites, and is seeking to expand its online business
as newspaper circulation declines amid a trend toward Web-based
alternatives. Schibsted’s online operations, which include
classifieds and other media, contributed 42 percent of revenue
in the third quarter, up from 36 percent a year earlier, the
Oslo-based company said last week.  Schibsted predicts “challenging times that will certainly
affect” the media business, Ryssdal said. The company is
working on a “big” cost-cutting plan to be implemented during
the next two years to save 500 million kroner ($86.5 million)
across Norway,  Sweden  and  Spain , Ryssdal said.  The company also owns Aftenposten, Norway’s largest
newspaper, and Aftonbladet, Sweden’s biggest.  “We are comfortable with the businesses that we have on
the print side so we don’t plan to buy or sell any of those
assets,” Ryssdal said. “We have exciting growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  