-- Schulze Said to Still Be Exploring Buyout Offer for Best Buy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-16T21:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/schulze-said-to-still-be-exploring-buyout-offer-for-best-buy-1-.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze
is still exploring a buyout offer for the retailer and is likely
to seek a 30-day extension to conduct due diligence, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Potential private-equity investors have become more
concerned about participating in a deal as Best Buy’s stock
price drops, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Best Buy’s  board  may be more
likely to back an offer from Schulze after recent earnings
reports, another person said.  Best Buy tumbled to its  lowest price  in a decade today
after a Citigroup Inc. analyst said initiatives to turn around
the company may not be enough to fend off online rivals.
Schulze, Best Buy’s former  chairman , offered to take the
electronics retailer private at $24 to $26 a share in August. He
later reached an agreement with Best Buy to examine the
company’s financial information over a 60-day period. That is
set to expire in the coming days, two people said.  “Schulze is an insider and doesn’t need more time for due
diligence,”  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said today by e-mail. “He
needs more time to line up financing. Unfortunately for Schulze
the time he needs to line up solid financing is working against
him because the news at Best Buy is getting worse.”  Matt Furman, a Best Buy spokesman, declined to comment.  Best Buy dropped 9.8 percent to $13.75 at the close, the
lowest price since 2002. Through yesterday, the stock had lost
35 percent  this year .  Intensifying Competition  Best Buy posted a $1.2 billion net loss in its latest
fiscal year and said last month that fiscal third-quarter profit
would probably be “significantly” below last year’s results as
sales at established stores decline. It is scheduled to report
quarterly results Nov. 20.  Joly’s turnaround plan may be undermined by intensifying
competition and costs of the effort, according to analysts at
Citigroup and Wedbush Securities. The retailer plans to match
rivals’ online prices during the holidays while taking steps to
boost purchases by visitors to its website, Joly said in an
interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York  Nov. 14.  “These initiatives may still not be enough to compete with
major online competitors,” Kate McShane, a Citigroup analyst in
New York, wrote in a note yesterday. She rates Best Buy as
neutral, equivalent of a hold recommendation.  ‘Earnings Pressure’  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said in a note Nov. 15 he expects “disappointing
results and weak guidance to pressure Best Buy shares, with
further earnings pressure once the company begins spending on
new initiatives.” He rates Best Buy the equivalent of a sell.  Best Buy’s management is “best served keeping expectations
low in the short term, while getting back to the basis in the
medium term.” said  David Schick , a Stifel Financial Corp.
analyst in Baltimore who recommends holding the shares.  Joly, who took charge in September, said spending more to
train employees is aimed at providing expertise consumers can’t
find online, as well as encouraging additional sales of
accessories such as batteries and services. The effort, dubbed
“Renew Blue,” after the shirts worn by employees, also plans
to reduce the amount of store space allotted to slow-selling
items such as DVDs while assigning more employees to busy days.  Such steps may generate an additional $450 million in
annual operating profit, Best Buy told analysts.  “While we need to reinvent ourselves, there is also some
low-hanging fruit,” Joly told reporters Nov. 13. “There is a
sense of urgency. We are moving quickly to have an impact. How
much time it will take to see the results, I do not know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  