-- Sears Falls as Third-Quarter Loss Widens
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-11-16T15:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sears-falls-as-third-quarter-loss-widens.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the retailer
controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Lampert , fell the most
in more than 10 months after posting a wider third-quarter loss
and its 23rd straight quarterly sales decline.  Sears fell 16 percent to $49.17 at 10:08 a.m. in New York
and earlier slid as much as 17 percent for the biggest intraday
decline since Dec. 27. The  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
company’s shares had more than doubled through the close of
regular trading yesterday.  The third-quarter net loss widened to $498 million, or
$4.70 a share, from a loss of $421 million, or $3.95, a year
earlier, Sears said yesterday in a statement. Sales dropped 5.8
percent to $8.86 billion, continuing a streak of declines that
began in 2007.  “Sears is in a very weak operating condition and is not
well positioned to recover,” Matt McGinley, a managing director
at International Strategy & Investment Group in  New York , wrote
in a note yesterday. He recommends selling the shares.  Chief Executive Officer Lou D’Ambrosio has worked to lower
inventory and other costs while expanding shopper loyalty and
layaway programs to try to revive sales. More than half of the
sales in the quarter, which ended Oct. 27, came from loyalty-
program customers, he said on a conference call. The revenue
decline was due mainly to having fewer Kmart and full-line Sears
stores in operation, the company said.  “The retail industry continues to change dramatically and
rapidly,” D’Ambrosio said on the call. “It will never go back
to what it was. We have seen the consequences for those that
have not changed fast enough.”  Trimming Inventory  Sears cut inventory levels by $972 million from a year
earlier, excluding its spun-off unit, and is headed toward an
increase of $1.8 billion in liquidity, D’Ambrosio said.  D’Ambrosio, who took over in 2011 as Sears’s fourth CEO
since Lampert merged the retailer and Kmart in March 2005, has
added iPads for salespeople and wireless service in stores and
as part of a push toward upgrading the company’s technology.
Online sales in the quarter grew more than 20 percent, he said.  Sears has been selling stores and other assets after
reporting a $3.1 billion loss last fiscal year. Last month, it
completed the spinoff of its smaller-format Hometown, Hardware
and Outlet stores, raising $346.5 million from its rights
offering and a $100 million cash dividend from Sears Hometown.
The new company is called Sears Hometown & Outlet Stores Inc.  Sears also completed the spinoff of a portion of  Sears
Canada  this week, reducing its stake to about 51 percent from 95
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  