-- SEC Sued, MF Global, JPMorgan Suspended: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-16T13:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sec-sued-mf-global-jpmorgan-suspended-compliance.html
David Weber , a former U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission internal investigator fired
for allegedly carrying a firearm while on duty, sued the agency
for wrongful termination.  Weber, who was chief investigator in the SEC’s inspector
general’s office, is asking for $40 million in damages. His
suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Washington, argues
that he was terminated as part of a campaign to “cover up” and
“whitewash” disclosures of wrongdoing he was investigating.  Weber was placed on paid leave by the SEC in May, shortly
after he raised allegations that ex-inspector general H.  David
Kotz  may have had personal relationships that tainted probes on
the SEC’s handling of the Bernard Madoff and R. Allen Stanford
Ponzi schemes. Weber was fired on Oct. 31.  The lawsuit called the gun allegations “baseless” and
said he kept a legally registered firearm in his car.  Chairman  Mary Schapiro  was named as a defendant in the
suit.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
immediately on the case and said the agency would respond in
court.  The 75-page lawsuit alleges that people involved in firing
Weber had conflicts of interest because they were subjects of
investigations being supervised by Weber. The court filing
contains extensive detail on the probes that Weber was pursuing
in his job.  The case is Weber v. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 12-cv-01850, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Rating Companies Disregard Own Rules, Delay Disclosure, SEC Says  Credit-rating companies failed to follow their own
standards, were late to downgrade deals and delayed disclosure
of methodology changes this year, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The watchdog didn’t name specific companies, separating
them as either “larger firms,” including McGraw-Hill Co.’s
Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Corp.’s Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, and six others, such as Kroll Bond Rating Agency
Inc. and DBRS Inc. as “smaller firms.”  The three larger firms as well as two smaller companies
failed to follow their own methodologies in determining ratings,
the Office of Credit Ratings said yesterday in its annual  report 
on Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations or
NRSROs, which is required by the Dodd-Frank financial reform
act.  After inflated credit ratings for risky mortgage bonds were
blamed for helping cause the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, policy makers have been searching for a way to
ensure the grades are accurate. Dodd-Frank instructed regulators
to stop relying on ratings and increase oversight of the
companies that issue them.  French Trading Tax Misses Mark as Speculators Find Loopholes  As France begins collecting its financial-transactions tax
this month, it is becoming evident that President  Francois
Hollande ’s levy is hitting small investors rather than
speculators, its intended target.  Hollande, who called finance his “main adversary” during
his election campaign, pushed through in August a 0.2 percent
transaction tax on share purchases, making France the first and
only country so far in Europe to have such a levy. Many
investors have been escaping the tax using so-called contracts
for difference, or CFDs, offered by prime brokers that let them
bet on a stock’s gain or loss without owning the shares.  On Nov. 1, the state started collecting the levy on the
purchase of 109 French stocks with market values of more than 1
billion euros ($1.2 billion), including  Sanofi SA (SAN)  and  Vivendi
SA. (VIV)  While the government expects the tax to add 530 million
euros to its budget in 2012 and  1.6 billion euros  next year, the
finance ministry says it’s too early to say if these estimates
are realistic.  The ministry concurred with traders’ and analysts’
assessment that market players will use a range of derivatives
to skirt the tax, leaving small investors bearing the burden.  Hollande himself this week conceded that the tax was only a
“ modest ” blow to the finance sector.  His other plan to fight “speculators” includes splitting
French banks’ retail and investment activities and increasing
taxes on lenders’ salaries and speculative operations. A bank
bill will be unveiled on Dec. 19, Hollande said last week. He
expects 11 other European countries to join France in imposing
the tax.  For more, click here and see Interviews section, below.  JPMorgan Power-Trading Authority Suspended 6 Months by Regulator  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Nov. 14
suspended a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit’s electrical-trading
authority, saying it filed false information to regulators.  The action, part of a more aggressive effort by the
commission to monitor U.S. power markets, prohibits J.P. Morgan
Ventures Energy Corp. from selling electricity at market-based
rates for six months starting April 1.  The FERC said the company made “factual
misrepresentations” and omitted material information in
communications with the California Independent System Operator,
or Caiso, and in filings to the commission. Caiso operates the
state’s power grid.  FERC said in the order that the JPMorgan unit will
essentially be allowed to participate as a bystander in
wholesale power markets, granting it the ability to offer
electricity into the market without a price attached. This will
ensure that utilities have the ability to obtain enough power to
serve the demand from customers. JPMorgan would still be able to
trade derivatives under the order.  “This is a novel use of FERC’s authority over market-based
rates and is unsupported by FERC’s own regulations,”  Jennifer
Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The bank
is reviewing the decision and its next steps, she said.  For more, click here.  SEC, CFTC Should Merge, House Panel Investigating MF Global Says  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission didn’t give the
Securities and Exchange Commission full information about  MF
Global (MFGLQ)  Holdings Ltd., leaving the agency with incomplete
knowledge of the company’s liquidity, the House Financial
Services panel said in a report on MF Global’s collapse.  “There is no record of meaningful communication between
the SEC and the CFTC until the week before the company’s
bankruptcy. When these regulators finally tried to coordinate,
it was disorganized and haphazard,” the CFTC said in the
report.  The House panel recommended that the SEC and the CFTC
streamline operations “or merge into a single financial
regulatory agency that would have oversight of the entire
capital markets.”  The panel Nov. 14 released results of a yearlong
investigation into the futures brokerage’s path to bankruptcy.
It found that MF Global collapsed last year because of mistakes
made by the former chairman and chief executive officer Jon S.
Corzine, according to the report.  “Mr. Corzine acted in good faith and did what he believed
was necessary to turn around MF Global,” Steven Goldberg, a
spokesman for Corzine, said in an e-mail statement.  For more, click here.  Bachus Says He Has Been Notified That FHA Will Need a Bailout  The Federal Housing Administration is running out of money
for first time in its history,  House Financial Services
Committee  Chairman  Spencer Bachus , a Republican from Alabama,
said in Washington.  Bachus said he will work with Democrats to address FHA
problems.  The FHA’s capital reserves have fallen “deep into negative
territory,” the  New York  Times reported earlier, citing
unidentified people.  Courts  BP Agrees to $4.5 Billion in Penalties Over 2010 Gulf Oil Spill  BP Plc (BP/)  reached a settlement with the U.S. government for
$4.5 billion that will end all criminal charges and resolve
securities claims relating to the worst U.S. offshore oil spill.  Two well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter and a former executive was charged with obstruction
and false statements.  The London-based company announced a $4 billion settlement
yesterday with the U.S. Justice Department that includes a
record $1.26 billion criminal fine, which would be paid over
five years. The company agreed to five years’ probation and also
will pay $525 million to settle Securities and Exchange
Commission claims, according to a press release.  BP said it agreed to plead guilty to 11 felony counts of
misconduct or neglect of ships officers related to the 11 deaths
that occurred when their oil drilling rig exploded, one
misdemeanor count under the Clean Water Act, one misdemeanor
count under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and one felony count
of obstruction of justice.  “All of us at BP deeply regret the tragic loss of life
caused by the Deepwater Horizon accident as well as the impact
of the spill on the Gulf coast region,” BP Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley said in a statement. “We apologize for our
role in the accident, and as today’s resolution with the U.S.
government further reflects, we have accepted responsibility for
our actions.”  The government case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production
Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The lawsuit is part of In Re Oil Spill
by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April
20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the video, click here.  Separately, the company still faces claims seeking billions
of dollars more for the catastrophe relating to environmental
violations.  Yesterday’s $4.5 billion agreement left the company at risk
for as much as $17.6 billion in potential fines from alleged
violations of the Clean Water Act and demands by the U.S. and
Gulf states for enough money to restore the region’s coastline
and waters to their condition before the spill.  Europe’s second-biggest oil company will face resistance
from both state and federal authorities in trying to resolve the
remaining pollution violations and natural resource damages
claims, said Garret Graves, chairman of Louisiana’s Coastal
Protection and Restoration Authority. Both sets of claims will
“easily be in the tens of billions of dollars,” Graves said in
a phone interview.  Still, BP may escape a federal contracting ban as it tries
to rebuild its reputation. The company, the Pentagon’s biggest
fuel supplier with awards valued at about $1.35 billion in 2011,
said it hasn’t been informed about a so-called contracting death
sentence.  For more, click here.  Wal-Mart Starts Corruption Inquiries in Brazil, China, India  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  started inquiries into potential
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act at operations in
Brazil, India and China, adding to its probe of bribery
allegations in Mexico.  The board’s audit committee and the company identified or
became aware of the possible FCPA violations since starting a
global review of its compliance programs, Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart said yesterday in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The new inquiries aren’t
limited to those countries, Wal-Mart said.  The new probes come as the U.S. Department of Justice and
the SEC investigate allegations that Wal-Mart systematically
bribed Mexican officials so it could more quickly open stores in
the country. Investigations by Mexican government agencies are
also pending. Wal-Mart said in yesterday’s filing that it is
cooperating with the probes.  Wal-Mart said the costs of responding to investigations by
the DOJ and SEC as well as defending itself from shareholder
lawsuits and conducting its own probe were $99 million in the
nine months ended Oct. 31.  Ex-Mizuho Banker’s Girlfriends Not Guilty of Insider Trading  Two girlfriends of former Mizuho International Plc
investment banker Thomas Ammann were found not guilty of
illegally trading on tips from him about  Canon Inc. (7751) ’s
acquisition of OCE NV.  The women nearly doubled the amount they invested and then
paid half of their profits to Ammann, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, which prosecuted the case, had said during
the trial in London. Neither woman knew Ammann was dating the
other simultaneously.  Jessica Mang, a 30-year-old British chiropractor, and
Christina Weckwerth, 44, were both cleared yesterday by the jury
after a four-week trial. Both cried when the verdicts were
returned and declined to comment afterward.  Ammann, a German national who worked on the Mizuho mergers
and acquisitions team that advised Canon on the OCE deal,
pleaded guilty earlier this year to insider trading and
encouraging Mang and Weckwerth to commit insider trading. Canon,
the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers, agreed to buy
OCE in a 730 million-euro ($931.8 million) deal in November
2009.  The FSA said that Ammann tried to avoid being caught by
having his girlfriends make the trades.  Needham & Co. Ex-Finance Chief Charged in $1 Million Theft  Glen W. Albanese, a former chief financial officer at
brokerage firm Needham & Co., was arrested by the FBI and
charged with stealing $1 million through a false invoicing
scheme.  Albanese, 41, stole from the New York-based company from
2000 to December 2010 by directing certain vendors to submit
phony invoices, according to a Federal Bureau of Investigation
arrest complaint. He told one vendor to give him envelopes of
cash, while others paid his personal expenses, according to the
FBI.  Albanese, a resident of Manalapan,  New Jersey , used the
proceeds to pay for personal luxuries and travel expenses,
according to the complaint. He was scheduled to appear yesterday
in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  A spokeswoman for Needham, Ingrid Thoonen, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on his arrest.  The case is U.S. v. Albanese, 12-cr-7289, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  CFTC to Appeal Ruling Rejecting Dodd-Frank Trading Limits  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission will appeal a
judge’s ruling that rejected efforts to curb speculative
derivatives trading after the 2008 financial crisis.  The commission filed a notice of appeal yesterday in
federal court in Washington, seeking to ask a three-judge panel
to reverse a ruling by U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins that
said the CFTC failed to assess whether limiting the number of
contracts a trader can have in oil, natural gas or other
commodities was necessary and appropriate.  The decision, which blocked rules scheduled to take effect
Oct. 12, was a victory for two Wall Street groups that
challenged the constraints imposed under the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
and International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., in one
of the financial industry’s highest-profile efforts to weaken
Dodd-Frank, sued in two federal courts in Washington in
December.  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed
after the 2008 credit crisis.  The associations that sued represent JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other banks and
energy-trading firms.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews  AMF’s Rameix Says Transaction Tax Needs More Adoption  Gerard Rameix, president of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, discussed a proposal by French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  to force banks to isolate in separate
subsidiaries activities that engage in risky trading. He also
discussed the financial-transaction tax.  Rameix spoke in Paris with Bloomberg Television’s  David
Tweed .  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  