-- SEC Drops Case Against Manager Who Packaged ‘Squared’ CDO
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-11-16T23:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sec-drops-case-against-manager-who-packaged-squared-cdo.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission dropped its lawsuit against former GSC Capital Corp.
executive Edward Steffelin over his work on a  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  collateralized debt obligation that later defaulted.  The SEC, which sued Steffelin in June 2011, agreed to
dismiss its claims against him with prejudice, or without the
option of filing them again in the future, according to papers
in federal court in  Manhattan . The papers, dated Nov. 8, were
filed publicly today.  In a two-page agreement approved by U.S. District Judge
Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, both sides said the decision to drop
the suit was “not intended to and shall not be deemed an
admission by either party of the merit or lack of merit” of
either side’s claims in the case. The dismissal was reported
earlier by the  New York  Times.  The SEC claimed in its suit that Steffelin allowed the
distribution of marketing materials that failed to inform
investors that the hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC helped pick
assets underlying the 2007 CDO. Magnetar stood to profit if the
assets defaulted, according to the SEC. Steffelin denied all
wrongdoing.  “Our duty in all cases is to achieve a just and
appropriate outcome,” SEC spokesman  John Nester  said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Our decision here appropriately
reflects information that came to light as the litigation
progressed.”  JPMorgan agreed last year to pay $153.6 million to settle
related SEC claims.  The case is SEC v. Steffelin, 11-cv-4204, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  