-- Singapore Sees 2012 Growth at Low End of Forecast on Exports
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-16T02:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/singapore-sees-2012-growth-at-low-end-of-forecast-on-exports.html
Singapore  said growth this year will
be at the lower end of its previous forecast and the expansion
in 2013 may hold near a three-year low, as faltering demand for
its goods weighs on the Southeast Asian nation’s economy.  The  economy  will grow 1 percent to 3 percent in 2013 after
expanding about 1.5 percent this year, the Trade Ministry said
in a statement today. It had previously forecast growth of as
much as 2.5 percent in 2012.  Gross domestic product  contracted
5.9 percent last quarter from the previous three months, worse
than the 1.5 percent decline estimated earlier.  The Singapore dollar and stocks fell as the trade ministry
said today the global economy will remain “sluggish” and the
island’s growth may be lower than predicted next year if an
escalation in  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and fiscal cutbacks
in the U.S. materialize. In contrast, South Korea’s central bank
predicted this week the country may “bounce back” with
stronger growth in 2013 while the Asian Development Bank expects
expansion in most of the region to improve.  “Visibility is extremely poor,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a
Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc. “You cannot depend
on domestic demand to offset the drag from the external sector
whereas most of the other Asian economies arguably can.
Singapore is more exposed to what’s happening in developed
countries.”  Export Outlook  Non-oil domestic exports will probably rise 2 percent to 3
percent in 2012, lower than a previous forecast for shipments to
grow 4 percent to 5 percent, the trade promotion agency said in
a separate statement. It predicts overseas shipments will climb
2 percent to 4 percent in 2013.  The $240 billion economy  expanded  0.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait and home to one of the world’s
busiest container ports, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts the financial services and tourism industries to reduce
reliance on exports.  The island’s dollar slid 0.3 percent to S$1.2276 against
its U.S. counterpart at 10:42 a.m. local time. It has risen more
than 5 percent this year, the third-best performer among Asia’s
11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the
central bank refrained from easing policy in 2012. The benchmark
Straits Times Index of stocks fell 0.2 percent.  ‘Downbeat View’  “It’s a downbeat view for 2013 and not much of an
improvement from this year,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The external
risks remain the key concern for Singapore officials and a lot
hinges on the policy responses of the advanced economies. Until
we get a resolution, investment will take a hit as well.”  The Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses its
exchange rate to manage inflation, unexpectedly held off from
slowing the currency’s appreciation in October even after the
economy contracted last quarter. The policy stance remains
“appropriate,” central bank Deputy Managing Director Ong Chong Tee said in a briefing in the city today.  Policy actions have differed among Asian economies as some
contend with persistent price pressures, while others seek to
bolster growth.  Thailand  and the  Philippines  lowered interest
rates at their most recent meetings, while Indonesia and
 Malaysia  have kept their benchmarks unchanged.  Currency Stance  Singapore said in October it will maintain a modest and
gradual appreciation of its currency. The country guides the
local dollar against a basket of currencies within an
undisclosed band and adjusts the pace of appreciation or
depreciation by changing the slope, width and center of the band.
The stance is reviewed every April and October.  Consumer price gains  will average more than 4.5 percent in
2012 and will be in a 3.5 percent-to-4.5 percent range next year,
the central bank predicted last month. Rising costs of car
permits, higher housing rentals and a labor market that is near
full employment have kept price pressures elevated in the city
of 5.3 million people, even as the central bank has said an
appreciating currency will keep imported inflation benign.  “MAS is also alert to the risk that inflationary
expectations will build up,” Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in a written reply to parliament this week,
predicting upward price pressures in 2013. The central bank’s
monetary policy stance “has been carefully calibrated to guard
against an increase in inflation expectations.”  Manufacturing Shrinks  Manufacturing shrank 0.8 percent from a year earlier in the
three months ended Sept. 30. The services industry grew 0.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, while construction
expanded 7.7 percent.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and Las Vegas Sands Corp. have
reported the lowest gaming revenue in at least 18 months at
their Singapore casinos amid a slowdown in the economy and
tighter rules by the industry’s regulator.  Singapore’s expansion will remain subdued for the rest of
the year and electronics manufacturing will be affected by
“tepid external demand,” the Trade Ministry said today.
Economic growth this year may be less than 1.5 percent if
“weakness in the externally-oriented sectors persists into the
final quarter of 2012,” it said.  While the island’s  exports  rose 7.9 percent in October from
a year earlier, rebounding from a revised 3.6 percent drop the
previous month, electronics shipments fell 0.8 percent in a
third month of declines. The trade figures were released after
the GDP report, and showed overseas sales rising more than the
3.1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  European Slump  The European Union’s statistics office said yesterday the
euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for the second time
in four years, as governments imposed tougher budget cuts and
leaders struggled to contain the debt turmoil. European finance
ministers this week agreed to grant  Greece  more time to wrestle
down its budget deficit, the latest compromise to keep the
country in the single currency and prevent a renewed flare-up of
the crisis.  In the U.S., lawmakers have yet to resolve the so-called
fiscal cliff, a combined $607 billion in automatic spending cuts
and tax increases set to take effect in January. The
Congressional Budget Office said that failure to address the
issue could nudge the economy into a recession.  “The global economic outlook is still clouded with
uncertainties,” the Singapore government said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  