-- South Africa’s PIC Calls for Change in Governance at Telkom
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-11-16T13:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/south-africa-s-pic-calls-for-change-in-governance-at-telkom.html
Public Investment Corp.,  South
Africa ’s biggest fund manager, called for a change in the way
 Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG)  is run after a sharp decline in profit and share
price at Africa’s biggest fixed-line operator.  Telkom earnings fell as much as 83 percent in the six
months through September as it struggled to compete with mobile-
phone operators, the company said on Nov. 14. The shares have
declined 45 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase in the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index.  “We are very concerned about Telkom’s performance because
it is destroying  shareholder value ,” PIC Chief Executive
Officer Elias Masilela said in Cape Town today. “We would like
the governance of the enterprise to be changed.”  While Telkom is seeking to expand into higher-margin
broadband and mobile-phone markets the government, its biggest
shareholder, has blocked plans to bring in a partner to help it
grow. The Cabinet stopped the sale of a 20 percent stake to
South Korea’s  KT Corp. (030200)  this year, saying Telkom is a strategic
asset to South Africa. PIC holds 10 percent of Telkom, while the
government owns 39.8 percent.  Directors including Chief Executive Officer Nombulelo Moholi and Chairman Lazarus Zim have left the company in recent
weeks, although Telkom has since appointed two new board members
and today named Jabulane Albert Mabuza, the deputy chairman of
entertainment group  Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd. (TSH) , as its new
chairman.  Telkom shares gained 0.3 percent to 15.85 rand by 2:41 p.m.
in Johannesburg, snapping a nine-day losing streak.  PIC, which oversees pension funds of government employees
with about 1.3 trillion rand ($146 billion) of assets, is in
talks with Telkom stakeholders about the company’s future,
Masilela said, without giving details.  Standard & Poor’s (SPY) , which rates Pretoria-based Telkom BBB,
its second lowest investment grade, lowered its outlook on the
company to negative from stable in December, citing a potential
drain on cash to maintain the fixed-line business as it tries to
expand its mobile-phone operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  