-- Spain’s FROB to Use EU Funds to Invest in Bad-Bank Capital
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-16T19:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/spain-s-frob-to-use-eu-funds-to-invest-in-bad-bank-capital-1-.html
Spain will use European bailout
funds to pay for the holding it plans to take in the bad bank
for problem loans as it continues talking to investors it hopes
will buy a majority stake in the vehicle, Economy Ministry
officials said.  The state bank-rescue fund, or FROB, plans to acquire 45
percent of the bad bank, leaving 55 percent for private
investors. The vehicle’s capital will amount to about 5 billion
euros ($6.4 billion), 20 percent of which is equity and the rest
subordinated debt yielding 8 percent, said the officials, who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  The government wants foreign investors to own about 10
percent in the bank to lend credibility to the project. Even as
investors have shown more interest in buying assets from the bad
bank than buying shares in it, their interest in those assets
makes becoming a shareholder in the vehicle more attractive,
said one of the officials. While that could pose a conflict of
interests, any such conflict could be managed, and would be
offset by the fact Spanish banks and insurers are also expected
to become shareholders, he said.  Spain is creating the bad bank as part of the 100 billion-
euro European bank bailout it agreed to in June as it tries to
cleanse troubled lenders of real-estate assets following the
collapse of a decade-long housing boom. The government wants
private investors to own most of the vehicle, which is due to be
set up by Dec. 1, in order to reduce the cost to taxpayers
already shouldering a surge in public debt.  Real-Estate Assets  The bad bank will buy the real-estate assets using senior
state-backed bonds that are eligible as collateral in the
European Central Bank’s financing operations. They will have
maturities of one to three years and similar yields to
equivalent Treasury notes, the officials said.  Once under the bad bank’s control, some real-estate
construction might be demolished if managers decide it makes
commercial sense, one of the officials said. Any unfinished
developments it decides to complete must be finished within the
first four years, and managers estimate that after the third
year some of the land they will own could be developed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  