-- Sri Lanka Keeps Rates Unchanged to Damp Price Gains
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-11-16T13:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/sri-lanka-keeps-rates-unchanged-to-damp-price-gains.html
Sri Lanka left interest rates
unchanged for a seventh month to damp price gains and support
spending at home as the economy cools.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka kept its  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.75 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.75 percent, it
said in a statement in  Colombo  today. The decision was predicted
by all seven economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal has cut the forecast for
expansion in 2012 to 6.8 percent and said last month the
monetary authority’s priority is “inflation control.” The
central bank increased borrowing costs earlier this year and let
the rupee drop as part of an economic overhaul that sought to
curb import demand and pare a trade deficit.  “We believe the priority for the central bank is to put
the economy on a more sustainable path,” Gareth Leather, a
London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said before
the release. “As a result, we think Sri Lanka’s interest rates
will probably remain on hold in the near term.”  Sri Lanka faces an inflation rate of about 9 percent, among
the highest in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by
Bloomberg, after a drought hurt farm output and the rupee
weakened.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 8.9
percent in October from a year earlier, after advancing 9.1
percent in September.  The rupee has weakened about 11 percent against the dollar
this year and fell 0.1 percent to 129.95 at the close. The
 Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  of stocks was little changed.  Sri Lanka’s overseas sales of items from garments to tea
have declined for all except one month this year. Gross domestic
product may rise 6.8 percent in 2012, compared with an earlier
estimate of 7.2 percent, Cabraal said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  