-- Stanford Investors Claim Lawyers Enabled $7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-16T00:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/stanford-investors-claim-lawyers-enabled-7-billion-fraud.html
Two of R. Allen Stanford’s former
law firms were sued by defrauded investors who claim the lawyers
crafted corporate structures that enabled the financier’s $7
billion  Ponzi scheme  for more than 20 years.  The proposed class-action, or group, lawsuit filed in
federal court in  Dallas  by investors and Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver seeks the return of $10 million in legal fees
and more than $7 billion in damages from Greenberg Traurig LLP
and Hunton & Williams LLP.  These law firms employed Miami attorney Carlos Loumiet, who
served as Stanford’s outside general counsel, from 1988 through
2009. Yolanda Suarez, Stanford’s former chief of staff and
general counsel, also worked at Greenberg Traurig before joining
 Stanford Financial Group  Co. in 1992. Suarez, a former protégée
of Loumiet described in the complaint as Stanford’s “right-
hand,” is named as an individual defendant, while Loumiet
isn’t.  “Stanford could not have perpetrated this global mass
fraud on his own,”  Edward Snyder , a lawyer for the Official
Stanford Investors Committee, said in the complaint. “Loumiet’s
and Suarez’s fingerprints are all over the Stanford fraud scheme
from beginning to end.”  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of orchestrating a
scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Evidence at his  jury trial 
showed the Texas financier bribed Antiguan bank regulators and
auditors and skirted U.S. securities laws and money-laundering
regulations to keep cash flowing to his offshore bank.  $2 Billion  Prosecutors said Stanford took more than $2 billion in
depositor funds to finance a lavish personal lifestyle of jets,
yachts and cricket tournaments as well as an array of money-
losing private enterprises. He is serving a 110-year term in a
Florida federal prison while appealing his verdict and sentence.  “ Greenberg Traurig  sympathizes with the investors who lost
money as a result of Allen Stanford’s fraud, but the firm played
no part in causing those losses,” Jim Cowles, an attorney for
the firm, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is merely
plaintiff’s newest attempt to pry open a deep pocket.”  Cowles said the firm’s “principal legal work” for
Stanford occurred prior to 2001, “three years before the sale
of the CDs involved in this suit,” when Loumiet left to join
the other firm. “On limited matters in which Greenberg
Traurig’s attorneys were subsequently consulted, they properly
advised Stanford entities” and had no knowledge of Stanford’s
fraudulent conduct, Cowles said.  Hunton & Williams said it neither caused or facilitated
 Allen Stanford ’s fraud.  ‘Legally Baseless’  “This lawsuit is factually and legally baseless and an
overreach by Stanford Financial Group’s understandably
frustrated investors attempting to recoup their unfortunate
losses,” the Richmond, Virginia-based firm said in an e-mailed
statement.  Matthew Rinaldi, Suarez’s attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice or e-mail message after regular business
hours.  Investors said in today’s complaint that Loumiet and Suarez
helped Stanford “hijack” Antigua with bribes and loans so he
could “thereafter run it like a corrupt dictatorship” to
provide a safe haven for his offshore banking empire.  They claim the two lawyers helped set up Stanford’s U.S.
marketing, sales and trust operations to funnel billions of
dollars into the Ponzi scheme without attracting the scrutiny of
U.S. regulators. The lawyers also structured investments deals
Stanford made with funds he stole from the bank, including his
extensive Caribbean real estate and venture capital deals,
according to the complaint.  “Defendants were subjectively aware of and absolutely
indifferent to the risk posed by their conduct,” even when it
ran the risk of breaking the law, Snyder said in the complaint.  The case is Janvey v. Greenberg Traurig, 3:12-cv-4641,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  