-- Swiss Stocks Sink, Completing Biggest Weekly Drop in Year
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-16T17:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/switzerland-stocks-slide-before-obama-holds-fiscal-talks.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a third day,
pushing the benchmark Swiss Market Index to the biggest weekly
drop in almost a year, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  hosted
talks with Republican lawmakers on the country’s fiscal cliff.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss lender, retreated 2.7 percent.
 Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  declined for a fifth straight day after CA
Cheuvreux recommended clients reduce holdings in the maker of
auto parts and piping systems.  The  SMI (SMI)  lost 1 percent to 6,508.66 at the close in Zurich,
the lowest since Sept. 28. The gauge has tumbled 3.1 percent
this week, the biggest drop since Nov. 25 last year. It has
 fallen 3.5 percent  since Obama won a second term on Nov. 6 as
investors turned their attention to the U.S. fiscal cliff, the
name given to tax increases and spending cuts that come into
force if Congress fails to approve a new budget. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also sank 1 percent today.  “Obama’s meeting with Boehner is the only thing with
potential to move the market,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior
strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps
oversee $55 billion. “We’re heading for a week with very little
to excite investors so stock markets continue to be influenced
by apathy.”  Obama held his first face-to-face talks with House Speaker
John Boehner since the presidential election today. He also
hosted House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California
Democrat, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican. Obama’s insistence on higher taxes for top earners
and Republicans’ refusal to raise rates leaves negotiators with
arithmetically complex and politically fraught choices.  Debt Ceiling  Today’s meeting features the same people who failed to
reach agreement during debt-ceiling negotiations in 2011. Obama
leaves for Asia tomorrow and Congress is departing  Washington 
until Nov. 26 for the Thanksgiving recess.  Industrial production in the U.S. unexpectedly declined in
October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power. Output at
factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.4 percent last month
after a revised 0.2 percent increase in September that was
smaller than previously estimated, Federal Reserve data showed.
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  Stocks extended losses as Hamas fired rockets at  Jerusalem 
and Tel Aviv and Israel extended its bombing of the Gaza Strip.
The escalating conflict threatens a region still unbalanced
after a wave of popular uprisings last year, including one in
Israel’s neighbor  Syria  that has turned into a civil war.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters staged demonstrations from
Cairo to Tehran and Istanbul to denounce  Israel ’s attacks.  Greek Aid  Italian Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli said he is
confident that euro-region finance chiefs will reach an
agreement on aiding  Greece  when they meet next week.  Greece was granted an additional two years to reach budget-
deficit goals in its bailout program. European finance ministers
will discuss ways of plugging the funding gap resulting from
that extension at a Nov. 20 meeting in Brussels.  “We know that there are several options for helping Greece
get through this very important challenge,” Grilli said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  London . “I am clearly
optimistic that we can come to a decision.”  UBS retreated 2.7 percent to 13.90 Swiss francs. Michael Ambuehl, Switzerland’s state secretary to the finance ministry,
said the nation doesn’t “want to be a financial center for
undeclared assets.”  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the third-biggest
Swiss wealth manager, declined 1.3 percent to 30.98 francs.  Georg Fisher  Georg Fischer fell 1.5 percent to 309.25 francs after
Cheuvreux cut its recommendation on the stock to underperform,
the equivalent of a sell rating, from outperform.  GAM Holding AG (GAM)  slid 5.5 percent to 11.10 francs, a fourth
day of losses. The $25 billion-trust Texas Permanent School Fund
plans to shift $666 million away from GAM and Mesirow Financial
Inc. as a cost-cutting move.  The step, recommended by the fund’s finance committee at a
Nov. 14 meeting in Austin, would follow agreements with both
investment managers to curb fees. The shift would occur over
several months, starting after contracts expire in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  