-- U.K. Stocks Fall On Budget Talks, Israel Clash; BP Drops
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-11-16T16:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-k-stocks-decline-for-third-day-melrose-pennon-slide.html
U.K. stocks  declined to their lowest
in more than three months as U.S. President Barack Obama and
Republicans discussed how to resolve the country’s so-called
fiscal cliff and conflict escalated in Israel.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  each fell more than 2
percent. Melrose Plc slumped the most in 15 months after saying
it saw slower trends for some businesses in the past weeks.
 Pennon (PNN)  Group Plc, a U.K. waste and water company, retreated 4.6
percent as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  downgraded the shares.  IMI Plc (IMI)  rose 1.7
percent.  The FTSE 100 retreated 72.16 points, or 1.3 percent, to
5,605.59, its lowest since July 26, at the close of trading in
London. The measure fell 2.8 percent this week. The FTSE All-
Share Index lost 1.2 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
declined 0.2 percent.  “President Obama is leaving for an Asian tour tomorrow and
Congress will be breaking up for an extended Thanksgiving
holiday,” Alastair McCaig, market analyst at IG in  London ,
wrote in an e-mail. “As both parties are not due to return
until Nov. 26, this will do nothing to calm fears that they will
once again stretch out negotiations over how to tackle the
fiscal cliff until the very end. Debt rating agencies have
clearly stated they will not tolerate the stalling tactics seen
in 2011, and a downgrade of U.S. debt seems likely unless
progress is made soon.”  The benchmark FTSE 100 has  fallen 4.8 percent  since Obama’s
re-election on Nov. 6 amid concern that impending tax increases
and spending cuts will push the  U.S. economy  into recession.
Stocks extended losses as Hamas said it fired at Israel’s
parliament, while Israel extended its bombing of Gaza.  Obama Talks  Obama is holding his first face-to-face talks with House
Speaker  John Boehner  since the presidential election. He also
hosts House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  Obama’s insistence on higher taxes for top earners and
Republicans’ refusal to raise rates leaves negotiators with
arithmetically complex and politically fraught choices. Today’s
meeting features the same people who failed to reach agreement
in 2011.  Industrial production in the U.S. unexpectedly declined in
October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power in the Northeast.  Output at manufacturers, mines and utilities dropped 0.4
percent last month after a revised 0.2 percent increase in
September that was smaller than previously estimated, Federal
Reserve data showed today. Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  U.K. Economy  Britain’s economy may shrink this quarter and the risk has
increased that the country will succumb to its first triple-dip
recession since records began almost six decades ago, according
to a survey of economists.  Gross domestic product will fall 0.1 percent in the three
months through December, the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. That’s down from 0.1 percent growth forecast last
month. While economists see 0.2 percent expansion in the first
quarter of 2013, the odds of the economy slipping back into a
recession within the next year increased to 33 percent from 28
percent.  Equities extended losses as Hamas said it fired at Israel’s
parliament, while Israel extended its bombing of Gaza.  BP and Shell, Europe’s largest oil companies, slumped 2.1
percent to 416.6 pence and 2.2 percent to 2,029.5 pence,
respectively.  Oil prices rose on concern that the clash between Israel
and Hamas will escalate into a wider conflict that could
endanger Middle East crude shipments.  Melrose Plc (MRO)  slumped 11 percent to 208.9 pence, its biggest
decline in 15 months, after saying it saw slower trends for some
businesses in the past weeks. The  investment company  also said
its sales outlook for 2013 is now uncertain as revenue trends
have slowed.  Pennon, Castings  Pennon retreated 4.6 percent to 599.5 pence. Barclays
downgraded its recommendation on the stock to equalweight, the
equivalent of hold, from overweight. Shares fell 6.2 percent
yesterday after the company said that profit was crimped in the
fiscal first half after earnings at its Viridor unit slumped by
about 30.5 percent as prices tumbled for the recycled material
it produces.  Castings Plc (CGS)  sank 15 percent to 296 pence, its biggest drop
since January 2004, after reporting first-half sales of 60.4
million pounds ($95.9 million), down from 64 million pounds a
year earlier. The company also said it will be affected by a
downturn in its truck business.  IMI gained 1.7 percent to 958 pence for the best
performance on the  FTSE 100. (UKX)  The engineering company said
trading in the second half was in line with management
expectations.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  jumped 1 percent to 550 pence after the
company said it had an improved performance in the second half
of 2012 as challenging U.S. conditions were offset by overall
portfolio strength.  Capital & Regional Plc (CAL)  rallied 6.1 percent to 26 pence
after the company said it’s in talks to sell its 50 percent
stake in X-Leisure Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  