-- U.K. Labour Gains Commons Seat From Cameron’s Tories
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-16T17:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-k-labour-gains-commons-seat-from-cameron-s-tories.html
The U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party 
won the House of Commons district of Corby from Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  in a special election sparked
by the resignation of lawmaker Louise Mensch.  Labour’s Andy Sawford won with 17,267 votes, or 48.4
percent of all those cast in yesterday’s balloting, beating the
Conservative candidate, Christine Emmett, who got 9,476 votes,
or 26.6 percent. Mensch won the seat in central England with
42.2 percent of the vote at the general election in 2010.  “Middle England has spoken and they’ve sent a very clear
message to David Cameron,” Sawford said in a speech after the
result was announced today. “The road to Downing Street runs
through Corby.”  The day had already seen Cameron’s policy of elected police
commissioners greeted with voter apathy across the country, with
fewer than one person in five voting. His approval ratings have
slumped this year after his government cut tax for the highest
earners, Conservative lawmakers bickered over policy toward the
European Union and the economy failed to meet forecasts for
growth.  Labour also held two other parliamentary seats in special
elections in the districts of Manchester Central in northwest
England, and Cardiff Central and Penarth in south  Wales .  Turnout ‘Shambles’  The elections yesterday for commissioners to oversee 41
local police forces were described as a “shambles” by Labour
as some areas reported turnouts below 15 percent. In
Staffordshire, central England, 11.6 percent of those eligible
voted. With 23 results in, Labour and the Conservatives had won
nine posts each, and independent candidates had won five.  “I’m obviously disappointed in the turnout,” Home
Secretary Theresa May told the  BBC . “First elections are always
difficult. Next time around, people will have got more used to
the idea.”  Both parties poured resources into the Corby contest, with
Cameron, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  visiting the constituency during the
campaign. Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and economy spokesman  Ed Balls  made repeated trips to the district.  ‘Clear Message’  “This constituency is at the heart of our country and this
constituency has sent a very clear message,” Miliband told
reporters after the result. “Middle England is turning away
from David Cameron and the Conservatives.”  The U.K. Independence Party, which advocates withdrawal
from the European Union, got 5,108 votes, while Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats came fourth with 1,770,
losing the 500-pound ($790) deposit that candidates forfeit if
they get less than 5 percent of the vote. In 2010 the party got
7,834 votes, 14.5 percent of the total.  “It’s a classic mid-term result and obviously made
difficult by the fact that the Conservative MP left the seat in
question,” Cameron told reporters. Mensch quit in August to
move to the U.S. to be with her husband.  National opinion polls in recent months have given Labour a
lead of about 10 percentage points over the Conservatives,
enough to give the opposition party a majority of seats in the
House of Commons if a general election were held now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  