-- U.K. Lawmakers Say RBS Bailout Cash May Not Be Recovered
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-11-16T11:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-k-lawmakers-say-rbs-bailout-cash-may-not-be-recovered.html
British taxpayers may never recover
the 66 billion pounds ($104 billion) used to bail out  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  after the
Treasury’s loss on the sale of  Northern Rock  Plc, lawmakers
said.  The House of Commons Public Accounts Committee said in a
report published in  London  today that a lack of competition
meant there were too few bids for Northern Rock. The Treasury
will lose about 2 billion pounds from the bailout of the
Newcastle, England-based lender, the cross-party panel said.  “The lack of competition does not fill us with confidence
that the taxpayer will make a profit on the sale of the two
banks which remain in public ownership, RBS and Lloyds,” the
committee chairwoman,  Margaret Hodge , a member of the opposition
 Labour Party , said in an e-mailed statement. “It is vital that
the final decisions on the wholly owned banks are made with
value to the taxpayer taking precedence over speed of exit.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  sold Northern
Rock to billionaire  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Money Holdings U.K.
Ltd. last year for 747 million pounds, saying it marked “an
important first step” in returning bailed-out lenders to
private hands. Osborne’s predecessor,  Alistair Darling , spent
1.4 billion pounds to recapitalize the lender in 2008 and split
it into two units.  Paper Loss  The government owns about 81 percent of RBS and 40 percent
of Lloyds after bailing the lenders out during the financial
crisis. The shares have since declined, leaving a paper loss for
the U.K. of more than 25 billion pounds on the two holdings.  Weighed down by bad loans from the housing boom in the mid-
2000s, compensation claims from customers, a U.K. economy on the
brink of a triple-dip recession for the first time and about 175
billion pounds of assets still to dispose of, both RBS and
Lloyds are struggling to convince investors that they’ve turned
their business around.  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., the body that manages the
government’s holdings in the two banks, said in March the
Treasury could start selling its stake in RBS at a loss. The
government has also made presentations to potential investors,
including Middle Eastern sovereign-wealth funds, about a sale,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in March. The stock
fell 28 percent between the end of March and June, damping
expectations of a disposal.  2015 Sale?  The stock has since rebounded 41 percent, and RBS last
month left a government insurance program that covered its most
toxic assets, removing an obstacle to a government stake sale.
Chairman  Philip Hampton  said last month “it would be a
reasonable aspiration” for the government to start selling part
of its stake in the lender before 2015.  The opposition Labour Party urged the Treasury to hold on
to RBS and Lloyds in order to return the investments to profit.  “The chancellor must do more to protect taxpayers in any
future bank sales than he did with the loss-making sale of
Northern Rock,”  Chris Leslie , who speaks for Labour on
financial affairs, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is
possible that the Treasury will be able to recoup the vast
majority of those costs and maybe more, so long as they don’t
opt for fire-sales to a political timetable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  