-- U.K. Seen Shrinking This Quarter Amid Triple-Dip Risk: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-11-16T10:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-k-seen-shrinking-this-quarter-as-triple-dip-risk-increases.html
Britain’s economy may shrink this
quarter and the risk has increased that the country will succumb
to its first triple-dip recession since records began almost six
decades ago, according to a survey of economists.  Gross domestic product  will fall 0.1 percent in the three
months through December, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. That’s down from 0.1 percent growth
forecast last month. While economists see 0.2 percent expansion
in the first quarter of 2013, the odds of the economy slipping
back into a recession within the next year increased to 33
percent from 28 percent.  The survey adds to the gloomy assessment of the economy
provided by  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  this week when
he said the outlook remains “challenging” and the recovery
will be “long and winding.” While the central bank halted bond
purchases last week, King said policy makers haven’t ruled out
restarting their quantitative-easing program again if needed.  “With business surveys and an external environment still
weak, there’s a pretty high chance that GDP will fall back in
the fourth quarter,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “It’s not our working assumption
there will be a contraction in the first quarter, but if there
was a proper triple dip, not caused by temporary factors, I
think there’d be a high chance of more QE.”  ‘Zig Zag’  While Britain’s economy exited a double-dip recession in
the third quarter -- its first since the 1970s -- the rebound
was partly attributable to the Olympics. That followed a second-
quarter slump exacerbated by an extra public holiday in June.
The  Office for National Statistics  has quarterly GDP data going
back to 1955.  Data yesterday showed  retail sales  fell more than forecast
in October, while manufacturing and services surveys weakened.
King said a “zig zag pattern” of output is likely to continue.  The U.K. economy will probably shrink 0.1 percent this
year, which would be its first full-year contraction since 2009,
before expanding 1.1 percent in 2013, according to the survey.
Economists were polled from Nov. 9 to Nov. 14. There were 10
respondents for the quarterly forecasts and 36 for the annual
projections.  King said this week that the biggest risk to the U.K.
remains the euro-area debt crisis. He made his comments as the
Bank of England published its quarterly Inflation Report, which
also highlighted pressure on the economy from Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget cuts.  Inflation Outlook  The economy may also be held back as  inflation  accelerates,
outpacing wage growth and squeezing consumers. Consumer-price
growth quickened to 2.7 percent in October from 2.2 percent in
September.  The Bank of England expects inflation to ease in the second
half of 2013 and said on Nov. 14 that a pickup in real incomes
should filter through to  consumer spending , though it cautioned
that some of the extra money may be saved rather than spent.  Economists forecast inflation of 2.4 percent this quarter
and 2.3 percent in the first two quarters of 2013, above the
Bank of England’s 2 percent target. It will average 2.2 percent
in 2013 and 1.9 percent the following year.  Euro-Area Recession  A separate survey published today showed that  Germany ’s
economy, the euro-area’s largest, will also shrink this quarter,
according to the median of 21 estimates. GDP will fall 0.1
percent before rising 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent in subsequent
quarters.  The economy of the 17-nation euro region will shrink 0.3
percent this quarter and stagnate in the first three months of
2013, according to a separate poll.  Data yesterday  showed GDP
slipped 0.1 percent in the third quarter, pushing the economy
into recession for the second time in four years. The economy,
seen shrinking 0.5 percent this year, will barely grow in 2013,
economists said.  The euro-area’s trade surplus widened in September as
exports fell a seasonally adjusted 1.1 percent from August and
imports dropped 2.7 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office said today.  In  Tokyo , the government downgraded its view of the economy
for a fourth month, and cut its assessment of the job market for
the first time in 17 months. Private consumption is “showing
weakness” and capital expenditure is “growing weaker,” the
Cabinet Office said.  Japan ’s economy shrank an annualized 3.5 percent last
quarter and will contract 0.4 percent in this three-month
period, according to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, the third technical recession since 2008.  A U.S. report later today may show industrial production
cooled in October as superstorm Sandy knocked out power for
utility customers in the Northeast. Output at manufacturers,
mines and utilities rose 0.2 percent after a 0.4 percent
increase in September, according to the median projection of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the  Federal Reserve ’s
report at 9:15 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Babic at 
 mbabic@bloomberg.net  