-- U.S. Competitiveness Slips as India Jumps in Five Years
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-11-16T14:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-s-competitiveness-slips-as-india-brazil-gain-report.html
The U.S., the world’s largest
economy, will slip to fifth place from third in manufacturing
competitiveness in the next five years as  India  and  Brazil  race
ahead, according to a report.  China will remain in the top spot while India rises to
second from fourth and Brazil jumps from eighth to third,
according to the 2013 Global Manufacturing Competitiveness Index
compiled by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and the  U.S. Council on
Competitiveness . The index, which was first introduced in 2010,
reflects perceptions of more than 550 senior corporate leaders
surveyed about how 38 countries rank currently and will fare in
five years.  Executives said access to talented workers is the top
indicator of competitiveness, followed by a country’s trade,
financial and tax policies, according to the report, which was
to be published today.  “From a U.S. perspective we didn’t change that much, but
it’s just that others are moving rapidly,” Samuel Allen,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Deere & Co. (DE)  and chairman
of the council, said in a telephone interview. “We can’t tread
water whether it be in education, tax reform or continued
investment in infrastructure.”  The current and future rankings reinforce the perception
that the U.S. is “living off of investments we made a long time
ago,” Allen said. He said he worries about factors such as
deteriorating U.S. infrastructure that may increase costs to
move goods, and energy policies that could boost fuel prices.  Investment Delay  The looming so-called fiscal cliff of U.S. automatic tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to begin in 2013 is also a
concern, Allen said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “We are delaying some investments until after the first of
the year just to know for sure: Are we going to walk over the
cliff or are we going to move forward?” Allen said.  While Deere, the  world’s largest  maker of farm equipment,
has factories around the world, it still has invested about 57
percent of its capital in the U.S. in the last five years, Allen
said. The Moline, Illinois-based manufacturer generated 61
percent of its  revenue  in the U.S. and  Canada  last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. still can improve its competitiveness by reforming
its tax structure and controlling its debt, Allen said.  ‘Sobering’ Findings  According to the report,  Germany  will move from second to
fourth in the competitiveness ranking, South Korea will fall
from fifth to sixth,  Taiwan  will go from sixth to seventh,
Canada will drop from seventh to eighth, and  Japan  falls out of
the top 10 list altogether, tumbling from 10th to 12th.  Vietnam ,
meanwhile, will jump from 18th to 10th and  Singapore  will
maintain its No. 9 ranking.  Another “sobering” finding in the report is that in five
years Germany will be the only European country in the top 15
spots for manufacturing competitiveness, as the U.K. and Poland
slide, Allen said.  The world is seeing a “power shift” of competitiveness
toward developing countries, particularly those in Asia, said
Deborah L. Wince-Smith, CEO of the Washington-based council that
includes business, academic and labor leaders.  China  and other emerging countries are increasingly
manufacturing advanced goods, said Craig Giffi, the U.S.
consumer and industrial products industry leader at Deloitte who
co-authored the report.  Emerging Powers  While emerging manufacturing powers still face challenges
in improving their infrastructure, supplier networks and legal
systems, the countries are investing to drive growth and jobs,
according to the report.  “We are at an inflection point,” Giffi said. “For
developed nations, it’s going to get harder.”  Aside from the responses of top executives, the study was
based on interviews with “key manufacturing players” and
contributors from Deloitte, the council, the Indian Institute of
Management in Lucknow, and Clemson University in South Carolina,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  