-- U.S. Treasury Exempts Foreign Exchange Swaps From Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-17T02:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-s-treasury-exempts-foreign-exchange-swaps-from-dodd-frank.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department
 exempted  foreign-exchange swaps and forwards from Dodd-Frank Act
regulations intended to reduce risk and increase transparency in
the derivatives market.  Foreign-exchange swaps and forwards are short-term
transactions that already have high-levels of transparency and
risk management, the department said in a statement yesterday
announcing the exemption. Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other banks urged Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to exempt the market. The exemption had been
resisted by some regulators, Democratic lawmakers and advocates
of tighter rules.  “Unlike other derivatives, FX swaps and forwards already
trade in a highly-transparent, liquid and efficient market,”
the Treasury Department said. “This final determination is
narrowly tailored.”  Foreign exchange contracts were the second-largest source
of derivatives trading revenue for U.S. bank holding companies
in the second quarter,  according  to the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The companies recorded $3.1 billion
in revenue on trading of foreign exchange derivatives.  Foreign-exchange swaps and forwards  are part of a $4
trillion global daily market for foreign exchange, according to
the Basel-based Bank for International Settlements.  Dodd-Frank would move most swaps to clearinghouses that
collect collateral from buyers and sellers to reduce the risk
that one party’s default would disrupt the broader market. The
measure was enacted in response to the 2008 credit crisis that
regulators and lawmakers said was fueled in part by largely
unregulated swaps.  ‘Additional Costs’  “Moving FX swaps and forwards to centralized clearing
would not only have created additional costs for businesses and
investors, but also increased systemic risk,” James Kemp,
managing director of the  Global Financial Markets Association ’s
foreign-exchange division, said in an e-mail statement. “This
final decision from the U.S. Treasury provides the clarity the
industry needs to now further develop the infrastructure of the
future.”  In comment letters to Treasury in 2010, Democratic Senators
 Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and  Maria Cantwell  of  Washington 
 discouraged  the department from granting the exemption.  The  Commodity Markets Council , a lobbying group for energy
and agriculture companies and derivatives exchanges, said in a
June 2011 letter that the exemption could undermine the
regulatory overhaul. The council “believes exempting foreign
exchange forwards and swaps at this time from the clearing and
trading requirements of Dodd-Frank could increase systemic risk
at a time when regulators around the globe are trying to reduce
it,” according to the letter, which was submitted in response
to Treasury’s proposed exemption.  ‘Unjustified’ Loophole  The council includes the  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the Chicago-based
owner of the world’s largest futures exchange;  Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the Atlanta-based futures market operator; and
Decatur, Illinois-based  Archer-Daniels-Midland Corp. (ADM) , the
largest U.S. grain processor.  “ Wall Street  fought hard to convince Treasury to grant
this loophole, which is unjustified by independent research,”
Dennis Kelleher, president and chief executive officer of Better
Markets, an organization advocating stricter financial
regulation, said in an e-mail statement. “That may be why,
after two years of consideration, the United States Treasury
announced such an important financial regulation decision on a
Friday night at 5 p.m. when Congress is on recess and on the eve
of the Thanksgiving holiday.”  Exemption Exceptions  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
Securities and Exchange Commission are required to write rules
to reduce risk and increase transparency for interest-rate,
credit and other swaps in the $648 trillion global over-the-
counter  derivatives market .  The Treasury exempted foreign-exchange swaps and forwards
from those rules. The exemptions don’t apply to Dodd-Frank’s
reporting requirements and business conduct standards. The
exemption also doesn’t apply to foreign-exchange options,
currency swaps and non-deliverable forwards.  The foreign-exchange swaps and forwards market and its
participants “have been subject to strong, comprehensive, and
internationally coordinated oversight by central banks for more
than three decades,” Treasury said in the announcement. The
exemption takes effect when it is published in the Federal
Register.  ‘Unforeseen Risks’  “Treasury believes that requiring foreign exchange swaps
and forwards to be cleared and settled through the use of new
systems and technologies could introduce new, unforeseen risks
in this market,” the department said in the final exemption
order.  Darrell Duffie , a professor at  Stanford University ’s
business school, said the foreign-exchange swaps and forwards
market has taken voluntary steps to curb risks. “But the
remaining amount of counter-party risk in the FX derivatives
market is enormous,” Duffie said in an e-mail yesterday after
the Treasury announcement. “Does the logic of this exemption
imply that credit default swaps or interest rate swaps should
also be exempted from regulation once practices improve in those
markets? Surely that should not be the case.”  During the congressional debate over Dodd-Frank, the
Treasury Department fought unsuccessfully to exclude foreign
exchange from regulation over the objections of CFTC Chairman
 Gary Gensler .  An exclusion threatened to “swallow up the regulation” of
derivatives if interest-rate or credit swaps are structured as
foreign exchange swaps to benefit from the exemption, Gensler
wrote in an August 2009 letter.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the final Treasury exemption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  