-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Touch 10-Week Low on Debt-Cut Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-16T22:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/u-s-yield-is-2-basis-points-from-10-week-low.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year note
yields  touching  a 10-week low, as President  Barack Obama  held a
preliminary debt-reduction meeting with lawmakers, who called
the session “constructive.”  Treasuries  advanced  for a fourth straight week, the longest
stretch of increases since July, on concern an impasse will
develop in Washington. Volatility in Treasuries dropped to a
five-year low yesterday. Total foreign holdings of Treasuries
rose for a 10th straight month to $5.46 trillion in September, a
report showed.  The White House meeting is a “step in the right direction,
but the overall decision needs to be made to address the bigger
issue,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at  Societe Generale  SA in
New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid
at government debt auctions.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.58 percent at 4:59 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 gained 1/8, or $1.25
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 13/32. The yield touched 1.55
percent, the least since Sept. 5.  Yield Drop  The yield on the two-year note dropped to 0.24 percent,
touching the lowest level in six weeks, as Hamas said it fired
at the Israeli parliament in  Jerusalem .  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week ending
Nov. 13, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 158,519 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, up 48,162 contracts, or 44 percent, from a week
earlier.  Large traders also  reversed  to a net-long position in 30-
year bond futures. Speculative long positions, or bets prices
will rise, outnumbered short positions by 16,912 contracts,
versus last week when traders were net-short 22,654 contracts.  The U.S. central bank bought $4.7 billion of Treasuries due
from February 2021 to November 2022 today, according to the
Fed’s Website. Fed purchases of Treasuries in two rounds of
purchase programs totaling $2.3 trillion since 2008 and a $667
billion Operation Twist program to drive yields lower have
stoked low volatility in the market.  Price Swings  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings on Treasuries based on options, dropped to 55.6
yesterday, the lowest level since June 2007.  U.S. government securities were set to outperform corporate
bonds on a monthly basis for the first time since May.
Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent this month as of yesterday,
versus a 0.2 percent loss for company bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “We’ve had a pretty big move since the elections,” said
 Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities USA Inc. “We’ve gotten to rich levels. There are
a lot of things that could move the market, but it’s not moving
because we are at very pricey levels.”  U.S. bonds have been supported since Obama’s re-election on
Nov. 6 as investors turned their attention to the fiscal cliff,
the $607 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will
automatically come into force at the beginning of 2013 unless
lawmakers act.  Debt Talks  Obama held deficit-reduction talks with the top Republicans
and Democrats in Congress, saying voters are demanding a deal.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said afterward that Republicans
are willing to put revenue on the table in exchange for spending
cuts. The  Ohio Republican  called the session “constructive”
and said a deal is possible.  “We feel very comfortable with each other, and this isn’t
something that we’re going to wait until the last minute to get
it done,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said. Reid said the leaders will meet again with Obama the week
after Thanksgiving.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he is
optimistic a deal on averting the fiscal cliff could be reached
within weeks.  The U.S. announced yesterday it will sell $13 billion in
10-year inflation-indexed notes on Nov. 21. Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, have returned 7.7 percent this
year.  Price Levels  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward break-even  rate , fell to 2.73
percent on Nov. 13, the most recent figure available in data
compiled by Bloomberg, from 2.88 percent on Oct. 31.  Consumer prices increased 2.2 percent in October from the
year before, the Labor Department reported yesterday. Inflation,
as measured by this gauge, has averaged 2.5 percent over the
past decade, after rising to as high as 14.8 percent in 1980.  Total foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a 10th month,
climbing $6.2 billion, or 0.1 percent to $5.455 trillion, the
Treasury Department said today in  Washington . Overseas investors
held 50.7 percent of the Treasury’s outstanding public debt in
September, the most since September 2011, the data show.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in September after its holdings rose $300 million to $1.16
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Overall international purchases of U.S. financial assets
plunged in September as confidence grew that  Europe  was
beginning to solve its debt crisis. Net buying of long-term
equities, notes and bonds totaled $3.3 billion during the month,
down from net purchases of $90.3 billion in August, the data
showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected net buying of
$50 billion of long-term assets, according to the median
estimate.  Global Tension  Israel ’s Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signaled his nation
may escalate its military operations against Gaza, bolstering
demand for safety of government debt.  Egypt ’s prime minister Hisham Qandil visited Gaza and said
the Arab world was united behind Palestinians there, as Israel
extended its aerial assault and militant groups kept up their
barrage of rockets fired at the Jewish state.  “The continued fighting in the  Middle East  has also
created this risk-off type of trade,” Societe Generale’s Murphy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  