-- Ultra Electronics Chief Sees Return to Profit Growth in 2013
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-16T12:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/ultra-electronics-sees-flat-2012-after-u-s-defense-uncertainty.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE) , a
British maker of defense sonar equipment, forecast a return to
profit growth in 2013, helping offset a luckluster performance
this year as markets such as the U.S. slowed.  “We think we can make some modest progress next year in
terms of organic growth” of 1 to 2 percent in profit, Chief
Executive Officer Rakesh Sharma said in a telephone interview.  The company, based in Greenford,  England , is still
budgeting for cuts in military spending in 2013, and is
expanding in civilian equipment markets including transport,
cybersecurity, and energy to bolster earnings. Sales from those
markets now represent 45 percent of business after takeovers.  The threat of an additional $500 billion in U.S. defense
cuts over the next decade has weighed on Ultra and other defense
suppliers. The White House and Congress continue to discuss
setting aside the cuts, known as sequestration, which would take
effect in January.  Ultra suffered as the Pentagon shunted the payment of
contracts into the next fiscal year. It was also hit by the
delayed signature on an Asian electronic warfare program as the
parties negotiate contract terms. Sharma said the deal is
expected to be finalized next year. Delays on an Oman airport
program have also hurt sales.  2012 Downgrade  “Against a backdrop of adverse market conditions in the
defense sector, largely driven by political discord over U.S.
deficit management, the board expects the group’s performance in
the year to be sustained around 2011 levels,” the company said
in a statement today. It previously projected “continued
progress” in 2012 and beyond.  Profit this year will be hurt by restructuring costs,
including at its radios business for the U.S. Army where sales
are down 50 percent, Sharma said. The company will not divest
the operation, he said.  The company is spending 3.5 million pounds this year on
restructuring. That includes money to cover costs associated
with a 7 percent reduction in employees.  Ultra shares fell as much as 1.8 percent and were down 22
pence to 1,507 pence at 11:01 a.m. in  London , bringing the
decline this week to 10 percent and giving the company a market
value of 1.04 billion pounds.  Although the company’s focus remains on deals of as much as
100 million pounds, the budget could extend to 250 million
pounds, Sharma said.  “The number of quality targets coming from brokers has
dropped so we are supplementing that with targets we are
identifying internally,” he said. Ultra has around 150 million
pounds available for deals without seeking additional funds,
Sharma said.  Ultra also announced the departure of Chief Financial
Officer Paul Dean, who will leave the company about the end of
March. The search for a replacement has begun, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  