-- Freed Croatian War Generals Return Home to Hero’s Welcome
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-16T16:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/un-court-frees-croatian-war-generals-after-overturning-verdicts.html
Two Croatian generals acquitted by a
 United Nations court  of atrocities against Serbs in 1995
returned home to a hero’s welcome as tens of thousands turned
out in the capital to celebrate their freedom.  General Ante Gotovina and General Mladen Markac were
released today after an appeals panel at the Hague-based
 International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia  ruled
3-2 to overturn a conviction for war crimes, Theodor Meron, the
president of the panel, said today. The two were found guilty in
April 2011 of the murder and persecution of Serbs in the 1995
Operation Storm, which ended the war following Croatia’s 1991
independence from Yugoslavia. Gotovina had been given 24 years
in jail and Markac 18 years. Both are 57 years old.  “This is our joint victory,” Gotovina told a crowd,
estimated by police at more than 100,000 on Zagreb’s main
square, after the government flew him home. “The war belongs in
the past, let’s look toward the future.”  The case closed as the former Yugoslav republic prepares to
join the European Union in July and struggles to recover after
three years of recession and economic stagnation.  Croatia 
cooperated with the extradition of the generals to The Hague and
supported their defense teams in claiming the generals couldn’t
prevent the troops from committing crimes.  Final Judgment  The UN court ruled today that there was no excessive
shelling of four towns by the Croats and that the mass departure
of Serbs couldn’t be described as a “deportation.” The ruling
is a “final judgment” and won’t be appealed, court officials
said.  “The verdict confirmed what we all believed, that Croatia
didn’t commit ethnic cleansing and that Croatia justly liberated
its territories,” President Ivo Josipovic told reporters in
Zagreb. “Crimes were committed, and although the Croatian state
is not responsible for crimes of individuals, it bears
responsibility to prosecute and punish every crime.”  In Operation Storm, the Croatian army reclaimed swaths of
land held by rebel Serbs, who since 1991 opposed Croatia’s drive
to break away from the former  Yugoslavia . While most Serbs fled
the approaching Croat forces, murders and looting were reported
after the Croatian army took over.  Thousands of Serbs in recent years have returned as their
reintegration was a key element for Croatia to conclude EU
membership talks.  Serbian Anger  While the verdict sparked scenes of jubilation across
Croatia, the ruling party of Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic
reacted angrily, saying the court “legalized a horrible crime”
and accused the justices of making “political, rather than
judicial” verdicts.  “We are disappointed with the treatment of Serbian people
by international institutions, by their ignoring of facts and
disrespect for the victims of the Storm offensive,” the party
said in an e-mailed statement. “No one can annul what happened,
or make us forget” what happened, it said.  For many Croats, the generals symbolize the country’s
independence and the beginning of the operation is celebrated as
a public holiday called Victory Day.  In its verdict last year, the court said that Gotovina was
part of a “joint criminal enterprise,” along with former
President Franjo Tudjman, Defense Minister Gojko Susak and Army
Chief of Staff Janko Bobetko, all three of whom are now dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  