-- UniCredit Said in Talks to Sell Stake in Kazakh Bank ATF
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-11-16T15:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/unicredit-said-in-talks-to-sell-stake-in-kazakh-bank-atf.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
is in talks to sell a stake in ATF Bank to a Kazakh investor,
said a person with knowledge of the matter.  An agreement may be reached within weeks, said the person,
who requested anonymity because the talks are private.  UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is
selling assets as part of his five-year plan to cut costs and
boost profitability. Ghizzoni told  Bloomberg News  in a March
2011 interview that the company would consider selling Almaty-
based ATF Bank. A UniCredit official declined to comment.  “ATF Bank was purchased just before the financial crisis
broke at a very high price compared with today’s evaluation,”
said  Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan.
“I expect it would be very hard to sell at an interesting value
in this environment.”  UniCredit owns 99.7 percent of ATF Bank through its Bank
Austria AG subsidiary. The Kazakh bank, the fifth-largest lender
in the country, was purchased by UniCredit for $2.1 billion in
2007 and the company has since taken writedowns on the unit as
the nation’s banking industry suffered a surge in bad loans.  UniCredit fell 2.1 percent to 3.39 euros by 4 p.m. in Milan
trading, valuing the firm at 19.7 billion euros. UniCredit’s
shares have fallen 20 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent increase in the 38-member  Bloomberg Banks and Financial
Services Index .  Bad Loans  Kazakhstan’s banks are “handcuffed” by non-performing
loans and need to repair their balance sheets faster to free up
resources required to generate profit from lending, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on Nov. 12. The nation’s
lenders are still weighed down by souring assets three years
after central  Asia ’s biggest energy producer used $10 billion
from its oil fund to support banks and companies following a
credit squeeze and collapse in property prices.  ATF Bank boosted its equity capital by 15 billion tenge
($100 million) in September, an increase of 9.8 percent from the
level of July 1. UniCredit has continued to inject money into
the unit’s equity capital, including a 40.1 billion-tenge share
sale in April 2011.  UniCredit signed a guarantee agreement with ATF in December
2009, which underwrites corporate loans of $2.8 billion, the
Kazakh lender said on its website in August. Under this
guarantee that could run until April 2029, loan losses of more
than $728 million are guaranteed by the Milan-based bank.  Kazakhstan’s central bank  said Sept. 17 it may restrict
foreign banks from providing guarantees used by their units in
the country to underwrite loans because that gives an advantage
over local lenders. The central bank “reckons” foreign banks
should inject capital instead of providing guarantees, Deputy
Chairman Daniyar Akishev said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  