-- Union Sues National Grid Over Storm-Related Overtime Pay
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-16T17:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/union-sues-national-grid-over-storm-related-overtime-pay.html
A union sued  National Grid Plc (NG/)  in
Brooklyn, New York, federal court, alleging the utility failed
to pay overtime wages to workers putting in 60- to 80-hour work-
weeks repairing damage from  Hurricane Sandy .  Transport Workers Union of America  Local 101 alleged in a
Nov. 15 complaint that the utility’s workers in Brooklyn,
Queens, Staten Island and Long Island, New York, were paid
nothing for work in excess of 40 hours a week for the past three
weeks. A spokeswoman for the London-based utility company, Karen
Young, said the company is trying to fix an automated payroll
problem.  The storm hit the Northeast region of the U.S. on Oct. 29
and is estimated to have caused as much as $33 billion in
damages in New York. National Grid provides natural gas service
to the area.  “My members are working but they’re getting frustrated,”
Michael Conigliaro, president of Brooklyn-based Local 101, said
in a phone interview. Storm-related repairs and inspections to
gas lines and boilers may go on for another two months, he said.  The company implemented a payroll system change just before
the storm that likely caused the overtime pay problems, he said.
No specific deadline has been provided for when it will be fixed
and workers will be fully paid, he said.  Young said in a statement that National Grid “takes the
timely and accurate compensation of its employees very
seriously.”  ‘Made Whole’  “All affected employees will be made whole as soon as
possible,” she said.  A lawyer for the union, Arthur Schwartz, said the workers
may still be owed damages under labor laws even if the
international utility eventually pays all of the wages due. Some
of the workers lived in areas severely affected by the storm,
including Staten Island, Breezy Point and Howard Beach in
Queens, and Coney Island in  Brooklyn , Conigliaro said.  “We do know the devastation that’s down there because
that’s our areas,” he said.  The case is Conigliaro v. National Grid, 12-5627, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  