-- Uniqa Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank for Share Sale
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-11-16T15:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/uniqa-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-deutsche-bank-for-share-sale.html
Uniqa Versicherungen AG (UQA) , Austria’s
second-biggest insurer, picked  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and Raiffeisen Centrobank to manage a share sale planned for
next year, according to three people with knowledge of the plan.  Uniqa will probably hire additional banks to support the
leading trio, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private.  Officials for Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and Raiffeisen
Centrobank all declined to comment. Uniqa spokesman Norbert Heller said the company is preparing to start the share sale
whenever the time is right, and won’t disclose which banks will
manage the sale before then.  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Brandstetter said in April
that Uniqa plans to sell “significantly more” than 500 million
euros ($637 million) of new stock next year or in 2014 to fund
growth in eastern  Europe  and broaden its shareholder base. That
would be equivalent to about 25 percent of the insurer’s current
market value. Deutsche Bank and Raiffeisen Centrobank managed
the Vienna-based insurer’s 500 million-euro fundraising from
existing shareholders in July.  About 7.5 percent of Uniqa’s shares are publicly traded.
Some  2,709 Uniqa shares changed hands  in Vienna trading today,
with the shares slipping 0.1 percent to 8.90 euros as of 4:20
p.m. local time. The average daily volume over the last 12
months was 4,656 shares, according to Bloomberg data, and
Uniqa’s market value is about 1.9 billion euros.  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, a cooperative
Austrian lender, owns 44.7 percent of Uniqa and also indirectly
controls Raiffeisen Centrobank. Two trusts,  Austria 
Privatstiftung and Collegialitaet Versicherungsverein
Privatstiftung, own another 47.4 percent of Uniqa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  