-- Huntington CEO Sees No Immediate Threat From U.S. Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-11-16T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/huntington-ceo-sees-no-immediate-threat-from-u-s-fiscal-cliff.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,
the U.S. Navy’s sole builder of aircraft carriers, isn’t
immediately threatened by the U.S. fiscal cliff, its chief
executive officer said.  While shares of Huntington have dropped 11 percent since
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, CEO Mike Petters said the
company is hiring more workers after winning contracts that will
provide revenue for the next few years.  “I’m not so sure that we really see a cliff in the way
that a lot of other people do,” he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  on “Capitol Gains” that will
air Nov. 18. “It’s the debate over the next round of work and
the timing of that work that’s going to matter.”  Defense spending is in the cross hairs as Congress and the
White House try to avert a so-called fiscal cliff of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases. The reductions, known as
sequestration, would begin early next year and total $1.2
trillion over a decade, with half coming from national security
programs.  Huntington fell 3.3 percent on Nov. 7, the day after Obama
defeated Republican candidate  Mitt Romney , who had proposed
increasing military spending. The company slid another 5 percent
on Nov. 8, after it reported third-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ expectations. It was the largest two-day drop since
September 2011.  War Costs  The shares advanced less than 1 percent to close at $40.20
yesterday in  New York . They have gained 29 percent this year.  Romney had proposed pegging military spending to 4 percent
of U.S. gross domestic product, excluding war costs. He also
wanted to boost shipbuilding to about 15 ships a year, up from
nine ships a year.  His defeat was a loss for Huntington, which probably won’t
escape a downturn in federal contracting, according to Kevin Brancato, a defense analyst at Bloomberg Government.  “Sequestration or even a compromise decreasing the budgets
would likely slow down ship procurement, affecting the company’s
bottom line,” Brancato said in an interview. “The company is
in a bind, but it’s a long-term bind, not a short-term bind.”  Huntington is on schedule to deliver the last two of five
amphibious ships to the Navy next year, Petters said. It will be
negotiating several important contracts in the next several
years to build, refuel and deactivate ships, he said.  ‘Unleash That Investment’’  Any budget decision that shifts the timing of those
negotiations will delay investment, increase costs and create
challenges for suppliers, Petters said.  “A lot of suppliers and a lot of other companies around
the country are talking about how they’re holding up on their
investments until they know where we’re going,” he said. “Some
clarity on where we’re going will unleash that investment.”  Analysts predict Huntington’s  sales  in 2012 will increase
less than 1 percent to $6.59 billion, the average of 12
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has a funded backlog of $12.9 billion.  “That’s a pretty nice place to be,” Peter Skibitski, an
analyst at Drexel Hamilton, said of the backlog. If a sequester
hits, “they are better positioned than other companies,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Huntington, which was spun off from  Falls Church , Virginia-
based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in 2011, is winding down naval
operations at its Avondale shipyard in  Louisiana , Petters said.
He didn’t say what the company plans to do with the property,
though he suggested the work may be commercial.  Government Dependence  “We are looking pretty aggressively to try to find ways to
redeploy that,” he said. “It would certainly be, I think,
healthy for our business to be involved in a business that’s not
U.S. government.”  The company  gets “substantially all” its revenue from the
federal government, according to its annual report filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Huntington this month announced its first quarterly
dividend, at 10 cents a share, and plans to buy back as much as
$150 million of shares over three years. The company wants to
continue quarterly dividend payments, subject to board approval,
Petters said.  “That was not a special dividend,” he said after the
interview. “We are planning to return cash to shareholders.
We’re actually doing that sooner than we thought we would.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  