-- Musical ‘Giant’ Overflows With Plot, Songs: Theater
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/musical-giant-overflows-with-plot-songs-theater.html
There are plenty of good reasons to
see “ Giant ,” an epic new musical at  New York ’s Public Theater.  The redoubtable  Brian d’Arcy James ,  Kate Baldwin  and John
Dossett lead a cast of 22 singing sumptuous melodies by Michael
John LaChiusa. They’re backed by a 17-piece orchestra, a rare
luxury for off-Broadway.  It’s based on Pulitzer Prize-winning author Edna Ferber’s
1952 novel about a  Texas  ranching family grappling with
conserving land and tradition amid an oil boom and social
change. D’Arcy James is the reserved cattleman Bick Benedict and
Baldwin
his regal fish-out-of-water wife, in roles Rock Hudson and
 Elizabeth Taylor  made famous in the 1956 film.  As cowboys twirl ropes in the shadow of a water tower under
a cloudy blue sky, a young Bick sings “Did Spring Come to
Texas?” awaiting the arrival of his bride of 12 days. She
quotes Emerson and he recognizes it, even though he dropped out
of Harvard after two years to take over his sprawling family
ranch.  But before fantasizing about “Giant” gushing onto
Broadway and upending the season’s  Tony Award  derby -- as I did
during those thrilling opening minutes -- be mindful of its
excesses.  Although it’s an hour shorter than at its 2009 debut at the
 Signature Theatre  in Arlington,  Virginia , LaChiusa and book
writer Sybille Pearson still have an overstuffed, if compelling,
narrative. Too many peripheral characters bog down the story
with songs, maladies and, in the case of one young man, death.  Sexual Menace  Luz (Michele Pawk) comes off as strident and unsympathetic,
which undermined her advocacy for old-fashioned ranch life to
her brother Bick. PJ Griffith as the gaudy ranch-hand-turned-oil
baron Jett Rink -- the James Dean role -- is a major talent but
was light on sexual menace.  The show’s on firmest ground with the central couple.
D’Arcy James is as convincing as a southwest Texan as he was a
Brooklyn school teacher in television’s “Smash.” Bobby
Steggert, still playing teens at 31, is likewise believable as
the Benedicts’ rebellious, kind son.  Director Michael Greif deftly propels the three-hour show
forward. Lighting designer  Kenneth Posner  conveys the stifling
heat of the Reata ranch.  The show is the first of the Signature’s five-year-old
“ American Musical Voices Project ” to play New York (following
an interim stint at the Dallas Theatre Center). It would benefit
from further cutting and shaping. Even so, the hours pass
quickly and pleasingly.  Especially given Bruce Coughlin’s sublime orchestrations
for the 25 songs, too much of a good thing is still pretty good.  At 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-967-7555 or
 http://www.publictheater.org . Rating: ***1/2  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
 section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and New York
 Weekend .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 