-- Muslims Denounce Israel Across Mideast
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-16T16:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/muslims-denounce-israel-across-mideast.html
Angry Muslims staged demonstrations
from Cairo to Tehran and Istanbul to denounce  Israel  today as
the Jewish state carried on its bombing of Gaza while militant
groups fired rockets at Israel.  About 30,000 protesters left mosques after Friday prayers
in Cairo to rally at  Tahrir Square , chanting slogans against
Israeli aggression, the state-owned Egyptian website Ahram Gate
reported.  Egypt ’s premier, Hisham Qandil, visited Gaza today and
said the Arab world is united behind the Palestinians there.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi said after Friday prayers
that his country won’t turn its back on Gaza in the face of
Israel’s “shameless aggression,” according to state-run Ahram
Online’s website. “Egypt today is very different than that of
yesterday,” he said.  Israel carried out air strikes against Gaza for a third day
today and militant groups in the territory fired rockets. Air-
raid warnings sounded in  Tel Aviv  and an explosion was heard in
the city, where police said a missile may have fallen in an
“unpopulated area.” Hamas, which governs Gaza, said at least
23 people have been killed there by Israeli attacks. At least
three Israelis have been killed by Palestinian rockets.  Palestinians in the  West Bank , ruled by the Fatah movement
that broke with Hamas five years ago, held a rally organized by
Hamas after the Friday sermon in Ramallah, according to  Al
Jazeera . In  Iran , the official Fars news agency said hundreds of
thousands staged demonstrations across the country to protest
Israel’s attacks. Iran has been one of Hamas’s main financial
supporters.  No ‘Blind Eye’  In  Turkey , tens of thousands of worshipers chanted anti-
Israeli slogans after Friday prayers in Istanbul and several
other cities, the state-run Anatolia news agency said.  “We will not turn a blind eye to this genocide,” Huseyin
Kaptan, an official of the pro-Islamic Humanitarian Relief
Foundation, or IHH, told a rally in the western city of Bursa,
according to Anatolia. “We’re calling on all center of powers
to use all their means to convince Israel to end this
massacre.”  The IHH was the organizer of a Turkish aid ship that was
raided by Israel in 2010, leaving nine Turks dead and straining
ties between the former allies. Israel outlawed the IHH in 2008
on the grounds of alleged ties to Hamas.  Turkey’s Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan today
expressed solidarity with his “brothers in Gaza” and said he
hopes the  United Nations Security Council  can convene to help
end the violence, Anatolia said. He ruled out Turkish contacts
with Israel. Erdogan is due to visit Cairo tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  