-- Vanguard Takes Aim at U.K. as Fees Replace Commissions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/vanguard-takes-aim-at-u-k-as-fees-replace-commissions.html
Vanguard Group Inc. rose to the top
of the U.S. mutual fund industry by preaching the merits of
cheap index-tracking funds. Now it wants to convert U.K.
investors as that country enacts new rules that may lower fund
costs that are among the highest in the developed world.  The firm is seeking to expand its less than 1 percent share
of the 629 billion pound ($998 billion) market in the U.K. by
more aggressively courting financial advisers, who control much
of the country’s fund distribution, and striking deals to make
its products more broadly available. Vanguard last month won
access to the 13,000 U.K. advisers who use Cofunds, a platform
with 45 billion pounds under administration.  Vanguard, which is owned by its fund investors and passes
on cost savings to them, is seeking to take advantage of changes
next year that will ban advisers from accepting commissions from
asset managers and require them to charge clearly delineated
fees. The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm, which controls
17 percent of the U.S. market for long-term funds, is lagging
behind U.S.-based rivals such as  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc., the world’s
biggest money manager, in expanding abroad.  “There’s an opportunity for Vanguard, but there are other
players who are better known and already are competing
aggressively on price,” Jason Hollands, managing director of
London-based Bestinvest Brokers Ltd., an advisory firm that
oversees 4 billion pounds for clients, said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Different Topsoil’  Vanguard’s experience will test whether the 38-year-old
firm can expand an international business that accounts for 6
percent of its $2.2 trillion in assets. The company, which
overtook longtime leader  Fidelity Investments  two years ago at
home as fund buyers flocked to passively managed products, is
short on history and name recognition in Britain, where it
started selling  index funds  in 2009.  “It is not easy for a brand to put down roots in different
topsoil,” Nancy Koehn, a professor at the  Harvard Business
School , said in a telephone interview from  Boston . “How do you
build trust when you are starting anew?”  The Financial Services Authority, the U.K.’s fund
regulator, is responsible for the new rules known as the Retail
Distribution Review, or RDR. The rules, completed in March 2010
and set to take effect Jan. 1, are designed to give consumers
access to unbiased advice and to promote competition in the fund
industry. Advisers in the U.K. will be paid by customers in
exchange for the guidance they offer, while brokers can accept
commissions from fund managers so long as they don’t provide
investment advice.  Higher Expenses  The cost of investing in British funds is higher than
anywhere in the developed world aside from Scandinavia and
Canada, according to academic research published by the Review
of Financial Studies in 2009. The average British mutual fund
charged 2.21 percent of its clients’ assets in annual expenses,
compared with 1.04 percent in the U.S.  Consumer advocates including Gareth Shaw blame the higher
prices on an opaque fee structure that makes it hard for
investors to make fair comparisons and a commission system that
rewards advisers for selling products rather serving clients.  By separating all the elements that go into fees and
banning commissions, the new rules “will put the power back
into the hands of customers,” said Shaw, a financial specialist
at Which?, a London-based consumer organization.  Greater transparency will trigger more price competition
and heightened interest in funds that seek to duplicate the
returns of benchmarks such as the FTSE All-Share Index, he said.
The average annual fee on U.K. active equity mutual funds
-- whose managers try to outperform indexes by selecting which
stocks to buy and sell -- is 1.68 percent of assets, versus 61
basis points for equity index funds, according to data from
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  A basis point equals one
hundredth of a percentage point.  ‘Pretty Confident’  “We are pretty confident our business model will play
here,” Thomas Rampulla, head of Vanguard’s European operations,
said in a telephone interview from  London .  Vanguard became the largest U.S. mutual-fund company on the
strength of its index funds and exchange-traded funds. Since the
mid-1970s, Vanguard founder Jack Bogle, 83, has been telling
investors that most active managers can’t beat the market
consistently and that low-cost funds that mimic benchmarks
instead of trying to beat them will outperform in the long run.  Vanguard funds in the U.S., including those that are
actively run, charge an average fee of 16 basis points, compared
with 79 basis points for the industry, data from Denver-based
Lipper show.  U.S. Experience  Because Vanguard had so much room to grow at home as
indexing took hold, the company was slow to move overseas, Chief
Executive Officer F. William McNabb said in an April interview
at the firm’s Valley Forge, Pennsylvania headquarters. The
international business will “be an important pillar” in the
coming decade, said McNabb.  At New York-based BlackRock, 40 percent of assets were
outside the Americas as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. At  San Mateo , California-based  Franklin Resources
Inc. (BEN) , non-U.S. assets were 34 percent as of Sept. 30, company
data show.  Britain’s rule change may create an opening for Vanguard,
said Rampulla, who sold products to U.S. financial advisers
before moving to London four years ago.  As American advisers abandoned commissions in favor of
asset-based fees over the past decade, they became more
sensitive to the costs they were passing on to clients and in
the process, turned into better customers for Vanguard, he said.
Vanguard’s assets managed for U.S. advisers rose to $620 billion
as of Sept. 30 from $260 billion at the end of 2007, company
data show.  ‘Good Value’  “We were a good value proposition,” Rampulla said.  In the U.K., winning over advisers is critical because the
market is more adviser-driven than in the U.S., he said. “There
is very little direct business.”  Mutual-fund sales by intermediaries such as financial
advisers and wealth managers are about six times greater than
direct sales to consumers, according to the  Investment
Management Association , the industry’s lobbying group.  Vanguard has already won converts. Alan Smith became a
customer in 2010 when he and his colleagues soured on stock
pickers after the global financial crisis.  “We couldn’t find a compelling reason to remain exposed to
active funds” said Smith, CEO of Capital Asset Management, a
London-based wealth-management firm that oversees 125 million
pounds, 40 percent of it with Vanguard.  James Norton, whose London-based Evolve Financial Planning
Ltd. manages 200 million pounds, including Vanguard funds, said
passive investing in the U.K. is growing.  Lesser Known  Index funds, known as trackers in the U.K., represent about
7 percent of the British market for mutual funds, according to
the Investment Management Association, about half their share in
the U.S.  “When advisers aren’t getting paid commission, I think
more of them will take a look at the likes of Vanguard,” Norton
said in a telephone interview.  Vanguard had 3.1 billion pounds in British mutual funds as
of Sept. 30, according to Morningstar data.  That compares with about 40 billion pounds for Atlanta-
based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , 32 billion pounds for BlackRock and 28
billion pounds for New York-based Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.
The largest fund provider by assets is M&G Securities Ltd., the
fund management unit of London-based Prudential Plc, which is
the U.K.’s biggest insurer.  “The more savvy investment advisers have heard of
Vanguard, but the majority of people still don’t know the
name,” Norton said.  Lacking ‘Advantage’  Vanguard’s biggest British index fund, the 556 million
pound  Vanguard FTSE UK Equity Index Fund (VUKEIDA) , ranks 22nd in size
among the country’s index funds, Morningstar data show.  Price competition has intensified because of Vanguard’s
entry into the market, said Christopher Traulsen, director of
Morningstar’s fund research in  Europe . London-based  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped the expenses on its index funds by as much
88 percent within a week after Vanguard’s arrival in the
country, Traulsen said in a June 2009 article headlined “The
Vanguard Effect.”  Vanguard now has a modest price edge over most peers,
Traulsen said in a telephone interview. Its fund that tracks the
FTSE Index charges 15 basis points, compared with 21 basis
points for the larger BlackRock fund and 30 basis points for the
Fidelity MoneyBuilder U.K. Index Fund, Bloomberg data show.  The
Royal London FTSE 350 Tracker Fund (RLF350A)  charges 12 basis points.  Distribution Deals  “Vanguard is lacking in competitive advantage,” said Ben
Yearsley, head of investment research for direct investing at
 Charles Stanley Group Plc (CAY) , a London-based firm that oversees 15
billion pounds.  Vanguard’s Rampulla isn’t discouraged. He said the firm’s
unusual structure -- it is owned by the investors in its funds -
- will resonate with the public.  Because the company refused to pay commissions, Vanguard
products originally weren’t offered by most advisers or
platforms that distribute funds, Rampulla said. That’s changing
as commissions vanish.  “We are no longer going to be fishing in just a small part
of the pond,” he said.  Similar deals to the Cofunds distribution agreement may be
announced before year-end, Rampulla said. As the rule change
nears, the company is running an educational program for
advisers that lets them know how their counterparts in the U.S.
and  Australia  have coped with the transition to a world without
commissions.  No Guarantee  Vanguard wasn’t an overnight success in the U.S., said Ben Johnson, Morningstar’s director of passive research in Europe
and  Asia .  “It was a process that was decades in the making,”
Johnson, Morningstar’s director of passive research in Europe
and Asia, said in a telephone interview.  Vanguard’s limited name recognition and the lack of a
prominent “evangelist” like Bogle in the U.K. advocating for
index funds makes it likely the firm’s progress will be gradual,
Johnson said.  “It is not a guarantee they will succeed, but over the
long term, the odds are in their favor,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  