-- Veterans’ Income Advantage Widest in Virginia: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/veterans-income-advantage-widest-in-virginia-bgov-barometer.html
It pays to be a veteran, and nowhere
more so than in the Pentagon’s home state of  Virginia , where ex-military personnel take home almost 72 percent more than those
who’ve never served.  The BGOV Barometer shows the median annual income for
veterans is an average of 44 percent more than for nonveterans
nationwide, and even higher in states with big military bases
such as South Carolina, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One reason for the gap is many veterans retire early from the
military, and simultaneously collect federal pensions and
paychecks from their second careers.  The disparity underscores a divide between older veterans
and newly returned troops struggling to find work, said Ramsey
Sulayman, legislative associate for the advocacy group Iraq and
Afghanistan Veterans of America. The jobless rate for veterans
who served after the 2001 terrorist attacks was 10 percent last
month compared with 7.4 percent for nonveterans, according to
federal data.  “I was a little bit surprised, especially to see that
level of discrepancy throughout most of the states,” Sulayman
said in a phone interview. “I think it also indicates how
veterans tend to be successful when they are in the job market,
when they are working. The problem is getting them working in
some cases.”  ‘Black Hole’  The veteran population is older, whiter, and more likely to
be male and have at least a high school degree than the general
population, said Sulayman, whose nonprofit organization is based
in  New York . All those groups tend to have higher incomes, he
said.  “When you look at younger veterans, when you look at those
with less education, military service can be kind of a black
hole for them,” he said. “Not all hiring managers understand
how military skills translate.”  Many older veterans are military retirees who work in
second careers while collecting a pension for their service,
which contributes to the discrepancy, he said.  The 2011 U.S. Census data compiled by Bloomberg includes
salaries, disability compensation, military and other pensions,
welfare and Social Security payments.  “Income is more than just salaries,” said Amy Love, a
spokeswoman for the South Carolina Department of Commerce. Her
state had the fifth-biggest income discrepancy, with a median
income of $35,063 for veterans compared with $21,591 for
nonveterans, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  Biggest Navy Base  Military pensions play a role in  South Carolina  veterans’
incomes, Love said. The state has a large number of military
retirees, mostly because of its relatively large active-duty
population, she said. There are eight military bases in South
Carolina.  Virginia, where the median income is $48,553 for veterans
compared with $28,266 for nonveterans, has about 20 military
bases. It is home to the world’s largest naval station, in
Norfolk. It also has four of the top 10 federal contractors,
according to a Bloomberg Government ranking of the top 200
vendors.  Three of the top 10 are located in northern Virginia near
the Pentagon. They are  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) , both based in  Falls Church ; and  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , a
technology company based in McLean.  Alabama Veterans  Shipbuilder  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  is based in
 Newport News  in southeastern Virginia.  “We have so many military personnel who retire here,”
John Broadway, head of the Virginia Employment Commission, said
in an interview. “A lot of them either work for federal
contractors, become federal contractors themselves, or take jobs
working for the U.S. government as civil servants. The pay for
all of those jobs is above average.”  Veterans in  Alabama , where veterans’ median income is about
71 percent more than nonveterans’, are helped by the city of
Huntsville, which has made it a mission to attract defense jobs.
Redstone Arsenal, a hub for space-related projects, is based in
the Huntsville area.  The city was named one of the best places for military
retirees seeking second careers, according to a 2011 survey
commissioned by the United Services Automobile Association, a
 San Antonio , Texas-based insurance and financial services
provider known as USAA, and Military.com, an online news
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  