-- Visa Receives FTC Letter Over Possible Violations of Durbin
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-16T22:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/visa-receives-ftc-letter-tied-to-possible-violations-of-durbin.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s largest
payments network, said it will provide documents to the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission after the agency asked for information
on a debit-card service that may have violated the Durbin
amendment.  U.S. antitrust regulators asked Visa in a Sept. 21 letter
to voluntarily hand over documents related to its PIN Debit
Gateway Service, the Foster City, California-based company said
today in a filing. Visa said it’s cooperating with the U.S. and
responding to its requests for information, and that the revenue
in question isn’t material.  The gateway is optional and provided by Visa “to merchant
acquirers that want to route transactions to other networks, but
do not have connections to those networks,” Darrin Peller, a
New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a note today.
“We suspect that the FTC’s focus is driven by the recent
regulations” and the increased use of the service “given that
there are now greater PIN debit routing options,” he wrote.  The request is another in a line of lawsuits and document
requests faced by Visa and newly named Chief Executive Officer
Charles Scharf as the firm seeks to defend its leading market
share in worldwide payments. In May, the company said it was the
subject of a U.S. antitrust probe into its pricing for debit-
card transactions. Visa continues to provide information to the
U.S. in that investigation, according to today’s filing.  Merchant Agreement  The Durbin amendment, named after U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, is a provision of the Dodd-Frank
Act that limits the amount of swipe fees, or interchange, Visa
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  can charge on debit-card transactions. The
companies collect the money and remit it to their member banks.  Earlier this year Visa, MasterCard and the banks reached a
proposed $6.6 billion settlement with merchants over credit-card
transaction fees after seven years of litigation.  Visa  rose  1.9 percent to close at $142.71 in New York. The
shares have climbed 41 percent this year, the  fifth most  in the
70-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index,
which has gained 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 