-- Wal-Mart Starts Corruption Probes in Brazil, China, India
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-16T04:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/wal-mart-starts-corruption-probes-in-brazil-china-india.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  started
inquiries into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act at operations in Brazil, India and China, adding
to its probe of bribery allegations in Mexico.  The board’s audit committee and the company identified or
became aware of the possible FCPA violations since starting a
global review of its compliance programs, the world’s biggest
retailer said yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The new inquiries aren’t limited to those
countries, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the SEC are already
investigating allegations that Wal-Mart systematically bribed
Mexican officials so it could more quickly open stores in the
country. Federal and local government agencies in Mexico also
are involved in investigations of those matters. Wal-Mart said
in yesterday’s filing that it’s cooperating with the probes.  Several of Wal-Mart’s  shareholders  have filed  lawsuits 
against the company, current and former directors and officers,
and past and present officers of the Walmex unit.  Wal-Mart said the costs of responding to investigations by
the DOJ and SEC as well as defending itself from lawsuits and
conducting its own probe were $99 million in the nine months
ended October. The company is the biggest in the U.S. by sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Anthony Rose , a Wal-Mart Asia spokesman, declined to
comment on the allegations until investigations were concluded.  ‘Very Seriously’  “We take compliance with the FCPA very seriously and are
committed to having a strong and effective global compliance
program in every country in which we operate,” Rose said in an
e-mail today.  An Indian lawmaker wrote to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
office questioning whether Wal-Mart violated rules while making
Indian investments, a Commerce Ministry official in  New Delhi 
said last month, asking not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak on the subject.  India’s Enforcement Directorate will seek documents from
Wal-Mart relating to its financial investments and remittances
in the country,  Press Trust of India  reported Nov. 15, citing a
person it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  