-- Yes, the Military Has Higher Standards
-- B y   K o r i   S c h a k e
-- 2012-11-16T00:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/why-military-is-held-to-higher-personal-standards.html
The U.S. Uniform Code of Military
Justice considers adultery a crime, as news coverage of the
resignation of Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus has shown.  He said his affair with biographer Paula Broadwell didn’t
begin until after he had retired as an Army general, but his
case highlights how the military holds itself to a different and
higher standard than society at large.  Yet the military doesn’t set these standards. The uniform
 code  is legislated and amended by Congress or the president. The
military abides by a different standard because we establish
that standard for it.  Since coming into force in 1951, the uniform code has
criminalized  adultery  for two reasons. One is to reduce the
distraction and potential morale-depleting messiness that such
behavior can have on people whose bonding affects their ability
to work. The second is to reinforce the leaders’ moral stature
among those whose lives they risk.  Both standards are important to the nature of the military.
Adultery is only punishable when it detracts from good order and
discipline or brings discredit upon the armed forces. That
leaves commanders latitude in  deciding  whether to pursue even
proven cases of adultery; they weigh the value that person
contributes against the damage of his or her behavior. Adultery
tends to be prosecuted when it occurs between people in the same
unit or between ranks, where it might suggest advantage being
taken or given.  High Standard  The men and women who fight the nation’s wars accept
 intrusions  into their activities most of us would balk at. This
doesn’t just apply to generals and admirals, though their higher
level of visibility and authority makes their  behavior  more
likely to affect good order and discipline and to bring
discredit. If an enlisted soldier gets a speeding ticket or
falls behind on her car payments, her commanding officer will be
informed. Family violence is career-ending in most cases.  The military supports maintaining the adultery standard,
and its leaders should be held even more rigorously to it than
junior service members. But the armed forces and the rest of us
should consider whether we have the right balance in our
expectations of the military and that those expectations are not
narrowly confined to the issue of marital fidelity.  In the past decade American society has become less and
less engaged in the nation’s wars. Nothing has been asked of us,
while enormous sacrifices have been asked of the military and
their families. They have been deployed repeatedly to fight wars
that keep escalating in difficulty.  Americans are more gracious toward veterans than they were
during the Vietnam War, yet we typically satisfy ourselves with
the palliatives of yellow ribbons and thanking the troops for
their service rather than pulling them back into our communities
or trying to understand their experience. We act as though they
are all heroes, because that relieves us of having to understand
the morally complex universe of problems they navigate on our
behalf. They are the appointed virtuous avatars -- with fawning
deference shown especially to senior generals.  That is both a compliment and a burden they shouldn’t have
to carry. The historian Joseph Ellis pointed out in his
biography of George Washington that by carving America’s
Founding Fathers out of marble we undervalue what they
accomplished. They weren’t perfect -- they were scheming, petty,
flawed in many ways -- which makes their achievement all the
more astounding. The same is true for the military.  Draft Era  When the U.S. had military conscription -- the draft -- we
didn’t think that the troops were different from broader
society. We knew better because we knew them. Some of them were
the cheaters from algebra class and the co-worker who filched
office supplies. And those guys persevered at Guadalcanal.  This isn’t an argument for conscription; that brought
problems of its own. But it is an argument for dealing with
members of the military as human beings with faults we neither
exaggerate nor overlook. They aren’t above playing office
politics, even on a grand scale. Their views shouldn’t be more
important -- even about wars -- than those of the people we
elect to high office. The elected officials, after all, are
required to decide what and how much to put at risk to achieve
U.S. objectives.  The military can and should adapt to dictates expressed
through legislation and executive orders and guard against
feeling superior to the society it protects. The end of the
don’t-ask-don’t-tell policy demonstrates that the military can
do this, even when it really doesn’t want to.  But we also have to be careful how much we insist members
of the military are just like our society. We need it to be good
at fighting and winning wars. As the novelist George Eliot said,
“The important work of moving the world forward does not wait
to be done by perfect men.”  (Kori Schake is a fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover
Institution and an associate professor at West Point. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel ’s right to respond to
rocket attacks, on  Grover Norquist’s gift to Republicans  and on
why  simple banking regulations are better ; Stephen L. Carter on
what  Obama can learn from FDR  about business; Susan Crawford on
 why mobile phones went dead after  Hurricane Sandy ; William Pesek
on  Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ; Jonathan Weil on the Justice
Department’s  white-collar prosecution numbers ; Michael Petrilli
on what  education reformers need to do differently .  To contact the writer of this article:
Kori Schake at  kori.schake@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 