-- Why We’re Headed Over the Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-16T15:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/why-we-re-headed-over-the-fiscal-cliff.html
Left to their own devices, President  Barack Obama  and Speaker of the House
 John Boehner  would surely be able to cut a deal on the fiscal cliff. They are
both reasonable men. Senators of both parties also appear eager for a deal. There is just one sticking point:  House Republicans  are every bit as loopy
today as they were in 2011, when they decided it would be a good idea to drive
the economy into a ditch rather than raise the debt ceiling. (They ultimately
did raise the debt limit, but only by creating the current crisis -- the
combination of tax hikes and spending cuts knows as the fiscal cliff -- in the
process. Great work, guys.) Michele Bachmann 's still a member of the House.  Allen West  lost his re-
election (though, naturally, he disputes that), but he'll be haunting the
Capitol hallways until they exorcise him in January. Louie Gohmert's in the
green room at Fox News (or at  MSNBC , whenever the hosts want a clown on air to
make conservatives look stupid). Most of the fools, knaves, ideologues and know-
nothings who made the House a spectacle of stupidity over the past two years are
back. And what they learned from their re-election is that there is no penalty
whatsoever for irresponsibility. "If both sides agree that we can get more revenue through economic growth,
then we can agree," Representative Tim Huelskamp  tells  the Washington Post. Ah
yes, the magic of growth. Boehner's problem is that you cannot cut a tax deal
involving real dollars with people who trade in magic dollars. Huelskamp went on
to explain that if Boehner tries to address the deficit with real dollars --
that is, actual revenue -- it's bound to "split the party wide open." "Compromise has a very small constituency," Republican Representative Trey
Gowdy said. "Very small." Given the peculiar nature of his troops, the only way Boehner can deliver a
deal with Obama is to cleave his caucus in two, with a rump of realist
Republicans joining Democrats to vote for higher  tax revenue . What are the
chances of that? Even smaller than the constituency for compromise. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .