-- Twitter Adds Former News Corp. President to Board
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-16T23:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/twitter-says-media-industry-veteran-peter-chernin-joining-board.html
Twitter Inc. said former  News Corp. (NWSA) 
President Peter Chernin is joining its board, portending
stronger ties between the microblogging site and the media and
entertainment industries.  San Francisco-based Twitter confirmed the appointment in a
posting on its microblogging service yesterday. Chernin, who had
about 150 Twitter “followers” around the time of the
announcement -- when he made his first Twitter posting -- had
more than 930 today.  Twitter is building relationships in television, film and
publishing as it courts advertisers and boosts sales to a
projected $1 billion in 2014. Aside from providing inroads to
media and entertainment, Chernin could draw on his experience at
a public company to help navigate Twitter toward an eventual
initial public offering.  “We’re a technology company in the media business, and we
have a board that deeply understands what it means to be a
technology company,” Twitter Chief Executive Officer Dick Costolo told a group of reporters today at an event at
University of Michigan. “We felt it was important to have that
media business perspective on the board as well.”  After leaving News Corp., Chernin founded Chernin Group
LLC, an entertainment group whose first film production was
“Rise of the Planet of the Apes.” Providence Equity Partners
acquired a minority stake in the company earlier this year for
$200 million. The executive, who also sits on the board of
 Pandora Media Inc. (P) , said last year that he had considered making
an offer to buy  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Global Ambitions  “I’ve been a long-time user of Twitter for news and
information,” Chernin said in his first -- and so far, only --
Twitter posting. “Happy to be joining board of this very
exciting company.”  The executive was also involved in the creation of Hulu
LLC, the online video service founded in 2007 by News Corp. and
NBC Universal, then owned by General Electric Co. His
involvement reflects his strength at bridging technology and
entertainment industries, Hulu CEO  Jason Kilar  said.  “Twitter is very fortunate to land Peter,” Kilar said in
an e-mailed statement. “You are talking about an unusual leader
that has built and grown a large number of media businesses that
were predicated on breaking a mold, establishing a clear
identity, and building enduring consumer and financial value.”  As Twitter expands advertising into new markets, including
Latin America and Western Europe, Chernin’s experience helping
run a global business will be useful, Costolo said.  International Reach  “We’re a fast-growing, global company now with offices
around the world,” he said. “Peter brings years and
significant global operating expertise to the board.”  Costolo said he’s treading gingerly when it comes to
entering  China  -- home to the world’s largest Internet
population -- because of its history of online censorship. The
leadership change now underway in the country may create new
opportunities for Twitter, Costolo said.  “Once the new government gets settled there, we can go to
that government and talk to them, but we won’t compromise the
way Twitter works in order to operate within a country,” he
said.  Activity on the site has gained notoriety in the Middle
East, where representatives of Israel and Hamas have used the
tool to exchange threats and report attacks in real-time.
Although threats of violence are against Twitter’s terms of
service, the site has not received requests to take down
messages related to recent attacks in the region, Costolo said.  “As far as I know, we haven’t had any requests to take
down any of that content,” he said. “I’m not up to speed on
the very, very latest, but as far as I know, we haven’t.”  Venture capitalists  Fred Wilson  and Bijan Sabet, as well as
Flipboard Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mike McCue have stepped
down from Twitter’s board in the past two years. Jack Dorsey, a
Twitter co-founder and CEO of Square Inc., Peter Fenton of
Benchmark Capital and Twitter CEO Dick Costolo remain on the
board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Stevenson at 
 rstevenson15@bloomberg.net  