-- Xylem Chief Sees More Acquisitions in Water Company’s Future
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-11-16T20:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/xylem-chief-sees-more-acquisitions-in-water-company-s-future.html
Xylem Inc. (XYL) , the water company whose
pumps helped clean  New York  tunnels and homes flooded by
 Hurricane Sandy , sees more acquisitions in its future.  “Bolt-on” purchases that complement the core business of
the company spun off last year from  ITT Corp. (ITT)  make sense and
Xylem has the funds to do them, Chief Executive Officer Gretchen McClain said in an interview in  Chicago .  The company, which has made $1.36 billion of acquisitions
since 2010 including $584 million paid for dewatering-pump
supplier Godwin, has targeted at least $300 million of purchases
for 2013, she said. Xylem’s range of products and technologies
transport, treat and test water and wastewater.  “Our current strategy of bolt-on acquisitions is working
for us,” McClain said on the sidelines of a two-day water
conference that wrapped up yesterday. Xylem spent $41 million
for the Danish analytical instrumentation firm MJK Automation
A/S and dewatering company Heartland Pumps of Carterville,
Illinois, this year and $310 million in 2011 for sensor
developer YSI Inc.  The  White Plains , New York-based company, whose sensor
products and treatment solutions can help clients cut operating
costs, this week published a nationwide  survey  on the value of
water, following up on a similar survey two years earlier, that
showed increasing concern in the U.S. about water issues.  Almost nine of 10 surveyed believe water infrastructure
needs reforming in the U.S., from pipes to network
modernization, up from 80 percent two years earlier.  Water ‘Disconnect’  The survey showed Americans are more willing to pay for
upgrades to the water system, even with recent rate increases,
to help bring about additional infrastructure improvements.  More than half of the 1,008 Americans surveyed from Aug. 16
to Aug. 23 believe they use 50 gallons (189 liters) or less of
water daily when it’s closer to double that, Xylem’s study
showed.  “It’s easy for us to take clean water for granted because
its considerable underlying costs are mostly invisible to us,”
McClain said in the study. The Environmental Protection Agency
estimates $1 trillion “will be needed to pay for water and
wastewater infrastructure improvements over the next 20 years.”  In a time of water scarcity and budget constraints, “we
are losing more than 1.7 trillion gallons of water annually as a
result of breaks and leaks in our aging water infrastructure,”
she wrote, advocating an end to such a “disconnect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  