-- Yates Family Said to Get Disappointing Bids for Oil Firm
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-11-16T23:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/yates-family-said-to-get-disappointing-bids-for-oil-firm-2-.html
The family that owns Yates Petroleum
Corp., one of the largest closely held U.S. oil and gas
producers, may opt not to sell after getting lower-than-expected
bids, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  While Yates Petroleum’s board continues to evaluate the
offers, the disappointing bids earlier this month mean it’s
unlikely to be able to complete a sale of the Artesia, New
Mexico-based company by the end of the year, two of the people
said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private.  The family had been seeking a sale by year-end in order to
avoid U.S. tax-law changes that take effect Jan. 1 and would
increase the family’s tax bill in a transaction, the people
said.  Yates hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  earlier this year to
solicit bids from among the world’s largest oil producers, in a
sale that may have generated billions of dollars, the people
said.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Concho Resources Inc. (CXO)  are
among the  oil companies  that reviewed Yates’ books during the
sale effort, two of the people said.  James Lucas, a spokesman for Yates, declined to comment, as
did Tasha Pelio of JPMorgan. Representatives of Occidental and
Concho did not return calls seeking comment.  Wildcatter Martin Yates Jr. pioneered oil and gas
exploration in  New Mexico  in the 1920s, when, according to
family lore, his wife’s intuition directed him to the location
of his first successful well. His grandchildren are now involved
in the business.  Oil & Gas Financial Journal estimated in 2009 that Yates
was the fourth-largest private oil and natural-gas company in
the U.S., producing the equivalent of 8.77 million barrels of
oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net . 