-- Hyundai Fuel-Economy Flap Seen as Turned Tables for Honda
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-16T21:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-16/hyundai-fuel-economy-flap-seen-as-turned-tables-for-honda.html
For  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  it was a rude
moment when  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  unfurled a banner at the 2010
 Detroit auto show  touting the Korean brand as America’s most
fuel-efficient. Honda’s U.S. sales chief vowed that Hyundai’s
apparent victory would “motivate us even further.”  Now it’s payback time. Just as Honda ramps up sales of a
new Accord sedan and prepares a modified Civic small car,
Hyundai and its affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  are regrouping after
admitting to the most extensive overstatement of fuel-economy
ratings ever found by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  “The timing is beautiful for Honda,” said Jake Fisher,
director of automotive testing for Consumer Reports, in a phone
interview. “They’d been seen as falling behind in fuel
efficiency, not keeping up with Hyundai and others.’”  Hyundai’s reversal may help a number of automakers.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are promoting
fuel-efficient new models. Still, no automaker stands to benefit
from Hyundai’s misstep as much as Honda. Hyundai sales may slide
as much as 11 percent for the next few months, according to
 Strategic Vision , a San Diego-based consumer-research company
that annually surveys 350,000 carbuyers.  At the same time, Honda’s cars and sport-utility vehicles
are those most often considered as alternatives for Hyundai
buyers, ahead of other brands, said  Alexander Edwards , president
of Strategic Vision’s auto division.  Honda’s American depositary receipts gained 3.4 percent to
$31.95 at the close in  New York .  Accurate Ratings  “For people who think ‘this isn’t for me,’ as a result of
the fuel-economy issue, Honda does look like an attractive brand
known for fuel economy,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst for
Edmunds.com, the  Santa Monica , California-based auto pricing and
data website. “Honda should benefit most.” Ford may also
benefit, she said.  As gasoline prices soar, fuel economy has emerged as a draw
for car buyers. U.S. gasoline prices reached an average of $4.11
a gallon in July 2008 and approached  the $4 level  again this
year. U.S. regulations requiring automakers to double vehicle
efficiency by 2025 ensure that rising, and accurate, mileage
ratings will remain an industry priority.  The EPA  this month  said Hyundai and Kia would put new
mileage labels on “the majority of their 2012 and 2013
models,” reducing average mile per gallon ratings by 1 to 2
miles for most of the affected vehicles. Kia’s Soul wagon was
the farthest off, revising highway mileage downward by 6 miles
(9.7 kilometers) per gallon.  While the companies have apologized to customers and are
offering pre-paid fuel cards to reimburse owners for the
discrepancy, at least three lawsuits have been filed on behalf
of disgruntled customers for the inflated mileage claims.  Main Alternative  Honda executives say they’re not likely to make similar
errors.  “We’ve been conservative in our EPA estimates,” said Mike Accavitti, Honda’s head of U.S. marketing, in a phone interview
from  Boston . “We triple check everything so customers are
satisfied with the mileage they get in the real world.”  Prior to Hyundai’s 2010 show banner, Honda led U.S. fuel-
economy rankings for 33 years, based on Environmental Protection
Agency data, and with the new models it plans to do so again.  “There’re a few jewels in the Honda crown that we protect
at all costs, and number one is trust,” said Robert Bienenfeld,
Honda’s U.S. senior manager for environment and energy strategy.
“Integrity is critical when you give out fuel economy
ratings.”  Accavitti and Bienenfeld declined to criticize Hyundai and
Kia.  Along with Honda’s new models, the timing of the Hyundai-
Kia mileage revisions coincides with the release of Ford’s 2013
Fusion sedan, a midsize competitor to Hyundai’s Sonata, and
Toyota’s addition of an Avalon hybrid sedan boasting a combined
40 mpg in city and highway driving.  Sales Gains  While Toyota’s hybrid lineup, including the top-selling
Prius, make it a fuel economy leader for customers, “Honda is a
younger brand, compared with Toyota, and Kia and Hyundai have
been more attractive to younger people than Toyota,” Caldwell
said.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales accelerated from late 2009 with the
arrival of a restyled Sonata sedan, a competitor to Accord and
Toyota’s Camry. A series of follow-on releases included
Hyundai’s Elantra, Accent subcompact and Veloster hatchback, and
Kia’s midsize Optima sedan and Soul wagon, all with edgier
styling and claiming segment-leading fuel economy.  That helped the Seoul-based affiliates boost their combined
U.S. sales from 675,139 vehicles in 2008 to 1.13 million in
2011. Through October, the companies that share engines,
platforms and a chairman boosted sales 12 percent to 1.07
million vehicles.  ‘Cool-Looking Cars’  “People bought into the whole program: cool-looking cars
that also offered great value, including high fuel economy,”
Caldwell said. “Now it turns out that one part of that formula
wasn’t true.”  Hyundai and Kia’s growth came as Honda struggled with poor
reviews for models including its 2012 Civic and worked to
restore assembly operations in 2011 following natural disasters
in  Asia  that cut parts supplies.  Toyota, like Honda, also had to overcome production
disruptions related to  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami last year,
and work to restore its reputation for quality after record
recalls in 2010 to fix gasoline pedal-related flaws.  “Hyundai definitely got a benefit from its new products
that came out when Toyota and Honda were having some problems,”
Caldwell said. “The timing makes this an interesting reversal
of fortune story.”  ‘Coastdown’ Test  Hyundai and Kia said Nov. 2 the flawed mpg ratings were the
result of how engineers in  South Korea  conducted the EPA’s
“coastdown” test. The test, in which a vehicle accelerates to
about 80 miles an hour on a flat, straight road, is put into
neutral and then allowed to coast down to about 9 mph, wasn’t
done correctly, the companies said.  “These were just honest procedure errors in a very complex
testing process,” Sung Hwan Cho, president of Hyundai’s U.S.
technical center, said on a conference call with reporters on
Nov. 2.  The EPA’s fuel-economy tests “are clear and well
understood by Honda engineers,” Bienenfeld said.  The company’s engineers do initial  fuel-efficiency 
evaluation at Honda’s research units in Japan and the U.S.,
followed by official certification tests before vehicles go on
sale, and basic evaluations of vehicles coming off the
production lines at each factory, he said.  “While there’s going to be some variation between how
individual customers drive, the tests should be repeatable in
every lab,” Bienenfeld said.  “We need to make sure people aren’t gaming the system,”
he said, declining to comment on Hyundai and Kia.  Rating Revisions  Already, Hyundai’s revisions this month put the Civic back
ahead of the Elantra compact in fuel efficiency.  The Hyundai Elantra’s initial label rating of 29 mpg in
city driving, 40 mpg on the highway when it was released in late
2010, was lowered to 28 city and 38 highway mpg.  By comparison, Honda’s 2012 Civic has a 28 city and 39
highway mpg rating.  In its reviews of the cars,  Consumer Reports  found that the
Elantra averaged 29 mpg in combined city and highway driving,
compared with 30 mpg for Civic.  Honda this month will release a modified Civic as a 2013
model, with a new interior and exterior-styling changes aimed at
addressing shortcomings that drew a withering Consumer Reports
review last year. The company’s 2013 Accord that came out late
this year has received mostly favorable reviews for improved
ride and handling, interior materials and fuel economy.  “The Accord was off to a great start without any of this
news about Hyundai and Kia. The car speaks for itself,” said
Bienenfeld. “The Civic will also stand on its own. Elantra was
the fuel economy leader. Now we have a new Civic coming out, so
it doesn’t hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  