-- 
‘Big Fish’ Indian Investor Loses Glow in La Liga as Players Go Unpaid

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-06T06:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/-big-fish-indian-investor-loses-glow-in-la-liga-as-players-go-unpaid.html
The first Indian investor in Spanish
soccer is losing his luster among fans of Racing Santander.  Ahsan Ali Syed, who owns Bahrain-based financial-services
company  Western Gulf Advisory , missed a payment that was part of
the sale agreement to acquire the top-tier team, according to
the regional Spanish government of Cantabria. Players are
protesting about 1.7 million euros ($2.5 million) of unpaid
wages and the coach quit last week. Ali Syed said in an
interview that he halted some payments until the previous owner
resolves a family dispute that could trigger a legal challenge
to his purchase.  Ali Syed follows previous investors in Racing who have seen
a chance to boost their profile and network at matches against
bigger clubs like Real  Madrid  and  Barcelona , according to Ana
Carrera, a former team executive who is an economics professor
at the University of Cantabria. The 38-year-old Indian arrived
on a private jet, checked into the swankiest hotel and hired a
fleet of Mercedes for his entourage, Fernando Ortiz, president
of Racing fan group Pena Zalo, said.  “He seemed to be the real thing: a big fish,” said Ortiz,
who shook hands with Ali Syed and chatted with him through a
translator when he arrived. “Now we are worried things aren’t
what they seemed.”  Racing  is based in the northern city of Santander, which
has a population of 180,000, and counts Banco Santander SA
chairman Emilio Botin among its fans. The team finished sixth in
the 20-team La Liga as recently as 2008 and came 12th last
season, which ended May 22. Ali Syed, who ended negotiations to
buy Blackburn Rovers last year, says buying Racing “suited his
pocket” better than the English Premier League team. He says he
sees an opportunity in a growing popularity in soccer in  India 
and the  Middle East .  ‘No Default’  As part of the deal to buy Racing from Jacobo Montalvo, Ali
Syed agreed to pay 6.7 million euros the team owed to the
regional government, said an official said, who declined to be
identified in line with government policy. The government of
Cantabria activated a bank guarantee after Ali Syed missed an
installment last month, the official said. Ali Syed said there
was “no default” because the government received his payment
via an escrow account.  Santander’s  Mayor Inigo de la Serna  said it appeared the
regional government had been “politically negligent” by not
checking Ali Syed’s finances before the sale, according to an
April 28 statement from his office. The regional administration
says its contract with Ali Syed allows it to cancel his
acquisition of Racing if he fails to meet further installments,
the government official said. Ali Syed said he intends to meet
all his obligations.  ‘Don’t Panic’  “There is no need to be in a panic situation in all,” Ali
Syed said in a telephone interview. “In any fresh takeover
there can be issues and there are minor tweaking issues we are
trying our level best to resolve.”  Ali Syed said he has paid about 2.5 million euros to the
government and 1.4 million euros of the club’s tax debt. He said
he hasn’t paid the wages owed to players dating back to last
year because he’s waiting for Montalvo to resolve what he called
a family dispute that was “hidden” from him until the night
before his acquisition.  Racing Santander  officials couldn’t provide contact details
for Montalvo and an e-mail sent to his father Javier’s secretary
wasn’t returned.  Coach Marcelino Garcia blamed Ali Syed’s delays when he
quit on June 3.  Ali Syed “deceived us and took us for a ride,” Garcia
said in a televised press conference. “Because of a guy from
India, the club has come to a standstill.”  Ali Syed’s delay in payments has given some fans doubts.  “We thought a gentleman was coming with a lot of money,
but now there’s nothing,” said Pedro Cava, president of the
Aupa Racing fan club.  Ali Syed said supporters’s expectations were too high.  “I have never promised to invest exorbitant amounts in the
club: don’t expect me to invest heavily or aggressively because
I cannot,” Ali Syed said. “I cannot build  Rome  in one day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  