-- 
‘No Decisions’ Made on Tax Rewrite, Treasury Official Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-06T20:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/-no-decisions-made-on-tax-code-rewrite-treasury-s-corwin-says.html
A senior U.S. Treasury Department
official said the Obama administration hasn’t firmed up a
proposal for overhauling the corporate  tax code  for the first
time in 25 years.  “It’s an ongoing process and no decisions have been made
at this point,” Manal Corwin, the Treasury’s deputy assistant
secretary for international tax affairs, said today at a tax
conference in Washington. “We’re interested in continuing to
hear from stakeholders and continuing to work with the Hill.”  President  Barack Obama  called on Congress in January to
overhaul the corporate tax code by eliminating most tax benefits
and using the proceeds to pay for lowering corporate rates from
a maximum 35 percent. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman
 Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, has said he wants to lower
rates to 25 percent, a level the administration hasn’t embraced.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has told lawmakers the
administration is developing a proposal for a corporate tax
overhaul. Corwin’s comments, which were delivered at a
conference sponsored by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, indicate the administration still
has basic questions about how to craft a corporate tax overhaul.  A significant challenge, Corwin said, is fulfilling Obama’s
pledge to overhaul the tax code on a revenue-neutral basis,
which doesn’t generate more or less revenue than current law.  ‘Winners and Losers’  “If this is going to be revenue neutral, by definition,
there are going to be winners and losers relative to current
law,” she said. “Political realities make it a difficult
exercise.”  Businesses that operate as pass-through entities worry that
they could lose out in a corporate tax overhaul. These business
owners pay their taxes at the individual rate and are concerned
that they would give up deductions in a corporate rewrite
without benefitting from lower rates.  The administration and congressional leaders have sought in
recent months to build support from the business community for a
corporate tax overhaul. Executives from companies including
 Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  and Sears Holding Corp. told a
House committee last week they would accept losing some business
deductions if that was paired with a significant drop in tax
rates.  Corwin acknowledged the pressure that U.S.-based
multinational companies face from competitors based in countries
with lower tax rates. She reminded businesses that U.S. taxes,
as a percentage of the gross domestic product, are lower than in
most other countries and encouraged companies to take a broader
view of the benefits of operating in the U.S.  “We have to acknowledge there are multiple factors that
impact the competitiveness of U.S. companies,” she said.
“While tax burdens could be one of these factors to the extent
that it impacts profitability, there are other factors including
innovation, skilled labor and education.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
 Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  