-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Advance to One Month High Led by ADCB, Etisalat

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-06T13:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/abu-dhabi-shares-advance-to-one-month-high-led-by-adcb-etisalat.html
Abu Dhabi  shares rose to an almost
one-month high as  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  rallied a
seventh day after a report about the planned stake sale in RHB
Capital Bhd. and as Emirates Telecommunications Corp. gained.  ADCB, the United Arab Emirates’ third-biggest bank by
market value, rose to the highest since October 2008. Emirates
Telecommunications, the country’s largest phone company, rose 1
percent after saying it’s not looking at acquisitions and is
focusing on expansion of its networks in the U.A.E., Egypt and
 Saudi Arabia . The  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.5 percent to
2,678.04, the highest since May 8, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu
Dhabi. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  climbed 0.3 percent.  ADCB at a board meeting on May 31 identified three bidders
who offered between 2 and 2.5 times book value for the stake in
the Malaysian bank, the Star reported June 1, citing an
unidentified person. An ADCB official, who didn’t want to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg today.  Should the bank sell the RHB stake “at these prices, it
would make around 1.5 billion dirhams ($408 million) to 2
billion dirhams” in profit, said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu
Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “That would bring 2011 profit
back above 3 billion dirhams to pre-crisis levels.” ADCB has
the fifth-heaviest weighting on Abu Dhabi’s index.  The shares rallied 2.7 percent to 3.03 dirhams, the highest
close since October. The stock surged 11 percent in the past
seven trading days. The bank wants to sell the stake in RHB and
appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. to advise on an exit, Chief Executive
Officer Ala’a Eraiqat said in April. ADCB received bids from
 Japan ’s Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., a Chinese bank and
several private equity firms that include  Carlyle Group , the
Star report said on June 1.  Etisalat Bond  Etisalat, the company with the highest weighting on Abu
Dhabi’s benchmark index, rose the most since March 10 to 10.45
dirhams. Chairman  Mohammed Omran  said the company will revisit a
plan to apply for Syria’s third mobile-phone license if terms
were changed. Etisalat’s $8 billion bond and sukuk program is on
hold and won’t be tapped this year, he said today in Amman.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.5 percent
and Kuwait’s gauge gained 0.4 percent, while Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
was little changed. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  dropped 0.5 percent,
Bahrain’s gauge lost 0.4 percent and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
retreated 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  