-- 
Goldman, JPMorgan, Madoff, Chiquita, Wachovia in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-06T10:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/madoff-chiquita-wachovia-longtop-financial-in-court-news.html
Prosecutors at the  Manhattan  District
Attorney’s Office who are examining  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may
have an easier time than federal authorities in bringing
criminal charges because of a 90-year-old  New York  state law,
Bloomberg News’s David Voreacos reports.  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. subpoenaed Goldman Sachs,
the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, for records on its
activities leading into the credit crisis, two people familiar
with the matter said. Vance may bring charges under the state’s
Martin Act, which lawyers call a potent tool for New York
prosecutors probing investment frauds, Ponzi schemes and other
white-collar crime.  To prove securities fraud in federal court, prosecutors
must show that a defendant intended to defraud victims and that
the investors relied on misstatements or omissions. Under the
Martin Act, prosecutors aren’t required to prove intent, said
 Michael Perino , a law professor at St. John’s University in New
York.  “The reason why New York prosecutors love it so much and
Wall Street firms hate it so much is that it is a much, much
easier case to bring,” Perino said in an interview. “All a
prosecutor has to show under the Martin Act is a material
misstatement in connection with a securities offering.”  Vance’s subpoena of New York-based Goldman Sachs related to
the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
report on Wall Street’s role in the collapse of the financial
markets, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public.  The subcommittee, led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin,
released a 640-page report in April that accused the bank of
misleading buyers of mortgage-linked investments. Levin said
Goldman Sachs also misled Congress about the company’s bets on
the housing market. The firm has said its testimony was
truthful.  “Subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process,” said David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs. The
bank is cooperating with the investigation, he said.  Vance is far from deciding to charge any individuals with
crimes, said John Moscow, a former deputy chief of the
investigations division in the Manhattan District Attorney’s
Office.  “The big question they’re probably looking to answer is
what happened,” said Moscow, now at Baker Hostetler LLP. “When
you’ve figured out what happened, then you can figure out if
it’s wrongful and it’s criminal. Before you’ve figured out what
happened, it’s premature” to predict the outcome.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan Seeks Dismissal of $6.4 Billion Madoff Trustee Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sought to dismiss a $6.4 billion
lawsuit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying
he doesn’t have the right to sue the bank on behalf of the con
man’s investors.  Trustee Irving Picard sued JPMorgan in U.S. Bankruptcy
court in Manhattan in December, alleging it ignored signs of
fraud as billions of dollars flowed from Madoff’s account at the
bank to investors. JPMorgan was Madoff’s primary banker. The
lawsuit seeks $1 billion in fees and transfers, and $5.4 billion
in damages, alleging that JPMorgan defrauded federal regulators
and violated banking law.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, asked in a filing
June 3 that a U.S. District Court judge dismiss the suit. The
trustee’s “complaint never alleges facts showing that anyone at
JPMorgan knew that Madoff was a crook,” the bank said in the
filing.  Picard was hired to liquidate Madoff’s firm and doesn’t
have the legal right to sue on behalf of investors in the $17
billion Ponzi scheme, New York-based JPMorgan said. Picard has
filed more than 1,000 suits seeking $90 billion for Madoff
investors.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t return a call to
her office after regular business hours.  The appeal is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-
00913, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Primeo Fund to Take Madoff Trustee Suit to District Court  Primeo Fund, sued along with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  by the
trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm, will ask a district
judge to remove the case from bankruptcy court.  Trustee Irving Picard sued HSBC and a dozen so-called
feeder funds including Primeo for $9 billion in December, saying
they should have known of the fraud. Primeo, based in the Cayman
Islands, will follow HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest lender, in asking a
higher court to review Picard’s claims against it, according to
a court filing June 1.  Primeo, which is being liquidated, was a fund tied to Bank
Medici AG and its founder Sonja Kohn that invested in Madoff’s
firm and other feeders such as Alpha Prime, according to
Picard’s suit. Primeo took $145 million, mostly its principal,
out of the Madoff firm in the six years before the 2008
bankruptcy, which Picard is seeking to recover, he said in the
suit. Its profit was a scant $27,942, according to Picard.  The trustee put total six-year withdrawals by funds he
named in the HSBC suit at $2 billion.  HSBC has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York
to dismiss Picard’s suit, saying it didn’t know of the fraud and
lost $1 billion of its own money investing in funds that in turn
put money with Madoff.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
 North Carolina .  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The HSBC appeal is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-
cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Chiquita Fails to Halt Suit Over Colombia Torture, Murder  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) , owner of the namesake
banana label, failed to halt U.S. lawsuits brought by thousands
of Colombians who said they or their relatives were tortured or
killed by militias the company paid.  U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra in West Palm Beach,
Florida, denied June 3 Chiquita’s motion to dismiss some of the
claims brought under the Alien Tort Statute and the Torture
Victim Protection Act. The civil suits, which have been joined
into a single case, seek compensation for the victims.  The company was fined $25 million after pleading guilty in
March 2007 to engaging in transactions with a terrorist group
for paying Colombian paramilitary militias $1.7 million from
1997 to 2004. No executives were charged.  The seven complaints consolidated before Marra cover
“several thousand” plaintiffs alleging their family members
were killed or tortured by Colombian paramilitary groups in
banana-growing regions of the country, according to the June 3
order. The paramilitaries targeted trade unionists and leftist
activists, the judge said.  “While the court allowed some claims to move forward, it is
important to understand that at this stage of the proceedings,
the court is required by law to treat plaintiffs’ outrageous and
false allegations as if they were true,” Ed Loyd, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Plaintiffs now have the burden
of proving these allegations.”  While dismissing some of the Colombians’ claims, Marra
rejected some of Chiquita’s arguments, including the notion that
that because the case could have foreign policy implications it
should be dismissed. He also rejected Chiquita’s assertion that
allowing the claims would give rise to thousands more suits
under the Alien Tort Statute.  The case is In Re: Chiquita Brands International, Inc.,
Alien Tort Statute and Shareholders Derivative Litigation, 08-
1916, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort
Lauderdale).  Ex-Egypt Bank Chairman Makes Bail on Hotel Sex-Abuse Charge  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, the former chairman of Egypt’s
Bank of Alexandria and head of El-Mex Salines, was released on
bail as he awaits trial on charges he sexually abused a maid at
the Pierre hotel in Manhattan.  Omar, 72, was released June 3 before his case was called,
said Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman for the New York City
Department of Correction. A New York state judge in Manhattan
earlier this week set bail of $50,000 bond or $25,000 cash.  Omar, who made a brief appearance June 3 in a Manhattan
courtroom, had been confined at Rikers Island, the city’s main
jail complex. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International
Monetary Fund chief, was locked up there last month after being
charged with the sexual assault and attempted rape of a maid at
the Sofitel, another Manhattan hotel. Omar declined comment as
he left the courthouse. His case was adjourned until Aug. 23.  “He is presumed innocent,” his lawyer Lori Cohen of Cohen
& Funk in Manhattan said outside the courtroom after the
appearance. Cohen added Omar would testify before a grand jury
on the case “if it comes to that.”  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment.  Cohen said Omar was held in lieu of bail until this morning
because most, if not all, of his assets aren’t in the U.S.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-SAC Capital Manager Testifies He Committed Crimes at Fund  Ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Noah Freeman
told a federal jury in New York that he committed insider
trading while working at two separate hedge funds, including
while overseeing a $300 million fund at SAC.  Freeman, 35, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges
in February and is cooperating with the government, testified
June 3 against Winifred Jiau, 43, the first of the so-called
expert networkers to go on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on
insider trading of hedge funds. She is accused of passing
illegal tips to fund managers.  Freeman said he was approached by agents with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation in late November or early December, who
played a recording of a conversation he had with Jiau and Sam
Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management. He
said he promptly hired a lawyer and started cooperating with the
government.  “I told representatives of law enforcement the crimes I
committed and other people had committed,” Freeman said.  “Did you volunteer information about other individuals who
were committing crimes?”  “I did,” Freeman said. “On, at least in passing, more
than a dozen.”  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said June 3 she will call
Barai as a witness during her case.  Freeman testified for about an hour before court recessed
for the day. His testimony is scheduled to resume today. He is
the first of three cooperating witnesses that the government
said would be called to testify.  Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg of Dechert LLP, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Altria Appeals Tobacco Sales Oversight Ruling by U.S. Judge  Cigarette makers including  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip
Morris USA unit are appealing a judge’s ruling that oversight of
the industry resulting from a 1999 racketeering case is
necessary and will continue.  The defendants, which also include  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco,
notified U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in  Washington  June 3
that they are challenging her authority to oversee the case in
an appeal.  Kessler ruled June 1 that her involvement wasn’t ended by a
2009 law that empowered the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to
monitor the industry and establish restrictions on the sale,
promotion and distribution of tobacco products.  In her ruling, Kessler said the cigarette makers continue
to challenge the law that created the FDA’s regulation of the
industry and if they prevail, “it will be all the more
necessary for them to be restrained by this court from any
future violations” of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.  In 2006, Kessler found that the companies violated the law
by conspiring to hide the dangers of cigarettes. She ordered the
companies to stop marketing cigarettes as “light” and “low-
tar” and to make statements about the health effects of smoking
in newspapers and magazines and on cigarette packages.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  NFL Owners Take Fight Over Lockout-Lift Order to Appeals Court  National Football League lawyers are asking a U.S. appeals
court June 3 to reverse a lower judge’s order directing them to
end their player lockout.  Team owners blocked player access to coaching staffs,
trainers and practice facilities on March 12 after collective
bargaining talks collapsed. Players disavowed their union and
sued the NFL for allegedly violating U.S. antitrust laws.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul,
Minnesota, ordered an end to the lockout on April 25, saying it
would probably cause the players irreparable harm. The NFL won a
temporary stay of Nelson’s order and is asking a three-judge
appellate panel in St. Louis to overturn it.  “The public interest is not served by placing the
injunctive thumb of an antitrust court on negotiations over
terms and conditions of employment,” the owners argued in a May
26 court filing.  The 32-team league, based in New York, is the richest U.S.
pro sports league with annual revenue of about $9 billion.
Players and owners dispute how to divide that money. They also
disagree over a rookie salary cap, expanding the regular season
to 18 games from 16 and health care.  Ten players, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks Tom
Brady, Drew Brees and Peyton Manning, sued the NFL on March 11
alleging that league owners engage in anticompetitive practices.  The lower court case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-cv-639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St.
Paul). The appellate case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Wachovia Manager Gets Seven Years for $14 Million Fraud  A former Wachovia Bank manager in  Virginia  who admitted to
stealing $14.1 million from bank clients through a bogus wealth-
management scheme was sentenced to seven years in prison.  Linda Speaks Tribby, 42, who pleaded guilty to one count of
bank fraud in March, was sentenced June 3 in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia. Tribby used the funds to buy a helicopter,
a luxury motor home, rural houses and property, and exotic
animals, including two zebras, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady ordered Tribby to make
full restitution to victims and forfeit property, funds held in
bank accounts and the helicopter.  “Linda Tribby’s stunning greed and extravagant life style
drove her to steal more than $14 million,” U.S. Attorney Neil
MacBride said in a statement.  Tribby, of Lovettsville, Virginia, was an employee of
Wachovia, bought by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 2008, and its
predecessors for more than 25 years, according to prosecutors.
Her last job was as a business-relationship manager developing
client accounts in and around Loudoun County, prosecutors said.  From about December 2003 to January, Tribby sold some
customers on a “wealth-management account product” that she
said earned tax-free interest -- a product the bank didn’t offer
-- then transferred funds from their accounts into accounts that
she controlled, prosecutors charged.  The case is U.S. v. Tribby, 1:11-cr-00106-LO-1, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  J&J Must Pay $327 Million Over Deceptive-Marketing Claims  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit must pay more than $327 million in
penalties for deceptively marketing the antipsychotic drug
Risperdal as safer and better than competing medicines, a  South
Carolina  judge ruled.  J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit repeatedly
violated South Carolina’s consumer-protection laws by sending a
2003 letter to doctors touting Risperdal as superior to rival
drugs and including deceptive information in the product’s
warning label, Judge Roger Couch in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
concluded.  “We don’t believe that the dissemination of an FDA
approved package insert constitutes a violation of the South
Carolina Trade Practices Act,” Kara Russell, a spokeswoman for
Janssen said in an e-mailed statement. “We do not believe the
ruling can be upheld on appeal.”  South Carolina’s lawyers, who originally sued the J&J unit
in 2007 for making misleading claims about Risperdal, sought
billions of dollars in penalties over the marketing.  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s
total revenue, according to company filings. Sales of the drug
fell to $527 million last year, according to a January earnings
report.  The state’s case centered on drug-safety claims that New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Janssen made in November
2003 correspondence to about 700,000 doctors across the U.S.,
including 7,200 in South Carolina.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-42-1438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Longtop Financial Investor Suit Most Popular on Bloomberg  An investor lawsuit against  Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd. (LFT) , alleging the company overstated profit margins and
concealed adverse facts was the most-read litigation docket on
the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Joe Mikus, the investor, seeks to represent people who
purchased shares of Longtop from June 2009 through April on
claims that they lost money when the shares fell 33 percent
around April 26 after reports questioned the company’s finances,
according to documents filed in federal court in Los Angeles.  Longtop, a Hong Kong-based software provider whose 2007
U.S. initial public offering was underwritten by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said May 23 that auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission was investigating claims by Deloitte.
The auditor said in a resignation letter that it found
falsehoods in company financial reports, Longtop said in a May
23 statement.  The case is Mikus v. Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd.,
2:11-cv-04402, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 