-- 
Africa’s Growth Prospects Dim as Libya’s Economy Implodes

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-06T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/africa-s-growth-prospects-dim-as-libya-s-economy-implodes.html
The conflict in Libya has caused its
economy to implode, dimming growth prospects in a region already
reeling from the impact of civil unrest in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
according to a report by four international bodies.  Libya’s economy will probably shrink 19 percent this year,
after growing 7.4 percent in 2010, while its inflation rate
jumps to 12.1 percent from 4.7 percent, according to the 2011
African Economic Outlook, released in Lisbon today. The nation’s
prospects are expected to improve next year, with growth of 16
percent and 5.1 percent inflation.  Rebels trying to end Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade rule,
backed by air strikes from the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, are fighting troops loyal to the Libyan leader.
The conflict has left most of the east in opposition hands and
curbed oil exports. The North African country has the
continent’s largest oil reserves.  Libya  “is likely to pay a high price for the conflict
which has effectively paralyzed the economy and led to a near
halt of Libya’s oil production,” the report said. “While
uncertainties persist regarding the duration of the conflict,
the country’s oil endowment and international attention to the
country are likely to secure a relatively fast recovery once the
conflict is over.”  The report was published by the  African Development Bank ,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
United Nations Development Program and the UN Economic
Commission for  Africa . Its release comes ahead of the ADB’s
annual general meeting in  Portugal ’s capital on June 9-10.  Egypt, Tunisia  The uprising in Libya followed unrest that toppled  Egypt ’s
and Tunisia’s long-standing leaders, sparked by widespread
discontent over poor  living conditions , rising food prices,
corruption and political repression.  Egypt’s economy will probably expand 1.6 percent this year
compared with 5.1 percent in 2010, before growth accelerates to
4 percent in 2012, the report said. Tunisia’s economic growth is
expected to slow to 1.1 percent this year from 3.7 percent in
2010.  The North African region is likely to grow less than 1
percent, pulling Africa’s growth rate down to 3.7 percent this
year from 4.9 percent, the report said.  “The events in North Africa have had a major impact on
foreign direct investment,” OECD economist Jean-Phillipe
Stijns, one of the report’s authors, said by phone from Paris.
“It’s too early to give precise numbers. Next year should see
some form of stabilization. Growth should return to North
Africa. The continent as a whole should bounce back to growth
rates in the order of 5.8 percent.”  South Africa , which has Africa’s largest economy, will
probably grow 3.6 percent this year and 4.3 percent in 2012. The
forecasts are more optimistic than those of the country’s
National Treasury, which in February predicted growth of 3.4
percent and 4.1 percent.  Nigeria , Africa’s top oil producer, may see growth slow to
6.9 percent this year from 8.1 percent in 2010, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  