-- 
Africa Taps New Trade and Investment as South Korea, Turkey Follow China

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-06T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/africa-taps-new-trade-and-investment-as-south-korea-turkey-follow-china.html
India , Turkey,  South Korea  and  Brazil 
are emulating China’s push to boost trade with Africa, eroding
the market share of the continent’s traditional European and
North American trading partners, according to the 2011 African
Economic Outlook.  So-called emerging partners accounted for about 39 percent
of Africa’s trade in merchandize in 2009, up from 23 percent a
decade earlier, said the report, released in Lisbon today.  The outlook was produced by the  African Development Bank ,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
United Nations Development Programme and the UN Economic
Commission for Africa.  “Africa now has two engines to fly on,” OECD economist
Jean-Phillipe Stijns, one of the report’s authors, said by phone
from Paris. “The diversification of its trading partners bodes
well for its ability to resist better the ups and downs of the
global business cycle.”  China  accounted for 13.9 percent of Africa’s total trade of
$629 billion in 2009, while India accounted for 5.1 percent,
South Korea 2.6 percent, Brazil 2.5 percent, Turkey 2.4 percent
and Thailand 1.1 percent, according to the outlook.  Africa’s new trading partners may also help it reduce its
reliance on exports of raw materials. While 85 percent of
foreign direct investment flows from traditional investors go
into resource-rich countries, the ratio for emerging partners is
closer to 70 percent, according to Stijns.  “There is this perception that emerging partners, more
than any other partners, are resource hungry and the reason they
are in Africa is to get the lion’s share of natural resources,”
he said. “They are not the culprits. In fact emerging partners
are more diversified in terms of where they are active in Africa
than traditional partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 