-- 
Ai Weiwei’s Zodiac Heads Raise Dizzying Issues: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-06-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ai-weiwei-s-zodiac-heads-raise-dizzying-issues-in-london-martin-gayford.html
The whole world is changing, the
great jazz musician Duke Ellington remarked in 1971.
Consequently, he added, no one will be able to retain his or her
identity and it becomes hard to tell who’s imitating whom.  The sculptural installation “Circle of Animals/Zodiac
Heads” by the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei currently installed in
the courtyard of  Somerset House , London, (through June 26, and
concurrently in Grand Army Plaza,  New York , until July 15) is a
perfect demonstration of Duke’s point.  This is, like many of Ai’s ideas, a deceptively simple
notion that sets off a disorientating, even dizzying, chain of
thoughts. It’s a recreation of 12 bronze heads of beasts,
representing the Chinese astrological signs, that once decorated
a combined fountain and water clock in the Old Summer Palace
outside Beijing.  That might sound straightforward. Ai has learned well the
lesson of Marcel Duchamp: how to make the maximum intellectual
and aesthetic effect with the minimum means. In this case, the
ironies and complexities begin with the origin of the fountain.  It was designed and cast by two Jesuits, Giuseppe
Castiglione and Michel Benoist, who were resident in  China .
Castiglione’s work as a painter is an early example of cultural
globalization, Eastern and Western in more or less equal
measure.  Baroque Globalization  In 1747, Castiglione and Benoist designed a series of
pavilions at the Summer Palace in a version of the European
Baroque style, a mirror reversal of the European idiom known as
Chinoiserie. That was an occidental pastiche of oriental art.
These were a Chinese take on the West.  In 1860, the Summer Palace was sacked by British and French
troops, a terrible act of cultural vandalism. Among the objects
looted were the 12 bronze Zodiac heads. Two of them, the Rat and
Rabbit, from the collection of  Yves Saint Laurent  and  Pierre Berge , came up for sale at Christie’s, Paris, in February 2009.  The Chinese government, describing the bronzes as
“national treasures” tried unsuccessfully to stop the auction.
While they each sold for 15 million euros ($21.4 million), the
buyer, Cai Mingchao, then said that he wouldn’t pay the money on
principle.  Ai’s recreated fountain thus raises questions about
cultural identity and restitution, originality and reproduction.
Characteristically, Ai has questioned whether a work designed by
an Italian and made by a Frenchman is truly a Chinese national
treasure. The relation between present reality and traditional
culture is one of his themes.  Aesthetic Vandalism  Among the pieces in an exhibition of his work at the  Lisson
Gallery  (52-54 and 29 Bell St.,  London , through July 16) is an
array of 31 Han Dynasty vases coated in industrial paint. It’s
an act of deliberate vandalism by the artist that echoes the
destruction of the Chinese past that took place during the
Cultural Revolution, itself partly prompted by a Western
ideology -- Marxism. Again, an act that looks simple, yet
becomes more complicated the longer you think about it.  The Zodiac heads look splendid in the dignified 18th-
century courtyard of Somerset House. Ai wasn’t present at the
opening of the display because for almost two months he has been
held in detention in China. He has been accused of  tax evasion ,
though there’s widespread suspicion that Ai’s true crime is the
advocacy of democracy and freedom of speech.  The whole world is changing. Whether it’s turning toward
those values -- the tenets of European Enlightenment of which
 Somerset House  is an architectural embodiment -- isn’t yet
clear.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 