-- 
Airbus Expects to Get Boeing Customer to Switch to A320neo

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   L i z a   T a n
-- 
2011-06-06T22:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/airbus-optimistic-to-get-first-a320neo-order-from-boeing-client.html
Airbus SAS may announce its first
order for the A320neo this month from an airline that operates
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737s, signaling the European company is making
inroads into rival territory with its upgraded single-aisle jet.  All orders or commitments for the jet, to enter service
from late 2015, have so far been from leasing firms, which buy a
broad mix of planes, or airlines that buy from Airbus. Winning
an operator of Boeing’s “Next Generation” 737s would
illustrate Airbus’s ability to pull business from customers not
firmly loyal to the Toulouse, France-based company.  “We’re talking to a few customers who now fly the 737NG
about the Neo and I’d be very surprised if we don’t have at
least one announcement from an airline currently operating the
Boeing NG,” Christopher Buckley, Airbus’s executive vice
president for  Europe , Asia and Pacific, said in an interview in
 Singapore  today.  Since it began offering airlines the A320 series planes
equipped with new engines, Airbus has already won 332 orders and
commitments and expects to complete the Paris Air show later
this month with more than 500 orders for the series, Buckley
said at the annual general meeting of the  International Air
Transport Association .  Boeing declined to comment today. The Chicago-based company
has said it prefers to develop an all-new single-aisle model
that would be available by 2020, though it may offer a new
engine for the 737 in the middle of the decade as an interim
step if the new plane would take longer than expected.  ‘Cost of Switching’  “There’s a very high cost of switching” a fleet from one
manufacturer’s jets to another, Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President  Jim Albaugh  said in a May 24 presentation in  Seattle .
“I really don’t think that we’re going to see too many
customers really think about switching to a different type of
airplane any time soon.”  The Boeing 737 NG, which stands for Next Generation,
entered service in 2000, replacing older variants known as 737
Classics. The A320 and the 737 are the most commonly used
aircraft by airlines, and they generate the bulk of orders for
their manufacturers.  Airbus is also optimistic about additional orders for the
double-decker A380, the world’s largest passenger jet, the
executive said. The planemaker won SkyMark of  Japan , which
ordered four, and  South Korea ’s  Asiana Airlines (020560) , which ordered
six, as new customers for the A380 this year. Both carriers will
use the planes to challenge leaders in their home markets.  ‘Good Start’  “After that good start, we’re now optimistic we will be
able to add a new customer, our third for the year, hopefully in
the next couple of months,” Buckley said. “We think this will
be a good year for the A380, and I think the feedback both from
our current customers and from the passengers as well remains
fantastic.”  Over the longer term, Airbus expects to win customers for
the superjumbo in the U.S. market, he said. So far sales have
been largely in  Asia  and Europe.  “I don’t think it will happen tomorrow, but we’ve seen
some interest,” Buckley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Tan in Singapore at 
 ltan104@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  