-- 
Airline Profits Forecast Cut 54% by IATA on Japan Quake, Rising Fuel Costs

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-06T01:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/airline-profits-forecast-cut-54-by-iata-on-japan-quake-rising-fuel-costs.html
The  International Air Transport
Association  cut its 2011 airline-industry profit forecast by 54
percent because of higher  oil prices , political protests in the
Middle East and North Africa, and the  Japan  earthquake.  Carriers will make $4 billion in profits this year on sales
of $598 billion, a margin of 0.7 percent, the group,
representing 238 airlines, said in a statement today at its
annual general meeting in Singapore. It raised its forecast for
the average price of Brent crude to $110 a barrel from $96.  “The oil price is a concern for the whole industry,”
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  Chief Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong
said yesterday. “And, it’s not something within our control.”  IATA also pared its forecasts for passenger and cargo
growth as it released the new profit estimate, which represents
a 78 percent decline from last year’s earnings. Every $1
increase in the price of Brent crude adds $1.6 billion to
industry costs, IATA said.  “This year started in a very difficult way with the unrest
in the  Middle East  and the crisis on fuel,”  Giovanni Bisignani ,
the group’s head, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. The aftermath of the March 11 earthquake in Japan,
which accounts for almost 10 percent of global airline sales,
has also been a “nightmare,” he said.  The group expects passenger demand to grow 4.4 percent this
year, down from a forecast of 5.6 percent in March. The cargo
growth forecast was cut to 5.5 percent from 6.1 percent.  IATA, whose members account for 93 percent of global
passenger traffic, in March forecast  global profits  of $8.6
billion this year, a decline from a December forecast of $9.1
billion. Carriers made $18 billion last year, IATA said today,
revising an earlier estimate.  ‘Nightmare’ Year  The rising price of oil means that fuel will account for 30
percent of industry costs this year, compared with 13 percent a
decade ago, IATA said. The price of Brent crude has risen 61
percent in the past year, closing at $115.84 a barrel in  London 
on June 3.  IATA reduced its forecast for North American carriers’
profits by 63 percent to $1.2 billion.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  last
month announced plans to cut capacity by 4 percent and offered
workers buyouts for the first time since 2009.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier, has scrapped plans to boost capacity by as much as 2
percent this year and instead will keep it about the same.  ‘Drawn Out’ Recovery  In the Asia-Pacific region, IATA cut its forecast to $2.1
billion from $3.7 billion. Japan Airlines Co. and other carriers
curtailed flights serving  Asia ’s second-biggest economy after
the nation’s biggest quake on record triggered a tsunami that
left more than 23,000 dead or missing and crippled a nuclear-
power plant north of  Tokyo .  Japan Air, the nation’s largest international carrier,
expects a “very long, drawn out and slow recovery” for demand
for flights to Japan from  Europe  and the U.S., President Masaru Onishi said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  Economic growth in  China  and  India  means that Asia-Pacific
still will be the most profitable aviation market this year,
according to IATA forecasts.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Hong
Kong’s biggest carrier, plans to boost passenger capacity about
10 percent this year.  “The future is in Asia,” said Bisignani, who is due to be
succeeded by former Cathay Pacific CEO Tony Tyler on July 1.
“What is impressive is the rate of growth -- double digits in
China.”  IATA pared its Middle East profits estimate by 86 percent
to $100 million. The region and North Africa have been hit by
political protests in countries including Libya, Tunisia, Egypt
and Yemen this year, deterring leisure and business travel.  The airline group left its forecast for European carriers’
profits unchanged at $500 million. The Latin American estimate
was reduced to $100 million from $300 million, while the Africa
forecast was cut to a $100 million loss from about breakeven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in  Singapore  at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  