-- 
Alfa’s Nemak to Refinance $1.15 Billion as Auto-Parts Sales Rise

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/alfa-s-nemak-to-refinance-1-15-billion-as-auto-parts-sales-rise.html
Tenedora Nemak SA, the auto-parts
unit of Mexico’s Alfa SAB, plans to refinance a $1.15 billion
 bank loan  as rising sales help it win more-favorable terms,
Chief Executive Officer Manuel Rivera said.  “We believe we can achieve better rates and maturity,”
Rivera said in a June 3 interview at Alfa’s headquarters in the
Monterrey suburb of San Pedro Garza Garcia. “The market
conditions are there.”  Nemak, the world’s largest maker of aluminum engine heads
and blocks, obtained the loan in 2009 as it restructured debt
after the U.S. recession ravaged auto demand. The interest rate
is 350 basis points over the London interbank offered rate. It
matures in 2015, said Enrique Flores, investor relations chief.  A rebound in U.S. and European auto sales helped Nemak post
a 25 percent jump in first-quarter revenue, to $894 million.
Sales in the same period in 2009 plunged 55 percent to $384
million. Nemak gets about half its sales from  North America  and
40 percent from  Europe .  Rivera wouldn’t give a timetable for the refinancing beyond
saying it would occur this year, nor would he identify any banks
that might be involved.  The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was 3.3 at the end of March and is
expected to decline to 3 by year’s end, Rivera said. Two years
earlier, the ratio of net debt to Ebitda was 4.6.  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings raised Nemak’s local credit rating in May to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from the top junk
rating of BB+, citing the improvement in the company’s finances
and higher shipments.  Nemak has 3.5 billion pesos ($300 million) of local bonds
that mature in 2017 and carry an interest rate of 250 basis
points more than  Mexico ’s 28-day interbank rate. The company
doesn’t plan to refinance the peso bonds and will keep them
through maturity, Rivera said.  The unit accounted for 27 percent of Alfa’s $10.8 billion
of 2010 sales. Alfa’s other businesses include chemicals and
food, and it agreed in April to buy  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s 49 percent stake
in Mexican telecommunications company Alestra SA for an
undisclosed amount.  Alfa gained 32 percent this year through June 3, the
biggest advance among 37 companies in Mexico’s benchmark IPC
index. The shares rose 2.62 pesos, or 1.6 percent, to 164.69
pesos on June 3.  Global Demand  Rivera said Nemak estimates that global auto sales will
rise 20 percent during the next three years, buoying revenue for
a supplier whose customers include  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   Nemak is working at 90 percent of capacity and is adding
new production lines in all operating regions, including North
America, Europe,  South America  and  Asia , Rivera said.  Asia sales probably will rise to 5 percent of Nemak’s total
in three years from 1 percent now, he said. An engine-head plant
in  China  will have its capacity expanded fourfold over that
period to be able to make 2 million units a year, and Nemak will
start operating a factory in India in 2012 with the capacity to
produce 300,000 heads, he said.  Nemak is pushing automakers to convert to lighter-weight
aluminum parts from steel, and to outsource more engine
components, Rivera said. Automakers now produce about half of
the heads and blocks used in their vehicles, he said.  The share of revenue from parts other than heads and blocks
may double over the next five or six years to 20 percent, Rivera
said. Nemak now makes related parts, such as aluminum
transmission casings, and may look to add more, either through
developing its own components or with acquisitions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  