-- 
Hana Financial Says Yet to Agree on Extension With Lone Star for KEB Deal

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-06-07T06:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/hana-says-yet-to-agree-on-extension-with-lone-star-for-keb-deal.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  said it
hasn’t reached agreement with  Lone Star Funds  to delay the
planned takeover of Korea Exchange Bank, a deal that’s been put
on hold because of South Korean regulatory hurdles.  Hana and the Dallas-based U.S. buyout fund haven’t finished
negotiations on whether they will set a new deadline to complete
the 4.7 trillion won ($4.35 billion) acquisition, Lee Jung Dae,
a spokesman for Hana, said by telephone yesterday, without
elaborating. The companies, which agreed in November to close
the transaction by May 24, may announce an extension as early as
today, the Maeil Business Newspaper reported yesterday.  The Financial Services Commission said last month it will
delay approving the sale until legal issues involving Lone Star
are cleared, hindering Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu’s bid to
narrow the gap with bigger domestic rivals  KB Financial Group
Inc. (105560)  and Woori Finance Holdings Co.  “The deal extension would be the best defense Hana can
make to avoid a total collapse of the transaction,” said Hwang Seok Kyu, a banking analyst at Kyobo Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“Still, a lot of uncertainty still lingers over whether Hana
can complete the deal and when the authorities will finally make
an approval decision.”  Hana shares rose 0.9 percent to 39,150 won at the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul trading, compared with the Kospi index’s 0.7
percent drop. The stock has fallen 12 percent since the
regulator’s May 12 announcement.  Reduced Stake Purchase  The agreement may include an initial purchase of as much as
5 percent of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  by Hana from Lone Star’s 51
percent stake to ensure the deal will go through, the Maeil
said. Under the new contract, both sides may be able to extend
the purchase agreement every six months, the newspaper said.  Phone calls to Lone Star seeking comment went unanswered
outside business hours.  South Korea ’s  Supreme Court  in March overturned a 2008
ruling that cleared Lone Star and its former local chief Paul Yoo of stock price-manipulation charges. The court on March 10
ordered the Seoul High Court to reconsider whether Yoo, Korea
Exchange Bank and Lone Star’s local unit broke trading rules or
evaded taxes.  The regulator’s vice chairman, Shin Je Yoon, said on May 12
it will await the outcome of the judicial process to decide
whether  Lone Star  is the legitimate owner of the Korea Exchange
stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 