-- 
Angels Sorting Good From Bad Get Rewarded With Discount Wines

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/angels-sorting-good-from-bad-get-rewarded-with-discount-wine-elin-mccoy.html
Small bands of “Archangels” fan out
at  London ’s recent wine fair, intent on separating the good from
the bad. Instead of halos and wings, these 50 seraphim are armed
with lists and iPhones.  Their mission is to sip and savor offerings from new
independent vintners for U.K. online retailer  Naked Wines .  After tasting Decanter magazine’s medal-winning sparkling
wines, Archangel Peter Batty, a filmmaker and musician,
dismissed the selections as “a lot of crap.”  But at a table of Argentine labels, the Beviam reds from
Mendoza’s Bodega  Cavas del 23  wowed him. Two days later its 2007
Beviam Syrah was offered on the Naked Wines website, and within
48 hours the 600 bottles were sold out.  “It was amazing, so easy,” said winery co-owner Alfredo
Meyer, a finance director for Vienna-based steel company Bohler-
Uddeholm AG.  Started in 2008 by Rowan Gormley, the 48-year-old founder
and former chief executive officer of the Virgin Wines club,
Naked Wines is a new kind of marketplace.  In wine terms, the company is a complex, fresh blend: part
savvy online retailer, part wine club and social media clique,
and part community-supported agriculture -- farms whose
customers pay directly in advance for the produce.  This last part of Gormley’s business model, in which
Naked’s customers help provide financing to small winemakers
lacking capital, and get preferential prices in return, may be a
wave of the future.  I first met Gormley last autumn at Vienna’s  Schloss
Schoenbrunn  during the European Wine Bloggers’ Conference, where
he demonstrated how his model works by having 200 bloggers
choose an Austrian white for the site in a blind tasting.  Rumpled Shirt  I can attest that he wears clothes -- jeans and rumpled
plaid shirt -- in public. The “naked” in the name of his
company and blog (Naked Rowan) he says refers to transparent
pricing. After adding taxes and shipping costs, Naked takes a 10
percent fee for each bottle.  The business claims to have 175,000 customers, 52,463 of
whom -- the Naked Angels -- prepay 20 pounds a month to get a 33
percent discount on purchases and attend tastings. They post
hundreds of wine reviews, both positive and negative. Bottle
silhouettes next to listed wines indicate the percentage of
people who would buy the wine again.  The 200 Archangels are the most active, and have followers.
Craig MacKay, managing director of an insurance company, was
drawn by the cash back discount, but what holds him is that “my
money is going to the vineyards.”  Domaine O’Vineyards  While many wines are from established estates without a
U.K. importer, the monthly fees, which add up to over 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million) a month, help talented winemakers start up
or expand.  Domaine O’Vineyards  in  France ’s Languedoc, purchased
a half dozen years ago by the American O’Connell family, is one
beneficiary.  “You need a huge amount of cash for bottles, corks,
barrels,” said Ryan O’Connell. Part of their 2011 production is
already paid for. One third of the wines will go to Naked, which
means O’Vineyards saves on shipping, packaging and marketing.  At the fair, Gormley launched an even more far-reaching
concept, a website marketplace he calls “a farmer’s market for
wine.”  Naked Wines invited sellers picked by the Archangels, like
Cavas del 23, to pitch a six-bottle case of wine at a specific
price directly to potential buyers on the website. The Angels
and others customers can accept the rate if they think it’s
worth it, or pitch a lower one.  If the winemaker is happy with the final price, the deal
goes through. The key for the seller is guaranteed volume.  Pricing Power  “If 1,000 people agree to buy a case each, a vintner might
be willing to let them have a 30 pound wine for 20 pounds,”
says Gormley. “If buyers only want to pay 16, he can lower his
price, or not. This transfers power to the customers and
winemakers.”  Judging by comments on the website, Angels have some
complaints about the flexibility of the system, still in beta
mode.  Naked offers more than 200 wines from a dozen countries,
some made by well-known and award-winning winemakers. O’Connell
likes the instant reviewer feedback. “The wines the Naked
Angels like are fruitier, easier to appreciate,” he says.  Of those I’ve tasted, most are fair to quite good. The 2010
 Rotes Haus Gemischter Satz  (13.49 pounds), a traditional
Viennese white blend from 13 grape varieties, is fresh, crisp,
and more interesting than pinot grigio.  The 2008 Domaine O’Vineyards Trah Lah Lah (12.99 pounds) is
a fruity merlot-cabernet blend; and their Proprietor’s Reserve
(16 pounds) is rich and spicy.  Angels Save  These aren’t rock-bottom bargains. The deliciously juicy,
gulpable 2010  Raats Original Chenin Blanc  listed at 9.99 pounds,
for example, costs 8.99 elsewhere in the U.K. The real savings
are to Angels, who pay only 6.66 with their discount.  Gormley plans to launch a Naked Wines USA, but the U.S. has
dozens of legal hurdles, thanks to the legacy of Prohibition and
the power of the wholesalers and distributors lobby.  The other day a friend was upset that a wonderful bottle of
rose he’d tasted in Provence was nowhere to be found in the U.S.  Maybe he could join the celestial choir.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 