-- 
Jobs to Unveil Apple’s ICloud Storage Service to Deflect Google’s Android

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-06T13:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/apple-s-jobs-to-unveil-icloud-storage-service-to-deflect-google-s-android.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs , addressing an annual developers conference today,
may give consumers a new way to access digital songs and
information on smartphones and computers.  Jobs, on medical leave since Jan. 17, will make his second
public appearance of 2011 at Apple’s conference in San
Francisco. He will preview software updates for Apple’s iPhone,
iPad and Mac, as well the new iCloud online storage service,
which may help those devices wirelessly share the same
materials.  Apple is using iCloud to retain its dominance in the
smartphone and tablet markets amid fresh competition from
devices powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The new
service may improve how users can access content across
different Apple devices, keeping customers from defecting to
rivals, said Frank Gillett, with Forrester Research Inc.  “The world we’re headed to is where you don’t have to
think about which gadget has your stuff,” Gillett said. “As
people get their content organized around one of these personal
ecosystems, then it will be incredibly sticky because migrating
won’t be convenient.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , advanced $1.81 to
$345.25 at 9:41 a.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The shares had climbed 6.5 percent this year before today.  MobileMe Breakdowns  The company’s earlier foray into Web-based services,
MobileMe, got off to a slow start, dogged by breakdowns,
including one that kept users from sending or receiving e-mails.
MobileMe, with a $99 annual subscription fee, eventually gained
3 million users, according to Forrester. That’s a fraction of
the potential customer base for iCloud.  “This is kind of the new normal for Steve Jobs and
Apple,” Eugene Munster, an analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper
Jaffray, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The First
Word” with Ken Prewitt. “That he may not be full time involved
at the office, but he is definitely involved and this is a sign
he is involved strategically.”  Apple may design iCloud to include features of the older
offering, such as storage for e-mail, contacts, calendars,
photos, plus new options for music, said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst
with Rodman & Renshaw in  New York . Storage for movies and
television shows may be added later, he said.  Apple announced last week it would preview iCloud at its
Worldwide Developers Conference, without providing more details.
 Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment beyond
the May 31 statement.  Record Label Agreements  Apple has agreements with major record labels for a service
that would let people access their iTunes song libraries from
any Apple device through an Internet connection, instead of
downloading a copy of the song to a device, said people familiar
with the plans.  Apple will scan the songs customers have purchased from
iTunes and quickly mirror those collections on the company’s
servers, said the people, who declined to be named because the
talks are private.  Google and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  each introduced cloud music
services in recent months, letting users upload songs to remote
servers and access them from a browser or smartphone with an
Internet connection. The uploading process can take hours.  Through licensing deals with record labels, Apple has
entire collections on its servers. That means it can more
quickly provide customers access to their songs.  Working Together  The iCloud service can help all of Apple’s products and
applications running on its devices work more seamlessly
together, said Matt Drance, the founder of app maker Bookhouse
Software and a former Apple software engineer.  By adding new Web features, Apple could loosen the need for
users to regularly plug in an iPhone, iPad or iPod to keep the
devices synchronized, he said. Instead, the updates could be
made wirelessly.  The need to constantly plug in the devices to sync
applications is one of Apple’s prominent “rough edges,” said
Scott Stanfield, the CEO of  Vertigo , which makes applications
for companies such as NBC.  “You can buy content on all those devices, but because
it’s so complicated synchronizing movies and music and
applications, it’s kind of a disincentive,” Stanfield said.
“If they make it so you can sync over the air that would be
great.”  Apple will also use its developers conference this week to
preview new updates to the operating system for Mac computers,
called OS X Lion, and the fifth iteration of the iOS software
that powers the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch mobile devices. The
company won’t unveil a new iPhone, as it did at the event last
year, two people familiar with the plans said in April.  Making Money  The gathering draws designers and entrepreneurs behind more
than 350,000 applications available in the company’s  App Store .
Apple says it has generated more than $2 billion in revenue for
the developers since the store opened on the iPhone in 2008.  Jobs, in the midst of his third medical leave since 2004 as
he battles a rare form of cancer, will be a welcome sight for
developers as well as investors at the conference, Kumar said.  “The fact that Steve Jobs is out there front and center is
the biggest positive,” said Kumar. “He’s the main event.”  Apple is competing against companies such as Google, and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for the loyalty of developers who make the
gaming, picture-taking and business-productivity applications.
Google held a similar developers conference last month, where it
showed off features of its Android mobile operating system.  Competitive Edge  Apple has an edge because of the money its App Store
generates for developers, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst
with Gartner Inc.  “Apple has shown they can deliver the customer and they
can deliver the customer’s credit card,” he said.  In an update of the iOS software that runs the iPhone, iPad
and iPod Touch, developers also have been asking for a new
notification system for sending users alerts, as well as
enhanced voice recognition features, said  Tim Bajarin , an
analyst at  Creative Strategies .  Apple’s success in enabling customers to easily access
their files and other content across multiple devices will be
key to keeping customers and developers locked in to its
ecosystem, said Forrester’s Gillett.  “We’re beginning a flip from which gadget you use to which
service helps you manage all your information,” Gillett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  