-- 
Apple’s Jobs Unveils ICloud, New Mac Software

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-06-06T21:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/apple-mac-software-adds-features-touch-options.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs , aiming to capitalize on a shift away from personal
computers, introduced a service that stores music and other
files online and keeps devices synchronized wirelessly.  The product, called iCloud, will let users move their
“digital life” from PC hard drives to remote data centers in
the “cloud,” Jobs said today at Apple’s developers’ conference
in  San Francisco . As part of the service, Apple iTunes, the
biggest music seller, will let users keep their existing music
library in the cloud for $24.99 a year.  “If I acquire a song and buy it right on my iPhone, I want
to get it on all my other devices,” Jobs, 56, said when he
introduced the service. “Keeping these devices in sync is
driving us crazy.”  Apple is using iCloud to retain its dominance in the
smartphone and tablet markets amid fresh competition from
devices powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The service
helps improve how users can access content across different
Apple devices, keeping customers from defecting to rivals, said
Frank Gillett, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  “The world we’re headed to is where you don’t have to
think about which gadget has your stuff,” Gillett said. “As
people get their content organized around one of these personal
ecosystems, then it will be incredibly sticky because migrating
won’t be convenient.”  Medical Leave  The event marked Jobs’s second public appearance of 2011.
Though he has been on medical leave since Jan. 17, Jobs remains
involved in Apple’s decision making. His absence is the third
since 2004 as he copes with a rare form of cancer.  Apple’s new music feature, called iTunes Match, will scan
every song in users’ libraries and match it with a copy in the
cloud. That means customers don’t have to upload all their music
song by song. That’s a requirement on rival services.  ICloud will be available this fall as a free download, when
Apple releases its new iOS operating system for mobile devices.
The service will include 5 gigabytes of free storage for users’
files, plus unlimited room for purchased apps and books, as well
as recent photos.  The new version of iOS, which runs the iPhone, iPad and
iPod Touch media player, won’t require users to plug in their
devices. Applications and files will be updated wirelessly.  Facebook, Twitter  The software has other new features, such as a notification
system to alert users when they get  text messages  and updates
from applications such as Facebook. It also will make it easier
to see Web articles and save them for future reading.  A new Twitter Inc. partnership, meanwhile, will help users
access the social-networking service and post photos. And a
feature called Newsstand lets customers purchase and organize
newspaper and magazine subscriptions for the iPad and iPhone.  The company said it now has more than 425,000 applications
in its  App Store , which provides software for iOS devices. The
App Store competes with Google’s Android Market.  Apple also is adding 250 new features to the Mac OS X Lion
software, including more touch-control options and a service
called AirDrop that shares files over Wi-Fi, executives said
today at the show.  By bolstering the Mac OS, Apple aims to build on its gains
in the PC market. Apple accounted for 8.5 percent of U.S. PC
shipments in the first quarter, up from 7 percent a year
earlier, according to IDC. The company’s iPad tablet also helped
steal away PC customers, the research firm said. Apple has sold
more than 25 million iPads since the device debuted last year,
the company said today.  The new Lion operating system will be available for
downloading in July for $29.99, Apple said.  Shares Slide  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell $5.40, or 1.6
percent, to $338.04 today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares
have climbed 4.8 percent this year.  The company’s earlier foray into Web-based services,
MobileMe, got off to a slow start, dogged by breakdowns,
including one that kept users from sending or receiving e-mails.
MobileMe, with a $99 annual subscription fee, eventually gained
3 million users, according to Forrester. That’s a fraction of
the potential customer base for iCloud.  “We learned a lot,” Jobs said today. MobileMe “wasn’t
our finest hour.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  