-- 
Aramco Cuts July Light Crude to Asia, U.S.: Persian Gulf Oil

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-06-06T15:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/aramco-cuts-july-light-crude-to-asia-u-s-persian-gulf-oil.html
Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil
exporter, cut the price of light-crude grades for shipment to
refiners in  Asia  and the U.S. in July. Abu Dhabi’s state oil
producer cuts its retroactive prices for May.  Aramco reduced prices more than expected, according to
estimates in a survey of refiners in Asia. Saudi officials are
seeking to stop the rise in prices and match supply to realistic
demand expectations at this week’s OPEC meeting, said Thad
Malesa, an independent oil analyst in Dubai.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:  Crude Oil   Aramco cut official selling prices on light crudes for July
shipment to the U.S. and Asia and raised prices on the rest of
its grades to those markets and to Northwest  Europe  and the
Mediterranean.  Saudi Arabia’s state-owned producer reduced the formula
price for Arab Extra Light crude to Asia by $1.40 a barrel,
trimming it to $3.45 above the average of Oman and Dubai grades,
the two Gulf benchmarks used by traders in Asia. It pared the
price of Arab Super Light to Asia the most, by $2.90 a barrel,
to a premium of $4.85 a barrel over the benchmark.  Aramco set the price for July loadings of Extra Light crude
to U.S. buyers at a $2.90 premium to the  Argus Sour Crude Index ,
or 55 cents less than June cargoes.  Arab Light was expected to decline by 40 cents from the
highest premium since November 2007, according to the median of
seven responses in a Bloomberg News survey of Asian refiners.
Arab Extra Light, which was lowered by $1.40, was expected to
fall by about 45 cents a barrel, according to the survey.  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co., a state-run oil producer in the
 United Arab Emirates , cut prices for crude exports during May,
the first reduction in 10 months, reflecting a slide in
benchmark futures last month.  The company, known as Adnoc, lowered prices for crude
shipped last month by about 6 percent, according to an e-mailed
list. Brent, a European benchmark that influences Middle East
pricing, declined 7.3 percent in May, closing the month at
$116.73 a barrel.  Adnoc cut the price for May shipments of both Murban, its
largest export grade, and Lower Zakum by 5.9 percent to $113.60
a barrel.  Ministers from the 12 Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries member states are gathering in Vienna to review output
targets on June 8.  Saudi Arabia  will boost production to almost
10 million barrels a day in June to meet stronger demand from
Asian refiners, Bill Farren-Price, head of oil markets at
Petroleum Policy Intelligence said by phone from Winchester,
U.K. last week. The world’s largest crude exporter produced 8.55
million barrels a day in April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The consultant estimates the kingdom pumped “close”
to 9 million barrels a day in May.  “My expectation is they are not going to lift quotas,”
Malesa, who used to work at the Petroleum Finance Co., said by
phone today. “The Saudis are definitely looking at demand and
trying to manage prices.”  Light Products  Abu Dhabi lowered the price for its Splitter-grade naphtha
to Asian buyers for annual shipments starting in July, two
people involved in the negotiations said last week. State-run
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. cut its price to a premium of $20.50
a metric ton more than the regional benchmark from an initial
offer of a premium of $22 a ton, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because talks were confidential.  Prices for naphtha, an oil product that is processed into
petrochemicals used in plastics, have risen as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa disrupted exports from  Libya  and
pushed crude prices higher. European benchmark Brent crude
gained 23 percent in the five months through May this year.  Adnoc offered Splitter-grade naphtha, also known as full-
range, for $17.50 a ton over benchmark prices in February, four
people involved in the negotiations said at the time. That
supply was for shipments to Asia starting from April.  Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil exporter, last month
raised the premium for naphtha to be delivered to Asian buyers
in the second half of the year from prices it charged in the
first six months.  Refineries  The crude distillation unit at Rabigh Refining and
Petrochemicals Co., a joint venture between state-owned  Saudi
Aramco  and Sumitomo Chemical Co. of  Japan , will restart June 7
after maintenance. The refiner and petrochemicals maker known as
Petro Rabigh restarted utilities units May 31 and is set to
complete works at its facilities by the middle of July.  Units including the ethane cracker will start operating
before the end of this month and the high olefins cracking unit
by mid of July, it said. Polypropylene sales will slide in the
first two weeks of the quarter due to the maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 