-- 
ArcelorMittal Joins Kumba Court Action on Sishen Mine Rights

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-06T14:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/arcelormittal-south-africa-allowed-to-join-sishen-court-case.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , a
unit of the biggest steelmaker, won court approval to join  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) ’s legal bid to reverse the state’s award of rights
over the Sishen iron-ore mine to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Ltd.  “ ArcelorMittal (MT)  has a direct and substantial interest in
the pending review and interdict proceedings,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. “It is both necessary and
convenient that it be joined as a party.”  Kumba, based in Pretoria, is asking the nation’s High Court
to set aside the government’s award of prospecting rights last
year to Imperial, whose owners include Jagdish Parekh, a
business partner of South African President Jacob Zuma’s son
Duduzane. ArcelorMittal, based in Vanderbijlpark, lost rights
over 21.4 percent of Sishen after failing to renew the title.  The steelmaker was also approved to join an application by
Kumba to stop  South Africa  granting mining rights to Imperial.  Kumba canceled an agreement to supply iron ore from Sishen
at below-market prices to ArcelorMittal South Africa after it
lost the title. The mining company, controlled by  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , said in August those rights should be awarded to its Sishen
Iron Ore Co. unit, part-owned by  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)   ArcelorMittal South Africa claims Kumba wasn’t entitled to
cancel their iron-ore supply contract, and said last year that
the withdrawal from the agreement would cost 26 billion rand
($3.85 billion). Kumba had supplied 6.25 million metric tons a
year from Sishen mine to the steelmaker. ArcelorMittal expects
arbitration with Kumba on the accord to begin early next year.  Arbitration Plan  The court decision means “some of the detail that would
have been covered in the arbitration will now be dealt with in
the High Court,” Kumba said today in an e-mailed response to a
query, adding it’s satisfied with the ruling. “This will narrow
the focus of the arbitration which will be bound by any ruling
made by the  High Court .” The hearing begins Aug. 12, it said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa said it’s still studying a
possible acquisition of Imperial and a deal giving black
investors including Duduzane Zuma a stake in the steelmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 