-- 
Ariad-Merck Medicine Helps Sarcoma Patients, Study Shows

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-06-06T20:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ariad-merck-cancer-drug-for-bones-tissue-extends-patient-lives-in-study.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) ’s most-
advanced experimental medicine extended the lives of sarcoma
patients and reduced the risk of the disease progressing,
according to a study presented today.  Merck & Co., Ariad’s marketing partner, plans to apply for
U.S. and European Union approval this year based on the results,
the companies said in a statement. Some data from the study,
presented at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology ’s meeting
in  Chicago , were reported in January, driving up shares of
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Ariad the most in 18 months.  The pill, ridaforolimus, is designed to maintain benefits
from chemotherapy in patients with sarcomas, cancers of the soft
tissue and bone. The drug may have $300 million in sales by
2015, said  Phil Nadeau , a Cowen & Co. analyst in  New York .  “With this early, interim look at survival, you’ve already
got a very strong trend,” Ariad Chief Executive Officer Harvey Berger said in a telephone interview. “I have every expectation
that once the remaining patients are followed up over the next
year that this will continue to bear out.”  Ariad gained 2 cents to $7.91 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares are up 55 percent this
year. Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , declined
26 cents to $35.56 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Median Survival  The study of 711 patients showed a median overall survival
in those taking ridaforolimus of 21.4 months, compared with 19.2
months for the placebo group, though the result wasn’t
statistically significant and the follow-up is ongoing.  The study also showed ridaforolimus shrank tumor lesions by
1.3 percent, compared with an increase in size of 10.3 percent
for those on placebo. Overall survival and tumor lesion size
were secondary endpoints in the trial, the last of three phases
of testing generally needed for U.S. regulatory approval. The
primary endpoint, survival without progression of the disease,
was reported in January.  The pill was shown to reduce the risk of death or
progression in sarcomas by 28 percent, and patients lived about
three weeks longer without their cancer getting worse. The most
common side effects were mouth sores; thrombocytopenia, or a low
level of platelets in the blood; anemia; and hyperglycemia, the
companies said. There were six deaths in the ridaforolimus arm
related to pulmonary disorders, and none in the placebo group.  Drugs in this class, called mTOR inhibitors, are known to
be associated with pulmonary disorders, Berger said.  Physician’s Decision  “This is neither new nor alarming and is a class effect of
all mTOR inhibitors,” he said. It’s a physician’s decision
whether to prescribe these medicines based on patient history,
he said.  Sarcomas are a rare form of cancer, with an estimated
13,000 Americans newly diagnosed in 2010, according to  National
Cancer Institute  estimates. Soft tissue sarcomas are more common
and more deadly than bone sarcomas, often because their symptoms
don’t appear until later stages of the disease.  Merck licensed ridaforolimus from Ariad and controls the
drug’s worldwide commercialization and development in cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 