-- 
Stocks, Commodities Drop on Economy; Treasuries Pare Declines

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-06T20:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/asian-stocks-dollar-index-decline-on-u-s-growth-concerns-metals-rally.html
Stocks retreated for a fourth day and
oil declined below $100 a barrel amid concern the global
economic recovery is faltering. Treasuries pared declines before
the U.S. sells $66 billion of notes and bonds this week.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.1 percent to
1,286.17 at 4 p.m. in New York, its lowest level on a closing
basis since March 18, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined
0.6 percent. Oil retreated before OPEC ministers meet this week
in Vienna. The yen climbed against all 16 major peers, adding
0.2 percent versus the dollar. Ten-year Treasury yields rose two
basis points to 3.01 percent after climbing five points earlier.  More than $2 trillion has been erased from the market value
of global equities since this year’s peak on May 1 amid
disappointing economic data, capped by last week’s U.S. jobs
report. The  S&P 500  has tumbled 5.7 percent from a nearly three-
year high at the end of April, leaving the index trading at 12.2
times estimated earnings, the lowest valuation since September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We had very negative economic data points last week,”
said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung Canal
Trust Co., which manages $1.6 billion in Elmira, New York. “I’m
expecting the recovery will come back in the second half. For
the time being, I’m not expecting much from the market.”  Financial shares were the biggest drag on the S&P 500,
falling 2 percent as a group. The group of 82 banks, insurers
and investment firms is also the worst-performing of the 10 main
industries in the index this year with a drop of 6.6 percent.
Bank of America Corp. lost 4 percent to a two-year low of
$10.83, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slumped 2.5 percent.    Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, slumped
2.2 percent after Rochdale Securities LLC’s analyst  Richard Bove 
cut his recommendation on the stock.  ‘Systemically Important’  Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said on June 3 that
regulators should use capital surcharges to discourage mergers
by large banks that would increase risk without yielding
significant public benefits. Tarullo signaled the Fed aims to
use tougher capital standards to curb risks from “systemically
important financial institutions.” The Fed is developing a
metric for banks with more than $50 billion in assets that
gradually increases  capital requirements  according to measures
of systemic importance, Tarullo said.  U.S. stocks have fallen for five straight weeks, the
longest slump for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  since 2004,
as slower-than-estimated growth in jobs fueled concern that
earnings forecasts are too optimistic. Labor Department figures
last week showed that payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months and the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent in May. A separate report showed that manufacturing
expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year.  Earnings Estimates  Earnings from S&P 500 companies are forecast to grow 20
percent in 2011 on a 9.8 percent increase in revenue, according
to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, climbed 0.3 percent 74.006. The U.S. currency
strengthened against 12 of 16 peers, gaining more than 0.9
percent against the Norwegian krone, Swedish krona and South
African rand.  The Dollar Index climbed 2.3 percent in May, its biggest
monthly gain since November. The advance may prove fleeting as a
slowing U.S. economy and falling short-term  interest rates 
encourage investors to use the currency to fund investments in
higher-yielding assets. The dollar’s value will be unchanged
from current levels by year-end, down from last month’s
predicted 2 percent appreciation, according to analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. Bets remain tilted against the greenback,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Commodities Retreat  Coffee, wheat and corn lost at least 2.9 percent for the
biggest declines among the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI index, which lost 1.1 percent for its first drop in three
days. Agricultural commodities retreated on speculation that
drier, warmer weather last week allowed U.S. farmers to
accelerate planting delayed by unusually wet spring.  Oil for July dropped 1.2 percent to $99.01 a barrel in  New
York , the lowest settlement since May 23. The Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries is unlikely to change targets when
it meets June 8, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 30
analysts conducted in the week ended May 31.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and Schlumberger Ltd. paced losses in all 41 energy companies in
the S&P 500.  U.S. Treasuries  pared losses as stocks dropped. The
government will auction $32 billion of three-year notes
tomorrow, $21 billion of 10-year debt on the following day and
$13 billion of 30-year bonds on June 9.  European Shares  The Stoxx 600 dropped to its lowest closing level since
March 22.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  and  Societe Generale (GLE) 
led a gauge of banks to the biggest drop among 19 industry
groups, each falling more than 2.1 percent.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield slipped eight basis points to
9.73 percent.  Pedro Passos Coelho , Portugal’s incoming Social
Democratic prime minister, said he would forge a coalition to
meet conditions of the country’s 78 billion-euro ($114 billion)
bailout.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
climbed to the highest since March. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
advanced 1.4 basis point to a mid-price of 96.07 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
for mostly high-yield debt rose 4.2 basis points to 388.9 basis
points.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks declined for a
fourth day, losing 0.7 percent.  Peru  Stocks Sink  Peru’s stock market suspended trading for the day after the
benchmark index fell the most in at least two decades as former
army rebel Ollanta Humala claimed victory in the presidential
runoff, sparking concern his government will seek more control
of the economy. The Lima General Index declined 12 percent, the
most on record in data that goes back to January 1990. The sol
sank 1.1 percent to 2.7890 per  U.S. dollar .  U.S. companies with business in Peru retreated.  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO) , Peru’s biggest producer of the metal, fell 11
percent. Credicorp Ltd. dropped 19 percent after Peru’s largest
financial services company was cut to “underperform” from
“outperform” by Raymond James Financial Inc., which cited
“political uncertainties.”  Turkey ’s lira weakened 0.9 percent against the dollar and
benchmark government bond yields increased after Moody’s
Investors Service said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News that the country’s credit rating may have
“downward pressure” if the current-account deficit becomes
more difficult to finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  