-- 
Australian May Construction Shrinks for 12th Straight Month on Apartments

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-06T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/australian-may-construction-shrinks-for-12th-straight-month-on-apartments.html
Australia ’s building industry shrank
for a 12th month in May as higher borrowing costs and consumer
caution weighed on construction, a private survey showed.  The construction performance index was 39.6 from 37.9 in
April, marking a year since it was last in an expansion,
according to a survey by the Australian Industry Group and the
Housing Industry Association released in Sydney today. A reading
below 50 indicates the industry is contracting.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will hold
the benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent today, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of economists, after boosting borrowing
costs seven times from October 2009 to November. A report last
week showed the household savings ratio rose to 11.5 percent in
the first quarter from 9.7 percent in the previous period, the
highest level since 2009 as consumers exhibit greater restraint.  “Private-sector demand, held back by higher interest rates
and a cautionary sentiment, has not grown with sufficient
strength to counter the dampening impacts of lower incentives
for first home buyers and direct public investment in schools
and community housing,” Peter Burn, director of public policy
at the Australian Industry Group, said in a statement.
“Overall, the construction sector remains highly vulnerable to
any further interest-rate rises.”  The government has been winding back fiscal stimulus
measures, and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month it will end
23 years of spending growth to help ease inflation pressure and
support the return to a  budget surplus .  A gauge of housing advanced 1.4 points to 39.8 and new
orders rose 0.7 point to 38.5, the report showed. Engineering
work climbed 2.7 points to 42.3 while commercial work fell 3.2
points to 35.2, it showed. The measure of apartment building
slumped 5.8 points to 25.3 in May.  “Weakness is being exhibited in both house building and
commercial construction while the apartment sub-sector has
recorded 13 months in a row in negative territory,” Burn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  