-- 
Australia’s Economy to Expand With Carbon Plan, Swan Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T03:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/australia-to-grow-solidly-with-carbon-plan-swan.html
Australia’s economy will grow while
the government’s planned emissions trading system makes “deep
cuts” to pollution, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today.  Treasury Department estimates show the economy will create
1.6 million jobs over the next decade if the emissions program
is implemented, Swan told the  National Press Club  in Canberra.
Real national income per capita will expand at an annual average
rate of around 1.1 percent until 2050, he said.  “Our economy will continue to grow solidly while making
deep cuts in carbon pollution,” Swan said. Emissions trading
would cut about one tenth of one percentage point from gross
national product, he said.  The government, whose popularity has fallen in opinion
polls ahead of an election due in late 2013, is trying to
address voter concern over its intention to cut pollution and
protect icons including the Great Barrier Reef and Kakadu
National Park. The opposition Liberal-National coalition says
the plan will hurt the economy and increase living costs.  “It won’t be easy to put a price on something that is
currently free,” Swan said. “We will be asking 1,000 of the
biggest polluters in our economy to pay for the damage they do
to the environment and they’ll have a view on that.”  Trading Start  The government wants to start  emissions trading  from July
1, 2012, with a fixed price for the first three to five years
before full trading begins. The  Labor Party  wants to cut 2020
carbon pollution in the world’s biggest per capita emitter by 5
percent by 2020.  A multi-party committee is due this month to recommend a
start price for emissions trading and indicate by how much it
should change year by year. The committee will also suggest how
the government should compensate businesses and households for
rising costs.  Companies such as  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  and TRUenergy
Holdings Pty, a unit of  Hong Kong ’s CLP Holdings Ltd., have
warned the carbon policy may sap investment in a nation that
burns coal to generate more than 80 percent of its electricity.
BlueScope is  Australia ’s eighth-biggest emitter according to
government  emission records  for the year ended June 30 2010.
TRUenergy is the nation’s sixth biggest.  Treasury modeling using a A$20 ($21.45) start price for the
trading system predicts real national income will rise 16
percent by 2020, or by A$8,000 in today’s dollar terms, and by
56 percent by 2050, with the carbon plan in place, according to
Swan’s speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  