-- 
Mazda to End Assembly of Sedans in Michigan Venture Plant Owned With Ford

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-07T00:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/mazda-to-end-assembly-of-sedans-in-michigan-venture-plant-owned-with-ford.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  plans to stop
making sedans at a Michigan plant shared with  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
since 1992 as part of efforts to improve efficiency and cut
costs.  Production of the next-generation Mazda6 sedan will be
moved to Hofu,  Japan , from the  AutoAlliance International
factory , or AAI, in Flat Rock, Michigan, Mazda said yesterday in
a statement. It didn’t say when the change will take effect.  “The decision was made after carefully assessing all risks
and opportunities, including global needs, changing demand in
 North America  and exchange-rate exposure,” Chief Executive
Officer Takashi Yamanouchi said in the statement. “We are
committed to working with Ford, our joint venture partner in AAI,
to identify potential future opportunities for the plant.”  The move comes as the yen’s 15 percent gain against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year has reduced Hiroshima, Japan-based
Mazda’s profit from overseas sales. Ford has slashed its stake
in Mazda to 3.5 percent from more than a third as the U.S.
automaker worked to expand its own operations.  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, said the factory, which
builds the company’s Mustang sports car, is a “critical” plant
and that the automaker is working with Mazda and the United Auto
Workers union to explore options after Mazda6 production is
halted.  “Our intent is to create a competitive business case for
future production that also allows us to maximize our production
efficiency,” Evans said in an e-mailed statement.  AutoAlliance  AutoAlliance is one of three Ford plants vulnerable to
closing as part of contract talks with the UAW this year.  The factory has 1,763 workers, according to Ford. The
facility has capacity to make 240,000 vehicles a year, Mazda
Chief Financial Officer Kiyoshi Ozaki said in February. Mazda’s
exit leaves the plant making only the Mustang, which had 73,716
deliveries in the U.S. last year.  “The real issue is, does Ford need the capacity?” said
Bob Clark, president of RWC Consulting LLC, a labor-relations
firm in Brighton,  Michigan . “That’s an open question. With the
current lineup, it would seem problematic to keep it open just
for the Mustang.”  Jeremy Barnes, a spokesman for Mazda’s U.S. unit in Irvine,
 California , declined to elaborate on when production will end.  Japan’s NHK television network reported last week that
Mazda would leave the Michigan plant after 2012.  Mazda fell 0.5 percent to 195 yen in Tokyo Stock Exchange
trading as of 9 a.m. The shares have dropped 16 percent this
year. Ford fell 10 cents to $13.91 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  