-- 
BA-Iberia M&A Push Slips Down Agenda as Walsh Seeks Savings

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-07T14:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ba-iberia-m-a-push-slips-down-agenda-as-walsh-focuses-on-savings.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed in January from a merger of British Airways and
 Spain ’s Iberia, is concentrating more on extracting savings from
the deal than expanding through further takeovers, Chief
Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said in an interview.  While IAG’s structure is aimed at facilitating further
consolidation, the company has “no plans to do anything at this
stage,” Walsh said in Singapore, where he was attending the
annual meeting of the  International Air Transport Association .  “We have a team in place that can take advantage of any
opportunities that do present themselves, but our focus is very
much on delivering the synergies we have identified, and I’m
pleased we made excellent progress on that,” he said, adding
that he expects to deliver savings “in full and on time.”  The comments contrast with those made in the run-up to the
Iberia deal last September, when Walsh said that IAG was
“capable of pursuing further consolidation immediately.” BA
said at the time that an internal taskforce had identified about
12 possible merger candidates out of around 40 contenders.  “IAG was set up in such a way that they could add new
brands going forward, but that’s not something you can easily
do,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an airline analyst at Panmure Gordon
in  London . “It took BA many years to find a partner of its own.”  IAG rose as much as 1.4 percent to 232.8 pence and was
trading at 229.8 pence as of 3:17 p.m. in London, paring the
stock’s decline since its Jan. 24 listing to 16 percent.  BMI Interest  Walsh said in the interview yesterday that the only carrier
IAG is actively tracking right now remains British Midland
International, a unit of  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  that’s
the second-biggest holder of operating slots at London’s
Heathrow airport after British Airways.  “I’ve expressed interest in BMI for several years now and
that interest hasn’t changed,” Walsh said. “If Lufthansa was
interested in disposing of BMI clearly we’d be interested in
looking at that because of the slot portfolio.”  IAG is not currently looking at New York-based  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) , in which Lufthansa has a stake that may be
redundant after its partner United Airlines bought Continental
Airlines, giving a hub in nearby  Newark , Walsh said.  Portugal , Japan  Europe ’s third-biggest carrier is also “not targeting
anything” concerning Portugal’s TAP SGPS SA, he said.  While state-owned TAP’s CEO, Fernando Pinto, said March 3
that there are potential buyers interested in acquiring a stake,
the government’s defeat in a parliamentary election at the
weekend is likely to deflect any planned sale, Walsh said.  “We’ll have to wait and see what the new Portuguese
government decides to do,” he said. “At the moment there’s
nothing happening there.”  In  Asia , plans for deeper cooperation with Japan Airlines
Corp. are based around strengthening the Tokyo-based company’s
membership of the Oneworld global alliance rather than taking an
equity position, Walsh said.  IAG is keen to develop a joint venture with JAL similar to
one that it has across the Atlantic with  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines , he said. The CEO said March 29 after JAL’s emergence
from bankruptcy that IAG would consider investing should a stake
become available, adding that the airline industry “needs
consolidation” and that IAG was “ambitious” to expand.  JAL last month implemented a venture with American Airlines
on 10 trans-Pacific routes including New York-Tokyo and Beijing-
 Chicago , a tie-up AMR said would generate sales and cost gains
of about $150 million a year for the pair.  Labor, Fleet  IAG may also have found that the assets available didn’t
measure up to its requirements, Panmure Gordon’s Zonneveld said.  “If these business were performing so brilliantly they
wouldn’t be for sale anyway,” the analyst said. “Plus, beyond
the network angle, you have to take into consideration potential
for labor unrest and discrepancies of fleet and so on.”  AMR President Tom Horton said separately that the company
isn’t concerned about being left behind in the U.S. following
the United-Continental transaction and the 2008 purchase of
Northwest Airlines by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   ‘Richest Market’  “What’s important is not how big you are but being big in
all the right places,” he said. “We have hubs in  New York ,
Chicago, L.A., Dallas-Fort Worth and Miami, and the first four
of those are the four largest metro areas in the U.S.”  The Oneworld grouping also has hubs in five of the world’s
top six business-travel markets, Horton said, while the trans-
Atlantic alliance with British Airways offers 15 return flights
a day between New York and London, “far and away greater than
any other alliance in the richest market in the world.”  At British Airways, Walsh said he’s hopeful that the
carrier’s two-year dispute with its cabin crew is “coming to an
end” as workers participate in a month-long vote on a pay deal
that enshrines a working structure designed to slash expenses.  “I’m pleased we secured all the cost savings we needed to
achieve,” the CEO said. “That’s a very significant step forward
for BA. It was our only objective in the dispute.”  Traffic figures have been “incredibly strong” following
industrial action that featured five strikes spanning 22 days
last year, demonstrating that the carrier has emerged with its
reputation and brand undamaged, Walsh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in  Singapore  at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  