-- 
Ban Ki-moon to Run for Second Term as United Nations Chief Backed by Asia

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-07T13:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ban-ki-moon-declares-candidacy-for-second-term-as-un-chief.html
South Korea ’s Ban Ki-moon said he
will run for a second five-year term as secretary-general of the
 United Nations , a bid that’s likely to result in his re-election
within a month as the U.S. and  Asia ’s two biggest economies
backed him.  “It has been an enormous privilege to lead this great
organization,” Ban, 66, said yesterday at a news conference at
UN headquarters in New York. “If supported by the member
states, I would be deeply honored to serve once more.”  Ban said he expressed his intention in a letter to the
governments of the 192 UN member nations and would meet with
their envoys within the next two days. The  Security Council 
would first vote to recommend his re-election and the General
Assembly would then vote on whether to give him a second term
that would begin on Jan. 1, 2012.  Ban is almost assured of re-election because Britain,
China, France,  Russia  and the U.S., the five permanent members
of the  Security Council , have signaled their support and no
opposition candidate has emerged. The eighth UN secretary
general, Ban would be the fifth to win election to a second
term.  The U.S. announced its support for Ban’s re-election today.
“Under Ban’s leadership, the United Nations has played a
critical role in responding to crises and challenges across the
globe,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said in a
statement. “The  United Nations  is an imperfect, but
indispensable institution. The secretary-general has made
important reforms.”  China- Japan  Support  China and Japan, the second and third-biggest economies in
the world, reacted to the announcement by backing the incumbent.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan sent a message to New
York “supporting UN Secretary Ban’s re-appointment,” Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters today in  Tokyo .
“We very much appreciate the job he has done in the past five
years dealing with problems around the world.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said his
government supports Ban’s re-election, according to a statement
on the ministry’s website.  France’s Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  called Ban’s
announcement “very good news.” The “UN and the entire
international community can rely upon him, his very solid
experience and his authority,” Juppe said in a statement.  Ban made his wishes known initially at a breakfast meeting
of representatives of the 53 Asian nations, who unanimously
backed his candidacy, according to Pakistan’s Ambassador
Abdullah Haroon.  “He is a person who has demonstrated strong leadership and
is a person of action and a person with vision of a better world
and a better UN,”  China ’s Ambassador Li Baodong told reporters.  Natural Disasters  Ban told reporters that in his first term he directed
responses to natural disasters in Myanmar, Haiti and Pakistan
“quickly and effectively” while “sewing the seeds of peace”
in  Sudan , Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo and Ivory Coast.
He also pointed to steps to improve UN management that include
creation of a department to advocate for women and a requirement
of full financial disclosure by senior officials.  Asked about his unmet first-term goals of ending the
conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan and completing an
international agreement to combat climate change, Ban said he
was “sorry to tell you that all these major challenges are in
process that we will try to accelerate.”  Saving Lives  He took credit for drawing attention to  climate change  and
for deploying a joint UN and African Union peacekeeping mission
that has “saved thousands of lives” in Darfur.  Human rights advocates who have criticized Ban for failing
to admonish world powers such as China for alleged abuses have
praised his statements about attacks on anti-government
protesters in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  While Ban’s first term “has too often been disappointing
on human rights issues, his recent handling of the crises in the
Arab world or Ivory Coast has been more positive,” Philippe
Bolopion of New York-based Human Rights Watch said in a
statement. “We can only hope that once free from re-election
concerns, with his legacy in mind, he will become a more
forceful and consistent voice on human rights, including when it
means standing up to permanent members of the council like
China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  