-- 
Bank of America Slumps to Two-Year Low as Jobless Rate Weighs on Moynihan

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-06T20:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/bank-of-america-slumps-to-two-year-low-as-jobless-rate-weighs-on-moynihan.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  hit a two-year
low in New York trading on concern that a stalling U.S. job 
market will drive up costs from bad mortgages.  The biggest U.S. lender by assets declined 45 cents, or 4
percent, to $10.83 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
at 4:15 p.m. The bank hasn’t closed at a lower price since May
2009. The stock sold for more than $55 in 2006 before the
financial crisis took hold.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has assured
investors that costs tied to defective mortgages and improper
foreclosures can be absorbed without selling new stock to raise
capital. His task may be harder after the U.S. jobless rate rose
to 9.1 percent and employers added the fewest workers in eight
months during May, meaning more unemployed people may fall
behind on loans.  “We’ve been getting consistent signals that we continue to
see growth, but those signals recently have had some choppiness
to them in terms of new unemployment claims,” Moynihan said
during a May 24 investor conference.  Bank of America has declined about 29 percent in the past
year of New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the worst
performance on the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The lender was the
only  U.S. bank  among the largest four that had its capital plan
rejected by the  Federal Reserve  this year.  Moynihan told investors last week that new claims tied to
bad mortgages tend to track the jobless rate, and he was
pursuing ways to put housing liabilities behind the firm. The
bank disclosed in January a $3 billion deal to settle some loan
disputes with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and agreed in April to
pay $1.6 billion to resolve claims with bond insurer Assured
Guaranty Ltd.  Resolving Fights  Moynihan, who said last year the bank was engaged in
“hand-to-hand combat” to fend off the claims, told investors
this month that “there’s a point when fighting doesn’t have any
value.”  Bank of America, the biggest servicer of U.S. mortgages, is
among firms negotiating with state attorneys general to settle
allegations that the banks seized homes during foreclosures by
using legal shortcuts and falsified documents. The largest
servicers are discussing a framework that may let them choose
from a menu of options for helping borrowers, two people briefed
on the talks said in May.  Costs to repurchase bad mortgages and settle with state
attorneys general may total about $18 billion,  Keith Horowitz  of
Citigroup Inc. wrote in a June 1 research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 