-- 
Barclays Made $12.6 Billion Loan to Retain Staff, Bank Says

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-06T12:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/barclays-made-12-6-billion-loan-to-retain-staff-bank-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-largest
bank, said it loaned former employees $12.6 billion to help set
up Protium Finance LP to stop them from quitting.  “Barclays could not offer the management team -- at that
time Barclays employees -- an attractive long-term career
path,” Finance Director Chris Lucas said in a letter to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan. 31. “There was,
therefore, a very significant risk that the team would leave,
with the result that Barclays would no longer have the expertise
necessary to manage these asset classes effectively.”  Barclays sold $12.3 billion of debt in 2009 to Protium, a
fund run by  Stephen King , former head of the bank’s principal
mortgage-trading group, and Michael Keeley, who was a member of
Barclays Capital’s management committee. The management team,
initially consisting of 45 former Barclays employees, supplied
$50 million of the financing.  “The Protium transaction in September 2009 was done to
reduce Barclays credit-market exposures and to generate a more
stable risk-adjusted return profile for shareholders,” Barclays
said in an e-mailed statement today. “In light of the fact that
a number of external factors had changed, including the prospect
of higher capital charges from 2013, Barclays bought back the
assets so that they could be sold on accelerated basis over the
next three years.”  Barclays took a 532 million-pound ($779 million) charge on
the Protium loan last year, and posted a 190 million-pound
write-back in April. That month, Barclays said it will
consolidate $10.2 billion of debt managed by the fund into its
accounts.  At the time, Barclays said the move had nothing to do with
“external pressure” from U.K. or U.S. regulators. “We are
unable to concur with your conclusion that the non-consolidation
of Protium is appropriate,” the SEC said in a March 22 letter
to Lucas.  The Telegraph newspaper reported the story earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  