-- 
Barclays Sleepless in Sydney as India Firms Seek Coal Deals to Fuel Growth

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T06:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/barclays-sleepless-in-sydney-as-india-firms-seek-coal-deals-to-fuel-growth.html
Surging Indian demand for Australian
assets such as coal mines will help drive an increase in
takeovers in the South Pacific nation, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Australia ’s top-ranked merger adviser.  The value of takeovers in the country in the second half
will surpass the tally for the first six months as the pursuit
of natural resources intensifies, said Daniel Janes, the Sydney-
based head of mergers and acquisitions for Australia at Barclays
Capital.  “The sheer weight of the inflow of opportunities is
keeping me awake until two or three in the morning,” Janes, 38,
said in an interview. “We’re seeing a very strong pipeline of
international acquirers of national resources for Australia.
There’s strong interest from  India .”  Bandanna Energy Ltd. (BND) ,  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  and  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) 
are among Australia-traded companies selling coal assets as
India and  China  use more of the fuel to help power their
economies. Energy, mining, steel and iron-ore deals involving
Australian companies reached $20.2 billion in the first half,
the most for that period since at least 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a seller’s market,” said Matthew Trivett, a
Brisbane-based analyst who specializes in coal producers at
Patersons Securities Ltd. “I don’t think interest is going to
dissipate, but whether deals come to a head might depend on the
macroeconomic environment and the dollar.”  Barclays Leads  The value of announced takeovers involving Australian
companies reached $55 billion so far in 2011, according to
Bloomberg data, the most for that period since 2008.  Companies are targeting Australian assets even after the
economy contracted in the first quarter by the most in 20 years
and the nation’s currency surged 30 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months.  Barclays Capital, which last week named Cynthia Whelan as
chief executive officer of its Australia and New Zealand
operations, leads JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG in advising on
mergers involving Australian companies this year, Bloomberg data
show.  “There’s a lot of activity that’s been bubbling below the
surface that will come through over the next six months,” Janes
said in the June 3 interview. “I would specifically single out
coal.”  Stock Gains  Bandanna has climbed 35 percent in Sydney trading this year
even as the country’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 3.8
percent. Linc has gained 13 percent.  Carabella Resources Ltd. (CLR) , a
coal explorer with assets in Queensland, has soared 72 percent.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  aims to add 120,000
megawatts of power generation capacity by 2017 to reduce
blackouts during peak hours that threaten to slow the country’s
development. Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, is
helping plug that deficit.  Lanco Infratech Ltd., the Indian electricity producer
controlled by billionaire L. Madhusudhan Rao, bought Australia’s
Griffin Mining Co. this year and is examining a bid for the
Premier Coal unit of Wesfarmers, the Hyderabad-based company
said last month.  NTPC Ltd., India’s biggest power producer, is preparing to
make a binding bid for Bandanna Energy or its assets, two NTPC
officials said last month. Carabella Resources said May 30 it
hired UBS to prepare for takeover offers after receiving
interest from prospective buyers.  India Ranking  Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s biggest coal importer,
agreed on May 3 to pay A$1.8 billion ($1.9 billion) for the
Abbot Point terminal in Australia’s Queensland state, after
buying a Linc Energy coal asset for about A$3 billion in August.  Barclays Capital  was second behind Morgan Stanley last year
among arrangers of takeovers involving Indian companies globally,
advising clients including Reliance Industries Ltd. and Bharti
Airtel Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.  Coal isn’t the only product driving takeovers in Australia.
Mexican brewer Grupo Modelo SAB de CV and Molson Coors Brewing
Co. have been exploring a possible joint bid for Foster’s Group
Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter said last week.
Foster’s has a market value of A$8.8 billion.  Spotless Group Ltd., a Melbourne-based corporate-services
provider, last month rejected a A$657 million bid from private-
equity firm Blackstone Group LP.  Still, suitors are taking more time to decide whether to
commit to a purchase, according to Janes. Whitehaven Coal Ltd.
last month ended talks for a potential sale, seven months after
putting itself on the block, saying bids didn’t reflect the
value of its assets.  “Acquirers are taking longer, going into more detail, and
being more comprehensive on risks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  