-- 
Blackstone Expects More Distressed Real Estate Deals in ‘Target Rich’ U.S.

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-06T18:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/blackstone-expects-more-distressed-real-estate-deals-in-target-rich-u-s-.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest
private-equity firm, expects more deals in distressed U.S.
commercial real estate and says European banks starting to sell
troubled property assets present a “sizable” opportunity.  “In the U.S. today I think it’s still a fairly target-rich
environment because a lot of assets need to be recapitalized,
fixed,” Jonathan Gray, a co-head of the firm’s real estate
business, said today at a conference in New York. “The
fundamentals are getting better. We still have headwinds because
of the economy not growing as fast as it should be, but overall
I think it’s better than people expect.”  Blackstone, based in New York, has invested about $10
billion equity in real estate since September 2009, Gray said.
The firm is targeting hotels and office buildings financed at
high leverage during the 2005 to 2007 market surge, because some
distressed properties can be bought for less than replacement
costs, “fixed” and later sold for a profit, he said at  New
York  University’s International Hospitality Industry Investment
Conference.  Economic and job growth coupled with little new supply
since financing dried up several years ago is helping U.S.
commercial real estate recover, Gray said. The next opportunity
is  Europe , where banks have lagged behind the U.S. in selling
troubled loans, he said.  “In the U.S., the big banks have pretty much cleared out a
large portion of their distressed assets,” Gray said. “In
Europe, it’s just starting. It’s not just assets in Europe, they
also own assets here and in  Asia  as well.”  Gray said he sees “more opportunity” in real estate
private equity than in corporate buyouts, where competition for
deals is stronger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  