-- 
Blockbuster Canada Says Dish Network Seeks Its Trademark

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-06T22:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/blockbuster-canada-says-dish-network-threatens-to-stop-allowing-logo-use.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  is threatening
Blockbuster Canada with the loss of its use of the Blockbuster
logo, as part of a strategy to acquire its assets, Blockbuster
Canada Co. said.  Blockbuster’s U.S. business, acquired by Dish, has asked
for bankruptcy court permission to end an agreement with the
Canadian unit over trademarks, Grant Thornton Ltd., a receiver
for the Canadian assets said in court papers filed in  Manhattan 
court today. Blockbuster Canada, with 400 stores and 4,000
employees, could have a “devastating termination” of its
business if its stores were suddenly stripped of signs and other
uses of the logo, the company said.  “By seeking to threaten Blockbuster Canada with the loss
of its continued use of the Blockbuster trademarks in the
Canadian business, Dish engaged in a stratagem to improve its
position in its ongoing negotiations over the terms of acquiring
the Blockbuster Canada business and assets,” Grant Thornton’s
lawyers wrote.  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , once the largest video-rental chain,
already has  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  approval to sell its assets to
Dish for $320 million. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is
the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider.
Blockbuster Canada, not part of the U.S. Chapter 11 case, is
also seeking U.S. protection from creditors under Chapter 15.  Agreement Changed  Dish had initially agreed to buy all of Blockbuster
Canada’s stock, but “at the last minute” changed its purchase
agreement to leave the shares out, Blockbuster Canada said.  Between April 2009 and June 2010, Blockbuster Canada
transferred $31.4 million to the U.S. unit at its instruction,
in “upstream transfers” and on Feb. 3, Blockbuster Canada was
demanded to pay $70.19 million to cover Blockbuster U.S.’s
unpaid bills to movie studios, according to court papers.  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., saying sales fell in recent
years while rival  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  grew by renting movies online and
through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  