-- 
Bowl Championship Series Strips Southern California of 2004 National Title

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-06T21:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/bowl-championship-series-strips-southern-california-of-2004-national-title.html
The Bowl Championship Series stripped
the  University of Southern California  of its 2004-05 season
national college football title because of National Collegiate
Athletic Association rules violations.  The BCS today also vacated the school’s victory against
 Oklahoma  in the 2005 Orange Bowl and its participation in the
2006 Rose Bowl, which it lost to  Texas . It will not award the
2004-05 season title to another school.  “This action reflects the scope of the BCS arrangement and
is consistent with the NCAA’s approach when it subsequently
discovers infractions by institutions whose teams have played in
NCAA championship events,” BCS Executive Director Bill Hancock
said in a release on the BCS website.  USC Athletic Director Pat Haden said in an e-mailed
statement that he was informed of the BCS’s Presidential
Oversight Committee vote today.  “This was not an unexpected outcome,” Haden said. “We
will comply with all requirements mandated by the result of this
BCS vote.”  Last June, the school was sanctioned for what the NCAA
called violations that “strike at the heart” of amateurism.
The infractions included a lack of institutional control and
primarily involved former USC football player  Reggie Bush  and
former Trojans basketball player O.J. Mayo. The NCAA denied an
appeal of the sanctions on May 26.  The BCS’s move came three days after former USC assistant
coach Todd McNair filed suit against the NCAA, accusing the
collegiate athletics governing body of libel, slander and
misconduct that led to the university not renewing his contract
in 2010, ESPN reported, citing court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  