-- 
Brazil’s Rousseff Said to Be Considering Belchior as Palocci Replacement

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-06-06T17:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/brazil-s-rousseff-said-to-be-considering-belchior-as-palocci-replacement.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
may tap Planning Minister Miriam Belchior to replace Cabinet
Chief  Antonio Palocci , who is under scrutiny for a surge in his
personal wealth while managing Rousseff’s election campaign last
year, a government official said.  Belchior, 53, is supported by former president Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva, who arrives today in Brasilia for meetings, said
the official, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly. Communications Minister  Paulo
Bernardo  may replace Belchior as Planning Minister if Palocci
leaves the government, according to the official.  Rousseff, who was Lula’s cabinet chief, will wait for an
assessment of Palocci’s consulting business by  Brazil ’s General
Prosecutor Roberto Gurgel by Wednesday before taking a decision,
the official said.  Palocci, in a June 3 interview on TV Globo, said "not a
single cent" of his earnings last year was related to work on
Rousseff’s campaign. All of his income, which may have totaled
20 million reais ($12.7 million), was reported to tax
authorities, he said.  On May 15, newspaper Folha de S.Paulo reported that Palocci
paid 6.6 million reais for a Sao Paulo apartment last year. On
May 20, Folha reported he earned 20 million reais in congress
and managing Rousseff’s election campaign.  Palocci, 50, rose to national prominence when he served as
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s finance minister from 2003
to 2006.  Consulting Firm  Palocci’s consulting firm, Projeto Consultoria Financeira e
Economica Ltda, stopped advising companies when he was named
cabinet chief. The company earned 160,000 reais in 2006, its
first year of business, Folha de S.Paulo reported. In his
interview with TV Globo, Palocci said he cannot name the 20 to
25 banks, investment funds and other companies he provided
consulting services to because the contracts are confidential.  As finance minister, Palocci paid $15.5 billion in loans to
the  International Monetary Fund  ahead of schedule and sponsored
a bankruptcy law favoring creditors over workers.  Palocci also helped craft regulations allowing loan
payments to be deducted from paychecks, which helped fuel a
record expansion of credit among low-income families. During his
time as minister, inflation slowed to 5.3 percent from 17.2
percent. The benchmark Bovespa stock index more than doubled.  Palocci resigned in March 2006 after lawmakers accused him
of illegally obtaining and leaking the private banking records
of a witness in a bribery investigation that targeted senior
officials of Lula’s Workers’ Party.  The witness, a caretaker, placed Palocci at a Brasilia
residence where politicians and lobbyists allegedly negotiated
bribes and partied with prostitutes.  Palocci denied any wrongdoing. The  Supreme Court  cleared
him of breaking bank secrecy laws in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  