-- 
U.K. Planes Hit Libyan Intelligence Headquarters

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-06T13:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/british-attack-aircraft-strike-libya-s-military-intelligence-headquarters.html
U.K. attack aircraft struck Muammar Qaddafi’s military intelligence headquarters as allied
intelligence improves and senior members of the regime defect,
the Ministry of Defense spokesman said.  “The Colonel’s apparatus of repression is increasingly
well understood,” Major General Nick Pope said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The strike complemented other allied air
missions conducted against other key regime targets in Tripoli
during the course of last night.”  Rebel fighters “completely liberated” the western
mountain town of Yefren yesterday, Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman
for the rebels’ National Transitional Council, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re getting closer and closer to
Tripoli.”  Rebels control most of eastern  Libya  while Qaddafi remains
in power in the capital. He has been pushed into hiding as a
result of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization air campaign,
allied leaders said May 20. NATO began using attack helicopters
in Libya this weekend, escalating the three-month-old conflict.  Five Libyan generals, two colonels and a major defected to
rebel forces at the end of May, bringing the total of Libyan
army officers that have left Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former
ambassador to the  United Nations , Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on
May 30.  Libya’s economy will probably shrink 19 percent this year,
after growing 7.4 percent in 2010, while its inflation rate
jumps to 12.1 percent from 4.7 percent, according to the 2011
African Economic Outlook. Libya holds  Africa ’s largest crude
reserves.  ‘High Price’  Libya “is likely to pay a high price for the conflict
which has effectively paralyzed the economy and led to a near
halt of Libya’s oil production,” according to the report. “The
country’s oil endowment and international attention to the
country are likely to secure a relatively fast recovery once the
conflict is over.”  The report by the  African Development Bank , the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
United Nations Development Program and the UN Economic
Commission for Africa, was released in Lisbon today.  A decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries on production quotas this week may be complicated by
fighting in Libya as members meeting in Vienna find themselves
supporting opposing camps in the conflict.  Hostilities in the North African country have blocked 1.4
million barrels a day, and an OPEC delegate said on June 2 that
producers need to boost supply by at least 500,000 barrels a day
to meet demand. Qatar,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates  are
backing the insurgents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 