-- 
U.K. Gilts Advance on Concern Deficit-Reduction Measures Harming Economy

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-06T16:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/british-pound-holds-two-day-advance-against-dollar-as-eef-says-output-rose.html
The pound fell and U.K. government
bonds rose, sending yields toward the lowest this year, amid
concern the government’s austerity drive is damping growth and
will compel the central bank to keep interest rates on hold.  Ten-year bonds extended a run of eight straight weekly
advances after U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
rejected calls for a “Plan B” to scale back his deficit-
reduction plan if the economic recovery stalls. Short-sterling
futures yields fell, signaling traders were adding to bets for
lower interest rates, as the  International Monetary Fund  said
the government should stick to its deficit plan.  “Some of the data has taken a significant turn for the
worse and there’s an emergence of questions on the fiscal
tightening,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at
Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit in London. “It’s incumbent
on the Bank of England to keep rates as low as they can for as
long as they can to offset the fiscal tightening.”  Sterling fell 0.4 percent to $1.6366 at 4:32 p.m. in  London 
and depreciated 0.3 percent to 89.33 pence per euro after
touching 89.38 pence, its weakest level since May 5.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell two basis points to 3.27
percent. It reached 3.22 percent on June 3, the lowest since
November. The 3.75 percent security maturing in September 2020
rose 0.16, or 1.60 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,636) face amount,
to 103.83.  Yields on five-year notes fell three basis points to 1.87
percent. The rate may continue to fall toward 1.45 percent, near
the lowest it reached last year, according to Wraith. “The bull
run is obviously fairly strong,” he said.  Osborne Comments  Last week, the pound fell and government bond yields
reached the lowest levels this year after manufacturing and
services indexes fell more than economists estimated and
mortgage approvals dropped to the fewest in four months.  Sterling touched its weakest level on record in Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-market currencies, as Prime Minister  David Cameron 
pushes through the biggest spending cuts since World War II.  Osborne said in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today”
show there is flexibility in his program, the economy is
creating jobs and investors have concluded the U.K. is a “safe
bet” because the coalition has committed to putting the public
finances on a sustainable path.  Gilts returned 7.6 percent last year, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. They advanced amid optimism the government
would control Britain’s record deficit after the coalition
between Cameron’s Conservatives and  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal
Democrats replaced the Labour party after last year’s election.  IMF Outlook  Osborne made his comments today as the IMF said the fiscal
consolidation measures remain “essential.” A group of 52
economists wrote to the Observer newspaper yesterday saying
government cuts are damaging growth and increasing the deficit
by reducing tax income and increasing welfare costs.  Teachers, lecturers and civil servants may be among public-
sector employees planning industrial action on June 30, the
 Daily Telegraph  reported.  “There’s no doubt that over time the U.K. needs a credible
fiscal consolidation plan, but that doesn’t mean that the pace
of the cuts is correct,” Jonathan Portes, a director at the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research, told Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Meeting This Week  The pound’s decline “should be helpful for exports, which
is part of the growth strategy, which in turn should feed
through to stronger investment in job growth,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  John Lipsky  said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Linzie Janis in London.  The austerity measures may deter central bank policy makers
from raising rates, even though inflation accelerated to 4.5
percent in April, the fastest since 2008. The yield on short-
sterling futures for June 2012 fell three basis points to 1.27
percent as investors cut bets on higher borrowing costs.  The  Bank of England  has kept its main interest rate
unchanged at a record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009 and
bought 200 billion pounds of bonds under so-called quantitative
easing that ended in February 2010. Policy makers will announce
their latest decision on June 9. It’s appropriate for the Bank
of England to maintain the “current scale of monetary
stimulus,” the IMF said.  “With limited room for maneuver on the fiscal side, we
believe that monetary policy is more likely to bear the cost of
adjustment” should economic risks including a weakening of
global growth occur, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists  Kevin Daly  and Adrian Paul wrote in a report dated June 3. “In the
extreme, the realization of downside risks could imply a return
to quantitative easing in the U.K.”  Commerzbank AG lowered its estimate for the pound to a
range between 90 and 91 pence per euro in August, down from 87
pence to 88 pence. It’s “more than likely the Bank of England
will be on hold” while the  European Central Bank  increases
borrowing costs, said Peter Kinsella, a currency strategist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  