-- 
Brookfield Office Properties Hires Mitch Rudin From CB Richard Ellis

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-06T17:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/brookfield-office-hires-mitch-rudin-from-cb-richard-ellis-in-los-angeles.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.
hired Mitchell Rudin, a top executive at  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. (CBG)  in New York, to oversee its U.S. commercial holdings as
part of a management shuffle tied to the company’s expansion.  Brookfield also named Dennis Friedrich, who held Rudin’s
new post, global chief investment officer, and Tom Farley global
chief operating officer, the New York-based company said in a
statement today. Chief Executive Officer Richard “Ric” Clark
relinquished the title of Brookfield Office president and the
chairmanship of the company’s Canadian subsidiary.  The management changes are “in recognition of the
company’s global expansion and of outstanding work,” Clark said
in the statement.  Brookfield, which owns office towers in the U.S. and
 Canada , last year diversified by buying 19 Australian
properties, mainly office towers in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth.
The company merged its residential operation with a unit of its
parent, Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management Inc., to make
itself a “pure-play” global office company.  New York  Region  Rudin worked with Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis and
its predecessor companies for more than 20 years, serving the
last seven as president of its New York tri-state regional
office, Brookfield said in the statement. He will start at
Brookfield at the end of the month.  The internal promotions are effective immediately, the
company said.  Brookfield offered  “a rare and exciting opportunity,”
Rudin said in a statement issued by Los Angeles-based CB Richard
Ellis. “The time was right to take on new responsibilities and
challenges,”  Mary Ann Tighe, chief executive officer of CB Richard
Ellis’s New York tri-state region, called Rudin “one of the
most ethical and nicest guys in the industry.”  The brokerage named Matt Van Buren, an executive managing
director, its interim tri-state region leader. Cherrie Nanninga,
chief operating officer, will take on increased responsibilities
while the company seeks a permanent successor to Rudin,
according to its statement. CB Richard Ellis is the world’s
largest commercial real estate services firm.  Brookfield fell 13 cents to $19.12 at 12:22 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 40
percent in the last 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  