-- 
Canada April Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-06T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/canada-april-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
April building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The value of building permits fell 21.1% to $5.3
billion in April, after increasing 16.8% in March and 9.8%
in February. The non-residential and residential sectors
both declined in April, with Ontario posting the largest
decrease.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
fell 33.2% to $1.9 billion, after reaching high levels in
the previous two months. The decline was due primarily to
lower construction intentions for institutional buildings
in Ontario. Decreases were also posted in six other
provinces.  In the residential sector, municipalities issued $3.5
billion worth of permits, down 12.6% from March. The
decrease was mainly the result of declines in the multi-
family component in Ontario.  The total value of permits decreased in seven
provinces, with Ontario posting by far the largest
decline. Alberta, Newfoundland and Labrador, and  New
Brunswick  registered gains.  Non-residential sector: Decreases in the institutional and
commercial components  Following a record high in March, construction
intentions in the institutional component recorded the
largest decline, down 62.8% to $479 million in April. The
decrease was largely due to lower construction intentions
for educational institutions and medical facilities
primarily in Ontario and Alberta.  In the commercial component, the value of permits fell
10.7% to $1.1 billion. In British Columbia, office
buildings had the largest decreases. Ontario followed with
declines in a wide variety of commercial buildings,
including hotels, warehouses and retail stores.  After declining in March, the value of industrial
building permits rose 3.1% to $317 million in April.
Quebec and  Alberta  had the largest gains in construction
intentions for utilities buildings. Ontario followed with
an increase in construction intentions for primary sector
buildings.  Residential sector: Lower construction intentions for
multi-family dwellings  Municipalities issued $1.3 billion worth of building
permits for multi-family dwellings in April, down 31.3%
from March, when the value of multi-family permits more
than doubled. Ontario and Quebec accounted for much of the
decline. In contrast, seven provinces posted increases,
led by Alberta and British Columbia.  The value of building permits for single-family
dwellings rose 3.7% to $2.2 billion in April, a second
consecutive monthly increase. The advance was attributable
to gains in six provinces, led by Alberta and British
Columbia.  Municipalities approved the construction of 15,417 new
dwellings in April, down 10.4% from March. The decline was
the result of a 20.3% decrease in multi-family dwellings
to 8,342 units. Single-family dwellings rose 5.1% to 7,075
units.  Provinces: Ontario posts the biggest decline  The value of building permits fell in seven provinces.
The largest drop was in Ontario, following a strong
increase in March. The decrease was attributable in
particular to lower construction intentions for
institutional buildings and multi-family dwellings.  In British Columbia, the decline originated in the non-
residential sector, with a larger drop in permits for
commercial buildings. In  Quebec , a strong decline in the
residential sector more than offset increases in the three
non-residential components. In Manitoba, all components
except multi-family dwellings contributed to the decline.  In contrast, Alberta posted the largest increase, as a
result of higher intentions for commercial buildings and
for single- and multi-family dwellings. Newfoundland and
Labrador registered gains because of higher construction
intentions for commercial buildings and multi-family
dwellings. This advance came after two consecutive monthly
decreases. In New Brunswick, higher construction
intentions for the commercial and industrial components
and for multi-family dwellings were behind April's
increase.  Lower permit values in more than half of census
metropolitan areas  In April, the total value of permits fell in 18 of the
34 census metropolitan areas.  The largest declines were in Toronto, Kitchener-
Cambridge-Waterloo and  Montreal . In Toronto, the decrease
was attributable in particular to permits for multi-family
dwellings and institutional buildings. In Kitchener-
Cambridge-Waterloo, the decline came from lower
construction intentions for institutional buildings. In
Montreal, the drop was mainly due to multi-family
dwellings.  In contrast, the largest increases were in Ottawa,
 Edmonton  and Calgary. In Ottawa, the advance was primarily
attributable to permits for single-family dwellings and
non-residential buildings. In Edmonton, the gain
originated from higher construction intentions in the
residential sector and commercial buildings. In Calgary,
the increase was largely the result of higher intentions
for commercial buildings and single-family dwellings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  