-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls a 2nd Day, Trading Near 2-Month Low on U.S. Outlook

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-06T21:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/canadian-currency-trades-near-two-month-low-on-economic-outlook-for-u-s-.html
The Canadian dollar traded near a
two-month low versus the greenback after weaker-than-forecast
data last week on U.S. jobs and manufacturing spurred concern
the recovery of  Canada ’s biggest trade partner is faltering.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, declined as a report showed
Canadian building permits fell in April at the fastest pace in
more than five years. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, and
stocks dropped as investors sought safer assets.  “We’ll be seeing not a great deal of action until we have
some more data coming out later in the week,” said  Darren Richardson , senior corporate dealer in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “The negative data in
the U.S. employment figures and also some weak data in Canada
show things are slowing. Both economies are seeing people moving
away from high-yield, high-risk currencies.”  Canada’s currency fell for a second day, weakening 0.3
percent to 98.09 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
closed at 97.78 cents on June 3, when it touched 98.52 cents,
the weakest level since March 21. Earlier today it reached 98.17
cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0195.  Building permits dropped 21.1 percent in April to a
seasonally adjusted C$5.35 billion ($5.45 billion), Statistics
Canada said today. Crude oil for July delivery tumbled 1.4
percent to $98.79 a barrel in  New York  after slipping 0.4
percent last week, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
1.1 percent.  Fell Versus Peers  The loonie weakened over the past month versus all of its
16 most-traded counterparts, declining 1.4 percent against the
U.S. dollar and 1.7 percent against the euro. It dropped the
most today against the yen, losing 0.6 percent.  The euro touched a 15-month high today versus the loonie
after European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed last week to pay the next installment to debt-strapped
 Greece  under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion)
bailout.  “We’ve seen a lot of trading activity in euro-Canada, and
that’s going to continue as there’s a lot of unknowns with
respect to the European debt situation,” said Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell as much as 0.4 percent to C$1.4371
per euro, its weakest level since March 2010, before trading at
C$1.4299, up 0.1 percent.  Ivey Index  The currency pared losses after the Ivey purchasing
managers index increased more than projected in May, rising to
65.5 on a seasonally adjusted basis, according to a statement on
the University of Western Ontario business school’s website. The
adjusted reading in April was 57.8, and the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey was 55.2. Readings of more than 50 signal
purchasing by governments and companies advanced.  “This morning’s Ivey PMI report suggests that the recovery
in Canada could be gaining momentum,”  Kathy Lien , director of
foreign-exchange research at online currency trader GFT Forex in
New York, wrote to clients today. “The Canadian dollar
appreciated very modestly after the release because worries
remain about how the Canadian economy would perform in the face
of slower U.S. growth.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , whose  Conservative Party  won
a majority in last month’s election, committed in today’s 2011
budget to erase the country’s deficit during the government’s
mandate while fulfilling campaign promises.  Flaherty said he’ll seek to bring the federal government
back into surplus by 2014 by implementing a review of government
operating costs that will save up to C$4 billion annually. His
 budget document  released today, which doesn’t account for any of
the operating savings, projects a return to balance in 2015.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s government bonds pared losses. The yield on the
10-year note rose less than one basis point to 2.99 percent,
after increasing earlier to 3.03 percent. It fell to 2.95
percent on June 3, the lowest since November. One basis point is
0.01 percentage point. The price of the 3.25 percent security
due in June 2021 decreased 3 cents to C$102.22.  The government will sell C$1.4 billion of 30-year bonds on
June 8, according to a statement on the  Bank of Canada ’s
website. The securities mature in December 2045.  The loonie fell 2.4 percent in May versus the U.S. dollar,
the first monthly drop since January and the biggest since
August, amid concern a weak U.S. recovery will prompt the
central bank to delay interest-rate boosts. The Bank of Canada
has held its key interest rate at 1 percent since September,
after raising it last year from a record low 0.25 percent.  U.S. payrolls increased by 54,000 jobs in May, less than a
third of the 165,000 that economists had projected, Labor
Department data showed last week. An Institute for Supply
Management report on June 1 showed manufacturing in the nation
grew at the slowest pace in more than a year.  ‘Softens for Canada’  “As the outlook softens for the U.S., it also softens for
Canada,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto.  Canada ships about 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Employment growth in Canada slowed in May, a  Statistics
Canada  report may show on June 10. Employers added a net 20,000
jobs after a gain of 58,300 in April, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The market’s now looking to later in the week in Canada
when we see our employment number,” Bank of Montreal’s
Jespersen said. “The market is going to be positioning itself
somewhat defensively heading into that number.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  