-- 
Caribbean Storm System Threatens Jamaica, Haiti With Mudslides

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-06T14:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/caribbean-storm-system-threatens-jamaica-haiti-with-mudslides.html
An area of disturbed weather with a
40 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone may bring heavy
rain and mudslides to Haiti and  Jamaica  this week, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  The system, about 130 miles (209 kilometers) south of Grand
Cayman, is expected to run into unfavorable conditions for
additional development in about 24 hours, according to the
center in Miami.  “As it goes further north it will encounter a more hostile
environment,” said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist
at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania . “The whole
northern Gulf of Mexico is drier and has a lot of wind shear and
those will be the main things that will keep it sheltered from
any real threat.”  Atlantic hurricanes are a threat to  Florida  orange growers,
who produce the second-largest crop behind  Brazil , and Gulf of
Mexico oil and gas platforms and refineries. The Gulf accounts
for 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 43 percent of refining
capacity.  Rouiller said the weather system is less a threat and more
a reminder that the Atlantic season is getting under way. While
it probably won’t develop into a tropical cyclone, it may bring
heavy rain to Jamaica, Haiti and Florida, he said.  “It is time to be vigilant now,” Rouiller said by
telephone.  In the eastern Pacific, a system about 425 miles south of
Acapulco has a 90 percent chance of becoming that region’s first
tropical cyclone, according to the U.S. hurricane center. The
storm, if it forms, will be called Adrian.  The storm’s most probable track will be into the Pacific
and away from land, Rouiller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  