-- 
Chelsea Will Start Hiddink Talks With Turkey Team, Guardian Says: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-06T09:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/chelsea-will-start-hiddink-talks-with-turkey-team-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hiddink Approach  Chelsea will approach the Turkish soccer federation this
week to secure the services of  Guus Hiddink , who oversaw
Turkey’s 1-1 draw in Belgium last week,  the Guardian  reported.  The move will lead to a period of negotiation over how much
the Blues pay to release the Dutch coach from the last year of
his contract, the Guardian reported.  O’Neill to Fulham?  Martin O’Neill  is ready to end his 10-month exile from the
Premier League by taking the Fulham coaching position, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  The former Aston Villa coach has held preliminary talks
with the London club, the Mail said.  Modric Fee  Manchester United  must pay 20 million pounds ($32.8
million) to sign Tottenham’s Luka Modric,  the Sun  reported.  United coach  Alex Ferguson  sees the Croatian as an ideal
replacement for Paul Scholes, who is retiring, the Sun said.  Cole to Spurs  Liverpool’s  Joe Cole  is set to sign for Tottenham for 3
million pounds,  Metro  reported.  Cole needs to agree personal terms and pass a medical test
after the teams agreed a fee, Metro said.  Cesc ‘Swap’  Arsenal is being offered Barcelona teenager Thiago
Alcantara in exchange for Cesc Fabregas as part of a 50 million
pound deal, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Alcantara is the son of former Brazil and Barcelona star
Mazinho, the Mirror said.  Bojan Interest  Liverpool and Arsenal approached Barcelona about signing
20-year-old forward Bojan, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Bojan is keen to leave Barca after failing to earn a first-
team berth, the Mail said. Liverpool would consider spending 17
million pounds to acquire him, according to the Mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  