-- 
Chess Genius Fischer’s Descent Into Madness; Chefs on Hot Seat: Greg Evans

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-06-06T17:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/chess-genius-fischer-s-descent-into-madness-chefs-on-hot-seat-greg-evans.html
Bobby Fischer’s fall from chess god
to ranting madman is laid out move by inexorable move in Liz
Garbus’s documentary, “ Bobby Fischer Against the World .”  Premiering tonight on  HBO , the unnerving film draws a line
between genius and insanity that isn’t so much thin as
invisible.  The chess mania of 1972 seems just this side of absurd from
today’s vantage point, but Cold War rivalry and a personal
backstory compelling enough for fiction turned that summer’s
World Chess Championship between  Brooklyn ’s Fischer and Boris Spassky of the  Soviet Union  into a competition of Super Bowl
dimensions.  Garbus’s film, with its treasure of old photographs, film
footage and testimony from those who knew him well, efficiently
lays the tragedy’s groundwork.  Born in  Chicago , Fischer began studying chess by age 6, quickly
developing an obsession that prompted at least one trip to a
psychiatrist.  Though concerned, his single mother was preoccupied with her own
issues: A committed Communist, she was hounded by the FBI and
devoted little time to her oddball son. She left Fischer and his
elder sister on their own when Bobby was 16.  Fischer’s fame exploded with the Spassky rivalry in ‘72.
They were the  Cold War  writ small -- Spassky supported by a
Soviet chess machine of near-Olympic proportions, and Fischer
the self-taught ideal of American individualism. The 21-game
championship in Iceland, seen on ABC’s Wide World of Sports,
routinely competed with Watergate and the war in  Vietnam  for the
top spot on network newscasts.  Carson, Cavett  “Bobby Fischer” makes fine use of such newscasts, as well
as clips of talk-show appearances with Johnny Carson and Dick Cavett. The film is most compelling in recounting the games
themselves, diagramming moves and conveying tension. As the
world watched, Fischer revealed the instability that would later
undo him, showing up late for matches or threatening to quit
because of noise.  Had the story ended with his ‘72 victory, Fischer might be
remembered as little more than the  John McEnroe  of chess,
temperamental but amusing. The darkness was coming, though. In a
clip from the Carson show in November of that year, the 29-year-
old Fischer seems utterly deflated: Something, he tells Carson,
“has been taken out of me.”  Praising 9/11  The documentary deflates a bit too as it struggles to
chronicle Fischer’s reclusive, post-championship era. “Bobby
Fischer” mostly relies on interviews with friends and
colleagues to recount the Jewish Fischer’s newfound adoption of
Christian fundamentalism and vile anti-Semitism. Delusional and
probably psychotic, he claimed Soviet spies were monitoring his
every move.  Fischer re-emerged in 1992, winning a rematch against
Spassky in  Yugoslavia . His participation violated United Nations
sanctions against Yugoslavia for fomenting ethnic conflict in
the Balkans, leading to a U.S. arrest warrant that made Fischer
a fugitive until his death in  Iceland  in 2008. By then he had
publicly endorsed the “wonderful news” of 9/11.  One remarkable scene shows a ranting Fischer at a press
conference in Iceland shortly before his death at age 64. The
session is halted when a journalist questions his sanity. The
greatest chess player in history falls silent, defeated.  “Bobby Fischer Against the World” airs tonight on HBO at
9 p.m New York time. Rating: ****  ‘MasterChef’  Does America still have an appetite for nasty-tempered
judges? Chef  Gordon Ramsay  and the second season of Fox’s
“ MasterChef ” believe so.  The cooking-contest show -- a surprise hit last summer --
takes its recipe from the Simon Cowell-era of “ American Idol .”
In the premiere episode, a parade of jittery contestants served
up meals and sob stories to the Ramsay-led panel of culinary
judges.  “Tastes like I’m eating a tire,” Ramsay barks at one
dejected cooker.  “MasterChef,” with its time-tested formula of unsparing
critique leavened with sentimentality (one contestant hopes to
amend for his drug-abusing youth by winning the contest), scores
no points for innovation. But after an “Idol” season of
milquetoast mentors, a little bite and spice feels oddly
refreshing.  “MasterChef” airs Mondays on Fox at 8 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 