-- 
China’s NetEase.com Falls to Lowest Price in Four Months

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-06T20:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/china-s-netease-com-falls-to-lowest-price-in-four-months-1-.html
NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc., China’s second-
biggest online games operator, plunged to a four-month low amid
concern about slower global economic growth and reports on
accounting fraud at Chinese-listed companies.  The company’s American depositary receipts tumbled 8
percent to $41.58, the lowest since Feb. 9, as of the 4 p.m.
close New York time. It earlier fell as much as 9.3 percent.
NetEase led declines among U.S.-listed Chinese Internet stocks,
including  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , Baidu Inc., Sina Corp, and  Shanda
Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA)  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell for the fourth straight day, losing 1.1 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slipped 0.5 percent.  “People on  Wall Street  are cutting risk when the macro
economy doesn’t look very well, and they obviously started the
selloffs with some Chinese stocks,” said C. Ming Zhao, an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP in  Boston . “The
market has concerns about previous accounting fraud at some
companies, which has hit investors’ confidence.”  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) , a Hong Kong-based
software provider, was sued by an investor alleging the company
overstated profit margins and concealed adverse facts last
month. The company said May 23 that auditor Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was investigating Deloitte’s claims.  Short-seller Carson Block at Muddy Water Research  said  last
week Sino-Forest Corp., the Mississauga, Ontario- and Hong Kong-
based operator of tree farms, overstated its timberland holdings
and production, an allegation Sino-Forest denied. Sino-Forest
today released documents on its website it says reveal
supporting agreements on purchase contracts and plantations in
 China ’s Yunnan province.  Sohu.com tumbled 5.5 percent to $73.60, the lowest in more
than four months. Baidu lost 4.7 percent to $126.97, the lowest
since March 21. Sina slid 2 percent after plunging 11 percent at
the end of last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  