-- 
China Likely to Avoid Japan Growth-Policy Mistakes, Roach Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-06T15:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/china-likely-to-avoid-japan-growth-policy-mistakes-roach-says-tom-keene.html
China ’s policy makers are positioned
to extend the country’s rapid growth and avoid the mistakes made
by  Japan  when its economy slowed in the 1990s, according to
Morgan Stanley’s  Stephen Roach .  “There are a lot of similarities: the export-led model,
the currency suppression, the rapid buildup of foreign currency
reserves, the industrial policy run by an elite,” said Roach,
non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. in  New York ,
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “The main difference for me is China has
a strategy to change the model, Japan did not, and they have the
commitment to implement that change and wherewithal to do it,
and Japan did not, as well.”  Roach, 65, returned last year from Hong Kong, ending a
three-year stay, to work at Morgan Stanley in New York and take
a teaching post at  Yale University .  China’s five-year economic plan calls for an expansion in
services to 47 percent of output from 43 percent, according to
Roach. Industries such as wholesale trade, retail trade, supply
chain management, hospitality and leisure are poised to grow
especially quickly, said Roach, Morgan Stanley’s former chief
economist.  President Barack Obama’s policy of emphasizing exports as a
major component of the economic recovery is buttressed by an
expected increase in Chinese demand for U.S. goods, Roach said.  China Outlook  “China is our third-largest and most rapidly growing
export market,” Roach said. “As they migrate from the
export- and investment-led recovery to the consumer-led
recovery, the demand for high-quality goods produced in the
West, especially in the  United States , will only grow. That’s
the area that we need to look at as an opportunity for a
growth-starved  U.S. economy .”  Canada and Mexico import more from the U.S. than China,
trade data show.  The decision by the Nobel laureate Peter Diamond to
withdraw his nomination to the  Federal Reserve  is “a real
tragedy,” Roach said. Diamond’s withdrawal was announced in his
opinion article posted on the New York Times website, citing
Republican opposition.  “Here’s a guy who knows as much about the labor market as
any living economist in the U.S. today and yet is a victim of
political sabotage,” Roach said. “The polarization, the
dysfunctionality of our political process in Washington right
now is in a league of its own. It’s a real tragedy for the need
to get talent into running the government at all levels. I don’t
know anybody who wants to subject themselves to this process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  