-- 
Chinese Airline Group ‘Totally Opposes’ EU’s Emissions Plan

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-06T06:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/chinese-airline-group-totally-opposes-eu-s-emissions-plan.html
China ’s airline association said it
“totally opposes” the European Union’s plan to include
aviation in a carbon-emissions program after European carriers
said the initiative may prompt trade conflict.  The EU plan is “unreasonable and illegal,” Chai Haibo,
vice president of the  China Air Transport Association , said
today in  Singapore . “Our group totally opposes it.” China’s
big three state-controlled carriers all belong to the group.  European airlines and Airbus SAS said in a May 24 letter to
the European Commission that including aviation in a wider cap-
and-trade system due to start Jan. 1 may prompt retaliatory
measures from China and the U.S. The program may also boost
costs for airlines struggling with a rise in fuel prices that
contributed to the  International Air Transport Association  today
cutting its 2011 industry profit forecast by 54 percent.  “This is not a good thing as airlines are very fragile,”
said Zhao Xiao Song, senior vice president at China Southern
Airlines Co.,  Asia ’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers. “How
would you like it if China also charged a similar tax?”  The carbon tax and higher air fares may also damp European
growth and deter Chinese tourists from visiting the region, he
said.  U.S. Challenge  U.S. carriers including  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
have begun a legal challenge against the carbon plan. They will
argue July 5 at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg that
the bloc’s inclusion of carriers in the market exceeds its
jurisdiction and amounts to an improper tax or charge, according
to the  Air Transport Association  of America.  “We fully expect other states to retaliate,” Willie
Walsh, the head of British Airways parent International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, said today in Singapore, which
is hosting the annual general meeting of the International Air
Transport Association. “That’s damaging to the industry and of
great concern to all airlines.”  Under the EU’s plan, airlines will be given a set amount of
emissions allowances industrywide. Carriers will get 82 percent
of these for free, with another 15 percent offered at auction.
The rest will be held in reserve. Airlines will have the second-
highest amount of allowances after power generators. Walsh said
he favors only using the system on flights within  Europe 
initially.  European Protests  The Association of European Airlines and Airbus said in the
May 24 letter to Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard that
“retaliatory measures” following the plan would probably
target the region’s carriers and the planemaker. A copy of the
letter, signed by Steve Ridgway, the chairman of the airline
group and Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders , was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The European legislation offers an option to exclude
incoming flights from non-EU countries if the nation implements
“equivalent” measures to cut aviation pollution.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  Chief Executive Officer John
Slosar said governments should create a single global system to
prevent multiple different charges being imposed on the same
flight.  “You could end up with a patchwork,” with the same
emissions being covered by different programs, he said.  IATA today said that airlines may make profits totaling $4
billion worldwide this year, compared with an earlier forecast
of $8.6 billion. The group cut its estimate because of higher
 oil prices  and travel disruptions caused by the Japan earthquake
and political protests in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Singapore at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  