-- 
China Shorts Under Fire as Chinese Companies Sue Anonymous ‘Arthur Little’

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-06-06T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/china-shorts-under-fire-as-chinese-companies-sue-anonymous-alfred-little-.html
Deer Consumer Products Inc. (DEER)  and  Sino
Clean Energy Inc. (SCEI) , U.S.-listed Chinese companies battered by
fraud allegations in online reports, are blaming their big share
slides on a blogger who uses the pseudonym  Alfred Little .  The two firms have filed defamation lawsuits in New York
against “Little” and websites that published his blogs. The
cases are the most significant efforts by Chinese companies that
trade on U.S. exchanges to fight back against bloggers and short
sellers who have questioned their accounting practices.  “There’s no question there is some fraud in  China , but
some bloggers are taking advantage of the perception that it’s
widespread,” said David Feldman, a lawyer at Richardson & Patel
LP in  New York , which has worked for Chinese companies listed on
U.S. exchanges including Sino Clean Energy. “The folks who are
making stuff up to drive a stock down, that is criminal, and the
companies have to defend themselves.”  Deer, a Shenzhen, China-based maker of small kitchen
appliances, was the subject of a March 14 report on
AlfredLittle.com saying the firm had inflated sales and margins
and overpaid for property purchases to benefit executives.
Shares on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange have fallen 41 percent since
a version of the report was posted March 17 on  Seeking Alpha , an
investing website also named in the suit.  ‘Complete Hoax’  Sino Clean Energy, a Xi’an, China-based maker of coal-water
slurry fuel, was attacked in an April 26 report by GeoInvesting
LLC, which invests in Chinese stocks and operates a  website 
featuring its own research as well as comments by bloggers. It
was followed two days later by a  posting  on Alfredlittle.com and
Seeking Alpha titled, “Sino Clean Energy Is a Complete Hoax and
Its Shares Are Worthless.” The stock, traded on  Nasdaq , has
fallen 49 percent since the GeoInvesting report.  Both Alfred Little and Skippack, Pennsylvania-based
GeoInvesting said in their reports that they sent investigators
to Sino Clean Energy factories in China. Little, identified at
the time on the blog as a Shanghai-based investor with more than
35 years’ experience, said in the April 28 post that four months
of video surveillance of those plants revealed “no meaningful
production.” GeoInvesting said its investigators observed fewer
employees and shipments than Sino Clean Energy claimed. At one
factory, it found what it said was evidence of one  production
line , not the three the company said it had.  Alfred Little’s Deer report said a survey of 60 stores that
sell the company’s products found evidence of “terrible sales
volumes.”  ‘False and Defamatory’  Deer filed a  lawsuit  in New York state court in  Manhattan 
on March 28 against Alfred Little and Seeking Alpha, saying they
distributed “false and defamatory reports.” The company said
two Chinese officials cited by Little don’t exist at the
“relevant government agency” and that statements about
overpaying for real estate and misappropriating funds were
“fear-mongering.”  Sino Clean Energy sued Little, GeoInvesting and Seeking
Alpha on May 9, also in New York state court, alleging fraud,
defamation and interference with its business. It said that
Little had manipulated the market by publishing reports
“riddled with falsehoods” and “outright lies.”  Robert Knuts, a partner at Park & Jensen LLP in New York
and a former senior enforcement attorney at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission who is representing Deer, declined to
comment. Eugene Licker and Mitchell Nussbaum, partners at Loeb &
Loeb LLP in New York who represent Sino Clean Energy, also
wouldn’t comment. Executives at the two companies didn’t respond
to e-mails seeking comment.  ‘Flavor du Jour’  Sino-Forest Corp. (SNOFF) , an operator of tree farms in China, saw
its shares plunge 71 percent in two days last week after a
report by short-seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters Research. The
company posted documents on its website yesterday which it said
refuted some allegations it had overstated timberland holdings
and production. It called Block’s report “defamatory” and said
it is “considering its legal remedies.”  Suits against short sellers, who sell borrowed shares with
the hope of profiting when they fall, are rare, difficult to win
and can backfire on companies that bring them, said Adam Pritchard, a professor at the  University of Michigan Law School 
in  Ann Arbor .  “I’ve seen it before, people complaining about the short
sellers -- the Chinese are just the flavor du jour,” said
Pritchard, who specializes in corporate and securities law.
“They bring these suits and then quietly let them drop. You
would look hard to find a verdict in favor of the company.”  Anonymous Shorts  Lawyers for Deer and Sino Clean Energy face the added
challenge of finding out who Alfred Little is. Knuts said in his
complaint that Deer has been unable to locate the author of the
blogs and that Alfred Little “may be a pseudonym” for a group
of short sellers “engaged in market manipulation.” Deer was
granted permission by a judge last month to serve subpoenas for
documents by e-mail until it learns Little’s identity.  An individual who identified himself in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News as the managing editor of the website
Alfredlittle.com and who declined to give his name said “Alfred
Little” is a “cover for a group of investors and research
analysts, most of whom are Chinese, who are making money
exposing fraud in Chinese U.S.-listed companies.”  None of the members hold securities licenses in the U.S.,
are U.S. citizens, or would reveal their names, the person
wrote.  ‘Alfred the Great’  The website was founded by a Chinese investor known as
“Alfred the Great,” since retired, and has evolved into its
current form, the person who claimed to be the managing editor
said. The site was updated on June 3 to say it is “primarily
supported by the efforts of analysts and investors based in
China” and that articles from others are welcomed.  “The quality of the research will make it legitimate,” he
said in the e-mail. “No one will care in another month why the
site refuses to share the name and ID of the researcher who
visited Deer’s site. The evidence will stand on its own feet.”  Alfred Little began publishing reports about Chinese
companies last year, including  China Green Agriculture Inc. (CGA) , a
Xi’an-based fertilizer maker, and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) , a
supplier of water-treatment equipment in Dalian, China. China
Green revealed an informal inquiry by the SEC in January,
without saying what it was about, and the shares are down 53
percent since the beginning of September. The SEC suspended
trading in Rino in April because of questions about the accuracy
of public filings, the existence of some customer contracts and
the size of its operations.  Reverse Mergers  Dan David, vice president of GeoInvesting, said his company
hasn’t been served a copy of the complaint. He said he stands by
the report published by GeoInvesting, which holds both long and
short positions in the shares of Chinese companies listed in the
U.S. markets.  “If we’re served with a lawsuit, we will counter-claim
against Sino and their advisers,” David said.  Seeking Alpha declined to comment about the lawsuit,
Rebecca Barnett, who identified herself as a member of the
website’s editorial team, said in an e-mail.  The SEC has revoked the registrations of at least eight
Chinese companies since December, and more than 24 firms have
disclosed auditor resignations or accounting flaws to the agency
since March,  Mary Schapiro , the commission’s chairman, wrote in
an April 27 letter. U.S. exchanges have frozen or delisted
shares of more than a dozen China-based firms since March.  Regulators have focused mainly on Chinese companies that
obtained listings through reverse mergers -- transactions in
which a closely held firm acquires one that’s publicly traded
and becomes able to sell shares without the scrutiny of an
initial public offering. A Bloomberg index of 78 such Chinese
companies has slid 42 percent this year.  Shareholder Suits  Deer and Sino Clean Energy, which both used reverse
mergers, have been sued by investors in actions handled by the
 Rosen Law Firm PA  in New York that cite Alfred Little reports.
The suit against Deer, filed on April 29 in federal court in  Los
Angeles , says the company misrepresented its financial
performance and business prospects. The Sino Clean Energy
action, filed in federal court in Los Angeles on May 6, alleges
that the company issued materially inaccurate financial
statements.  The two firms are among at least 20 U.S.-listed Chinese
companies targeted by lawsuits filed this year, according to the
Stanford Law School  Securities Class Action Clearinghouse .  Deer said in a statement May 2 that the shareholder lawsuit
was further evidence of “attempted manipulation” and that it
will seek sanctions against the  law firm  if the complaint isn’t
withdrawn. Sino Clean Energy said in a quarterly report filed
last month that the shareholder suit is “without merit.”  The company also announced a “special dividend” on May
25, granting shareholders the right to a portion of any judgment
or settlement of its case against Little and the websites.  ‘Committing Fraud’  “At this point, the whole China space is being attacked,”
said  Richard Anslow , a partner in New York-based Anslow & Jaclin
LLP who works with Chinese companies on U.S. listings. “This
isn’t a bad thing if it flushes out the bad companies, because
there are some very good companies out there being hurt. This
could ultimately help the industry, but only if the bloggers
aren’t committing fraud themselves.”  Ren Baowen, chairman and chief executive officer of Sino
Clean Energy, responded to the reports with a barrage of
information intended to show the bloggers were wrong.  Meteorologist Conversations  Video posted on Alfredlittle.com purporting to demonstrate
that one factory had almost no production was of a construction
site behind the plant, Ren said in a May 3 letter to
shareholders. Most of Sino Clean Energy’s production and
shipping is done from 4 p.m. to 8 a.m. because electricity is
one-third the cost at night, and daytime surveillance would miss
the busiest time, he said.  The company also posted  documents on its website  to show it
was shipping large volumes of coal-water slurry, a fuel made of
fine coal particles suspended in water, as well as transcripts
of conversations with meteorologists to prove Sino Clean Energy
videos were taken on the days the company claimed.  “Our business remains sound,” Ren said in his letter.  Two phone numbers listed on the website of Shenyang City
Xinyu Transportation Co., one of the trucking firms Sino Clean
Energy said it used, were disconnected. Local phone directories
showed no phone number listed for another trucker, Xi’an Kaifeng
Transportation Co.  Joseph Levinson, chairman of Sino Clean Energy’s audit
committee,  resigned on May 16 , two weeks after Ren’s letter was
released and less than three weeks after he  joined the board ,
according to company filings. Levinson, in a one-sentence
resignation letter, gave no reason for his departure. He didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘No Enforcement’  Nussbaum, one of the lawyers representing Sino Clean
Energy,  wrote  on April 21 in the Daily Deal, an industry
newsletter, that companies won’t list in the U.S. if the SEC
fails to pursue bloggers who file false reports.  “Currently there is no enforcement by U.S. regulators to
ensure the information in these research reports is accurate,”
Nussbaum wrote. “What is needed are more modern regulatory
practices to deal with these issues rather than scare these
companies away.”  The agency has legal grounds to sue the authors if the
reports are inaccurate, said Thomas Newkirk, a former associate
director of the SEC’s enforcement division and now a partner at
Jenner & Block LLP in  Washington .  “If they know the information is false, that’s a classic
rule 10B-5 violation,” Newkirk said, referring to the SEC rule
prohibiting  securities fraud , including share manipulation.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
about any specific cases.  ‘Arthur Big’  The use of pseudonyms makes it harder to determine which
side is telling the truth, said Anslow, the lawyer who has
worked on Chinese listings. It also increases suspicions about
the motives of bloggers, a person calling himself “Arthur Big”
wrote on the website Hit Piece Research.  “Why would someone hide under a false identity and deny
that they actually exist?” the person, who described himself as
a semi-retired market-investigations consultant, wrote. “Well,
our belief is because they are consistently breaking the law and
their credentials are fabricated to be stronger than stated. In
short, they do it to profit at the expense of the average
shareholder.”  The person claiming to be the managing editor of the Alfred
Little website said anonymity was essential for safety because
the people writing for the blog live in China.  “Some of the companies targeted have strong police
connections and can track down researchers using their ID
numbers,” he wrote. “If we lose anonymity, we lose the war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  