-- 
Cisco Said to Unveil Routers to Woo Users From Juniper, Alcatel

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-06T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/cisco-said-to-unveil-routers-to-woo-users-from-juniper-alcatel.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker
of networking equipment, will introduce two new routers to help
service providers handle surging data and video use, according
to two people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  The company will bill the machines, from the flagship ASR
9000 line, as capable of transmitting data more than 25 times
faster than machines from  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , said the
people, who asked not to be named because they weren’t
authorized to speak for the company. Cox Communications Inc.,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Fastweb SpA and Tata Communications Ltd. are
early customers.  Cisco, whose shares have declined more than 20 percent this
year, is refocusing on routers and switches after forays into
more than 30 new businesses gave rivals an opening to gain share
in key markets. The service-provider business, where the company
competes with Juniper and Alcatel-Lucent, accounts for more than
a third of Cisco’s revenue.  Service providers are struggling to keep up with demand for
data and video across their networks as consumers increasingly
watch streamed movies from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC on
smartphones, Web-connected televisions and tablet computers. By
2014, Cisco has predicted that 90 percent of consumer Internet
traffic will be video, driven by devices connected to the Web.  Double the Size  San Jose , California-based Cisco leads the market for
routers and switches, equipment that directs Internet traffic.
Companies buy its switches for corporate networks, while phone
and Web-service providers typically purchase its routers, which
are more expensive.  Revenue for the ASR 9000 increased 140 percent in the
quarter that ended April 30. Synergy Research Group estimates
that Cisco’s share is more than  double the size  for Juniper, its
closest rival, in the market for service-provider equipment.  Cisco is aiming to take advantage of a stumble from
Juniper, after Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said at a
conference last week that most sales in the current quarter
would come toward the end of the period. The comments sent
Juniper’s shares down by the most in more than two years.  China Telecom Corp., the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator by users, said last week it would begin using the ASR
9000 router to meet growing subscriber demand for new services.
 Japan ’s NTT Plala Inc. also will buy the router.  Cisco, which announced plans last week for a press
conference with service providers tomorrow, declined to comment
beyond its statements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  