-- 
Coca-Cola Recognized by Eco Forum for Sustainability Efforts

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-06-06T23:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/coca-cola-recognized-by-eco-forum-for-sustainability-efforts-1-.html
The  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s
largest soft-drink maker, was recognized by the Corporate Eco
Forum for its efforts to promote sustainability, including using
recyclable plastic bottles, shifting away from refrigerants that
contribute to  climate change  and supporting the World Wildlife
Fund.  The forum, comprising 80 companies from 18 industries with
combined annual revenue of more than $3 trillion, gave Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola and its Chief Executive Officer Muhtar Kent the
C.K. Prahalad Award for Global Sustainability Leadership at a
dinner event today in  Washington .  Coca-Cola has spent $60 million over the past decade to
phase out the use of refrigerants that contribute to climate
change, according to the Eco Forum. In 2009, it developed its
“PlantBottle,” which the company said is the first fully
recyclable PET plastic beverage bottle made partially from
plants, and by 2020 it expects to use bottles made completely
from materials that are recyclable and renewable.  “If you don’t have measurable goals and hold people
accountable, I don’t think you’ll move the needle,” Rick Frazier, Coca-Cola’s vice-president for supply chain, said in an
interview.  The company also wants to offset all the water the company
and its bottlers use for finished beverages, and in 2009 it
replenished 22 percent of that water, helped by 250 partnerships
in 70 countries. The company has been working with the World
Wildlife Fund since 2004 to preserve threatened river basins.  “The work of Coke and others delivers a strong message
that these businesses care about natural resources and the
sustainable use of our planet,” said  World Wildlife Fund 
President and Chief Executive Officer Carter Roberts.  Of the eight finalists nominated on the forum’s website one
was chosen by voting for the award by its 19-member advisor
board, including government, academia and non-governmental
organization representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  