-- 
Commodities to Extend Rally Even After Fed Exit: Chart of Day

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-06-06T01:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/commodities-to-extend-rally-even-after-fed-exit-chart-of-day.html
Commodities will resume a rally after
their worst month in a year as the  Federal Reserve  keeps its
benchmark interest rate at a record low following the end of a
$600 billion asset-purchase program, said HSBC Holdings Plc.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities tumbled 6.9 percent last month, the first loss since
August and the biggest drop in a year on concern growth may slow.
The gauge rose 16 percent this year through April after rising 9
percent in 2010 and 13 percent in 2009 as output trailed demand.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has indicated the bank won’t
remove stimulus immediately after the second round of so-called
quantitative easing concludes this month. The central bank will
hold its policy rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent until
the year-end, a Bloomberg survey of 72 economists showed.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the S&P GSCI Total Return Index
and the Federal Reserve’s target rates in the past three decades.
Commodities typically move counter to borrowing costs and the
GSCI index has advanced 33 percent since the end of December
2008, the month the Fed cut its benchmark rate amid recession.  “The long-term rally of raw-material prices isn’t over
yet,”  Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC,
said in an interview. “With the end of the second round of
quantitative easing, the Fed will still not be in a position to
raise  interest rates  anytime soon.” Neumann expects no
increases before the final quarter of 2012.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., after recommending selling
commodities in April, said May 24 it is turning “more bullish”
and told investors to buy oil, copper and zinc as sustained
economic growth will tighten supplies. Morgan Stanley last month
raised its estimate for Brent oil prices by 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  