-- 
Crude Declines for Third Day; SocGen Sees 65% Chance OPEC to Raise Quotas

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-07T06:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/crude-declines-for-a-third-day-on-speculation-opec-will-increase-quotas.html
Oil dropped for a third day in  New
York  amid speculation OPEC may increase output quotas when it
meets in Vienna tomorrow.  Futures slipped as much as 0.7 percent today after falling
to the lowest in two weeks yesterday. There is a 65 percent
chance the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
raise production limits to lessen the risk high prices will curb
demand, Societe Generale SA analysts said in a report today. The
global crude market would “welcome” increased oil production
from OPEC, Vitol Group Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor said.  “The outcome of the OPEC meeting will be key,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, who predicted oil will average $113 a
barrel in the third quarter. “The growth outlook from the
economic data looks like it’s hit a bit of a softer patch.”  Crude for July delivery slid as much as 68 cents to $98.33
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.71 at 2:42 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday fell $1.21, or 1.2 percent, to $99.01. Prices
are up 38 percent the past year.  Brent crude  for July delivery was at $114.34 a barrel, down
14 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday lost $1.36, or 1.2 percent, to $114.48.
Prices are 58 percent higher the past year.  1.5 Million Barrels  OPEC may raise output quotas by 1.5 million barrels a day
versus actual production when it meets tomorrow, said SocGen
analysts led by  Michael Wittner  in New York.  “This meeting result is not a slam dunk, though, with a 65
percent probability and a medium level of conviction,” the
report said. “We would NOT recommend taking any tactical
trading decisions based on the expected outcome of the OPEC
meeting.”  The group will have to increase its production target by as
much as 2.5 million barrels a day or risk prices rising higher,
according to a report from Johannes Benigni, chairman of
consultant JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, received by e-mail
yesterday.  “If OPEC doesn’t increase supply sufficiently it would be
a tacit communication to the market that $100-plus oil is
acceptable,” said Benigni.  OPEC won’t announce a supply increase and will keep its
formal production quota unchanged for an eighth consecutive
meeting at the June 8 gathering, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts conducted May 24-31. Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  also said the group is unlikely to raise production.  Libyan Loss  The OPEC members bound by the output quotas, not including
 Iraq , produced 26.2 million barrels a day in May, or about 1.4
million barrels more than they pledged, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts, producers and oil companies. Total
supply was 28.9 million barrels a day last month.  Brent has advanced 21 percent this year as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to  Libya . The fighting in Libya has removed
about 1.5 million barrels a day of output from market.  “We’ve lost Libya, that’s sweet oil that theoretically
would be good to replace,” Vitol’s Taylor told reporters at the
Asia Oil and Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur  today. “The markets
are in small backwardation, which would suggest there’s just
about enough oil.”  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$15.62 a barrel to U.S. futures today. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York reached a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  U.S. Stockpiles  A report from the U.S. Energy Department tomorrow may show
U.S. gasoline stockpiles climbed by 1 million barrels last week
from 212.3 million, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. Crude inventories probably dropped 1.5 million
barrels, the survey shows.  The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent in May and payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months, the Labor Department reported June 3. Employers added
54,000 jobs last month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April
that was smaller than initially estimated. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey called for payrolls to rise 165,000.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its Short-
term Energy Outlook today. The department last month cut its
forecast for global oil consumption for this year to 88.08
million barrels a day from 88.2 million estimated in April.  Options traders increased bets that  oil prices  will fall
further. The most-active option yesterday was the July $95 put,
which rose 17 cents to 79 cents. The second-most active contract
was the August $90 put, which climbed 13 cents to $1.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  