-- 
Currency Funds Advanced Most Since October 2008 in April as Dollar Fell

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-06T21:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/currency-funds-advanced-most-since-october-2008-in-april-as-dollar-fell.html
Foreign-exchange funds gained the
most in more than two years in April as signs of slowing U.S.
economic growth sent the  U.S. dollar  tumbling, according to
Parker Global Strategies LLC.  The Parker FX Index, which includes 66 programs managing
more than $48 billion by 56 firms from Asia to Europe and the
U.S., rose 2.04 percent, the Stamford, Connecticut-based company
said today. The gain was the most since a 2.39 percent increase
in October 2008, according to Parker Philp, a senior analyst at
the company. The index fell 0.06 percent in March.  The Swiss franc and Australian dollar rallied to records
against the greenback in April amid signs of accelerating
inflation. The euro had a fifth monthly gain on speculation the
 European Central Bank  would increase borrowing costs further
while the  Federal Reserve  maintained record monetary stimulus.  “There were some extreme currency movements,” Philp said
in a telephone interview from Stamford. “The managers were
positioned well to profit from movements in the  currency
markets . The month was characterized by the weak dollar and all
the other currencies rallying against it. Everything really
rallied against the dollar.”  The Swiss franc strengthened 6.2 percent against the U.S.
dollar in April, while the euro rallied 4.6 percent against the
greenback, and the Colombian peso appreciated 5.9 percent.  Fifty programs of the 63 that reported results in April
posted gains and 13 had losses, according to the statement. The
index rose 1.8 percent in the last 12 months, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  