-- 
Czech Premier Seeks Accord on Cabinet Posts to Keep Majority

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/czech-premier-seeks-accord-on-cabinet-posts-to-keep-majority.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas will seek to
resolve squabbling over Cabinet posts that threatens to strip
his coalition government of its parliamentary majority as
lawmakers prepare to debate bills overhauling public finances.  Party leaders will meet today for a final round of talks to
discuss demands for government changes by the smallest of the
three ruling members, Public Affairs. The party has warned it
may leave the coalition unless Necas gives it more ministerial
positions and sacks three other ministers.  The Cabinet’s agenda, including a boost of private savings
for retirement, has helped Czech  government bonds  outperform
German debt in the past year. Lawmakers in the lower house in
Prague will also start a session today to open debate on bills
including an increase in the value added  tax rate  meant to
finance a revamp of the deficit-making pension system.  “If the coalition breaks up, the story of reforms would
fade away,” Ales Michl, an economist and portfolio strategist
at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said by phone. “The first
victim would be pension reform, the second consequence would be
a threat to the deficit target for next year.”  Necas, who last year assembled the largest majority in
parliament since independence in 1993, pledged to cut the public
finance shortfall to less than the European Union limit of 3
percent of economic output, calling the overhaul of the pension
and health-care systems the key goals for his Cabinet. The
government plans to narrow the deficit to 3.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, from the planned 4.2 percent in 2011.  Tensions  Tensions inside the coalition increased May 11 when Public
Affairs leader Radek John quit as deputy prime minister,
accusing Necas of interfering with his right to select his own
team for fighting corruption.  Public Affairs also demanded that Necas sacks Defense
Minister Alexander Vondra, Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek
and Agriculture Minister Ivan Fuksa. The party now holds two
ministries, two fewer than set out in the coalition treaty.  “There is no agreement at this moment,” John said after
the last meeting on June 5. “The situation is serious,” he
said. Public Affairs deputies will debate their options before
parliament convenes for a session today at 2 p.m. in  Prague .  The Czech koruna has fallen 1.2 percent against the euro
since April 26, the first trading day after Necas said his
government had no reason to stay in power unless it could pass
laws to cut public spending by the end of June. It was the third
worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  Yields Fall  The yield on five-year government debt fell 30 basis points
to 2.63 percent in the past year, the third-best performance
among European Union members behind the U.K and  Hungary ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on German
debt of similar maturity rose 88 basis points in the period.  The  Czech Republic  has a history of political infighting.
The EU’s second largest ex-communist economy had two minority
governments and two interim Cabinets in the past 13 years,
stalling budget measures. In 2009, the administration of Mirek
Topolanek lost a no-confidence motion halfway through the
country’s six-month term as EU president.  While the coalition agreed that workers will be able to
divert part of their mandatory pension-insurance payments into
private accounts beginning in 2013, the ministries have yet to
submit the required legislation. The Cabinet will send laws
overhauling spending to parliament by the end of June and will
seek a vote of confidence in the assembly, Necas said June 3.  Waning Popularity  Even with the squabbling, ruling parties may not want to
seek early elections because their popularity has declined since
the 2010 elections.  Public Affairs would get 2.3 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, below the 5 percent needed to gain
seats in parliament, according to a poll by Prague-based Stem
conducted May 2-9. Public Affairs won 10.9 percent in last
year’s elections.  Necas’ Civic Democrats were backed by 13.8 percent of those
surveyed, compared with 20.2 percent during the elections.
Support for TOP09, the third coalition member, was 10.3 percent,
down from 16.7 percent. The poll of 1,219 people had a margin of
error of 1.5 to 2.5 percentage points.  The three parties, which hold 115 votes in the 200-seat
lower house of parliament, wouldn’t be able to form a majority
government if elections were held today, according to the poll.
The opposition  Social Democrats  were the most popular party in
the poll, garnering the support of 27.8 percent of those
surveyed, up from 22.1 percent last year.  “Early elections don’t seem as a likely option because the
ruling-coalition parties would suffer a bitter defeat,” Josef
Mlejnek Jr., a political scientist, wrote in a column in Lidove
Noviny newspaper yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  