-- 
Deutsche Telekom’s Greek Deal Might Trigger Talks on Reducing Labor Costs

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-06-07T16:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/deutsche-telekom-s-greek-deal-may-trigger-talks-on-reducing-labor-costs.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Rene Obermann, who persuaded workers in Germany to
accept lower pay in 2007, may have to do the same in  Greece  to
turn around the unit with the steepest revenue decline.  The Greek government exercised an option yesterday to sell
10 percent of  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  to
Deutsche Telekom for 400 million euros ($583 million). The Bonn-
based company may now push for changes in Greek labor laws and
incentives for broadband and wireless investments as it weighs
taking on more shares, said a person familiar with the matter.  “Having such a conversation could absolutely help them
improve their operating environment,” said Guy Peddy, a London-
based analyst at Macquarie Securities, who rates Deutsche
Telekom “outperform.” “It’s very difficult to reduce the
headcount, and OTE has tried that in the past and failed.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government, shut out
from financial markets and faced with the biggest debt load in
the euro’s history, aims to sell 50 billion euros in state
assets to secure additional bailout payments. In the third year
of Greece’s recession, fixed-line customers and mobile-phone
subscribers are fleeing Hellenic Telecommunications, also known
as OTE, leading to a 13 percent drop in first-quarter sales.  Direct Stake  Reaching an agreement with authorities would help OTE
address productivity shortfalls and improve profitability, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because talks have
not been initiated yet. Deutsche Telekom will own 40 percent of
Athens-based OTE plus one vote after the completion of
yesterday’s transaction.  Andreas Leigers, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for the Greek  Finance Ministry  didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  OTE dropped 43 cents, or 6.2 percent, to 6.46 euros at the
close of trading in Athens for its biggest decline in a year.
Deutsche Telekom added 0.9 percent to 10.09 euros in Frankfurt.
The 21-company Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index
was up 0.1 percent.  Obermann, 48, is focusing on Deutsche Telekom’s domestic
and European business after agreeing to sell the T-Mobile USA
division to  AT&T Inc. (T)  in March for $39 billion, a deal that is
pending regulatory approval as the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission and  Justice Department  investigate competitors’
concerns that the transaction may reduce competition.  Remaining Stake  Greece will be left with 10 percent of OTE, including a 4
percent stake held by the company’s pension fund. The country’s
Finance Ministry said May 23 it may sell the 6 percent it
directly holds by the end of this month. Deutsche Telekom, which
fully consolidates OTE and determines its CEO, has a right of
first refusal on that stake.  Deutsche Telekom has now spent 4.2 billion euros on OTE
shares since 2008, seeking to profit from growth in the Greek
company’s Romanian, Bulgarian and Albanian markets. Obermann
said June 1 acquiring a further stake would depend on the
conditions for such a transaction.  OTE’s 10,900 fixed-line workers in Greece are less
productive on average than their counterparts at Deutsche
Telekom. OTE’s land-line employees on average generated revenue
of 198,607 euros each last year, 20 percent less than the
246,923 euros for the  Germany  company’s fixed-line unit, the
annual reports showed. Deutsche Telekom’s German fixed-line
workforce reached 73,614 last year.  Personnel Costs  For every dollar of fixed-line sales, OTE spent 37 cents on
personnel, CEO Michael Tsamaz said last month. Almost 80 percent
of OTE’s fixed-line staff are treated as civil servants, and OTE
has been prevented from trimming payroll costs further in part
due to laws that protect employees from being fired, dating back
to when the company was fully owned by the Greek state.  “Unless we manage to find a way to reduce the personnel
costs, the cost cutting will never be enough and we’ll
continuously over the years be running after a moving target,”
Tsamaz said May 6.  Four years ago, Deutsche Telekom reached a deal with a
German union to move 50,000 service employees to jobs with lower
salaries, helping Obermann see through a 900 million-euro cost
cutting program. He must win over unions and politicians in
Greece too to reorganize OTE’s workforce, which totals 32,000
across the countries where the company operates.  Cutting Benefits  CEO Tsamaz has brought in new measures to bring down costs.
The company on Feb. 28 announced the introduction of a 40-hour
working week and slashed managers’ monthly allowances by 15
percent to save about 32 million euros. It also cut non-
essential overtime, company-car benefits and a bus service for
employees travelling to the  Athens  headquarters.  OTE sells fixed-line connections, and also mobile services
through its Cosmote unit. In the first quarter, the Greek
operator lost the most revenue from a year earlier among all of
Deutsche Telekom’s national units as phone-line users and mobile
customers defected amid the country’s economic slump.  “It’s not that different from what haunted Deutsche
Telekom in Germany,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, Germany, who has a “reduce”
rating on Deutsche Telekom. “It takes forever to bring salaries
down to a market level and reduce pension obligations. They
really have taken another restructuring task onboard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  