-- 
Diapers.com Founders Prepare Pet-Supply Website Wag.com

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-06T20:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/diapers-com-founders-ready-wag-com-for-other-baby-in-family.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Quidsi, the owner
of Diapers.com, said it’s opening a site for pet supplies in the
coming weeks to target the “other baby” of the family.  Wag.com will carry items from dog food to hamster cages,
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Quidsi said in an e-mail to
customers and on its  website . Seattle-based Amazon.com bought
Quidsi this year for $545 million.  Quidsi, founded in 2005 by Marc Lore and Vinit Bharara,
also owns Soap.com and BeautyBar.com. Its foray into pet
supplies harkens back to Pets.com Inc., the ill-fated website
that is often held up as a sign of the exuberance of the dot-com
bubble of the late 1990s. Quidsi is counting on its size and the
automation that keeps down costs at its warehouses to give it an
edge, as well as the growing number of Web shoppers.  “Ever since Vinit and I started Diapers.com, customers
have been asking when we would offer something for the other
baby in the family,” Lore said in the e-mail. “That day is
almost here.”  The broader e-commerce market will increase 12 percent to
$197 billion this year, accounting for 9 percent of total U.S.
retail sales, according to estimates by Forrester Research Inc.
In a November interview, Lore said Quidsi sales would probably
rise 67 percent to $300 million in 2010 and would surpass $1
billion by 2012.  Customer Service  The company said it prides itself on its  customer service 
that includes a 365-day return policy and speedy shipping.
Quidsi’s sites share a common online shopping cart so consumers
can purchase items from any of them and check out once. The
company offers free two-day shipping in the U.S. on orders of
more than $49.  Quidsi is Latin for “What if?” Its backers included  Accel
Partners , Bessemer Venture Partners, BEV Capital, MentorTech
Ventures and  New Enterprise Associates .  Lore and Bharara, who weren’t available for comment beyond
Lore’s e-mail to customers, won’t be the first to try their hand
at a site for pet supplies. Pets.com opened in 1999 and went
public soon after. Its  sock-puppet  dog mascot became a
recognized figure, appearing in a Super Bowl commercial. By
November 2000, San Francisco-based Pets.com had burned through
its cash and began liquidating the company.  Amazon.com fell $2.63 to $185.69 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have risen 3.2 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  