-- 
Disney Signs Couric to Daytime Talk Show After Oprah Departs

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-06T17:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/disney-signs-couric-to-daytime-talk-show.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC signed former
CBS News anchor Katie Couric to produce and host an afternoon
talk show, filling a void in the schedule created by Oprah Winfrey’s departure from broadcast TV.  The yet-to-be-named show will begin in September 2012,
Burbank, California-based Disney said today in a statement.
Couric will also join ABC News, anchoring specials, doing
interviews and participating in event coverage.  Many of Disney’s company-owned ABC stations carried
Winfrey’s daily talk show in cities including  Chicago , New York,
 Los Angeles  and Philadelphia. While the show was distributed by
 CBS Corp. (CBS) , Disney will have to fill the void in those areas and
is in a position to market Couric to other stations that are now
Oprah-less.  “Katie Couric is one of television’s iconic figures and we
are thrilled to have forged such an exciting partnership with
her,” Anne Sweeney, president of Disney/ABC Television Group
and co-chair of Disney Media Networks, said in the statement.  Couric, 54, left  CBS News  after five years and declining
ratings. She will share in the talk show’s revenue, two people
with knowledge of the deal said last month.  Jeff Zucker , former head of  NBC Universal , will be
executive producer of the new program. He oversaw NBC’s
“Today” show, where Couric was co-anchor from 1991 to 2006.  The talk show will cost $40 million to produce, a person
with knowledge of the arrangement said last month. The funds
would be an advance against future earnings the venture would
share, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the terms aren’t public.  Testing Waters  ABC waited until Couric’s contract with CBS expired to sign
a deal, according to one person with knowledge of the
negotiations. New York-based CBS had the right to match any
offer while Couric was still under contract.  Couric held discussions with ABC, NBC and  CNN . CBS
contemplated asking her back at less than her $15 million-a-year
salary and to appear on specials and other shows instead of
anchoring the evening news.  CBS, based in New York, named “60 Minutes” correspondent
Scott Pelley to succeed Couric. The “CBS Evening News with
Scott Pelley” begins tonight, CBS News Chairman Jeff Fager and
President David Rhodes said on May 3.  Ratings at “CBS Evening News” declined during Couric’s
tenure, falling to an all-time low of 4.89 million total viewers
in week of Aug. 24, 2010, according to TVNewser. In the current
season, Couric is in third place, averaging 5.97 million viewers
a night as of May 22, according to data from Nielsen Co. NBC
leads the nightly newscasts with 9.1 million viewers and ABC is
second with 8.02 million.  Disney, owner of theme parks and ESPN, added 20 cents to
$39.58 at 1:13 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading, and had risen 5 percent this year before today. CBS,
controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 41 cents to $26.79. The
shares gained 43 percent year-to-date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  