-- 
Disney Said to Plan About 5% Staff Cuts at Film Studio Unit

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-06T23:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/disney-said-to-plan-20-studio-cutback-as-film-production-shifts-to-marvel.html
     June 6 (Bloomberg) --  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  will cut about 200
jobs at its film division, or 5 percent of the workforce, said
two people with knowledge of the plans, as the company realigns
distribution and relies more on production from Marvel and
Steven Spielberg’s DreamWorks Studios.  The reductions at  Walt Disney Studios  will be made during
the week of June 13, said the people, who asked for anonymity
because the decision hadn’t been made public. The unit has about
5,000 employees, including Marvel and Pixar.  Disney, which makes the “Pirates of the Caribbean”
movies, is shifting its release slate toward Marvel and films
distributed for Spielberg’s DreamWorks Studios, which makes its
own movies. The company restructured its worldwide distribution
operation last year.  Production, distribution, business development and other
positions are being eliminated, the people said. Some cuts have
already been made, said one of the people.  In November, Disney merged groups responsible for film and
television distribution. The organization is responsible for
physical and digital home-video sales.  Disney, based in Burbank California, acquired Marvel in
January 2010 for $4.2 billion. The company bought back
distribution of two Marvel films from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount,
the third “ Iron Man ” and next year’s “Avengers.”  DreamWorks, co-founded by Spielberg and Chief Executive
Officer Stacey Snider, hired Disney in 2009 to distribute about
six films a year.  Disney, also owner of theme parks and ESPN, gained 2 cents
to $39.40 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have climbed 5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  