-- 
Dollar Gains Evaporate as Fed Keeps Stimulus on Growth Woes

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-06-06T18:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/dollar-gains-seen-evaporating-as-fed-maintains-stimulus-while-growth-slows.html
The dollar’s best monthly performance
since November may prove fleeting as a slowing U.S. economy and
falling short-term  interest rates  encourage investors to use the
currency to fund investments in higher-yielding assets.  The U.S. currency’s value will be unchanged from current
levels by year-end, down from last month’s predicted 2 percent
appreciation, according to analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. Bets remain tilted against the greenback even after
last month’s 2.3 percent gain in IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s
Dollar Index, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  While the dollar gained against 14 of the 16 most-traded
currencies in May, it fell last week after weaker-than-forecast
reports on manufacturing, employment and consumer confidence led
traders to raise bets that the  Federal Reserve  will keep rates
near zero. Traders also found less reason to seek shelter in the
currency as European officials agreed to provide more financial
aid to  Greece  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the
European Union is committed to keeping the euro intact.  “The dollar’s rebound is not a turning point in the bear
trend,” said John Normand, head of currency strategy in London
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., the world’s fifth-biggest currency
trader according to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. “A
sustained dollar rally requires a Greek default, a global
recession or aggressive Fed tightening. And those are not likely
to happen this year.”  Gains Reversed  Last month’s 1.5 percent rise against nine exchange rates
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes was the
dollar’s first gain since rallying 4.1 percent in November. Only
the Swiss franc and  New Zealand dollar  appreciated more.  The dollar weakened 0.9 percent last week as measured by
the gauge. It fell 2.2 percent against the euro, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The single European currency
strengthened against all the most-traded counterparts apart from
the South African rand and the Danish krone. The dollar traded
at $1.4598 per euro today.  Falling short-term rates in the U.S. means that borrowing
in dollars to buy currencies of economies with higher yields has
become profitable in the last two weeks, returning 0.4 percent,
after losing 2.4 percent from April 29 through May 23, according
to an index compiled by UBS AG.  Traders who borrowed in U.S. dollars to buy Australian
assets earned 2.2 percent after losing 3.3 percent in the first
three weeks of May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December,
2008. The  European Central Bank  raised borrowing costs in April
for the first time in almost three years, bringing the main
refinancing rate to 1.25 percent.  Relative Yields  China ,  Russia , Norway,  Sweden , Poland,  South Korea ,
Thailand,  India , Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Taiwan,
Chile and  Brazil  have raised borrowing costs this year.  Treasuries due in one to three years yield 1.01 percentage
points less on average than government debt with similar
maturities in the rest of the world, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. That compares with 0.59 percent less at the
beginning of the year.  A weaker dollar hasn’t hurt the ability of the U.S. to
attract the foreign capital needed to fund a  budget deficit  in
excess of $1 trillion. The Treasury has received $3 in bids for
every dollar auctioned this year, compared with last year’s
record $2.99, Treasury data show.  U.S. exports reached $172.7 billion in March, up 4.7
percent from the prior month and the biggest gain since 1994,
according to a government report.  End of QE2  Dollar weakness is unlikely to be uniform. It may
appreciate to $1.40 versus the euro by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate of 51 forecasters in a
Bloomberg News survey. It’s projected to gain 8.4 percent
against the yen, 0.9 percent versus the Norwegian krone and 4.1
percent to the Australian dollar, separate surveys show.  The dollar may also get support as the Fed stops printing
money to buy $600 billion of Treasuries in a second round of so-
called quantitative easing, or QE2. The end of the program this
month reduces the availability of the currency in the market.  “If the U.S. stops debasing the currency or easing, then
it’s time for investors to stop selling dollars,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist in  London  at UBS AG, the third-largest
foreign-exchange dealer. “The risk to this view is that the
market is concerned the Fed could be prompted to increase asset
purchases to keep growth expectations intact.”  Yu said he expects the dollar to gain to $1.35 against the
euro in the next three months.  Risk-Reversals  Traders aren’t as optimistic. Demand for contracts
protecting against a drop in the euro versus the dollar is down
from the highest since December.  The so-called risk reversal rate on one-month options on
the euro against the dollar has a 1.74 percentage point premium
for contracts that grant the right to sell the common currency
over those that allow for purchases. That’s down from a 1.94
percentage points premium in May 26.  “The general trend of dollar weakening will continue until
the Fed signals that it’s going to raise rates,” Greg Anderson,
a senior currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York ,
said.  The outlook for higher U.S. rates this year faded last week
as reports showed manufacturing for May expanded at the slowest
pace in 20 months, the unemployment rose to 9.1 percent in May
and  consumer confidence  fell to a six-month low.  Futures on the Chicago Board of Trade show traders see a
10.9 percent chance the Fed will increase its target rate in
2011, down from 22 percent a month ago.  Trimming Forecasts  Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. cut their forecast for
second-quarter economic expansion on June 3 to a 2 percent
annual rate from a prior estimate of 3.5 percent. They lowered
their projection for the third quarter to 3 percent from 3.5
percent. The U.S.’s 1.8 percent growth rate last quarter
compares with 2.5 percent in the euro zone, 3.92 percent in
 Canada  and 6.4 percent in Sweden.  Net bets the dollar will drop against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc increased to
126,029 as of May 31, from 101,398, the week before, the least
since January, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canada dollar and Swedish krona,
fell to a one-month low today of 73.640 from 76.366 on May 23.
The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro,
which has the support of European lawmakers and central bankers.  Investors are betting the EU and International Monetary
Fund will delay a sovereign default in Greek debt until after
the European Stability Mechanism comes into effect in 2013. EU
and IMF officials agreed last week to pay the next installment
to Greece under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion)
bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package.  No ‘Euro Problem’  “We don’t have a euro problem in  Europe ,” Merkel said in
a speech in Singapore June 2. “We have more of a debt
problem.”  Germany  is committed to the euro, which is stable, she
said. The outlook for growth in the country’s economy, Europe’s
largest, is “very positive,” Merkel said.  “Europe might not be perfect, but leaders are committed to
the problem and I think they will find a solution,” said Pierre Lequeux, London-based head of currency management at Aviva
Investors, which oversees about $370 billion. The “U.S. is in
an environment where the problem is ahead of it and not behind
it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  