-- 
Dollar Thrifty Chief Executive Urges No Action on Hertz; Says $72 Too Low

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-06-06T20:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/dollar-thrifty-chief-executive-urges-no-action-on-hertz-says-72-too-low.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) ,
the rental-car chain being sought by two larger competitors,
recommends investors not tender shares to  Hertz Global Holdings
Inc. (HTZ)  because the $72-a-share bid undervalues the company.  “Hertz’s current offer does not represent a fair split of
the economic value created by the combination of Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group and another large rental-car operation,” Chief
Executive Officer Scott Thompson said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our significant operating cash flow, cash-rich balance sheet,
proven brands, combined with our synergistic and scarcity value
is clearly more than $72 a share.”  Hertz and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) , the two largest publicly
traded rental-car chains, have been bidding for Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Dollar Thrifty, the third biggest, since April 2010. Avis
and Dollar Thrifty have been seeking U.S. Federal Trade
Commission approval for a merger since October, after
shareholders rejected an offer from Hertz. The agency is also
reviewing Hertz’s most recent bid.  Hertz offered last month to pay $57.60 in cash and 0.8546
of a Hertz share for each Dollar Thrifty share outstanding, a
proposal then valued at $72. Analysts have said bidding could
drive Dollar Thrifty as high as $100 a share.  Dollar Thrifty fell $1.91, or 2.3 percent, to $81.83 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest daily percentage drop since Sept. 24. Hertz, based in
 Park Ridge ,  New Jersey , had said that day that its bid at the
time of $50.70 a share was its “best and final” offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  