-- 
Dubai Follows Abu Dhabi in the Pursuit of UN Emissions Credits

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-06T10:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/dubai-follows-abu-dhabi-in-the-pursuit-of-un-emissions-credits.html
Dubai is seeking its first tradable
emission credits as it seeks to increase  energy efficiency  and
rely more on solar power to meet future demand.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority, the government-run
utility, is among companies planning to amass credits with a
total value of as much as 144 million euros ($211 million) over
the next decade, according to Waleed Salman, chairman of the
government-sponsored Dubai Centre for Carbon Excellence. Revenue
from selling United Nations-overseen credits would help defray
the cost of upgrading  power plants  and replacing water pumps,
Salman said in an interview.  “The main objective is not profit only,” said Salman, who
also is vice president for business development at Dubai
Electricity & Water. “It’s to adopt carbon reduction in an
economical way.” The Dubai Centre held its first assembly on
May 29.  Dubai is following  Abu Dhabi , its larger neighbor and
capital of the  United Arab Emirates , which already won credits
under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism. Qatar is also
seeking credits as Persian Gulf nations seek to cut emissions in
a region with the world’s most emissions per capita, the World
Wildlife Fund said in an October report.  Emirates, the Dubai-based airline, may be a buyer for the
credits as it faces new requirements starting next year to buy
carbon allowances or offset  greenhouse gases  produced by its
jetliners, Salman said. The European Union will require all
flights serving Europe to participate in its emissions-trading
system in 2012.  A Dubai-based spokeswoman for Emirate declined to comment.  Replacing Gas  Dubai seeks to diversify its electricity supply and improve
efficiency over the next two decades, Salman said. While the
U.A.E. is the fourth-largest crude producer in OPEC, Dubai pumps
less than 4 percent of the country’s oil. The emirate already
imports natural gas to meet almost all its power needs and may
develop renewable-energy sources, clean coal and nuclear power.  Persian Gulf-based companies now have no requirements to
curb their greenhouse gas output. The European bloc started its
carbon trading market for factories and power stations in 2005.
EU December allowance prices fell 0.5 percent to 16.74 euros at
11:25 a.m. on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London . UN
Certified Emission Reductions for December closed at 12.69 euros
on ICE on June 3.  Dubai companies plan to earn credits for a total of 5
million tons of carbon-dioxide equivalent by 2015 and 10 million
tons by 2020, Salman said. Credits for 2015 were at 14.39 euros
a ton last week.  UN Advisory Assistance  Dubai’s Supreme Energy Council, a policy-setting body,
signed an agreement in January with the UN Development Program
for advisory assistance on carbon reduction, the UN agency said
in a  statement  at the time. The council formed a venture with
the government-owned utility, an aluminum smelter, Dubai’s
government-owned refinery and a local environmental consultancy
called Istidama, according to an April statement.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority is in talks to sell
credits it earned by running turbines more efficiently. A
prospective buyer is  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE) , the EU’s biggest emitter,
Salman said. Brigitte Lambertz, an Essen, Germany-based
spokeswoman at RWE, declined to comment in an e-mailed response
to questions.  DEWA, as the Dubai utility in known, is adding 400
megawatts of capacity to a 1,500 megawatt power station. By re-
using a turbine’s own exhaust to help cool the unit, the plant
can generate more power with the same amount of fuel, Salman
said. Because the added capacity creates no increase in
emissions, DEWA may win carbon credits, he said.  The government-owned smelter Dubai Aluminium is working on
five projects to cut emissions, according to its presentation.
Those projects include replacing water pumps and adding more-
efficient burners.  Abu Dhabi’s government-run renewable energy company is
pursuing U.N.-certified projects in the  Middle East  and North
Africa and has established funds to buy and trade credits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 