-- 
Dutch Horticulture Losses May Be 80 Million Euros Every Week

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-06T12:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/dutch-horticulture-losses-may-be-80-million-euros-every-week-1-.html
Dutch horticulture losses are
estimated at 80 million euros ($117 million) a week because of
lower demand since the deadly E.coli bacteria was reported in
 Germany  last month, according to Saskia Zeilstra, a spokeswoman
for Productschap Tuinbouw.  “You’re already seeing as a lot of orders being
canceled,” Zeilstra said, adding that’s affecting products
including cucumbers, tomatoes and lettuce. “A very large part
of our production is shipped abroad, so it’s both exports and
domestic.”  The losses are estimated at 50 million euros a week for
growers and 30 million euros for the vegetable trade, Zeilstra
said. Germany is the largest export market for Dutch
horticulture products, followed by the U.K. and Russia,
according to the trade group.  The outbreak has killed 22 people and sickened another
2,263, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention
and Control. German officials said sprouts from an organic farm
in the northern town of Uelzen played a role. European Union
regulators called on  Russia  to scrap a “disproportionate” ban on
imports of European vegetables in reaction to the outbreak.  Safe Food  “The ban on all our fruit vegetables and lettuce has to be
lifted immediately, because by now it’s been proven many times
that our fruit and vegetables are clean and can be consumed
safely,” Nico van Ruiten, head of trade group LTO
Glaskracht Nederland, said in a statement yesterday.  “The problems with sales of salad vegetables are an issue
in multiple EU countries, which means that the Dutch vegetable
industry is weighed down by a seriously distorted market,” LTO
Nederland said in the statement. “Only a limited part of
production ends up with consumers. Products for which there is
no demand are being dumped in fields, processed in fermenters or
end up in the compost heap.”  Qatar also imposed a temporary ban on the importation of
tomatoes, lettuce and cucumbers from Germany and  Spain , the
Qatar News Agency reported yesterday, citing a decision from the
Supreme Council of Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  