-- 
DynCorp Has Refunded Money to U.S. for War Work Billings

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-06T22:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/dyncorp-has-refunded-40-8-million-in-u-s-war-work-billings-1-.html
DynCorp International Inc., the
largest contractor in  Afghanistan , has refunded a portion of
$40.8 million to the U.S. State Department for work in Iraq and
Afghanistan, department spokeswoman Susan Pittman said today.  The department also is asking DynCorp, of  Falls Church ,
 Virginia , to refund some portion of an additional $37.9 million
in billings, she said.  Pittman revised the testimony of Under Secretary for
Management Patrick Kennedy, who testified earlier today at a
hearing of the Commission on Wartime Contracting that DynCorp
refunded the entire $40.8 million and that the government was
seeking an additional $37.9 million refund from the company.  Two other companies are included in the transactions, which
involve contracts awarded between 2004 and 2006. Pittman said
she did not have a specific breakdown of the figures. Kennedy
will correct his commission testimony, she said.  The State Department’s  Bureau of International Narcotics
and Law Enforcement Affairs , which is handling DynCorp’s Iraq
police training contract, is conducting a “100 percent
reconciliation” of all DynCorp Iraq invoices “going back prior
to 2006,” Kennedy said.  Pittman, the INL spokeswoman, said the review will take
until next year to conclude.  Company Cooperating  “We have not been able to verify the numbers cited, at
this point,” a DynCorp spokeswoman, Ashley Burke, said in an e-
mail. DynCorp is a unit of New York-based Cerberus Capital
Management LP.  “We respect and support the important role of oversight in
government contracting, and are working closely with our
customer and outside auditors to answer any questions that have
been asked, provide additional documentation, if needed, and
ensure that any issues are addressed to the satisfaction of the
government,” she said.  The “reconciliation” is necessary because the INL Bureau
“has no confidence in the accuracy of over $1 billion in
charges” from DynCorp on early police training billings, the
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, Stuart Bowen,
said in a Jan. 25, 2010, audit.  The  audit  disclosed “long-standing weaknesses” in State
Department oversight of the company’s work. Bowen recommended
that the State Department conduct invoice reviews and seek
reimbursements where appropriate.  ‘Initial Stages’  The refunds “tell me they’ve accomplished the initial
stages of implementing our recommendations to recover questioned
costs,” he said today in a telephone interview.  “It’s crucial for State to take our recommendations
seriously and follow up, particularly in regard to questioned
costs,” he said. “We have audited the police training contract
a number of times, and each audit has uncovered serious
problems.”  He said that “this particular audit found enormous
weaknesses in controls of what was in excess of $1 billion to
support police training. We asked years ago that they provide a
better accounting for the use of that money and where
documentation was weak they go back to the contractor and
recover funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  