-- 
E.Coli Won’t Have ‘Significant Impact’ on Organic Food Industry

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-06T13:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/e-coli-won-t-have-significant-impact-on-organic-food-industry.html
A deadly E.coli outbreak that is
being blamed on sprouts grown without chemicals probably won’t
dent people’s support for the organic food industry in the long
term, according to London-based analyst Organic Monitor.  The outbreak has killed 22 and made 2,263 people ill,
according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control. About 18 sprouts including bean and broccoli from a
farm near Uelzen,  Germany  are being investigated to determine
whether they’re the source of the E.coli, Gert Lindemann, the
state agriculture minister, said yesterday.  While sales of fruits and vegetables in  Europe  are being
hit, Amarjit Sahota, director of Organic Monitor, doesn’t expect
the E.coli outbreak to hurt the organic industry in the long
term because people are more worried about health issues
associated with traditional farming.  “Even if the E.coli outbreak is linked to organic bean
sprouts, we do not expect this to have a significant impact on
organic food sales in the long run,” Sahota said, pointing to a
pork scare earlier this year.  Dioxin, a byproduct of chemical manufacturing that is
thought to be a cancer-causing substance, was found in pig feed
in Germany in January, curbing demand for pork.  “In Germany, organic food sales have been rising at a
rapid rate since the dioxin scare earlier this year,” Sahota
said. “Organic meat product sales have shown high growth
because of consumers’ fears for  food safety .”  Market Worth Billions  The organic market in the U.S. is worth around $25 billion,
Sahota said. Germany has the largest market for organic products
in Europe, worth around 5.5 billion euros ($8 billion), he said.  Russia on June 2 banned vegetable imports from the European
Union, and Qatar imposed a temporary moratorium on tomato,
lettuce and cucumber imports from Germany and Spain, Qatar News
Agency said.  Usually E. coli is transmitted when feces, often from an
animal source, are ingested. In a 2006 California outbreak,
spinach was contaminated with E.coli, killing three people and
sickening 200. Cow feces had contaminated the water where the
vegetables were growing.  The latest outbreak was originally blamed on cucumbers in
 Spain , where the fruits and vegetables industry is losing 225
million euros a week, said FEPEX, the Spanish Federation of
Associations of Producers and Exporters of Fruits, Vegetables,
Flowers and Live Plants.  Lost Sales  “That refers to missed sales and devaluation of the
product,” said Jose Maria Pozancos, director general for FEPEX.
“There are many products that are still being sold, with
difficulty, but with declines in prices of 50 percent, 60
percent or 70 percent.”  Dutch horticulture losses are estimated at 80 million euros
a week, said Saskia Zeilstra, a spokeswoman for trade group
Produktschap Tuinbouw.  “You’re already seeing a lot of orders being canceled,”
Zeilstra said. “A very large part of our production is shipped
abroad, so it’s both exports and domestic.”  Germany is the largest export market for Dutch horticulture
products, followed by the U.K. and  Russia , according to the
trade group.  “By now it’s been proven many times that our fruit and
vegetables are clean and can be consumed safely,” said Nico van
Ruiten, head of trade group LTO Glaskracht Nederland yesterday.
“The problems with sales of salad vegetables are an issue in
multiple EU countries, which means that the Dutch vegetable
industry is weighed down by a seriously distorted market.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tony Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  