-- 
The High Price of Anonymous Cash in American Political Campaigns

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/the-high-price-of-anonymous-cash-in-american-political-campaigns.html
The 2012 election is almost certain
to be the most expensive in history -- and that’s not a bad
thing. Communicating with a nation of 310 million -- via town
halls and television ads -- is costly. As long as campaign
contributions and expenditures are well-documented, voters
benefit from the increase in information and attention that
money buys. But as a Bloomberg News investigation last month
revealed, anonymous donors spent at least $137 million in 2010
to influence the composition of Congress. They are sure to spend
more in the 2012 campaign, subverting electoral accountability
with every undisclosed dollar.  Last year, Republican groups won the opacity sweepstakes.
Conservative groups relying on anonymous funds outspent liberal
ones by 7-1, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics .
One such group,  American Action Network , used anonymous
contributions to pay for 178 airings of an ad claiming
Democratic Representative Ed Perlmutter of  Colorado  had
supported dispensing Viagra to rapists and pedophiles. The claim
was false. American Action’s chairman, political veteran
Frederick V. Malek, refused to disclose his donors and claimed
he was unaware of the “specifics” of the ads his group had
produced. Another group, Taxpayer Network, produced attack ads
against California Senator  Barbara Boxer  that falsely accused
her of denying health care to wounded veterans.  ‘Outside Groups’  American Action, Taxpayer Network and others are routinely
called “outside groups” because they are not official party
committees, and they are forbidden from coordinating with
parties or candidates. In reality, they are consummate insiders
whose efforts are choreographed. Most of the groups emerged from
a nexus of entrenched party operatives and donors. For instance,
 American Crossroads , another group, raised $71 million for the
2010 campaign; it is the brainchild of  Karl Rove . As the
Bloomberg report pointed out, in addition to serving as conduits
for anonymous donations, many of these groups fail to report
their spending to the  Federal Election Commission  as required by
law.  Is this anonymous flood of money the  Supreme Court ’s fault?
The short answer is: yes on the open floodgates; no on the
anonymity. In its 5-4 ruling last year in Citizen’s United, the
court removed restrictions on spending. But at least there was a
plausible Constitutional theory behind the ruling -- money
equals speech, which cannot be proscribed. The Court’s decision
was based on an explicit presumption that all donations would be
disclosed, thus enabling the kind of transparency and
accountability that distinguishes democracies from banana
republics. As former FEC Chairman Trevor Potter wrote  here ,
however, the FEC issued rules enabling anonymous donations to
flourish, effectively undermining the Court.  Handy Excuse  Having been clobbered by anonymously financed attack ads in
2010, Democrats are now forming their own groups for 2012 --
replete with innocuous names such as “Priorities USA.”
Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland  tried to
bring transparency to campaigns last year with the Disclose Act.
But he was undercut by his own party when the  National Rifle
Association  demanded to be exempted from the law, and Democrats
obliged. (A few other large organizations, including unions,
would have walked through the NRA loophole). Republicans, who
had opposed the bill even without the loophole, were given a
handy excuse to kill it.  Contractor Requirements  President  Barack Obama  has recently proposed extending
campaign disclosure requirements to federal contractors, under
the theory that some disclosure is better than none. He is
mistaken. Requiring only companies with federal contracts to
disclose is not only inadequate, it is potentially dangerous.
Think of it this way: Do we really want the White House paying
extra attention to the political activities of corporations
dependent on federal largesse?  For years, Republicans and Democrats alike supported
transparency in political funding. Only after anonymous
donations received a green light from the FEC did Republicans
switch positions. Now that Republicans control the  House of
Representatives , perhaps they can draw inspiration from a member
of their own caucus who realized the threat posed by secret
donors well before they became an actual menace. “To have all of
this unregulated campaign cash going to these organizations and
allowing them to engage in campaign activities without any
disclosure is -- it’s wrong.” That was  John Boehner  in 2006,
five years before he became House Speaker. He and Democratic
Senate leader  Harry Reid  would do the republic a favor by
introducing bipartisan legislation to require disclosure of all
political contributions. Anything short of that standard is an
invitation to scandal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 