-- 
East African Breweries Will Buy Stake in Kenya Breweries for $225 Million

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-06T13:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/east-african-breweries-will-buy-stake-in-kenya-breweries-for-225-million.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Kenyan unit agreed to
buy  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s 20 percent stake in Kenya Breweries Ltd. for
19.5 billion shillings ($225 million) as part of an agreement to
end cross-shareholdings in each other’s operations.  East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) , in which Diageo owns a 50.03
percent stake, will also sell its 20 percent holding in
SABMiller’s  Tanzania Breweries Ltd. (TBL)  in a public offering, the
Nairobi-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The
sale is to satisfy conditions imposed by Tanzania’s antitrust
regulator after it approved EABL’s purchase of Serengeti
Breweries Ltd. last year.  Kenya Breweries and Tanzania Breweries previously held a 20
percent shareholding in each other in terms of an agreement
under which the companies marketed each other’s products. EABL,
East Africa’s biggest company by market value, already owns 80
percent of  Kenya  Breweries.  East African’s purchase of SABMiller’s stake “means that
SABMiller is going to come back to the Kenyan market,” Eric Musau, an analyst at Nairobi-based African Alliance Securities
Kenya Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Diageo, the maker of Guinness stout and Smirnoff vodka,
said in October it will invest 100 million pounds ($164 million)
to expand in Africa in 2011 as growth on the continent helps
compensate for slowing sales in  Europe  and the U.S. The company
posted a 10 percent increase in net sales excluding acquisitions
last year.  Kibo Tanzania  The transactions are a reversal of a deal agreed between
the SABMiller and Diageo in May 2002 when EABL bought Castle
Breweries Ltd., the Kenyan unit of SABMiller, and the right to
brew and distribute Castle’s brands in Kenya, Beth Longcroft, a
business media relations manager for SABMiller, said in a phone
interview from  London .  In return SABMiller acquired Kibo Breweries Ltd. in
Tanzania and the rights to brew and distribute EABL’s brands in
Tanzania, Longcroft said.  “What that means is that immediately we take
responsibility for the sale and distribution of Castle Lager and
Redds in Kenya,” she said. “We intend to do so as soon as we
possibly can, initially importing our products from Tanzania
Breweries Ltd.”  Once EABL sells its stake in Tanzania Breweries, “there
are no restrictions on SABMiller’s entrance into the Kenyan
market,” Longcroft said.  ‘Best Interests’  SABMiller controls 75 percent of the alcoholic drinks
market share in Tanzania, she said. In Kenya, EABL’s market
share by revenue is 73 percent and 68 percent of volumes,
Wycliffe Masinde, an analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital
East  Africa  Ltd., said in an e-mailed note in May 2010.  “We believe that our best interests in East Africa are
served by following an independent strategy,” Brenda Mbathi, a
spokeswoman for EABL, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The EABL urged shareholders to exercise caution in their
dealings in the company’s stock until further notice. The
shares, which trade on the Kenyan, Tanzanian and Ugandan stock
exchanges, erased an earlier decline of as much as 0.9 percent
to close unchanged at 214 shillings by the 3 p.m. close in
Nairobi.  “The main concern for shareholders is how the transaction
will be financed,” Musau said. “It is a substantial amount,
but the value of Kenya Breweries rises because it has less
competition for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  