-- 
Miami Heat Defeat Dallas Mavericks by 88-86 to Take 2-1 Lead in NBA Finals

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-06T06:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/heat-defeat-mavericks-88-86-to-take-2-1-lead-in-nba-finals.html
The  Miami Heat  held on in the fourth
quarter this time, beating the  Dallas Mavericks  88-86 on the
road for a two-games-to-one lead in the National Basketball
Association Finals.  Dwyane Wade  had 29 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Heat,
who lost Game 2 after blowing a 15-point lead in Miami.  The Heat withstood another Mavericks’ rally last night at
American Airlines Center in Dallas, where  Dirk Nowitzki  scored
12 straight points before throwing a pass out of bounds with 30
seconds left and missing a two-point shot at the buzzer.  “We felt this was a must-win, by any means necessary,”
Wade said during a news conference. “It was a big win for us
and we did a good job withstanding all their runs.”  The win bodes well for Miami, which got 18 points from
 Chris Bosh  and 17 points and nine assists from  LeBron James .  Since the best-of-seven NBA Finals went to its current
format in 1985, the Game 3 winner in series that were tied 1-1
went on to capture the championship on all 11 occasions.  “The tough part now is amnesia -- both teams are highly
competitive,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “We have to
gather ourselves and get right back and do this again.  The Mavericks, after losing at home for the second time in
nine postseason games, will host Game 4 tomorrow. Game 5 of the
NBA Finals is in Dallas on June 9.  Nowitzki’s Surge  The Heat led 81-74 last night with 6:31 remaining before
Nowitzki scored 12 consecutive points for the Mavericks to tie
the score 86-86.  After Jason Terry missed a shot that could have put  Dallas 
ahead, Bosh took a pass from James and hit a 16-foot jumper with
39 seconds left to put Miami back in front 86-84.  “It’s just the trust we have in our abilities, no matter
what point the game is at,” James said in a news conference.  While Nowitzki turned the ball over with 30 seconds
remaining -- throwing a pass out of bounds as he was guarded by
two defenders -- the Mavericks got the ball back with four
seconds left. Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 34 points, took the
inbounds pass and missed his final shot from just beyond the
free throw line as time expired.  “The fact that we were digging out of holes all night was
something that was difficult to overcome,” Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said.  The Heat, who got 12 points from Mario Chalmers off the
bench on four 3-pointers, improved to 4-0 following a loss this
postseason. Miami is now two wins from its second title in six
years, having beaten Nowitzki and the Mavericks in six games in
the 2006 NBA Finals.  “I’ve moved on from this win already,” Wade said. “The
next game is a big game. We have to bring our hard hats,
understanding it’s going to be harder to win that one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 