-- 
Ecobank Expects Loan Growth of 20% This Year, CEO Ekpe Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-06T13:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ecobank-expects-loan-growth-of-20-this-year-ceo-ekpe-says-1-.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender by geographical spread, sees loan growth of about
20 percent in 2011 and limited expansion as it’s “bedding in”
earlier growth, Chief Executive Officer Arnold Ekpe said.  “We have become much more discriminatory,” Ekpe said in
an interview in London today. “As you become bigger it is
harder to grow.”  Togo-based Ecobank, whose shares trade in Ghana,  Nigeria 
and on West Africa’s regional bourse, more than doubled profit
in 2010 to $112.7 million from $51.1 million a year earlier, as
net interest income rose and bad loans dropped.  Ecobank, which has 760 branches in 30 countries in Africa
according to Ekpe, is “not really focused on expansion” though
the lender has “some gaps to fill” with possible commercial
banking moves into Angola and  Equatorial Guinea , where it’s
awaiting regulatory approval, he said.  The lender is also exploring opportunities in  Mozambique 
and  Southern Sudan , Ekpe said. “It’s not like we need to do it
in six or 12 months,” he said.  Ecobank’s non-performing loan ratio has dropped to “single
digits,” said Ekpe. The decline in non-performing loans from
15.2 percent in the year through December 2010 is partly because
loans were sold to the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a
state-owned company set up to buy debt from the nation’s
operators.  Nigeria Growth  The Central Bank of Nigeria provided 620 billion naira ($4
billion) to eight of the nation’s 24 lenders after loans to
equity speculators contributed to 700 billion naira of non-
performing debt in 2009, according to the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission in Abuja. Governor Lamido Sanusi fired the
chief executives of the distressed lenders and set up Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, to help recapitalize them
before matching them with potential buyers. Ecobank’s Nigerian
unit was not one of the bailed out banks.  Ecobank is looking to grow in Nigeria, Africa’s most
populous nation, both through existing operations and by
acquisition, said Ekpe. “We have looked around” for a bank to
buy in the nation, he said, declining to name any.  ‘We look to be in the top three of every market we are
in,’’ said Ekpe. “In Nigeria we are mid-sized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  