-- 
Edcon, Owned by Bain, Says Loss Widened as Foreign Exchange Gains Declined

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-06T07:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/edcon-owned-by-bain-says-loss-widens-as-foreign-exchange-note-gains-fall.html
Edcon Holdings (Pty) Ltd., the South
African clothing retailer controlled by private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, said its annual net loss widened as foreign-
exchange gains on corporate notes declined.  The loss in the 12 months through April 2 totaled 1.84
billion rand ($273 million) compared with 1.16 billion rand a
year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company,  South Africa ’s
largest clothing retailer, said in its  annual report  published
today. Sales rose 2.9 percent to 25.6 billion rand.  Bain, based in  Boston , bought Edcon in May 2007 for 25
billion rand in an effort to tap rising consumer spending in
Africa’s largest economy. The retailer, whose chains include
Edgars, Jet, CNA, Boardmans and Red Square, closed a net 47
stores during the year, leaving it with 1,181 outlets.  “We believe that the South African economy is improving,
and that the outlook remains positive, despite some short-term
challenges, such as job losses,” the company said. Trading
profit rose as the company improved marketing and buying, and
tighter cost controls.  About 94 percent of Edcon’s sales were made in South
 Africa , with the balance coming from Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia
and Swaziland. Currency gains on the company’s notes fell to 230
million rand from 4.6 billion rand a year earlier.  Trading Profit Rises  Trading profit, which excludes interest, taxes, financing
costs, financial derivatives and currencies, climbed 14 percent
to 2.4 billion rand. Earnings were helped by increased marketing
efforts, purchasing and cost controls, it said.  Edcon said risks to its business include wider competition
from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which on May 31 received conditional
approval from antitrust authorities to buy a 51 percent stake in
South African wholesaler  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)   Retailers competing for market share, especially those with
bigger financial resources and purchasing power, “can place and
will continue to place pressure on our pricing strategy, margins
and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations,” Edcon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 