-- 
Egypt Agrees to Cancel Tax on Listed Companies’ Dividends

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-06T15:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/egypt-agrees-to-cancel-tax-on-listed-companies-dividends-1-.html
Egypt ’s listed companies will be
exempt from a proposed tax on dividends after the  Finance
Ministry  agreed to a stock market demand, Egyptian Exchange
Chairman Mohamed Abdel Salam said.  The bourse said that the tax would deter investors and
discourage companies from going public, Abdel Salam said 
today in a telephone interview.  “We convinced them by showing the numbers,” he said.
“The 400 or 500 million pounds ($67 million to $84 million) the
tax was going to bring in would be outweighed by the detrimental
effect on investment. This exemption will encourage people to
invest in the bourse and companies to go public.”  Last week, Egypt unveiled a capital gains tax on dividends
and higher corporate tax for the fiscal year starting next
month, to rein in the  budget deficit . The country’s transition
government is raising subsidy spending and state employees’ pay
to meet demand for improving living standards. A revolt ended 30
years of rule by former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Egypt’s proposed capital gains tax is a “disaster” that
will scare people away from the country’s stock market, Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  said today on Bloomberg Television
before Abdel Salam’s announcement.  The exemption will apply to the 228 companies listed on the
exchange, Abdel Salam said. The country’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
of stocks, whose 10 percent gain in May made it the world’s third-
best performer, lost 0.8 percent to 5,402.15 at the 2:30 p.m.
close in Cairo. It retreated 2.7 percent on June 2, the first
trading day after the government’s tax announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  