-- 
Egypt Central Bank ‘Ready to Tighten’ on Price Pressures

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-06-06T09:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/egypt-central-bank-ready-to-tighten-on-price-pressures-1-.html
Egyptian  central bank  policy makers
will be “vigilant” to prevent new price pressures even as
inflation is expected to remain stable near current “elevated”
levels.  Egypt  yesterday announced a $3 billion loan agreement with
the  International Monetary Fund  as the North African country
seeks to fund its widening budget deficit after a popular revolt
earlier this year ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  The central bank “will remain vigilant and ready to
tighten its policy stance if inflation pressures were to rise,”
according to the country’s economic program for the fiscal year
starting next month.  “Inflation will remain broadly stable in the coming fiscal
year, albeit at a relatively elevated level,” said the document
entitled “Egypt’s Economic Program” posted on the  Ministry of
Finance  website.  The comments signal that the Cairo-based central bank may
not lower  interest rates  even as the economy reels under the
effects of the revolt. Economic growth may slow to 2.6 percent
in the fiscal year that ends this month compared with 5.1
percent in the previous year, Finance Minister Samir Radwan has
said.  “A cut is unlikely because there are high inflationary
pressures; at the same time, they cannot increase the rates
because they want to encourage investments,” Mona Mansour, the
co-head of research at CI Capital, the Cairo-based investment
bank, said in a phone interview. “It’s most probable that they
will maintain as is.”  ‘Broadly Appropriate’  Inflation in urban parts of the country, the benchmark rate
that the central bank monitors, accelerated to an annual rate of
12.1 percent in April from 11.5 percent in the previous month,
fueled by rising food prices, one of the reasons that sparked
the uprising that unseated Mubarak.  If there’s “a big hike in prices,” in the future, then
the central bank may consider tightening, Mansour said.  The central bank, which is independent under Egyptian law,
has left its benchmark overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent on
April 28, the lowest level since November 2006. Justifying the
decision, the bank said the “expected slowdown in economic
growth could largely offset the upside risks on inflation.”  “Given the nature of inflation and the weakness of
domestic demand, the current monetary policy stance remains
broadly appropriate,” the document dated June 5 said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 fam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  