-- 
Barclays Must Pay Lehman Brokerage $2 Billion in Margin

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-07T16:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/lehman-brokerage-gets-2-billion-from-barclays-in-ruling-on-margin-assets.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American business, must return $2
billion in margin assets to the trustee liquidating the remains
of Lehman’s brokerage and pay about $270 million in interest, a
bankruptcy judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  New York  yesterday said
Barclays must pay the trustee 5 percent interest on the assets
from September 2008 until he signs his final order on the case.
Barclays will appeal, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The amount Barclays must return will be offset by
$1.1 billion in assets that the two parties previously agreed
should go to the U.K. bank, which bought Lehman’s businesses in
the 2008 credit crisis. That cuts its cost to about
$1.2 billion, including interest. However, Barclays lost its bid
for $1.9 billion in margin to offset liabilities it took on with
some of the brokerage’s trading positions.  Peck’s “ruling brings finality to this issue by confirming
that the $4 billion in Lehman cash and other margin assets
belongs to the Trustee,” William Maguire, a lawyer for
brokerage trustee James Giddens, said in an e-mail. The judge
said he would publish his ruling later.  Barclays fell 1.45 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 262.55 pence
in  London  trading today. The shares earlier dropped as much as
1.3 percent. They are little changed this year.  Maximum Loss  Barclays’s “maximum possible loss” on the litigation is
2.6 billion pounds ($4.3 billion), according to the bank’s 2010
annual report. The number represents Lehman assets acquired and
not received, it said. Against that, Barclays made a loss
provision of about 600 million pounds, saying it was satisfied
with the provision as the maximum loss is “not considered
probable.”  The company’s balance sheet reflects 2 billion pounds of
the 2.6 billion pounds in undelivered assets, it said.  Peck in court yesterday affirmed a February ruling, saying
its meaning had been clear. The continuing dispute between
Barclays and the brokerage over $4 billion in so-called margin
assets used to back trades arose partly from Barclays’s effort
to change its argument by claiming it was entitled to noncash
margin, he said.  2010 Trial  The dispute, arising from Barclays’s September 2008
purchase of bankrupt Lehman’s businesses and subsequent profit
on them, led to a bankruptcy court trial in 2010 with more than
30 days of testimony. The trial pitted the third-biggest U.K.
bank against two defunct parts of what was once the fourth-
largest U.S. investment bank.  Barclays, based in London, and the Lehman brokerage
continued their quarrel after Peck’s February ruling didn’t
specify how they must divide some components of the assets, held
to back trades taken over by Barclays with the purchase.  Negotiations reached “the end of the road” May 9, Peck
was told by  David Boies , Barclays’s lawyer, and Maguire.  As part of his demands, Giddens wanted Barclays to return
about $2 billion in assets held to back trades and pay interest
at 9 percent. The claim for return of assets was “consistent”
with Peck’s February ruling that Barclays must pay or return any
cash it had taken in the deal, the judge said at a May 9
hearing.  Liquidation Threat  Conversely, Barclays claimed about $1.9 billion in margin
assets to offset Lehman liabilities and losses it took on at
Options Clearing Corp. The derivatives-clearing organization
threatened to liquidate Lehman’s trading positions in the 2008
financial crisis, Barclays said in court.  Barclays assumed $1.1 billion in liabilities at the
Clearing Corp. and lost $730 million on options in the
brokerage’s proprietary accounts, Barclays lawyer Jonathan Schiller told Peck in a letter filed in court on June 3.  After Peck’s February ruling, Barclays argued that it was
entitled to noncash margin that it needed to support trading
operations it acquired from Lehman.  The trustee was holding about $1 billion in noncash margin,
consisting of  government securities  with maturities of three
months to more than 15 years, Schiller wrote to Peck.  About one-fourth of another pool of $879 million in margin
assets wasn’t cash, he said. That pool of margin was in the
hands of third-party brokers or Lehman affiliates, he said.  “Why didn’t this come up at trial?” Peck asked Boies on
May 9. “It was never presented to me that some of the margin
was invested in long-term government securities.”  ‘Basic Argument’  Boies said the bank believed “the basic argument” at the
trial was over whether Barclays should return only cash and cash
equivalents, not longer-term government securities.  Maguire said the trustee, who fought for all the margin
during the trial, still maintained that Barclays wasn’t entitled
to any government securities, whether they matured in months
“or in 90 years.”  Demands were higher at the trial, when the New York-based
Lehman parent company and the brokerage tried to recoup profit
Barclays had made on the purchase, and Barclays said it was
still owed $3 billion on the deal. The brokerage trustee
demanded about $7 billion from Barclays, and the Lehman parent
sought an alleged $11 billion “windfall” it said Barclays made
on the purchase.  Claim Denied  Peck denied the Lehman parent’s claim and reduced the
trustee’s right to assets. The February ruling left Barclays and
the brokerage wrangling over the $4 billion in margin assets.  “We are pleased with the court’s February ruling that
upheld the sale of  Lehman Brothers ’ North American business,”
said Barclays spokesman Michael O’Looney, in an e-mail. “We are
also pleased that the trustee has agreed to transfer
$1.1 billion in trading assets to Barclays. However, there are
aspects of the ruling with which we disagree and which we will
appeal.”  Giddens said, “We were obligated to take this matter to
court to protect LBI’s public customers. Our efforts have been
vindicated and customers will benefit.” LBI is  Lehman Brothers
Inc ., the remnants of the brokerage.  Lehman wrote to Peck on April 29, saying it was still
claiming $500 million from Barclays for allegedly failing to pay
all of the bonuses the U.K. bank agreed to when it bought the
defunct investment firm’s business. Barclays has said it paid
all the promised bonuses and other compensation.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  