-- 
Lehman-Rebuke, Rules Study, Greek Rescue Agency: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-06T12:43:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/lehman-rebuke-rules-study-greek-rescue-agency-sac-compliance.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators may issue a public rebuke of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and its former executives instead of
suing them for actions that led to the firm’s 2008 failure,
three people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  SEC enforcement lawyers, who have struggled for more than
two years to find definitive evidence that the company and its
leaders violated securities laws, are concerned that a legal
attack on Lehman’s accounting practices would likely fail, the
people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations aren’t public.  Instead, the enforcement staff may recommend that the
agency take the rare step of publishing a so-called  report of
investigation , also known as a 21(a) report. The commission
would have to vote on whether to issue a report and it’s still
possible that the SEC may decide to bring legal claims in court,
the people said. The 21(a) reports, which lay out allegations of
misconduct without imposing penalties, have only been issued six
times in the past decade, according to the SEC’s website.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokesman for Lehman, declined to
comment. Patricia Hynes, an attorney at Allen & Overy LLP for
Lehman’s ex-chief executive officer Richard Fuld, and Robert
Cleary, a lawyer at Proskauer Rose LLP for former finance chief
Erin Callan, didn’t respond to e-mails. Florence Harmon, an SEC
spokesman, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  For a video report, click here.  Compliance Policy  Rules Study Backed by Republicans ‘Deeply Flawed,’ Sunstein Says  A U.S.  Small Business Administration  study estimating
regulations cost $1.75 trillion is “deeply flawed,” the Obama
administration’s rules chief said, as Republicans said new rules
are hurting job growth.  The  study  by Nicole V. Crain and W. Mark Crain of Lafayette
College in Easton, Pennsylvania, has “become a bit of an urban
legend,” Cass Sunstein, director of the  White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs , testified June 3 to a
congressional hearing.  Sunstein said the  Office of Management and Budget  reached a
different conclusion, finding that rules such as environmental
or worker safety protections often have a net benefit for the
economy.  Republican lawmakers said a rush of regulations from the
Obama administration is to blame for a weak U.S. job market, and
cited the study’s finding to support their complaint.
Unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent in May from 9
percent in April, the Labor Department reported June 3.  The administration said May 26 that 30 U.S. agencies are
seeking to repeal or modify regulations in an effort to reduce
reporting requirements and save businesses and individuals
billions of dollars in compliance costs.  Republicans have said that has so far failed to slow the
compliance process.  For more, click here.  Greece  to Get Next Aid Payment as Officials Plan New Bailout  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed to pay the next installment to Greece under last year’s
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout, paving the way for an
upgraded aid package that includes a “voluntary” role for
investors.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou agreed to set up an
agency to manage an accelerated asset-sale effort and will make
“significant” cuts in public-sector employment, according to a
statement released June 3 in Athens.  The agreements capped a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis
worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the
probability of a default to 50 percent. Bonds gained June 3 on
the prospect of a new aid plan, with the yield on the country’s
two-year notes falling 146 basis points to 23.1 percent.  Consumer Bureau to ‘Nudge’ Americans Toward Rational Decisions  When the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
officially begins work next month, it will set in motion what
will become the largest field test to date of a set of ideas
known as behavioral economics.  The Harvard University law professor in charge of setting
up the bureau,  Elizabeth Warren , used tenets of behavioral
economics to propose creating the agency.  The consumer bureau will write and enforce rules for a
broad array of credit products, including mortgages, credit
cards and payday loans. Lenders are likely to have to alter
their products, marketing and business models to comply.  As a result, business groups are beginning to study
behavioral economics. The field emerged in the last two decades
in reaction to the prevailing assumption that consumers are
fundamentally rational, making decisions that maximize their
economic interests. Behavioral economics, influenced by
psychology, asserts that consumers are often irrational or
unable to make the optimal decisions. Some behaviorists say
patterns of irrational decision-making can be observed
empirically, and policies designed to help consumers make more
economically rational choices.  Critics contend that whatever the value of behavioral
insights in economics, it may be unwise to apply its lessons to
law, policy and regulation. Concerns have been raised by
Republicans about government paternalism and laws that intervene
too much in financial decisions.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Goldman Sachs Criminal Probe May Use Powerful  New York  Law  The criminal investigation of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  by
the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office has at its disposal a
90-year-old New York law that makes it easier for state
prosecutors to bring charges than their federal counterparts.  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. subpoenaed Goldman Sachs,
the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, for records on its
activities leading into the credit crisis, two people familiar
with the matter said. Vance may bring charges under the state’s
Martin Act, which lawyers call a potent tool for New York
prosecutors probing investment frauds, Ponzi schemes and other
white-collar crime.  To prove  securities fraud  in federal court, U.S.
prosecutors must show that a defendant intended to defraud
victims and that the investors relied on misstatements or
omissions. Under the Martin Act, New York prosecutors aren’t
required to prove intent, said  Michael Perino , a law professor
at St. John’s University in New York.  Vance’s subpoena of New York-based Goldman Sachs related to
the U.S. Senate’s  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations 
report on Wall Street’s role in the collapse of the financial
markets, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public. Goldman Sachs has stated that
the testimony given by its executives before the committee was
“truthful and accurate.”  For more, click here.  European Ombudsman Closes Probe into Bank Watchdog  The  European Ombudsman  closed a transparency probe into the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors  after its successor,
the European Banking Authority, published a list of participants
at a meeting on bonuses.  A Swedish trade union representative made the complaint
after he was denied a participant list following the meeting
last year.  The ombudsman investigates complaints into European Union
institutions. The EBA took over from CEBS at the start of this
year.  America Movil  Faces New Competition Rules, De Swaan Says  America Movil SAB, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
will face new rules as soon as this month that could force it to
cut prices as Mexico’s dominant phone carrier, the head of the
country’s regulator said.  The Federal Telecommunications Commission plans around June
15 to apply restrictions to America Movil’s fixed-line unit in
the market for leasing lines to rivals, Mony de Swaan, the
agency’s president, said in an interview at the Bloomberg News
Mexico City bureau June 2. Next will be regulations for its
mobile-phone unit, which could affect consumer prices, he said.  The new rules will be based on 2009 and 2010 findings by
Mexico’s antitrust agency that the company is dominant in
different market segments, allowing de Swaan’s agency to single
out the carrier with specific regulations. America Movil is
challenging those antitrust rulings.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, had no immediate
comment on the agency’s plans, said an official who can’t be
named under company policy.  America Movil has 70 percent of Mexico’s wireless
subscribers. Its fixed-line unit, Telefonos de Mexico SAB, known
as Telmex, has 80 percent of the country’s land lines and about
70 percent of its Internet connections.  De Swaan is pushing for actions he says will level the
playing field between America Movil and its rivals.  For more, click here.  Cohen’s SAC Said to Receive $250 Million in Deposits in 2011  Investors have put $250 million into the main hedge fund of
Steve Cohen’s SAC Capital Management LLC this year, even as
prosecutors investigate accounts tied to two former portfolio
managers who pleaded guilty to  insider trading , according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The fund, which returned 9 percent this year through May,
has attracted a net $1.5 billion since mid-2010. The new
commitments don’t include money put in by Cohen and employees of
the $14 billion firm, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm, declined to comment on the deposits.  SAC has come under scrutiny in an insider-trading probe
that has ensnared  hedge funds , corporate executives and so-
called expert networking firms. At other funds, government
scrutiny has lead to large redemptions or closures.  For more, click here.  Courts  JPMorgan Seeks Dismissal of $6.4 Billion Madoff Trustee Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sought to dismiss a $6.4 billion
lawsuit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying
he doesn’t have the right to sue the bank on behalf of the con
man’s investors.  Trustee Irving Picard sued JPMorgan in U.S. Bankruptcy
court in Manhattan in December, alleging it ignored signs of
fraud as billions of dollars flowed from Madoff’s account at the
bank to investors. JPMorgan was Madoff’s primary banker. The
lawsuit seeks $1 billion in fees and transfers, and $5.4 billion
in damages, alleging that JPMorgan defrauded federal regulators
and violated banking law.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, asked in a filing
June 3 that a U.S. District Court judge dismiss the suit. The
trustee’s “complaint never alleges facts showing that anyone at
JPMorgan knew that Madoff was a crook,” the bank said in the
filing.  Picard was hired to liquidate Madoff’s firm and doesn’t
have the legal right to sue on behalf of investors in the $17
billion Ponzi scheme, New York-based JPMorgan said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office after regular business hours.  The bank’s case is one of at least three that has been
moved from bankruptcy court to district court, in a challenge to
Picard’s authority.  The appeal is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-
00913, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Shanghai’s Fang Says Foreign Stocks Board ‘Very Close’  Fang Xinghai, director general of Shanghai’s financial
services office, talked about  China ’s plan to start a board for
the listing of overseas companies.  Shanghai Stock Exchange officials are seeking to lure
multinational companies as part of a drive to build the city
into a global financial center by 2020. Fang, who also discussed
the yuan, spoke with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move Asia.”  For the video, click here.  Tarullo Says Fed Should Oppose Mergers That Increase Risk  Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said regulators
should use capital surcharges to discourage mergers by large
banks that would increase risk without yielding significant
public benefits.  Tarullo signaled that the Fed aims to use tougher capital
standards correlated to the size of a firm to curb risks posed
by “systemically important financial institutions,” or
“SIFIs.” The new rules would mesh with international standards
now under discussion, he said June 3 in a speech in  Washington .  “There is little evidence that the size, complexity, and
reach of some of today’s SIFIs are necessary in order to realize
achievable economies of scale,” said Tarullo, the Fed governor
responsible for supervision and regulation. “The regulatory
structure for SIFIs should discourage systemically consequential
growth or mergers unless the benefits to society are clearly
significant.”  The world’s largest banks face one of the biggest revisions
of capital, liquidity and risk management requirements by
regulators responding to public opposition to government
bailouts. The Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. mandates that the Fed
establish heightened standards for banks with assets over $50
billion. In addition, global regulators are hammering out
accords in Basel, Switzerland, that would more than double the
minimum common equity requirement for banks.  The Fed is developing a metric for banks with more than $50
billion in assets that gradually increases capital requirements
according to measures of systemic importance including size,
Tarullo said.  For more, click here.  Adviser Fees Drive Takeovers Like Cadbury, Says U.K.’s Cable  U.K. Business  Secretary Vince Cable attacked a corporate
culture that he said leads to takeovers driven by the desire of
advisers to earn fees rather than by real prospects of
increasing company value.  Cable made the remarks at a conference of the  GMB union  in
Brighton on England’s south coast.  Last year’s takeover of Cadbury Plc by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  is
an example of the kind of deal that makes Cable believe there
should be a change, Cable said.  The Takeover Panel started a review of Britain’s takeover
code after the buyout provoked criticism from politicians, who
said the outcome of the hostile bid was overly influenced by
short-term investors seeking profit.  “We are seeing too many company takeovers which reduce or
destroy value and are driven by the fat fees earned by the
lawyers and banks who facilitate them,” Cable said. “I have
made it clear -- post Cadbury -- that there have to be changes
and I am pleased that the Takeover Panel has come up with modest
but useful changes to reduce unnecessary takeovers.”  One of the rule changes would require potential buyers to
make a firm offer within four weeks of announcing an approach,
in order to curb so-called virtual offers. The changes being
proposed are intended to protect shareholders of companies that
are targets of takeover bids.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Volcker Named to Panel Advising FDIC on Too-Big-to-Fail  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker and former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  co-chairman John Reed have been named to a
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. panel that will help the agency
map strategy for unwinding too-big-to-fail financial firms when
they collapse.  Volcker, who advised President Barack Obama during
negotiations over what became the Dodd-Frank Act, was named to
the FDIC’s 18-member Advisory Committee on Systemic Resolutions
along with Reed and current executives including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
fixed-income chief Peter Fisher.  The advisory committee will build on the FDIC’s internal
work aimed at creating an orderly resolution regime that will
eliminate the need for taxpayer bailouts to prop up firms whose
collapse could imperil the economy, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the FDIC’s planning.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year, gave
the FDIC expanded power for resolving systemically important
financial firms in the event of a failure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 