-- 
Employment Index in U.S. Decreased in May on Slower Hiring

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-06T14:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/employment-index-in-u-s-decreased-in-may-on-slower-hiring.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. weakened in May to the lowest level in four months, as
employers slowed hiring because of economic uncertainty.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.3 percent to 99.7 from the prior month’s reading of 100.1
that was revised down, the New York-based private research group
said today. The measure climbed 5.3 percent from a year earlier.  Private payrolls climbed 83,000 in May, less than forecast
and the fewest since June 2010, while the nationwide jobless
rate rose to 9.1 percent, a Labor Department report showed last
week. The data fanned concern that the lack of bigger job gains
will limit  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “It is becoming clear that employers are reacting to the
growing uncertainty in the  U.S. economy  by slowing down
hiring,”  Gad Levanon , associate director of macroeconomic
research at the Conference Board, said today in a statement. He
said he expects “moderate job growth to continue.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Declines in five of the index’s eight components
contributed to the decrease in the ETI. These included higher
initial claims for  unemployment benefits  and a drop in the
number of temporary workers, the Conference Board said.  Last week’s Labor Department report showed total payrolls,
inclumding government agencies, increased 54,000 in May
following a revised 232,000 gain the prior month that was
smaller than initially estimated. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a gain of 165,000.  Companies still reducing their workforce include H.J. Heinz
Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker, which in May announced
plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs worldwide and close five
factories.  Dean Foods Co ., the largest U.S. milk processor, said
it cut 600 positions last quarter and 140 early this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  