-- 
Tokyo Electric Slumps Most on Record After Bankruptcy Concerns Resurface

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-06-06T07:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/tepco-slumps-to-record-low-on-radiation-spike.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. shares fell
the most on record after the head of Japan’s biggest stock
exchange said the utility should follow the same route as Japan
Airlines Co. in 2010 and file for  bankruptcy protection .  The owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
plunged as much as 28 percent to 206 yen, the most since at
least September 1974, and was the biggest decliner on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index. The cost of protecting the debt of the
utility known as Tepco traded at a record 1,150 basis points
today, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  Tokyo Stock Exchange President Atsushi Saito said the
utility needs to be restructured, according to the Asahi
newspaper. His comments echo those of Shigeaki Koga -- an
official in the Ministry of International Trade and Industry,
which oversees the nuclear power industry. Koga said in a 14-
page memo on May 11 that Tepco is unable to pay compensation for
the nuclear disaster alone and a company that can’t meet its
financial obligations should file for protection.  “There’s so much uncertainty surrounding what will happen
with the utility that it’s impossible to analyze,” said Naoteru
Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “The stock
moves whenever anybody opens their mouth. Bottom line: this is a
bad story.”  Compensation Estimate  Tepco has slumped 90 percent, erasing about 3.1 trillion
yen ($39 billion) in market value, since the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years. The
cost of dismantling the Fukushima plant may reach 20 trillion
yen, and compensation for households in the 20-kilometer
evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years,
according to the  Japan  Center for Economic Research.  “The government can’t decide on a compensation scheme and
Saito’s comments remind investors of what happened with Japan
Airlines,” said Tsuyoshi Kawada, a senior strategist at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. “There’s concern that many of the
utilities will have to raise capital and uncertainty about their
bonds held by the banks.”  Japanese utilities, led by Kansai Electric Power Co., plan
to sell at least 690 billion yen in bonds this fiscal year, in
part to fund efforts to fortify atomic plants against
earthquakes and tsunamis.  Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station suffered
three reactor meltdowns after the earthquake and tsunami knocked
out power and backup generators, crippling its cooling systems.
The disaster displaced 50,000 households in the evacuation zone
around the plant because of radiation leakages into the air,
soil and sea.  Radiation Levels  Soil samples in some areas outside the exclusion zone
measured more than 1.48 million becquerels a square meter, the
standard used for evacuating residents after the Chernobyl
accident, Tomio Kawata, a fellow at the Nuclear Waste Management
Organization of Japan, said in a research report published May
24 and given to the government.  Tepco on May 20 posted a full-year loss of 1.25 trillion
yen, the biggest on record for a non-financial company in Japan.
The company said it will sell 600 billion in assets and book a
1.1 trillion yen charge for the disaster, which cost president
Masataka Shimizu his job.  Last week, the utility had its long-term  credit rating  cut
to junk status by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. The
utility may post a full-year net loss of about 570 billion yen
on a parent basis, the Tokyo Shimbun reported today, citing an
internal document from the company. Tepco said it wasn’t the
source of the newspaper report.  Default Swaps  On May 23, the cost of protecting Tepco’s debt from default
jumped to 774 basis points, exceeding the 577 point record set
by BP Plc last year following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Five-year credit default swaps protecting Tepco’s debt from
default surged 709.5 basis points since March 10 to 750 basis
points on June 3, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles price quotes by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Tepco will go bankrupt without government backing,
Hisayoshi Nogawa, a structured credit strategist at BNP Paribas
Securities Japan Ltd., said May 23.  Tepco shares closed at 207 yen in Tokyo trading. Kansai
Electric, Japan’s second-largest utility, also plunged after
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. cut its target
price to 1,350 yen from 2,150 yen. The utility fell 8.9 percent
to 1,202 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  