-- 
Tepco’s Government Support at Odds With Market Seeing Default More Likely

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-06-07T07:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/tepco-s-government-support-at-odds-with-market-seeing-default-more-likely.html
The Japanese government’s commitment
to support  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. contrasts with investors
selling its shares at a record pace and betting on a 54 percent
likelihood the utility will default on its debt in five years.  Liquidating Tokyo Electric would cause huge problems and
must be avoided, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
yesterday. The company’s shares fell an unprecedented 28 percent
to 207 yen yesterday after the head of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
said it needs to be restructured. The stock rose today.  Political bickering over the future of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has cast doubt over whether his administration can implement
its plan to ensure that Tokyo Electric compensates victims of a
disaster at its atomic plant. Tepco, as the utility is known,
has slumped 90 percent, erasing about 3.1 trillion yen ($39
billion) in market value, since a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami triggered the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years.  “Speculation that it’s just a matter of time before Tepco
goes bankrupt has been dominating the stock market, in stark
contrast with the government’s efforts to keep it alive,” said
Yasuhide Yajima, an economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.
“The market doesn’t trust the government’s ability to move
ahead with plans to keep Tepco afloat.”  The cost of insuring Tepco’s debt for five years was 1,000
basis points today, or 100 million yen a year to protect 1
billion yen of debt, according to Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices in  Singapore . The credit-default swaps showed a
likelihood of a default in five years at 54 percent. Tepco has
6.83 trillion yen of bonds and loans outstanding.  ‘Major Problem’  “Claims held by parties dealing with the accident, and
especially those held by small and medium-sized businesses, must
be protected,” Edano told reporters in Tokyo. “If a court-led
bankruptcy were to occur, it would be a major problem because
neither of these two classes of claims would fall under the
category of preference claims.”  His remarks may give a short-lived boost to the utility’s
shares, “but in the long run they’ll approach zero as the
company’s fundamentals won’t change,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “It’s a money game as all participants are
speculative investors now.”  Tepco rose 4.4 percent to 216 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading today. The extra yield that investors demand to hold the
company’s 1.155 percent bond due in 2020 widened to a record 416
basis points more than government debt yesterday from 13 before
the quake,  Japan  Securities Dealers Association prices show.  Like Japan Airlines  The utility may post a full-year net loss of about 570
billion yen on a parent basis for this fiscal year, the Tokyo
Shimbun reported yesterday, citing an internal document from the
company. Tepco said it wasn’t the source of the report. It
posted a loss of 1.25 trillion yen in the year ended March 31,
the biggest on record for a non-financial firm in Japan.  Tokyo Stock Exchange President Atsushi Saito said the
company needs to be restructured along the same lines as Japan
Airlines Co., which filed for  bankruptcy protection , the Asahi
newspaper reported on June 4.  Saito’s comments echoed those of Shigeaki Koga -- an
official in the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry, which
oversees the nuclear power industry. Koga said in a 14-page memo
on May 11 that Tepco is unable to pay compensation for the
nuclear disaster alone and a company that can’t meet its
financial obligations should file for protection.  Three Meltdowns  The cost of dismantling the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may
reach 20 trillion yen, and compensation for households in a 20-
kilometer evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10
years, according to the  Japan Center for Economic Research .  Tepco’s nuclear station suffered three reactor meltdowns
after the earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup
generators, crippling its cooling systems. The melted fuel may
have leaked through the pressure vessels of reactors 1 to 3, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported today, citing a report the government
is preparing to submit to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Radiation emitted by the plant in the days after the quake
was higher than initially estimated, Japan’s nuclear safety
agency said yesterday. The agency doubled its estimate of
radiation released between March 11 and March 16 to about
770,000 tera becquerels.  The government last month said it will create an agency to
handle claims made against Tepco and will issue bonds to fund
them. The utility accepted the conditions set by the government,
which include unlimited liability on payments for damages.  Kan’s Promise  Prime Minister Kan last week survived a no-confidence vote
after promising to step down at an unspecified time once the
disaster is contained. Lawmakers from his  Democratic Party  of
Japan including ex-premier  Yukio Hatoyama  said Kan lacks the
popular support needed to pass legislation for rebuilding from
the March natural disasters and nuclear crisis.  A government committee began meeting today to investigate
the nuclear accident, with the head of the panel saying the
probe isn’t a witch hunt and it would be impossible to learn the
truth if the people involved fear being held responsible.  “We shall strive to get a big picture of the accident that
will be of use in the future,” Yotaro Hatamura said. “We would
also like to create a body of knowledge that will help in
drawing up plans for preventing accidents of this type.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  