-- 
Merkel in Washington for Plaudits as She Struggles at Home

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-07T13:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/merkel-meets-obama-in-washington-for-plaudits-as-she-struggles-with-voters.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
receive the highest U.S. civilian honor from President Barack Obama in  Washington  today in the kind of reception she can’t get
closer to home.  Even with the fastest-growing economy among the Group of
Seven nations, Merkel’s political standing and clout are waning,
weighed down by the European debt crisis, a reversal on nuclear
power and her refusal to back air strikes on  Libya .  “On both economic and security issues, Germany has been
missing in action,” said  Charles Kupchan , a Europe analyst at
the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington who was director
of European affairs on the White House National Security Council
in 1993 and 1994. “The U.S.-German relationship has been
particularly wobbly of late because Merkel has been so besieged
by domestic weaknesses and her reluctance to do what’s necessary
to stabilize the euro.”  Merkel’s struggles mean Obama may not get the answers he
wants as he presses his allies to do more to stabilize the world
economy. After lecturing Europeans on the urgency of reducing
debt, Merkel, as leader of  Europe ’s biggest economy, is about to
deliver the same message to Obama. In his weekly radio and
Internet address on June 4, Obama cited “unease about the
European fiscal situation” for hindering the U.S. recovery.  Merkel told Obama last night during dinner at 1789
restaurant in Washington shortly after she arrived that the euro
region will “emerge strengthened” from the debt crisis,
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters.  ‘Strongest Allies’  “Germany, at the heart of Europe, is one of our strongest
allies,” Obama said at a welcoming ceremony on the White House
South Lawn, calling Merkel “one of my closest global
partners.” The U.S. relationship with Germany, Obama said,
shows that “wars can end, adversaries can become allies, walls
can come down.”  Merkel, through a translator, said Germans know that
“America has always been a true friend to us.”  With the White House and congressional Republicans
deadlocked over raising the debt ceiling, the U.S. received a
warning from Moody’s Investors Service last week that it risked
having its Aaa rating reviewed if it failed to make progress on
raising the limit. Merkel, too, will push debt curbs that
Germany wrote into the constitution on her watch in 2009, a
German official told reporters before the trip on condition of
anonymity because the talks with Obama will be private.  Voters Turn Away  Merkel’s focus is winning over investors as voters turn
away from her coalition with the pro-business Free Democrats.
The DAX is the best performing stock index in the euro region
after neighboring  Austria  in the past 12 months. The DAX has
returned 19.3 percent in the period, against 13.1 percent for
the Euro Stoxx 50.  Germany’s strategy of embedding debt and deficit cuts in
law is “the right path,” Merkel said in a speech to parliament
on May 26. Debt reduction is needed “not just for us now but
for coming generations and we must always have that in mind.”  Writing the biggest checks to rescue Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal , Merkel has struggled to balance domestic opposition to
bailouts with appeals from her counterparts to stake out a role
that could persuade investors the euro region can solve the
crisis. That it’s still roiling markets after 18 months shows
the problem “is more one of governance and leadership” than a
sovereign-debt crisis, Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, said in a May 22 note.  ‘The Anchor’  “The last thing America needs is for Europe to be having
major economic problems when the U.S. is trying to get out of
their own,” O’Neill said in a June 1 phone interview.  Germany 
“is the anchor,” yet “to make it work requires bold
leadership. It looks to me like Merkel makes decisions based on
what she can get away with.”  Germany’s strongest growth in two decades and unemployment
at a 19-year low haven’t increased Merkel’s maneuvering room as
she lost clout in the upper house of parliament, where state
governments are represented.  Her Christian Democratic Union has lost support in all five
state elections this year and, with two more regional ballots in
September, her coalition trails the opposition Social Democrats
and Greens by as many as 16 percentage points in national polls.  She has also alienated allies in the euro region. At a May
17 rally, she said southern Europeans should take fewer
vacations and retire later. The slap prompted protests by
Portuguese, Greek and Spanish politicians.  Political Will  “That definitely was not a very helpful remark,” Peter Bofinger, a member of Merkel’s council of economic advisers,
told Bloomberg Television on June 1. The real problem is that
European leaders “lack the political will for a really bold
solution” to the debt crisis, he said.  Even former Chancellor Helmut Kohl, 81, who gave Merkel her
first Cabinet post in 1991, has indirectly rebuked her handling
of the euro-area crisis. “Germany must not become a country
that always waits for the others,” the wheelchair-bound Kohl
said in a rare speech at the  American Academy  in Berlin on May
16. “Rather, we have to be there for the others.”  Merkel, 56, who gained a degree in physics from the Karl
Marx University in Leipzig and then a doctorate in quantum
chemistry from the Academy of Sciences in East Berlin, where she
worked until 1990, rebuffs the critics. She says she refuses to
be rushed into decisions. She argues that she has to minimize
the risk to German taxpayers from euro-area bailouts and that
the rest of the  euro zone  is embracing debt and deficit
reduction because of her pressure.  Parting Ways  Merkel, who won a second term in 2009 and is up for re-
election in 2013, has parted ways with allies on other fronts.  By putting bills through Cabinet yesterday to ditch nuclear
power by 2022 in the aftermath of the meltdowns in  Japan , she’s
seeking to repeal a law she pushed through just seven months
earlier to extend the use of reactors. Earlier, she declined to
back an allied push at the  United Nations  to help Libyan rebels,
siding with  Brazil ,  China ,  India  and  Russia  in abstaining.  “One has to ask, what is Germany offering its friends and
allies?” said Ulrich Deupmann, a former German government
adviser on foreign affairs who heads the Berlin-based political
consulting firm ideas.ag. “Germany hasn’t led on much in the
past few years.”  ‘Sidestepping Germany?’  Illustrating the point, Bild, Germany’s top-selling
newspaper, showed a photo of Merkel walking behind Obama and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy at a summit in  France  last
month and noted that Obama hasn’t visited Berlin since he became
president. “Why is Obama sidestepping Germany?” said the
headline.  That contrasts with President George W. Bush, who toured
the Baltic Sea city of Stralsund in Merkel’s electoral district
in 2006 and shared a barbecued pig with the chancellor in a
former East German collective farming town.  Merkel, the Lutheran pastor’s daughter, says she was
“excited about the American Dream” while growing up under
communism in East Germany.  At an official dinner today, Obama will present her the
 Presidential Medal of Freedom , the highest civilian U.S. honor,
to celebrate Merkel’s rise as the first woman chancellor and the
first from the formerly communist east after reunification in
1990.  The trip “underscores the fundamental importance of the
U.S.-German alliance” and the “depth of the friendship between
our people,” with shared interests in  Afghanistan , the  Middle
East  and on bolstering the global economy, the White House said
in an April 4 statement.  Reaching Out  Merkel has reached out to Obama by saying she was
“pleased” at Osama bin Laden’s death at the hands of U.S.
special forces, a statement that drew criticism in Germany and
was clearly aimed at Washington, according to Gerd Langguth, a
political scientist at Bonn University and Merkel biographer.  “She has to offer him something -- she has to respond
positively to any request by Obama for more leadership on her
behalf,” said Langguth. Ultimately, however, “she knows that
her success or failure depends on the question of  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  