-- 
E. Coli Tests of Organic Farm in Germany Show No Trace of Deadly Bacteria

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-06-06T17:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/tests-from-german-farm-show-no-e-coli.html
The rate of new cases of E. coli
slowed in  Germany  as officials struggled to pinpoint the cause
of the world’s deadliest outbreak of the infection.  Initial tests from an organic farm near Uelzen, Germany,
showed no traces of the bacteria that killed 22 people,
authorities in Lower Saxony state said. Officials took 40
samples from the farm and 23 of them have come back negative,
the state said in an e-mailed statement today. The rest of the
samples are being investigated, according to the statement.  The findings may cast doubt on comments yesterday by Gert
Lindemann, Lower Saxony’s agriculture minister, that sprouts
from the farm played a role in the outbreak. The farm,
Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel, said in a  statement  it had informed
customers and was “shocked and concerned” at being linked to
the infection. The cause remains unknown, according to health
officials in Hamburg, which the EU said is the “epicenter” of
illnesses.  “We think it is coming from something people eat and are
still searching for the source, which could be salad, cucumbers,
sprouts or tomatoes,” said Rico Schmidt, a spokesman for
Hamburg’s health department, in a telephone interview today.
“We are looking into everything the infected people have eaten
-- we visit their homes and take samples out of their fridges.”  False Alarm  The test results may not conflict with  Lower Saxony ’s
warning about the farm because experience has shown that E. coli
won’t be equally distributed among products at a contaminated
site, said Cornelia Pruefer-Storcks, Hamburg’s senator for
health, in a statement. E. coli is usually transmitted when
feces, often from an animal source, are ingested.  Officials already have triggered one false alarm in the
outbreak. Hamburg health authorities initially blamed Spanish
cucumbers, causing outrage in the southern European nation after
sales of the vegetable dried up.  Spain  will seek “100 percent
compensation” from the EU for the damage caused to its vegetable
producers, Agriculture Minister Rosa Aguilar said in an
interview today with TVE.  Past outbreaks have shown the difficulties in pinpointing
the cause. Three people died in  California  in 2006 from E. coli
bacteria in bagged spinach, though officials never determined
how the contamination occurred, according to a 2007 report from
federal and state investigators.  Death Toll  Cases of illness in Hamburg and Lower Saxony have
stabilized, officials said. The death toll was unchanged from
yesterday, according to the  European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control . At least 2,333 people have fallen ill,
the Stockholm-based agency said today. That’s an increase of 70
cases, down from yesterday when 430 new cases were reported.  “The information that is coming in to us shows that there
is no spreading of the contamination, that it is contained and
that the incidence of infection is being reduced on a daily
basis,” John Dalli, the EU health commissioner, said at a news
conference in Luxembourg today. “What we’re seeing is results
of previous contaminations going through the incubation
period.”  Only water and seeds are used to grow sprouts and no animal
manure is used as fertilizer in the process, Klaus Verbeck, the
owner of the farm in the town of Bienenbuettel, said in an
interview with Neuen Osnabruecker Zeitung today. Black-and-white
cows grazed today in a nearby field. Cattle are the main
reservoir for E. coli.  Government Warnings  Bienenbuettel is in Lower Saxony, about 70 kilometers (44
miles) from the city-state of Hamburg.  About 18 different sprouts grown by the company, including
bean, broccoli and garlic, are under investigation, Lindemann
said yesterday. The sprouts can’t be solely to blame for the
outbreak, he added. The farm has supplied sprouts either
directly or indirectly to places where authorities believe
patients were sickened, and at least one person on the farm is
infected, he said.  Pinpointing where and how the germ entered the food chain
will enable authorities to control the outbreak, which the ECDC
 said  caused 21 deaths in Germany and one in  Sweden .  Ilse Aigner, German minister for consumer protection, said
she’s upholding warnings against eating sprouts even after tests
showed no evidence of the deadly enterohemorrhagic E. coli
bacteria, known as EHEC. Consumers still shouldn’t eat salads,
cucumbers and tomatoes from northern Germany, she said at a news
conference in Berlin.  The test of the sprouts near Uelzen “are an important lead
that needs to be pursued with all intensity though we must keep
an eye on other investigation efforts,” Aigner said.
Authorities “are working round the clock at federal, state and
municipal level” to find the cause, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  