-- 
Let’s Collapse 27 U.S. Health Institutes Into 3: Michael Crow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   C r o w ,   D e n i s   C o r t e s e   a n d   L e l a n d   H a r t w e l l
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/let-s-collapse-27-u-s-health-institutes-into-3-michael-crow.html
The U.S. spends more than any other
nation on biomedical research, counting on those outlays to make
health care more efficient. Leading the way is the  National
Institutes of Health , which funds more than $30 billion on
projects each year, chiefly in basic research.  Unfortunately, the  NIH  in its current form is too sprawling
and disjointed to allow advances in medical research to move
easily into medical practice. Structural changes are needed to
help the agency live up to its full potential in improving
medicine and health outcomes. The conglomeration of institutions
should be streamlined from 27 to three.  The NIH took shape in the 1930s as a single institute but
gradually multiplied into agencies that separately address areas
of medicine such as aging, alcohol abuse, child health,  cancer  -
- and almost two dozen more. Each institute is entrenched in the
linear, disease-based model of science, which assumes that more
fundamental research will automatically lead to better
treatments. Little effort is made to consider the ways that
patients’ behavioral, social and cultural aspects can add to
lab-based insights based on molecular and physical findings.  To help the NIH  transfer findings from its laboratories
into clinical settings, Francis S. Collins, the NIH director,
last year proposed to add a 28th subdivision -- a  National
Center for Advancing Translational Sciences . But there’s little
reason to assume that adding still another institute to an
already disjointed structure could help. A better approach is to
redesign the entire NIH.  Too Many Institutes  Harold Varmus, a former NIH director, was among the first
to raise an alarm over the continually proliferating institutes
-- a process he described, in a 2001 article in the journal
Science, as one of “fusion and fission.” While the NIH is seen
as “the jewel in the crown of the federal government,” Varmus
wrote, adding too many facets creates “a superficial sparkle
that may be pleasing to the few but threatening to the
functional integrity of the overall design.”  Streamlining has been proposed before. A 2003 report by a
committee of the  National Research Council  voiced longstanding
concerns that the agency had become fragmented and unwieldy. The
committee considered a consolidation plan but deemed it too
difficult.  On the contrary, a reconfiguration of the health institutes
is both feasible and timely. We could do away with the present
27 and create just three: A “biomedical systems” research
institute would maximize the impact of lab-based findings by
integrating research from behavioral, sociological and
environmental perspectives. An institute for health outcomes
would combine research and clinical insights to help determine
which treatments work best. And an institute for health
transformation would develop new strategies to make health care
more efficient and less expensive in the long run.  Holistic Approach  With this model, the NIH could move from its disease focus
to a more holistic approach to health and disease, one that
takes into account the interactions among medicine’s many
components. A tripartite reorganization would take advantage of
the fact that emerging medical technologies can often be used
across a number of fields.  The reconfiguration we propose assumes that progress in
medical care actually comes from the complicated interaction of
expanding knowledge (in many disciplines), technological
innovation and clinical practice, as a number of economists have
argued.  Health-Care Spending  Per-capita spending on health care in the U.S. is almost 2
1/2 times the average for the 34 nations that belong to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Yet
clinical outcomes here do not match the huge expenditure. On
average, citizens of more than two dozen nations may expect to
outlive us. Hospital-admission rates for U.S. patients with
chronic conditions best managed through primary care, such as
asthma and diabetes, exceed those of all other OECD nations.  And in a comparison with six other advanced nations,
including  Canada  and the U.K., American health care ranked last
or next to last in quality, access, equity and what the report
by the  Commonwealth Fund  called measures of “long, healthy and
productive lives.”  These results are unacceptable. While basic science must
stay focused on answering fundamental scientific questions, the
knowledge and technologies that emerge from basic science need
to be driven toward improving health care and lowering its cost.  A simple way to characterize the fundamental difference
between the present system and the one we have in mind is the
push-pull metaphor. In the NIH’s current model, fundamental
science tries to push its discoveries on the health-care system.
What would work better would be a pull model, in which the
health-care system would identify what it needs and then choose
the appropriate discoveries from basic science.  We must not slacken the pace of medical research nor
decrease the amount of money we spend on it, but our investment
should be focused on critical health-care outcomes and
affordability in the long term.  (Michael Crow is the president of  Arizona State University .
Denis Cortese, a former president and CEO of the Mayo Clinic, is
the director of the ASU Health Care Delivery and Policy Program.
Leland Hartwell, the recipient of the 2001  Nobel Prize  in
physiology/medicine and a former president of the Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in  Seattle , is the chairman of
the Center for Sustainable Health at the ASU Biodesign
Institute. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the lead author of this column:
Michael Crow at  michael.crow@asu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
George Anders in  San Francisco  at 
 ganders1@bloomberg.net  