-- 
European Sentix Investor Confidence Drops to Lowest in One Year

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-06T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/european-sentix-investor-confidence-drops-to-lowest-in-one-year.html
European investor confidence plunged
to the lowest in almost a year in June as  Greece  struggles to
reduce its  budget deficit  and faster inflation threatens to
undermine economic growth, the Sentix research institute said.  An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
fell to 3.5 from 10.9 in May, the Limburg, Germany-based  Sentix 
institute said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the lowest
since July. A gauge of current business conditions dropped to
18.5 from 23.75, while an indicator of expectations fell to
minus 10.5 from minus 1.25.  Greece remains mired in recession as the government
struggles to reduce the biggest debt load in the euro’s history,
a year after securing a 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout.
With the euro-region economy showing signs of cooling, the
 European Central Bank  has signaled it may keep borrowing costs
at 1.25 percent on June 9.  “The economy has passed the peak” and “especially the
slump in business expectations should have swept away the
remaining doubts about a sustained slowdown of the euro-region
recovery,” Sentix said. “The ongoing discussion about the
solvency of individual euro countries, as well as high prices of
several commodities, especially oil, is damping confidence.”  Oil prices  have surged 10 percent this year, boosting euro-
region inflation. The Frankfurt-based central bank, which will
publish its latest economic projections this week, in March
forecast annual consumer-price gains to average 2.3 percent this
year and 1.7 percent in 2012.  Sentix said 783 investors participated in its monthly
survey, which was conducted June 2-4. The results are never
revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  